17-02-2021||Other||Youth suffers burn injuries in minor explosion due to high tension wires||PUNE Lahu Renuse (19), a first-year BCom student, sustained severe injuries after two high tension wires left open and unattended by Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) authorities between Gajanan Maharaj chowk and Dattawadi police station resulted in a minor explosion.The incident took place at around 1.15 pm on February 15.He was rushed to a private hospital on Satara road for medical treatment by the MSEDCL contractor and was discharged on Tuesday.Renuse said, “On February 15, I had gone to nearby shop at around 1.15 pm and there was an explosion. I have sustained burn injuries on both my hands.”“MSEDCL authorities have promised financial compensation,” he said.Area residents blamed the MSEDCL authorities for its failure and said shoddy work was being carried. The high tension wires must be underground, but in the said area, there are open and pose a serious threat to the lives of commuters and area residents.Dilip Arundekar, a resident, said, “ The wires must be underground, but are lying into open and pose a serious threat to the lives of commuters and area residents.”“Sectional engineer of Sahakarnagar has been asked to conduct an inquiry in the case. The protruding wires came out as there are drainage pipes beneath the two high tension wires which led to sparking. We have completed the work on the same day,” said Rajendra Yedake, additional executive engineer, Market Yard.An electric inspector visited the spot on Wednesday after which a police complaint was lodged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/youth-suffers-burn-injuries-in-minor-explosion-due-to-high-tension-wires-101613586182575.html
17-02-2021||Pune||PMC to build cycle track on Pashan road||Three years after the then Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner, Saurabh Rao’s nine-year-old-son, met with an accident while riding his bicycle on the Pashan road, the PMC has taken a decision to build a cycle track on this road. The PMC standing committee approved ₹1.4 lakh to develop a 2.5km cycle track from the University chowk to the National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) gate. Under the central government’s National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), the PMC got ₹9.45 crore to initiate different works, such as creating a green buffer, cycle track development, sprinklers, and public awareness activity. Dinkar Gojare, superintendent engineer of the PMC’s road department, said, “There is no cycle track on Pashan road. There was an issue of trees along the roadside. It is a 2.5km stretch which starts from Modern college to the NCL gate. We have designed a track to keep the greenery as it is. The work will be completed within six months.” In 2017, PMC prepared a comprehensive bicycle plan and launched a bicycle sharing scheme in various parts of the city, including at the SPPU, under the Pune Smart City Development Company Limited (PSCDCL). After two years, all three private bicycle companies had withdrawn from the scheme due to lack of response and vandalism of bicycles. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar has noww allocated around ₹20 crore in the PMC draft budget of 2021-22 to develop a new 10km cycle track as well as revamp existing cycle tracks in the city. As per PMC statistics, there is 98km of existing cycle tracks in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-build-cycle-track-on-pashan-road-101613586063336.html
17-02-2021||Pune||SPPU completes fire and electrical audit for entire campus||After the tragic fire incident of Bhandara district hospital last month, the state government ordered to conduct a safety audit of all the hospitals across Maharashtra and government buildings. Accordingly, the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) conducted a structural and electrical audit of its entire campus, all the departments and hostels. The audit was done by a private agency, with few changes and replacements to be done the audit was done carefully and further work has started. “Basically, after the Bhandara fire incident, the state government had made it mandatory that at least we should go for a structural and electrical audit of the residing facilities mostly the hostels as such. Accordingly, it has been communicated to the colleges affiliated with SPPU and they can get it done from a private agency. On one side we have to take care of students’ safety and therefore it is a welcome decision,” said SPPU vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar. “At the SPPU university campus, we have done it for the entire infrastructure that exists. In fact, barring the hostels, most of the departments were open during the Covid period. As research and other things were ongoing, students were not there but teachers came in regularly. Therefore, barring hostels rest all the things are in place and especially for the hostels the audit has been done. We are taking due care of sanitization and other safety measures, perhaps we would soon formulate the process like there should be a person looking after the opening of the campus.” added Karmalkar. While giving the details of the audit done at the university campus, SPPU registrar Prafulla Pawar said, “We have done a complete audit of university campus from an independent electrical and fire consultant in the last one month. They conducted the audit and checked all the closed hostels, departments and accordingly gave the correction report to the university. It includes minor changes at the hostel buildings. There are around 60 buildings which include the various teaching departments and the hostel buildings, all of these buildings went through the audit.” According to Pawar, from February 15, the university began offline lectures, but the student response has been on the lower side. “But we are hoping that gradually students will start coming to the university campus. For hostels to be allocated to the students we are following UGC guidelines, and it will be given in a phase-wise manner. For research students, a single seated room is given and then PhD hostels will be opened from February 22. Only then will the process for new hostel admissions start,” added Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-completes-fire-and-electrical-audit-for-entire-campus-101613586063881.html
17-02-2021||Pune||Consumer forum pulls up builder, orders ₹7lakh compensation||The additional district consumer redressal forum has directed real estate developer and three of his associates to pay ₹7 lakh compensation to a consumer with 10 per cent interest within 45 days of the issuance of the order. The forum further stated that in case of noncompliance, the developer will have to pay the compensation at 12 per cent interest. Besides this, it has also directed to pay an additional ₹50,000 as compensation along with ₹5,000 as expenses towards filing the complaint. Prafulla Chandrakant Salunke, a resident of Yerawada filed a complaint with the consumer court against Messrs SS Developers and Builders, Pradeep Bhagwandas Shah, Sunit Nitin Mehta and GRP associates and Gravity International ( Proprietor Prabhakar Menon ) on Feb 25, 2019, seeking either custody of the flat he had booked in their project or compensation from the proprietors of the project. According to the consumer court order, Messrs SS Developers and Builders is a real estate development company while the others are partners in the said project. The complainant had booked a flat in Atharva Plaza project of the company in Kondhwe Dhawade in Survey No 423 and booked flat number 401 and 402 in the project at a total consideration of ₹22.65 lakh. He paid a booking amount of ₹1 lakh on April 9, 2011. He paid another ₹1 lakh through a cheque dated Nov 6, 2011, and on various occasions paid money wherein the total consideration was ₹7.20 lakh. He requested the developers to register the said agreement and was assured by them that it would be done in the next few days. Despite repeated requests, the builders failed to execute the property registration and also did not complete the project. Salunke sent a legal notice to the developers dated July 30, 2018, but no action was taken by them. The complainant then moved the consumer forum seeking either refund of the advance paid or compensation in lieu of the payments made to the builder, the order stated. The order further said “Despite issuing notice, the developers failed to present themselves before the forum and an exparte order was passed in the case. From the complaint, it can be deduced that the complainant has paid ₹7 lakh to the builders. The papers prove that the promise behind seeking money from the complainant was not fulfilled. The forum is of the view that the complainant deserves compensation on the ground of mental harassment and deficiency of the service. The complaint is accepted and the order is passed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/consumer-forum-pulls-up-builder-orders-rs-7lakh-compensation-101613586062529.html
17-02-2021||Pune||35,559 FYJC seats still vacant in Pune division||After completing three regular rounds, two special rounds and two rounds of first-come-first-served (FCFS) of the first-year junior college (FYJC) admission process, as many as 35,559 seats have remained vacant under the Pune division. The deputy director of education, Pune, released the statistics on Wednesday. The admission process can only be extended if the state government allows a further extension. Of the total vacant seats, 8,007 seats are from Arts stream, 12,813 seats from the Commerce stream, 12,571 seats from the Science stream and 2,168 seats from the vocational stream. This year due to the Covid-19 outbreak the FYJC admission was delayed and went on till the beginning of February. Now that admissions are complete, college administrations are worried about completing the syllabus. This year, a total of 72,820 students were eligible in the first round of admissions to 304 colleges in Pune and Pimpri -Chinchwad. Due to an interim stay given by the Supreme Court (SC) on the implementation of the quota for the Maratha community in jobs and education, the state education department stopped the admission process on September 9. It resumed on November 26. “The admission process of FYJC admissions is complete after the two rounds and in Pune division 35,559 seats have remained vacant. Despite the Covid-19 outbreak and entire online admission process, our staff has worked hard. Now the admission process is completed for our directorate level, If we get any instructions or order from the state government about an extension then it will be conducted accordingly,” said Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/35559-fyjc-seats-still-vacant-in-pune-division-101613586061850.html
17-02-2021||Pune||Hasty police action against gangsters, court grants bail to Mohol, Marne||The Pune police crime branch has spurred into hasty action after the release of two notorious gangsters Sharad Mohol (38) and Gajanan Marne (55) in the past month. As a direct result of their action against their release, the Pune, as well as Pimpri-Chinchwad police, slapped multiple cases on them on Tuesday. However, while Mohol and four co-accused were released on bail, Marne was remanded to judicial custody and later granted bail, both by local courts in Pune. Marne was represented by advocate Vijaisinh Thombre in the court of Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC) RK Bafna-Balghat, while Mohol was represented by Advocate Amol Dhamale in the court of JMFC MA Shaikh. The paranoia of police officials was evidently not unfounded - Sharad Mohol, who was released in the month of January after spending years in jail over accusation of murder was found at a public event organised by a local organisation called Patit Pavan Sanstha in Guruwar peth. In a case registered against him under Sections 143, 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC); Section 37(1)with135 of Maharashtra Police Act; Section 51(b) of Disaster Management Act; and Section 11 of Maharashtra Covid-19 Regulations at Khadak police station, Mohol was arrested along with four others and produced in a local court. He was later released on bail as the police were denied custody of him. “It was a public and annual Satyanarayan pooja that we hold in different locations every year. This time it was in Guruwar peth. It’s an open event and anyone can come. As the police claim, if someone was inconvenienced or scared, why did nobody from the crowd complain? Why could the police not find even one person to lodge a complaint?” asked advocate Manish Padekar representing Patit Pavan Sanstha. The Gajanan Marne gang returned into major limelight after years of being in judicial custody when a rally was organised between Taloja jail and his house in Kothrud, Pune to “celebrate” his release. “There are three factors to this - the people shooting the videos, the subsequent media trial, and the police action. The investigation officer and senior police inspector Dange called Marne’s aide while they were at Urse toll plaza and told him that he should not be able to see any rally or gathering. As per his instructions, the well-wishers who had come to meet him left,” said advocate Virendrasinh Thombre representing Marne. Responding to Thombre’s argument, public prosecutor Sanjay Dikshit and Sr PI Dange told the court that they needed physical custody of Marne and others in order to recover CCTV footage of the toll plaza and identify others who were with Marne and that he was bound to not co-operate. Marne’s lawyer argued that the concerned CCTV has already been submitted to Talegaon Dabhade police station and that the matter was not in their jurisdiction. A case under Sections 267, 268, 270, 143, 149 of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 50(b) of Disaster Management Act, Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act, Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act and Section 37(1)(5) with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Kothrud police station. The case is against Marne, and around 200 others, of which eight were identified and arrested along with him. The case was registered after he performed a pooja at the Lord Ganapati temple in Hamraj Chowk in Kothrud late on Monday night after reaching Pune from Taloja jail upon his release. From the decade gone by, police have 427 members from 11 gangs on their radar including Marne and Mohol gangs. One of the major handovers of the outgoing deputy commissioner of police (DCP) of crime Bachchan Singh to his successor DCP Srinivas Ghodage was that of these gangs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hasty-police-action-against-gangsters-court-grants-bail-to-mohol-marne-101613586003087.html
17-02-2021||Pune||Fastag compulsion slows traffic during peak hours||On the second day of the FASTag compulsion being in force, slow moving traffic was observed at Talegaon toll plaza on the Pune-Mumbai expressway during peak hours. Traffic flow had gradually normalised at the Khed-Shivapur toll plaza on Wednesday. On Tuesday evening, lines of vehicles were observed in the FASTag lanes. “At the Talegaon toll plaza on the Pune-Mumbai expressway, there are fewer number of lanes. That’s why the slow moving traffic issue was faced. Our team is on the ground and there were no major disputes. Commuters on this route are habitual with FASTag rules. So as compared to other highways there were few complaints on the first day,” said Amol Pawar, sub-inspector, highway police, Vadgaon. Ninad Sonawane who travelled from Pune-Mumbai on Wednesday morning faced slow traffic movement in the FASTag lane at Talegaon toll plaza. “Lines in the FASTag lane defeat the purpose of the enforcement,” he said. From Tuesday, vehicles without FASTags have to pay a double-toll penalty. On the first day long lines of the vehicles were are at the Khed-Shivapur toll plaza. “The situation was a lot better today. There were fewer arguments. Only 15% of vehicles argued about the double toll fees. A major challenge is related to recharging the tags. Not all commercial vehicles drivers carry smartphones. So there is dependency on vehicle owners to recharge. Several private vehicle owners don’t know how to recharge the FASTag,” said Amit Bhatia, regional head, west, Pune-Satara Toll Road Private Limited, Reliance Infrastructure. He manages the Khed-Shivapur and Anewadi toll plazas. At Anewadi and Khed-Shivapur toll plazas, on Monday, 900 FASTags were sold (in 24 hours). On Wednesday, till 7 pm, 761 FASTags had been sold. “FAStag traffic penetration has reached to 65% at Khed-Shivapur toll plaza,” Amit Bhatia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fastag-compulsion-slows-traffic-during-peak-hours-101613586002240.html
17-02-2021||Mumbai||TopsGrup probe: ED questions actor Armaan Jain in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday questioned actor Armaan Jain, cousin of actors Ranbir Kapoor and Kareena Kapoor, for around one-and-a-half hour in connection with Rahul Nanda’s TopsGrup Security Services Limited (TGSSL) -Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik money laundering case.Jain reached ED’s office in south Mumbai around 9.50am and left the office at 11.30am.ED officers said Jain is a close friend of Vihang Sarnaik, son of the Sena MLA, and hence wanted to question the actor about his business dealings, if any, with Vihang. Jain was summoned for questioning after ED officers came across several communications between the two. Investigators have also searched Jain’s premises in the past. But the agency later discontinued the searches after news of Jain’s uncle Rajeev Kapoor’s demise broke.The Sena MLA and his son Vihang were previously questioned by ED in the case.BG Pawar, joint commissioner of MMRDA, also visited ED’s office on Wednesday, but he left after 10-minutes as concerned officers were not present. ED had also arrested Sarnaik’s close associate Amit Chandole and TGSSL managing director M Shashidharan, claiming that TopsGrup had obtained contracts from Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) in collusion with Sarnaik through illegal means.These illegal manoeuvres, the agency claimed, aimed to get undue benefit by inflating bills at the cost of MMRDA and illegal cash gratification to Sarnaik for facilitating this scam. Sarnaik used to get 50% of the profit earned of the said contract through Chandole, ED had claimed.In 2014, a contract was signed by TGSSL with MMRDA under which 350 to 500 guards were to be deployed at MMRDA sites monthly. Of this, only 70% of guards were deployed. However, the billing was done for all the guards as per the contract and the wage details were submitted to MMRDA for 100% of the contract value.Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) is also probing cross complaints of Nanda and his former employee Ramesh Iyer (the complainant in the ED’s case). Nanda has alleged that Iyer and other employees siphoned the company’s money, while Iyer claimed that Nanda, through his company, indulged in massive misconduct and financial irregularities worth ₹175 crore.On Tuesday, the agency also recorded statement of metropolitan commissioner RA Rajeev in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/topsgrup-probe-ed-questions-actor-armaan-jain-in-money-laundering-case-101613585822548.html
17-02-2021||Other||Police say activists were preparing a second toolkit but could not execute it||New Delhi: The Delhi Police on Wednesday said the activists involved in the creation of a social media toolkit on the ongoing farmers’ protests prepared a second document to organise a Twitter storm aimed at “creating unrest” in Delhi on February 4 and 5 with hashtags related to the violence during January 26 tractor rally, but could not execute it. Investigators said the second document was created by Nikta Jacob, Shantanu Muluk -- two activists who have been accused of creating and sharing the first document -- and and a UK-based activist Marina Patterson, who is allegedly linked with the global movement “Extinction Rebellion” also referred to as “XR”. According to its website, Extinction Rebellion is an international movement that uses non-violent civil disobedience in an attempt to halt mass extinction and minimise the risk of social collapse.“The plan mentioned in the second toolkit, however, could not be executed. We suspect it happened because the toolkit was accidentally tweeted by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg on February 3, the day Ravi shared it with her and coaxed her to act on it. Since the Google toolkit documents contained objectionable content, Ravi panicked, asked Greta to delete the tweet, took the admin rights and removed her name from the toolkit,” said a second senior police officer associated with the case, requesting anonymity.According to the officer, the investigating team has already written to Google seeking details of both toolkit documents to ascertain where they were actually created, who drafted and edited them, and with whom it was shared.The Delhi Police on Saturday arrested 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi from Bengaluru on charges of sedition, intending to riot and criminal conspiracy, for editing and creating a toolkit, essentially a Google document. The police have alleged that the toolkit was created to spread misinformation and incite unrest. They have also alleged that Disha shared the document with Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg who tweeted it but later removed it.Both Muluk and Jacob have been grated pre-arrest bail court.Activists from various organisations have said that creating a toolkit was standard operating procedure for advocacy and media outreach, and did not constitute a crime as it was entirely up to people whether or not to follow what toolkits suggested.Protests against the arrests of the activists in the case continued on Wednesday with members of the Congress-backed National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) protesting in Delhi, and accusing the central government of using “Fascist techniques” to quell democratic protests in the country.“Only four sedition cases out of the 191 filed after this government came to power have resulted in convictions. The government uses tough laws and misuses them to silence all dissenting voices,” NSUI president Neeraj Kundan said in a statement. As per the information available with the police, the first toolkit was shared with the members of pro-Khalistani group Poetic Justice Foundation (PFJ) by Jacob on January 23 while the other one was circulated on February 1, the officer said.On February 15, the Delhi Police said that they first came across the toolkit on February 4 and registered a first information report (FIR) the same day to probe it on charges of sedition and criminal conspiracy, though it did not name any individual. In a press briefing on that day, the police pointed to a “copycat execution of the action plan detailed in the toolkit” and alleged the document was created by pro-Khalistani group Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF).Disha Ravi, a 22-year-old climate activist, was the first person arrested in the case from her home in Bengaluru on Saturday (February 13). She is now in the custody of Delhi Police. The other two suspects –Muluk and Jacob – were granted transit anticipatory bail by the Bombay High Court on Tuesday and Wednesday while Delhi police said they were looking for them.The FIR that has the mentioning of banned organization Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) and Poetic Justice Foundation” reads that during social media monitoring on February 4 it came to notice that a link of a Google document that has been accidentally shared on Twitter “contains a detailed plan of a large conspiracy to wage an economic, social, cultural, and regional war against India.”“The banned organization Sikh For Justice based in USA had declared a reward of USD 25,000 for waiving secessionist flag at the India Gate on Republic Day. After the violence that occurred on January 26, various social media handles are being used to spread rumours and fake news/videos to promote enmity between different groups wantonly give provocation with intent to commit riots and bring into hatred or contempt or to excite disaffection towards the government of India,” the FIR read.According to the police, Jacob, Ravi and Muluk knew each other since 2019 and that Jacob and Muluk first came in touch with PFJ’s Canada-based woman member named Puneet in the first week of December through Instagram. Ravi created a WhatsApp group on December 6 while Muluk created an email ID on December 11 – all for discussing their global action plan around the farmers’ protest that was finally announced by the PFJ on January 9, the police said.On January 11, the police said, nearly 70 people including the trio and the PFJ’s members has a video conferencing meeting on Zoom where they discussed the modalities of the tooklit. Another invite for a similar meeting was sent to Muluk and Jacob by the PFJ on January 17 and the meeting happened on January 20, when the final toolkit was prepared. The toolkit was shared with the PFJ members on January 23. On January 3, Ravi shared the toolkit with Greta who accidentally posted it on Twitter, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-say-activists-were-preparing-a-second-toolkit-but-could-not-execute-it-101613584564271.html
17-02-2021||Noida||Noida authority allows subdivision of industrial plots||NOIDA: The subdivision of industrial plots has been allowed in Noida after the Uttar Pradesh government gave its green signal for it following demands from the stakeholders, authority officials said on Wednesday. “We have allowed the plot subdivision only for industrial plots following approvals from the state government. We are yet to receive the applications from the entrepreneurs,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority. The objective of the policy is to encourage entrepreneurs, who do not want to invest more in bigger plots and are in need to start business on smaller plots, officials said. The plot subdivision means a large plot can be divided into smaller ones and sold by the allottee or used for the purposes for which it has been allotted, said the officials. However, the subdivision of plots will not be allowed for either residential or commercial plots. The authority had in December last year sent a proposal in this regard to the state government. After the plot subdivision has been allowed in Noida, the Greater Noida authority may soon implement it as the state government has issued directions to all industrial development authorities in this regard, officials said. And the Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) will also follow the footsteps of Noida, said the officials. It means soon the Gautam Budh Nagar district will have the facility to get the plots divided into parts in industrial sectors as the Greater Noida authority has been tasked with preparing draft guidelines for the policy, they said.“We have sought feedback from all stakeholders, including factory owners in this regard. Once their suggestions are submitted, we will form the guidelines and then get approvals from the state government,” said Shiv Pratap Shukla, officer on special duty, Greater Noida authority. Once approved, the guidelines will be implemented in Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway authority areas too, said the officials. According to the officials, only 50% of the original plot area will be considered for reselling. The Greater Noida authority is also contemplating whether it will be feasible to buy back the land and offer it to the entrepreneurs or allow existing allottees to market it to the interested parties after taking some fees. According to officials of the industry department, subdivision will be considered only for allottees who have obtained functional letter after commencing operations at least five years back. The divided portion of the plot can be sold to the other entrepreneur with authority’s permission, they said. The UP government had last month asked the Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Authority, Noida authority, Greater Noida authority and Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority to prepare guidelines for the policy. There are around 13,000 industrial units in Noida, and 7,000 in Greater Noida, while many units are being set up in Yeida area, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-allows-subdivision-of-industrial-plots-101613584563653.html
17-02-2021||Other||Man who ran a YouTube news channel found shot dead in west Delhi||New Delhi: A 34-year-old man who ran a YouTube channel for local news and also worked as a housekeeper in a housing society was found shot dead in a street in west Delhi’s Bharat Vihar, close to Dwarka, in the early hours of Wednesday, the police said. Santosh Meena, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka), said prima facie it appeared to be a case of murder over personal enmity. “The crime doesn’t appear to have anything to do with his journalism,” said Meena. The case remained unsolved until Wednesday evening, the officer said, adding that multiple teams were put on the job to identify the killer. The DCP identified the dead man as Dalbir Singh, a resident of Bharat Vihar.“A little after midnight, someone noticed Singh lying injured on the road, a few metres from his home. His scooter was lying nearby,” said the officer. Believing him to be involved in a road mishap, his wife rushed him to a nearby hospital where even doctors believed he was involved in a vehicular accident. “We received a call from the hospital at 1.47 am. When we took a close look at the body, we found a gunshot wound to his left forehead. That is when we realised that it was a murder,” the officer said, adding that the autopsy report is yet to arrive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-who-ran-a-youtube-news-channel-found-shot-dead-in-west-delhi-101613584563126.html
17-02-2021||Delhi||Nursery admission process begins today||The online admission process for nearly 200,000 unreserved seats in entry-level classes -- nursery, kindergarten and class 1 -- in around 1,700 private schools in Delhi will begin on Thursday. Schools will release registration forms on their websites from early morning and the last date of submission of forms is March 4.The centralised admission process, which usually commences in November or December, has been delayed this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The websites will upload the first list of selected candidates on March 20. The second list will be released five days later (March 25), and a subsequent list, if required, will be announced on March 27. The admission process will conclude on March 31. Parents will have to pay an amount of ₹25 (non-refundable) as admission registration fee.Since admissions to entry-level classes are determined by a points system, followed by a draw of lots, most schools have allotted points to several factors such as distance, siblings in the school, alumni parents, and girl child. “Distance” remained the criterion with the most weightage points across schools. For instance, Mother’s International School has fixed 40 points for distance criterion, 30 points for siblings in school, and 10 additional points for girl child. The Indian School has fixed 60 points for the distance criteria, 20 for siblings and 20 for first-born child.Similarly, Sanskriti School has fixed 0 to 30 points for distance, 25 for siblings of already enrolled students, and 25 points for the children of alumni. In Tagore International, 50 points is given to applicants residing in areas where school transport is available, 30 to the first-born child, 10 each to siblings, and children of alumni and staff.Mount Abu Public School has fixed 85 points for distance, 10 points for siblings and five for alumni and staff. In Birla Vidya Niketan, 60 points have been fixed for distance, 20 for siblings and 10 for the children of alumni.Principals of several schools said they have not changed any admission criteria. Ashok Pandey, chairperson of Ahlcon schools, said, “Change in any criteria would have caused unnecessary inconvenience to parents at the last moment. The admission process has already been cut short this year due to the pandemic.”The Directorate of Education (DoE) has fixed the upper age limit of 4, 5, and 6 years as of March 31, 2021, for admission in nursery, kindergarten and class 1, respectively. The minimum age for admission in these classes is 3, 4, and 5 years, respectively, as of March 31, 2021. The schedule for the remaining 25% seats reserved for the economically weaker section (EWS) and disadvantaged (DG) categories will be announced in the coming weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nursery-admission-process-begins-today-101613584561745.html
17-02-2021||Other||Gurugram air ‘very poor’, situation likely to persist till weekend||Gurugram: The air quality in Gurugram remained in the ‘very poor’ category at 330 on Wednesday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air quality index (AQI). The AQI was recorded at 316 on Tuesday.According to official forecasts, there would not be any significant improvement in the air quality due to slow wind speeds till February 21.The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Environment Monitoring and Research Center head VK Soni said the pollution levels may reduce after February 21 following a spike in the temperature, which may lead to an increase in the vertical height at which suspended particles mix with the air.“The wind speed is expected to remain about 10 kilometres per hour, but the spike in temperatures will cause an upward movement of air and increase the ventilation index,” said Soni. The ventilation index indicates the rate of dispersion of air pollutants.As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the ventilation index is likely to increase from approximately 3000 m2/s on Wednesday to 5000 m2/s on Friday.While the IMD’s Automatic Weather Station (AWS) for Gurugram did not record a minimum temperature on Wednesday, the AWS at the Palam observatory in Delhi recorded the day’s minimum temperature at 13.7° Celsius, while the maximum temperature stood at 26.9° Celsius.As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover between 28° Celsius and 13° Celsius respectively, over the next few days. Shallow to moderate fog will envelope the city in the morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-air-very-poor-situation-likely-to-persist-till-weekend-101613584506938.html
17-02-2021||Delhi||Jamia students ask varsity to resume on-campus classes||With the Delhi University (DU) and the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) restarting in-person classes for students in a phase-wise manner, the students of Jamia Millia Islamia on Wednesday demanded that the varsity also restart on-campus classes in a similar fashion.In a demonstration held on the campus, they also demanded the reopening of varsity libraries and reading rooms as well as the canteen and other facilities. The university said all stakeholders, including parents, must be consulted before a decision is taken.The students, mostly affiliated to the All India Student Association (AISA) and other student groups, questioned the university’s decision to keep the campus shut when malls, cinema halls, and even other educational institutions were reopening with Covid-19 protocols.Saud Ahmed Qureshi, a postgraduate student who attended the demonstration outside the vice-chancellor’s office on Wednesday, said marginalised students of the university were the worst affected as the prolonged lockdown has made it difficult for them to access devices needed to pursue online education.“The online mode of teaching and learning has left a vast majority of students behind,” he said, adding that the students needed to access university spaces to bridge learning gaps and resume their education as before.Ahmad Azeem, media coordinator, Jamia Millia Islamia, said, “Views of all stakeholders, including parents, will be taken into consideration before a decision on reopening the campus is taken by the executive council of the university. A large number of students and parents wrote to the university administration that at present, online teaching should continue as the environment is still not conducive for offline classes. Health concern of students in view of Covid-19 is a major issue.”The students also submitted a memorandum to the vice-chancellor’s office asking for the “immediate reopening” of the campus. “The decision to bring students back for on-campus instruction should be given priority as all options of online education are exclusionary and rely heavily on an unreal degree of digitisation. Classrooms should also be rearranged to allow for social distancing and better ventilation,” students said in the memorandum. Students have also demanded smartphones, laptops, and internet data packs for fellow scholars in need of these.Protesters also said since the e-library facility started by the administration had “failed miserably”, students were unable to avail of the facility and their loss in terms of learning was “unquantifiable”. They added that many were unable to access non-English reading material.“Students coming from outside the city will suffer once on-campus classes resume since they don’t have a place to stay as processing hostel applications takes considerable time. Thus, the administration must invite applications for hostel accommodation,” the memorandum said.The memorandum also urged the administration to waive fee, extend semesters and shift examination dates keeping in mind the situation wrought by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jamia-students-ask-varsity-to-resume-on-campus-classes-101613584506169.html
17-02-2021||Gurugram||Delivery of government schemes remains poor in Gurugram district||Gurugram remains a poorly performing district in the state with regard to timely delivery of services under Right to Service (RTS) Act, as over 37,000 applications related to government schemes and services are pending to be addressed by various government departments on the Antyodaya Saral e-governance platform. Due to delay in providing services, the district has slipped from 14th position in 2020 to 22nd this year, according to the state administration data. “Gurugram has not been doing been well in timely disposal of applications filed by citizens to avail of various state and central government services. In the district-level meetings held last week, it came into notice that various departments did not focus upon addressing the applications within a stipulated time due to Covid-19 duties in the previous months,” said Rakesh Gupta, additional principal secretary to the chief minister, who led the state’s flagship programme of providing all the services under a single digital platform. According to the data shared in the state-level meeting held earlier this week, Gurugram has received a total of 2,696,803 applications since September 2017, of which at least 36,778 applications remain pending, which is the highest among the state. Most of these complaints are related to key departments — Regional Transport Authority (RTA), Town and Country Planning, Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran and welfare of scheduled castes — according to the data available on the Antyodaya Saral dashboard. Based on responsiveness to on-time disposal and overdue applications, every district receives scores based on the internal mechanism devised by the state administration. In the last three months, Gurugram has remained at the bottom, with a score of 6.6, while other districts that have been doing fairly well, like Kurukshetra, Ambala and Rewari, have the highest score, of almost 8.7 to 8.8. It is, however, not the first time the district has received a low score due to pending application. Since its launch in September 2017, to provide easy access to basic services like driving licences, education certificates, birth and death certificates and more than 500 other services, Gurugram has always performed poorly compared to other districts. In 2019, Gurugram stood at 19th position, which improved to 14th in 2020 and plunged to 22nd this year. “Every day, over 650 tickets are generated through which applications are shared with different government departments. It is the highest of all 22 districts. The heavy volume of applications and their uniqueness should be considered,” said Hemant, control room officer, Saral Kendra at Mini Secretariat. Despite the poor performance, Gupta said that the implementation of Saral in Haryana has been a success story. “At least 549 schemes and services are provided through Saral. Until, four years ago, the state lacked a proper mechanism to provide easy access to services and schemes. Saral has helped to bring in transparency in the government machinery,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/delivery-of-government-schemes-remains-poor-in-gurugram-district-101613584505545.html
17-02-2021||Other||Chandni Chowk to be revamped by March-end||New Delhi: Work on the redevelopment of Chandni Chowk is likely to be completed by March 31, said officials of Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC), the agency which is overseeing the project.The project envisaged revamping the 1.3 km stretch between Red Fort and Fatehpuri mosque flanked by the Chandni Chowk market on both sides by making it a pedestrian-only zone, provide broad walkways, water ATMs, toilet complexes, and street furniture mimicking the Mughal-era architecture. Senior officials of the Public Works Department (PWD) said over 90% work was complete. They said currently “finishing touches” were being given and stone work was going on near Town Hall. A toilet complex near Fountain Chowk was also nearing completion, they said. PWD minister Satyendar Jain said the officials have been directed to complete the project within the stipulated deadline.The idea of the project first came up in 2004. In 2008, the chief minister Sheila Dikshit set up the Shahjanahabad Redevelopment Corporation as a nodal agency to oversee the implementation of the project by bringing all stakeholders on a common platform. It was launched in August 2018 by the AAP government and work began in December that year. The initial deadline was fixed at March 2020, but it was revised to March 2021 due to several delaying factors such as the Covid pandemic and the legal issues in removing encroachments, including some religious structures. Garima Gupta, managing director, SRDC, said the deadline of the project has been rescheduled to March-end this year. “The work is underway in full swing and we hope to complete it within the timeline. The deadline of the project has now been revised to March 31, 2021,” Gupta said.Explaining the reasons behind the delay, a PWD official who declined to be named said even though work resumed in June this year after the government began the unlock process after the nationwide Covid-induced lockdown, progress was slow due to shortage of labour. “Now the project is inching towards completion. We have completed over 90% work, which includes major construction works such as digging and shifting of utilities. Overhead wires have also been made underground and drains in the area are being fixed and beautified. We will complete the project by March 31, 2021,” the official said.PWD engineer-in-chief Shashi Kant conducted an inspection last week to review the progress of the project. He directed the officials to expedite work and finish it within the deadline.The corridor will strictly be a “no vehicle zone” during the daytime and only non-motorised vehicles such as rickshaws and e-rickshaws will be allowed to move on the stretch. However, loading and unloading of goods will be allowed during the night, officials said.Sanjay Bhargava, president Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said it is the maintenance of the redeveloped portion, which is required as it is being spoiled by encroachment. “Stretches that have been beautified on the corridor can be seen occupied by beggars, illegal vendors. The authorities should also take care of this problem of encroachment as it will only malign the beauty of the redeveloped areas,” Bhargava said.He said besides the remaining civil work, the agencies were yet to install CCTV cameras and streetlights.AGK Menon, a consultant with Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), said the project will improve shopping experience in the area. “There were practical problems that delayed the project. It should not be delayed further. Hopefully, it will be completed by the revised deadline,” Menon said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chandni-chowk-to-be-revamped-by-marchend-101613584504424.html
17-02-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: DTCP asks revenue dept not to register properties without NoC||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) wrote to the revenue department on Wednesday urging that the registration of properties that have been sealed should not be carried out till a no-objection certificate (NoC) is issued by the department.DTCP officials said they have observed that a number of property owners and dealers allegedly sell properties despite building plan violations and legal action pending against them. This, the department said, created a dicey situation as third party rights are created and the new owners are affected, despite no wrongdoing on their part. RS Bhath, the district town planner, said that they have written to the district administration, and six tehsildars and Naib tehsildars that registration deeds of properties against which legal action is pending should not be carried out till an NoC has been issued by the DTCP. “We have shared details of five properties in DLF Phase 3 and five in Suncity with the revenue department, where these houses have been sealed for building plan violations. Similar information will be shared with revenue officials regularly to prevent new owners from getting stuck,” said Bhath. DTCP officials said that when a house is sealed over plan violations, it can be de-sealed only after a penalty has been deposited and an affidavit has been submitted. “The violations have to be corrected as well, but what has been observed is that property dealers sell these properties to buyers who are not aware about the violations and legal issues. When we take action, these buyers submit pleas that they were ignorant of the matter but these arguments don’t hold legally,” said Bhath, adding that it was to avoid these issues that they have decided to conduct regular inspections and prevent sale of properties with such violations. DTCP officials said the reason dealers sell properties in this manner is that they want to sell units with excess construction. “When third party rights are created, it is difficult to take action and seal these properties,” he said. The department will also regularly inspect houses whose occupation certificates have been issued, to prevent building plan violations, they added.A revenue department official, when asked about the matter, said that they are ensuring that no property deed is registered without an NOC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-dtcp-asks-revenue-dept-not-to-register-properties-without-noc-101613584503775.html
17-02-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Notices to house owners over illegal use of property||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Wednesday issued show-cause notices to 30 house owners in Palam Vihar and Uppal Southend localities, where residential premises are allegedly being misused to run commercial establishments such as shops, boutiques, offices of property dealers, gyms and clinics. The department said property owners have been asked to stop the alleged unauthorised commercial activities as these are in violation of rules and also cause disturbance to residents in the area.RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that if the unauthorised activities are not stopped within a week then these houses will be sealed. “A large number of complaints had been received from these colonies regarding such activities, which is why the action was initiated,” he said, adding that building plan violations have also been identified in these 30 houses.Department officials added that there is a provision in DTCP policies that house owners can pay a fee and get permission to use 50 square metre of the area in their house commercially, albeit only to offer consulting services. “The department allows usage of some part of the plot for consulting services, after payment of a nominal fee of ₹50,000, for five years. The plot owners should get the permission regularly,” said Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner.In a related development, the DTCP has chalked out a plan for demolition and sealing drives across the city from February 18 to 24, and from March 2 to 10. Officials said the drives will be carried out in DLF Phase 3, Badshahpur, Bhondsi, Manesar, Kherki Daula, Sector 53, Rajendra Park and other areas where unauthorised constructions and housing construction is being carried out.A senior official, requesting not to be named, said that they have planned “large-scale” action particularly in DLF Phase 3, where a number of houses on plots meant for economically weaker sections (EWS) have been constructed allegedly in violation of rules. “The plan has been outlined and we are preparing to take action based on it,” the official said, adding that this time teams from the power distribution and fire department will also be involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-notices-to-house-owners-over-illegal-use-of-property-101613584503073.html
17-02-2021||Delhi||All govt offices, MCDs, police to have separate toilets for transgender persons||The Delhi government has made it mandatory for all its departments, offices, district authorities, municipal corporations, state-run companies and the Delhi Police to have separate and exclusive washrooms for transgender persons.An order to this effect was issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev on Friday (February 12). “In compliance with the provisions of Section 22 of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019, for ensuring adequate welfare measures for transgender persons, all public buildings under all the departments, autonomous bodies, PSUs, corporations, and local bodies of Government of NCT Delhi are hereby directed to create separate identified public toilet facilities for transgender persons,” read the order.“It is also clarified that trans people shall continue to be allowed to use gender-based toilets as per their self-identified gender,” the order further stated.While activists from the field welcomed the move, they said the government should rather focus on building gender-neutral toilets and highlighted that the Supreme Court had ordered access to separate toilets for transgender individuals in public places including hospitals way back in 2014.Read more: Delhi Gymkhana to get govt administrator, rules NCLAT“The Apex Court accorded third gender status to transgender people seven years ago and the verdict also included an individual’s right to determine the gender they identify with. The problem is not just in government offices, but also in public toilets in open spaces. Rather than having separate toilets which further marginalises people from our community, the government should build gender-neutral toilets or at least give keep that as an option in all buildings. Not having access to such basic facility is a violation of the fundamental right to life and dignity,” said Amrita Sarkar, advisor, transgender wellbeing and advocacy at India HIV/AIDS Alliance.The Delhi government has given a maximum time of two years to all agencies to build these exclusive toilets. The directive will be applicable not just to all Delhi government departments, agencies, companies and institutions, but also to the three municipal corporations and the Delhi Police.“In case such facilities are not immediately possible to be created separately, for the time being, all standalone toilets meant for persons with disabilities (PwD)shall be designated for use of transgender persons as well, till separate facilities for transgender persons are created within a time period of two years from the date of issue this order,” read the directive from Dev.The chief secretary further said such toilets will display symbols for both PwDs and “T” for transgender persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/all-govt-offices-mcds-police-to-have-separate-toilets-for-transgender-persons-101613584502022.html
17-02-2021||Gurugram||Constructions on Aravalli land in Raisina razed||The Sohna municipal corporation on Wednesday carried out a demolition drive against at least 10 constructions on Aravalli land in Raisina village. This was done in compliance with a National Green Tribunal (NGT) order from December 2020, which instructed that all such establishments built in the Aravallis of Gurugram and Faridabad be razed by January 31. A similar drive against unlawful structures in Manesar had been conducted on January 29 by the forest department. Confirming the development, Karam Bir Malik, forest range officer, said, “Orders have been given by the court in two cases recently — one filed by plaintiff Sonia Ghosh and the other by Ram Avtar Yadav, the former sarpanch of the Manesar panchayat. In these cases, the NGT has been extremely clear that any illegal construction in Aravalli forests are to be removed. Demolitions in Sohna started early on Wednesday and will continue in the coming days.” Unlike the demolition drive in Manesar, which was directly overseen by the forest department, Malik said that the Sohna municipal corporation would be leading the ones in Raisina village, as the land is not notified under sections 4 and 5 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act (1900), which gives it legal forest status and puts it under the custodianship of the forest department.Instead, the violations in Sohna are allegedly concentrated in Aravalli Retreat, a 1,200-acre complex comprising 670 privately held plots, which, until recently, were noted under the land use category of “gair mumkin farmhouse” in revenue records. The demolitions come more than six months after the Municipal Corporation of Sohna served show cause notices to over 400 farmhouses in Aravalli Retreat, on grounds that they had been constructed in violation of the MoEFCC’s notification of June 6, 2020. Following instructions laid down by the green court, the Gurugram deputy commissioner on June 11 last year ordered that the land use category of gair mumkin farmhouse be struck from revenue records and replaced with ‘gair mumkin pahad’ — the original nomenclature. Experts and environmentalists explained that the gair mumkin farmhouse category was introduced in revenue records around 1991, and has been used, over the years, by private developers to circumvent the MoEFCC’s Aravalli Notification. “There is no such term in revenue records historically. Its sudden emergence around 1991, just before the Aravalli Notification was to come into force, raises questions as to who allowed these changes to be introduced in the record books, and why,” said Sarvadaman Oberoi, a city-based legal activist.The validity of gair mumkin farmhouse as a revenue term has been previously struck down by the Punjab and Haryana high court. In a 2014 judgment, the court observed, “Concededly, the developers have got changed the kind of land from gairmumkin mountain (pahad) to gairmumkin farmhouses. If any patwari without any legal authority had made the stray entries... then such stray and illegal entries are non est, void and are not sufficient to hold that the land in litigation was gairmumkin farmhouses.” The court also said that these lands will continue to be recognised as pahad, and not as “farmhouse”.Further, in October 2018, in the case of Soniya Ghosh v/s State of Haryana, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) ruled that, “Any construction raised on the forest area or the area otherwise covered by the notification dated 07.05.1992 without permission of the competent authority (after the date of the said notification) has to be treated as illegal and such forest land has to be restored (sic).”As per a recent forest department survey, there are at least 100 such farmhouses built illegally on Aravalli land in Gurugram, concentrated in areas like Gwal Pahari, Gairatpur Bas, Sohna and Manesar. District forest officer, RS Dhull, did not respond to requests for comment on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/constructions-on-aravalli-land-in-raisina-razed-101613584443536.html
17-02-2021||Gurugram||Leachate from landfill site spills outside boundary, blocks local road access||Leachate from the rear side of Bandhwari landfill site situated on Aravalli land has been spilling outside its boundary on to the adjoining road. A spot check by an HT team on Wednesday revealed that due to the spillage, a kuccha road leading to nearby villages in the area has been blocked. Workers from Ecogreen Energy, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram’s (MCG) concessionaire for waste management of Bandhwari landfill present at the site were seen clearing the leachate by pumping it out into tankers along with trucks and JCBs, clearing the excess waste spillage.Around 1,900 tonnes of untreated mixed municipal solid waste generated in Gurugram and Faridabad is dumped at the landfill every day.Sunil Harsana, a resident of Mangar village located in the vicinity of the landfill, who was also present at the landfill site on Wednesday, said that the Bandhwari waste plant visibly has more waste than it can accommodate, which is now spreading outside the plant.“The leachate or dirty water from the accumulated waste is now flowing into the nearby forests and a road leading to our village has also been blocked recently because of this. If this is the situation now, then what will be the condition during monsoon, when leachate usually spills out?” said Harsana.He said, “We already know that the groundwater under the landfill is completely contaminated and people from nearby villages are suffering because of it. Along with people, our fauna in and around the landfill is also feeding on the same water, affecting their health too.”Nearly 6.7 million tonnes of waste has accumulated at the landfill site over the last two decades, as per a 2019 joint committee report drafted by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), IIT-Delhi and the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI).Reacting to the spillage of the leachate, Dhiraj Kumar, joint commissioner of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) said, “Around 15-20 days ago, the city had witnessed rainfall, which might have caused the leachate to percolate on one particular side leading to spillage. It is not a lot of spillages and our officials are working at the site to pump it out.”Kumar also said that the MCG is in the process of issuing tenders for “extending the existing boundary wall of the landfill, which will be bigger and stronger to ensure that waste does not breach into the forests.”Listing causes for spilling of waste and leachate, Sanjeev Sharma, the spokesperson for Ecogreen Energy said, “We have learnt from our official working at the site that it happened because a lot of waste was being shifted from one angle to another, due to which some of it spilled over the boundary walls, which are very old. We have started repairing the walls and it should get fixed within 10 days. Another reason is that the particular area where waste was spilled on Wednesday is on a downslope.” Sharma said that due to the downslope, freshwater shifted down the slant and that the leachate was cleared and sucked through pumps by the end of the day. Locals have been protesting demanding shifting of the landfill from Bhandwari to outside the city where there is no human habitation. In January, members of Citizens for Clean Air — a civil society group — wrote to the CPCB, drawing attention to allegations of groundwater contamination in Bandhwari and nearby villages, about 20 kilometres outside the city. In the letter to the pollution control body, the civil society group wrote, “Their (locals from the area) natural habitat got spoiled beyond recovery to accommodate the dirt of the city dwellers — the dumping of mixed solid municipal waste at the landfill site for the past several years. And their environment, including their drinking water sources, has been destroyed. Already there are reports of higher incidence of cancer and other ailments in these areas.”Experts and citizens working on the environmental issues around Bandhwari landfill said that authorities need to enforce solid waste management rules to stop the daily dumping of around 2,000 tonnes of mixed waste at the site.Neelam Ahluwalia, of the Aravalli Bachao Citizens Movement, said, “Bandhwari landfill, with more than 30 lakh (3 million) tonnes of untreated mixed waste is a violation of all rules connected with the forest and environment. For the past two years, the National Green Tribunal has been directing the MCG to remove the waste mountain following the Indore model, where a 100-acre dump site was recovered with treatment of 15 lakh (1.5 million) tonnes of waste. The same needs to be done at Bandhwari to remove this toxic monster.”She said that native Aravalli plantation needs to be done to restore the 32 acres of forest land where the landfill currently stands, as the Aravallis are the lungs and a critical water recharge zone on which life of National Capital Region depends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/leachate-from-landfill-site-spills-outside-boundary-blocks-local-road-access-101613584442933.html
17-02-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram shortlisted for second round of cycling challenge||Gurugram has progressed to the second round of India Cycles4Change challenge, to facilitate quick implementation of cycling friendly initiatives in response to the Covid-19 outbreak. Gurugram is among the 25 cities to be selected for the second round of the ministry of housing and urban affairs’ programme, under the Smart Cities Mission.In all, 107 cities participated in the first round of the challenge, under which government bodies and experts had to implement and introduce low-cost changes to increase cycling infrastructure in urban spaces. Since October last year, cycling infrastructure has increased significantly in Gurugram, with cycle tracks constructed along Netaji Subhash Marg, Hamilton Court Road, Vyapar Kendra Road, and the service lane leading towards Gold Souk Mall. Cycle tracks are also under construction at the Anaath Road in Udyog Vihar and the new sector road which links Rampura Chowk on National Highway 48 with Pataudi Road.A 2020 survey by the India Programme of the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP), which is a knowledge partner for this challenge, predicted that cycling would increase by 50-65% as cities come out of lockdown. Last month, VS Kundu, the former chief executive officer of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), had announced that all new road projects in the city, barring a few stretches in Old Gurugram where road width is limited, will have cycling tracks as well as footpaths along each carriageway.Sudhir Rajpal, the current chief executive officer of the GMDA declined to comment on the matter. According to GMDA officials, representatives of the 25 shortlisted cities will give a presentation on the initiatives taken to increase cycling infrastructure, their effectiveness and future scale-up plans to a national-level jury. The list will then be whittled down from 25 to 11 cities, which will receive ₹1 crore award each and guidance from national and international experts for scaling up existing infrastructure. The programme will involve a compilation of shared learning from all 11 cities, so that each city can study infrastructure models of other cities to analyse ways the same can be implemented in their zones.“Around 12-14% of commuters use cycle as a mode of transport in the city, on a daily basis, by choice. At least 5% of the city’s commuters have started using cycles periodically for commuting purposes following the coronavirus outbreak. Hence, the infrastructure needed to be upgraded to not only meet the long-standing requirement but also to account for the change in the pattern of daily travel,” said Sarika Panda Bhatt, co-founder of Raahgiri, a body that promotes non-motorised transport in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-shortlisted-for-second-round-of-cycling-challenge-101613584441716.html
17-02-2021||Other||Red Fort violence: Car AC mechanic held from Delhi||New Delhi: A 30-year-old car air-conditioning mechanic from north-west Delhi’s Swaroop Nagar was arrested for swinging swords and dancing with the weapons at the Red Fort on Republic Day, acts that “motivated” protesters to cause “more mayhem” at the monument, the Delhi Police said on Wednesday.Pramod Kushwaha, deputy commissioner of police (special cell), said the accused, Maninder Singh, was arrested after being identified in a video that showed him wielding the two swords. “We have recovered the two 4.3-feet-long swords from his home,” said Kushwaha in a press note.The Red Fort was one of the epicentres of violence and vandalism on Republic Day after a tractor march planned by the farmers protesting against the three farm laws descended into chaos with the protesters clashing with the police at several locations in central, east Delhi and north-west Delhi, and a large group storming the Mughal-era fort. As many as 89 police personnel were injured in violence at Red Fort. Three others have already been arrested in connection with the vandalism and violence at the Unesco World Heritage site. These include Deep Sidhu, an actor-turned-activist who was arrested on February 8, for allegedly instigating protesters at the monument and destroying property. Sidhu remains in police custody for interrogation. Sidhu was arrested after the Delhi Police announced a total reward of R6 lakh for information leading to the arrest of eight men, including Sidhu, gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana and Jugraj Singh. The latter is accused of hoisting a religious and a farmers’ body flag at the Red Fort.Police teams are continuing to carry out raids in Punjab and Haryana to arrest Sidhana and Singh.Kushwaha said Singh was “radicalised” by watching various “provocative” videos on Facebook and was “motivated” by speeches made by leaders at the Singhu border, a protest site frequented by him.“Singh motivated six other residents of Swaroop Nagar to accompany him to the tractor rally. On Republic Day, Singh and the six other men rode motorcycles along with the tractor rally from Singhu border to Red Fort. He carried his two swords with him,” said Kushwaha.The seven men and others entered the Red Fort with several other unidentified persons, said the officer. “Inside, Singh danced with his swords. The sword dance motivated the violent protesters to cause more mayhem at Red Fort,” said Kushwaha.Kushwaha also that Singh ran a sword training centre from a vacant plot near his home.Referring to the evidence against Singh, Kushwaha said there was a long video of him swinging swords at the venue in his mobile phone. The police are questioning Singh to identify others present at the monument that day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/red-fort-violence-car-ac-mechanic-held-from-delhi-101613584442314.html
17-02-2021||Delhi||Dwarka residents oppose construction of drain at the cost of 600 trees||Residents of Dwarka’s Sector 8 are opposing the construction of a stormwater drain between IGI Airport to Trunk Drain 2 (near Bharat Vandana Park, Dwarka), saying close to 600 trees will have to be felled or transplanted for the ₹70- crore project, which is being executed by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA).The residents have written to the land-owning agency to rework plans to minimise the damage to the green cover. But DDA officials said there is no possible alternative route, as the road under which part of the drain will be constructed is narrow.With work on the expansion of Indira Gandhi International Airport, including a new runway, going on, DDA officials said the drain is needed to ensure that there is no waterlogging at the airport.The three-km-long drain will be constructed from the airport up to Bharat Vandana Park and further to Trunk Drain 2. A sizeable portion of the drain, which will be completely underground, will pass through a waterbody and a park in Dwarka’s Sector 8 near Bagdola village.DDA has sought approval from the Delhi government’s forest department to transplant and cut close to 600 trees. “We applied for tree felling permission in October last year. But we are yet to get the permission. The plan for the drain was prepared after careful study of all feasible options,” said a DDA official in-charge of the project.Residents of Sector 8 said the plan will destroy the green cover.Amit Kumar, a resident of Sector 8, said, “This is the only park available for Sector 8 residents, Bagdola village and Raj Nagar park-II. DDA has already done the markings on the ground and close to 600 trees, including hundreds of trees inside the park, will be damaged in the process. We have made several requests and also submitted an alternative plan to the DDA to save the trees.”DDA officials said the alternative plan suggested by the residents is not feasible as the road width is just 13 metres whereas the proposed drain is more than 20 metres wide . “They have discussed their proposal with us. The plan for the stormwater drain was prepared by experts after careful study of the area. As of now, there is no change in the plan. We have applied for permission from various departments,” said the official.The project has been in the making since 2016. According to first DDA official, “For airport’s expansion plan, DIAL (Delhi International Airport Limited) approached DDA to construct the stormwater drain. But after several rounds of deliberations with DIAL, it has been decided that a 20-22 metre wide drain will be constructed. The plan was finalised in 2018 and the work was awarded last year.”DIAL didn’t comment on the matter.Kumar, who is leading the campaign to protect the trees in the neighbourhood, said, “All the residents are against it. We have submitted an alternative plan to DDA. If they go ahead with the original plan, then we will explore other recourse.”Satish Bhardwaj, another resident of sector 8, said, “DDA should look for an alternative plan and save these trees. On the one hand, efforts are made to combat air pollution, and on the other, government agencies want to cut trees for development work.”Environmental activist Diwan Singh said, “It looks unnecessary to cut so many trees to construct the drain. The existing drain is enough to carry the excess water. If need be, recharge pits can be constructed along the proposed runway at the airport. There is plenty of land available. DDA needs to find a way to minimise the damage to the environment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dwarka-residents-oppose-construction-of-drain-at-the-cost-of-600-trees-101613584381762.html
17-02-2021||Noida||Greater Noida to hold water court to settle dues||The Greater Noida Authority will organise a dedicated court for industrial unit owners to settle water bill dues on Thursday.The authority’s water department staff will be available to address issues in sectors Knowledge Park I, II, III, Techzone, Techzone 2 and of information technology company owners and commercial property owners. This dedicated court will be set up on ground floor of the authority’s hall located in main administrative building located in sector Knowledge Park-IV, said officials. The staff will answer queries of visitors on this issue from 10am to 12pm on Thursday only.“The water court is an effort to provide our allottees an opportunity to settle their water bill dues and start paying their bills in future on time. With the initiative the authority wants to make sure that they resolve their bill issues properly before they male final payments,” said Deep Chand additional chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.On February 25 the dedicated desk will address the water bill issues about the builders and group housing allottees at the same place from 10am to 12pm. On February 25 the authority will resolve issues of sectors 1, 4, 16Cm 10, 12 and techzone-IV areas. The scheme will continue until all allottees are able to settle their dues, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-to-hold-water-court-to-settle-dues-101613584023239.html
17-02-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Rates reduced for map clearances in Modinagar, Muradnagar and Loni||Ghaziabad: The officials of the Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) on Wednesday said that they have reduced the rates for map clearances in areas such as Loni, Modinagar and Muradnagar, which they said will pave the way for more planned development. The officials said that the decision was taken by the Uttar Pradesh cabinet earlier in February, and they have received a communication regarding the same. The officials said that the rate for clearance of maps for residential areas, as of now, is about ₹3,314 per square metre. The rates have now been reduced to ₹1,200 per square metres for areas of Modnagar, Loni and Muradnagar. “The Ghaziabad authority, earlier in 2016, had sent a proposal to the state administration for reducing the rates to ₹700 per square metres. However, the state cabinet has now decided that the rates will be ₹1,200 per square metres now for these three areas. Since the decision has been taken by the cabinet, we need not take it to the GDA board for any approval. However, the rate of ₹3,314 will continue to prevail for residential housing in city areas,” said Asheesh Shivpuri, the authority’s chief architect and town planner. The three areas have a number of unauthorised constructions, despite being part of the authority’s jurisdiction area. “It is now expected that residents will come to the authority for getting their map approvals before the construction of houses. The reduction in rates will encourage people to get prior map approvals and will also help discourage unauthorised constructions. Any residential area which is 100 square metre or above needs to have a map clearance before construction is taken up,” he added. Officials said the authority is also getting the next Master Plan up to 2031 developed as well as the zonal plans for the three areas, which will also be incorporated as part of the Master Plan. The Master Plan chalks out residential, commercial and industrial and green zones besides other facilities for the entire city, while zonal plans are specific to an area and chalk out facilities at the micro level, which need to be provided for respective localities or areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-rates-reduced-for-map-clearances-in-modinagar-muradnagar-and-loni-101613583902001.html
17-02-2021||Noida||Noida authority sends updated plan to clean Kondli drain||Noida:The Noida authority has submitted an updated plan to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to clean Kondli drain — a major source contributing to the pollution of River Yamuna.It passes through multiple residential sectors in Noida, leaving behind a trail of stink and fumes. The officials said that the work must be done on priority.The authority’s nine-point action plan asserts that it would take at least three years to completely de-silt the Kondli drain by building six artificially constructed wetlands along it. This would clean it naturally and ensure that untreated sewage is not discharged into it. Officials said the first wetland will be ready by June 2021.We have inspected 69 residential high-rises to check if their respective sewage treatment plants (STPs) are working, of which, over 30 were served show-cause notices for either defunct or improper functioning STPs, they said.Some 95 residential high-rises would be inspected to ensure that they do not leak untreated sewage into the drains. 104 public toilets and 56 community toilets have been constructed and strengthening of the existing sewage network in the city is underway.“Kondli drain is our priority, and we have expedited the work to clean it soon. We have also decided to build 7 wetlands (artificial) across 17 kilometre along the drain, of which, the first will be experimental and pilot — through which we will analyse its effectiveness by ensuring if the biochemical oxygen demand of the drain water is reduced. An MoU with the irrigation department has been signed for the same, and work for the first wetland will be done by June. If the biological oxygen demand (BOD) reduces, then we will construct more,” said RP Singh, DGM, Water and Sewer Department (Noida authority).The action plan also includes strengthening of the existing sewage network in the next two years, and channelising and connecting 30 drains with the main sewer lines — that illegally carry sewage into the Kondli drain — in three years.“The proposal of strengthening of the existing sewage network amounting to ₹19.77 crores have been submitted, and the same are to be executed on a priority basis. It might take around two years,” said the updated action plan, dated February 15.The 40-year-old and 20-kilometre-long Kondli drain originates from Delhi’s Kondli village. It enters Noida (via Ghaziabad) near Hari Darshan police post in Sector 11 and submerges into River Yamuna near Chak Mangrola in Sector 168 after travelling 17 kilometre — Sector 11, Sector 12, Sector 22, Sector 50, Sector 92 and Sector 168 — in the Noida region.Noida resident and environment activist Abhisht Kusum Gupta had initiated the legal battle to clean the Kondli drain in November 2018. “It seems that the Noida authority is finally working, and this city will soon get rid of the 40-year-old menace, which will benefit the residents and the environment,” Gupta said.According to the authority, the estimated sewage generation in Noida is 216-million-litre PER day, of which, only 152-million-litre is treated, while the remaining 64-million-litre untreated effluent flows through the Kondli drain and goes into River Yamuna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-sends-updated-plan-to-clean-kondli-drain-101613583842513.html
17-02-2021||Other||Air ‘very poor’ across Ghaziabad, Noida for third day||Noida: The average air quality across Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida was recorded “very poor” on Wednesday for a third day in a row. Pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 also remained in the air of the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).The average 24-hour AQI at 4pm on Wednesday was 328 in Ghaziabad, 322 in Noida, and 337 in Greater Noida, all in ‘very poor’ category, according to the CPCB. On Tuesday, it was 356 in Ghaziabad, 335 in Noida, and 375 in Greater Noida. On Monday, it was 369 in Ghaziabad, 368 in Noida, and 349 in Greater Noida. On Sunday, it was 416 in Ghaziabad, 416 in Noida, and 402 in Greater Noida.According to the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. The CPCB states that an AQI in the “very poor” category may cause respiratory illness to people on prolonged exposure.The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all monitoring stations there. Ghaziabad and Noida havefour such stations while Greater Noida has two stations each.According weather analysts, air quality has been affected due to low wind speed. “Wind speed is low and the emissions are consistent, which is the reason why accumulation of particles is at its peak with no scope of dispersion. Air quality is likely to remain in the ‘very poor’ condition over the next few days,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet. According to the system of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the air quality is likely to improve over the weekend.“Surface winds are low and forecasted to improve and change in direction to easterly. Better ventilation is likely to influence AQI positively. The AQI is likely to stay in the lower end of the ‘very poor’ for the next two days. AQI is likely to further improve on February 20,” read the SAFAR statement on Wednesday.WITH PTI INPUTS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/air-very-poor-across-ghaziabad-noida-for-third-day-101613583841748.html
17-02-2021||Noida||Teenagers held for murder of 10-year-old boy in Noida||Noida: Two boys aged 13 and 14 years were detained by the Noida police on Wednesday in connection with the death of a 10-year-old boy in October last year. Police said that the two suspects had allegedly assaulted the victim and then strangled him to death. The deceased boy, son of a daily wage earner, had gone missing from his home under Sector 49 police jurisdiction on October 11, and subsequently, a kidnapping case had been registered. Later that week, the minor’s body was found from near a construction site in the area in a decomposed state. Police officials said that this was a blind case initially.“We had questioned the neighbours and friends multiple times but didn’t get any clues. A few days later, a man in the area left the locality and went to Banda where we tracked him. He was a person of interest but upon questioning it turned out that he wasn’t involved. But he mentioned that his son was the deceased boy’s friend. When the son was questioned, he said that he and a few other boys had seen the suspect boys misbehaving with the deceased on a couple of occasions,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1.According to police, the 14-year-old boy, one of the suspects and son of a local property dealer, was then interrogated who admitted to the crime and revealed about his accomplice as well. Police said that he and the other boy had sodomised the deceased on an earlier occasion as well. “On October 11, they molested him again and when he resisted, they assaulted him. He then threatened to inform his family about it, after which the juveniles pushed him and he hit his head on a brick. They then used a rope lying nearby to strangle him. The autopsy had confirmed ligature marks around the neck. The body was dumped at a construction site from where it was later recovered,” the official said.The officials also said that the suspects were helping the family put up posters as well but police have witnesses who allege that the duo used to bully the deceased. The suspects were booked for murder, kidnapping and unnatural sex, police said, adding that they were produced before the juvenile justice board before being sent to the juvenile home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/teenagers-held-for-murder-of-10-year-old-boy-in-noida-101613583721774.html
17-02-2021||Noida||Four persons arrested for administering Covid vaccine illegally||Police arrested four persons for allegedly administering a Covid-19 vaccine to 18 people illegally in a Dadri pathology laboratory on Tuesday.Police identified the suspects in the case as Rizwan Ali, Sanjay Shrivastava, Sudhakar Yadav, and Suresh Kumar Singh from. They were all employees of Ghaziabad’s Flores Hospital and were present at the laboratory at the time on Tuesday. The hospital administrator Mahesh Chaudhury was also booked and was absconding till press time on Wednesday.The hospital was to conduct clinical trials of Zydus Cadila’s Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D. The lab’s owner Vikas Vashishth was also booked in the case and was absconding till press time.Gautam Budh Nagar drug inspector Vaibhav Babbar, in his police complaint, said the health department visited Gopal Pathology Lab on Tuesday after it was informed of an unauthorised vaccination drive. The team found a “free corona vaccination camp” there.The team seized 279 vials of the vaccine from the lab and said that 10 vials had been used.“Ali, Shrivastava, Yadav and Singh were present there and, upon questioning, said they were employees of Flores Hospital. Shrivastava was the supervisor. He said the hospital administrator Chaudhury had given the team vaccine vials, syringes, etc,” Babbar said in the FIR.Vashishth’s uncle Sanjeev, whose name and number appeared on a banner advertising the camp, blamed the incident on communication gap. “The hospital had permission for clinical trials. They had conducted such trials in Ghaziabad and then they approached Gopal Pathology Lab for trials here too. A few relatives of ours and people in the area got the dose. The hospital should have informed the local administration in advance to avoid such a situation,” he said.Drug inspector Babbar said that the vaccine vials were not stored at the required temperature either, possibly rendering them useless. “The four staff members were not technically trained for vaccinating people. The lab too was not registered with the health department,” he said. District chief medical officer Deepak Ohri said that the hospital had not informed the health department or district administration of the trial, which was required by law. A clinical trial involves human subjects and has several phases during which the safety and efficacy of the vaccine is tested. The Zydus Cadila spokesperson did not respond to requests for comment on Wednesday.Rajveer Singh Chauhan, station house officer of Dadri police station, said, “A case has been registered against six persons under Indian Penal Code’s section 420 (cheating), sections 51 and 52 of Indian Medical Council Act, and sections 18-A and 27 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. The four arrested persons were produced in court and sent to jail.”Flores Hospital owner Dr Manoj Kumar could not be reached for comment on Wednesday. On Tuesday, however, he had said that he had the required permissions from the government of India to conduct the clinical trial. “We signed an agreement with the Dadri lab as a satellite centre for the trials. We had no idea that the local district health department’s permission was needed too,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-persons-arrested-for-administering-covid-vaccine-illegally-101613583661797.html
17-02-2021||Noida||Ahead of ‘Rail Roko’, Tikait says farmers ready to suffer loss of one crop||Leaders of the anti-farm law protest on Wednesday said they will go ahead with the plan to disrupt trains in the country on Thursday.People will not allow trains to ply, they said. But, they added, protesters at the prominent protest sites around Delhi -- UP Gate at the border with Ghaziabad is one of them -- will not leave their positions. These people will continue their protests on the roads.This is the protesters’ third major action this year after the tractor rally to Delhi on Republic Day and Chakka jam (road traffic protest) on February 6. They are demanding the repeal of the three central farm laws and the codification of the minimum support price (MSP) for crops into law.“This is another call to take forward our movement which will not stop and will continue. It is now a fight for our existence. Even if farmers have to suffer loss of a crop, they will do it and will not let the agitation die. Our agitation is not going to break even as people say that there are fewer people at our gatherings. Our farmers have gone to attend to their fields and also have to attend to marriages in their families. They will come back,” said Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union who is spearheading protest at UP Gate.He said people in their respective areas will stop trains.“They will stop trains that ply in area. This will be a peaceful protest and they will offer water, milk, fruits, Lassi and other items to children and other passengers who will be affected. They will also tell them about the farmers’ issues. This will take place across the country,” Tikait said.The farmer leaders seemed reluctant to detail on how exactly they want people to stop trains in the rail roko protest, more so after the incidents of large-scale violence during their tractor rally in Delhi.The ‘Samyukta Kisan Morcha’ (SKM) in a statement issued from Singhu Border said, “SKM appeals to everyone for a peaceful protest in nationwide rail roko program on February 18. This program will be organised from 12 noon to 4 pm in which support is expected from all over the country.”UP Gate farmers’ committee member Jagtar Singh Bajwa said that no protester from UP Gate will go to attend the “Rail Roko” call.“They will stay at UP Gate and will continue the protest here. People are expected to stop trains and strictly told to carry out the call in a peaceful manner,” he said.The Ghaziabad district administration said that they have made arrangements beforehand.“We have deployed police and other security personnel in respective areas, and they will also be accompanied by magistrates of respective tehsils. We will ensure that there is no untoward incident and passengers should not suffer,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.The farmers are camping at the UP Gate protest site since November 28, 2020 to press for their demands and also occupying Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the Delhi Meerut Expressway since December 3, 2020. The other carriageway was heavily barricaded by the Delhi police after incidents of violence which took place on the Republic Day in Delhi during tractor rally call given by farmers’ leaders.NHAI concernThe National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials said their work had been disrupted since the start of the protest. About 1.3-km stretch of the Delhi Meerut Expressway was occupied affecting traffic on stretches between UP Gate and Vijay Nagar.“We have received several complaints from the public about the closure of the expressway. We had written to the district magistrate requesting them to get the expressway vacated,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI.But district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that he had not received any such request. “The district administration on January 28 had also served a notice to farmer leaders at UP Gate to vacate the site, but nothing materialised so far.Meanwhile, BKU national spokesperson Tikait lashed out at the NHAI.“NHAI officials keep telling us to vacate the expressway. When the government couldn’t get it vacated, how can they? There is no one from NHAI who has come to us so far to ask us to vacate. We ask that what action was taken when roads were dug up to stop the farmers (referring to police action to stop the rally on Republic Day). The officials must first initiate action there,” Tikait added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ahead-of-rail-roko-tikait-says-farmers-ready-to-suffer-loss-of-one-crop-101613583601840.html
17-02-2021||Noida||Will raise farmer issues in West Bengal, says Tikait||Ghaziabad: The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday reiterated his stand to hold panchayats in poll-bound West Bengal and said that he will raise issues of farmers there. In order to garner support for the ongoing their agitation, Tikait and other farmers’ leaders have been holding panchayats regularly in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and other areas in the national Capital region.Farmers’ leaders have also slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and said that it is because the government has not paid heed to their demands.Farmers have been camping at various borders around Delhi since November last year, demanding repeal of the three new farm laws and a new law on minimum support price. “We will definitely go to West Bengal; it is not as if the state is outside the country. We are getting a lot of response from our panchayats and this has baffled the government. Farmers are facing issues in West Bengal as well and their issues should find a way to the manifestos of political parties who intend to come to power. There, farmers are not getting the appropriate price (for their crops) while those involved in fisheries are also facing problems,” Tikait said. BJP leaders are holding rallies in the state hoping to make inroads during the upcoming assembly elections against the All India Trinamool Congress. Assembly elections in West Bengal are likely to be held in April or May.On Tuesday, several BJP leaders including party president JP Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah held a meeting with party leaders from Haryana, Rajasthan and western UP. Sources in the BJP said that it was intended to reach out to farmers, panchayats and khaps over the issue of the three farm laws. Both western UP and Haryana have major Jat populations.“It is good that BJP leaders are discussing farm laws and trying to reach out to farmers. Internally, they are basically worried about letting slip their vote bank and are now trying to win over farmers,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer leader from Uttarakhand and member of the UP Gate farmers’ committee.“If their leaders speak to farmers then they will come to know. The government is trying to talk to the people of one caste, but it is not an agitation of any one caste and this, the people will show them. Let them hold talks. We ask them whether only Jats voted for them. It seems they are trying to play the caste card. Caste and religion cards have been exhausted now as we are playing the ‘kisan card’ to raise the issues of farmers,” Tikait added. “We will see what new card they play next. Their cards die out in five days and they try to bring in new cards each time. They are now trying to divide us into castes, and this does not send out a good message. Our intent is to ensure that the government listens to our demand,” he added. The last round of talks between the government and farmers’ union were held on January 22, after which no talks have been scheduled so far.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), a body of farmers’ unions at the Singhu border, issued a statement Wednesday in which it said: “It is clear that instead of resolving the ongoing agitation, the BJP is trying its best to counter and destroy it. The SKM condemns this attitude of the ruling party and demands that the government resolve the farmers’ issues without any further delay. The SKM vows that it will intensify the struggle and mobilise more farmers in its support.” BJP leaders declined to comment over the agenda of the meeting held by their senior leaders on Tuesday. “The BJP has never done politics of caste and will never do it. This dharna (sit-in) by the Kisan Union is no andolan (agitation) and has flopped, which is why they are making such comments. Our party people and leaders are always with the common man and they have held a lot of programs to reach out to people. Even our senior leaders in UP have held such programs in the recent past,” said Chandra Mohan, spokesperson and state secretary of BJP – UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/will-raise-farmer-issues-in-west-bengal-says-tikait-101613583481714.html
17-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records over 4,000 new Covid-19 cases, second time in 4 days||The Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra remained grim as the number of new daily cases continued to spike on Wednesday. According to figures released by the health department, the western state reported 4,787 fresh infections on the day, the second time since January 6, when 4,382 new cases were recorded. On February 14, there were 4,092 fresh cases in the state.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageWith the addition of these latest cases, Maharashtra’s tally now stands at 2,076,093, way higher than that of any other state or Union territory in the country. Its death toll, meanwhile, reached 51,631 after 40 people lost their lives due to the viral disease on Wednesday.Of the state's new cases, 721 were from its capital Mumbai, which took the city’s infection tally to 315,751. Three more people succumbed to Covid-19 here, pushing its death toll to 11,428.The number of people who have recovered from the disease in Maharashtra rose by 3,853, taking the total to 1,985,261. The state has conducted 15,455,268 tests for Covid-19 thus far, out of which 58,824 people were tested in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra has witnessed a surge in its Covid-19 cases over the past few days, triggering fears of a second wave. Earlier in the day, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that it will review the increase in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and take strict actions within 10 days if conditions do not improve. "BMC to review the increase in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai. If the cases continue to rise and people ignore Covid-19 norms and regulations, then BMC will not hesitate in taking a strong measure within the next 10 days," the civic body said.On Tuesday, taking a serious note of the laxity in Covid-appropriate behaviour across the state, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned that lockdown would have to be imposed again if people do not avoid crowding or not follow masking in public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-over-4-000-new-covid-19-cases-second-time-in-4-days-101613581340915.html
17-02-2021||Delhi||35-year-old for attacking SHO at Singhu border: Police||A 35-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly attacking an SHO of the Delhi Police at the Singhu border, where farmers are protesting against the three new agri laws of the Centre, officials said on Wednesday.The accused has been identified as Harmeet Singh, they said.The incident that resulted in minor injuries to the officer took place around 8 pm on Tuesday, they said.According to the police, the accused, who was in an inebriated state, snatched the car keys of one of the officers at the protest site and fled the spot.Being chased by the police, the accused abandoned the vehicle, snatched a two-wheeler from another man and fled.The security personnel finally overpowered him near the Mukarba Chowk around 8.30 pm and the station house officer (SHO) suffered injuries caused by a sword on his finger and neck while trying to nab him, a senior police officer said.The SHO was admitted to a hospital, from where he was discharged after treatment, the police said.The accused has been arrested and further investigation is underway, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/35yearold-for-attacking-sho-at-singhu-border-police-101613580511459.html
17-02-2021||Pune||For third day in a row, district reported less than 50% Covid19 vaccination||Pune: For third day in a row, district reported less than 50% Covid19 vaccinationOnly 44% of the 8,900 target beneficiaries were vaccinated in Pune on Wednesday. The city’s vaccination percentage continued to drop for a third day in a row this week. Zero adverse effects following immunisation were reported. Also, for a third day in a row this week the city reported less than 50% of the target beneficiaries being vaccinated. Pune’s vaccination percentage stood at 38%, or 1,093 beneficiaries out of 2,900. Beneficiaries included 738 healthcare workers (HCWs) and 355 frontline workers (FLWs). Also, 109 received their second dose. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported that 37% or 591 beneficiaries, including 458 FLWs out of a target of 1,600 were vaccinated on Wednesday. Also 119 received their second dose in PCMC. Pune rural reported that 51% or 2,243 beneficiaries of the target of 4,400 beneficiaries were vaccinated. Also, 240 beneficiaries received their second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/for-third-day-in-a-row-district-reported-less-than-50-covid19-vaccination-101613579401431.html
17-02-2021||Kolkata||Goyal blames Bengal govt for delays in completion of some Railway projects||Railway minister Piyush Goyal said on Wednesday that some projects in West Bengal are suffering delays in completion owing to land acquisition and approval issues and that many of these can be resolved if the state government extends cooperation.He said that Railway can play an important role in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision to make West Bengal a premier state in trading and business activity in the country by providing better connectivity and amenities."The sad part is we have projects in West Bengal which were approved many years ago but have not seen the light of day because of problems of land acquisition or approvals or various other reasons."Many of which can be resolved if the state government cooperates with the Indian Railway," he said.Inaugurating a number of infrastructure projects of Eastern Railway through video conferencing, the minister said that delay in completion causes huge cost overrun and loss to the exchequer of the country besides the people do not get the desired benefits.He said that timely availability of land and other sanctions from the state government "would ensure that taxpayers' money are properly utilised for the benefit of the people".Wishing a "wonderful revival in the months and years to come for West Bengal" and the various projects that the Railway ministry is planning to do in the state, Goyal said that just before Independence in 1946, it was first in terms of employment and second in terms of manufacturing in India."Over the years West Bengal got left behind in the race for development and progress, as is evident from the number of projects that we desired to do in the state but are stuck at different levels, largely owing to land acquisition problems," the minister said.He said that railway infrastructures need large and timely availability of land so that projects can be implemented on mission mode."There will be no dearth of money for projects in West Bengal," the minister said, maintaining that the more cooperation, land and approvals are received from the state government, the faster will these be completed with adequate funds from the Centre.He said six pairs of kisan special trains have been run in West Bengal so far to provide higher benefits to the farmers by transporting their produce from the far-flung areas.Goyal said in the last six years, ₹19,811 crores have been invested in West Bengal for railway infrastructure development and another ₹710 crores were spent for passenger amenities in the state.The minister said that by December 2023, 100 per cent electrification of all railway lines in West Bengal will be completed, holding that apart from reducing pollution, it will increase speed of trains and ensure better services.The minister dedicated to the nation the newly electrified 34-km Manigram-Nimtita section by flagging off a goods train and inaugurated road under bridges and foot over bridges in Howrah and Malda divisions of Eastern Railway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/goyal-blames-bengal-govt-for-delays-in-completion-of-some-railway-projects-101613577746487.html
17-02-2021||Noida||More waste recycle plants planned in Noida||NOIDA: Three more waste-to-compost plants and seven bio-methanisation plants are going to be set up in residential areas of Noida to treat waste at source, said authority officials.The authority has received proposals from some residential sectors and is wrapping up formalities, said officials.“The authority will set up the plant only after it gets proposals from the respective RWA (residents’ welfare association) or AOA (apartment owners’ associations). Interested RWA or AOA has to fund 5% of the cost of the plant and remaining will be funded by us,” said Indu Prakash Singh, officer on special duty of the Noida authority.The sectors where these new plants are to come up will be announced after formalities are over with.As of now, Noida has 30 waste-to-compost converters and five bio-methanisation plants which generate energy besides recycling.Around ₹60 lakh are spent on the development of a bio-gas plant, said officials. A waste-to-compost machine, on the other hand, costs about ₹12 lakh to ₹26 lakh. The authority is encouraging housing societies to be involved in the compost-making process in order to reduce the burden on the landfills in the city. The authority also rewards RWAs for this initiative to encourage them to set up more such waste-to-compost plants.Noida produces around 900 metric tonnes of waste daily. The authority has borne 75% of the expenses for setting up these machines, while 20% was funded through corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds of business houses and 5% was borne by the respective RWAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/more-waste-recycle-plants-planned-in-noida-101613577181233.html
17-02-2021||Pune||PMC, dist administration stress on more tests||Pune: With the Covid-19 tally once again rising, Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol has instructed the municipal administration to increase testing and ensure availability of beds in the city. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “If needed, PMC will need to announce micro-containment zones in the city. Almost everything is open in Pune, but if cases start increasing in specific areas, we will need to announce micro-containment zones.” On Wednesday, Pune district reported 864 new cases with four Covid-related deaths. Mohol, along with leader of house Ganesh Bidkar and other office-bearers, on Wednesday, held a review meeting with Kumar and the administration. Till last week, Pune’s Covid-19 positive cases were below 200 per day. Since last week, the numbers are increasing and every day at least 300 patients are testing positive. “Though the pandemic situation is under control, the rise in cases is alarming and we need to gear up. The active case tally has also shot up to 1,700 from 1,200,” said Mohol, adding, “In the light of this, I have instructed the municipal commissioner to increase testing in the city. Testing numbers are enough up to 2,500 per day. We need to do both RTPCR and anti-gen tests if needed.” According to the Mayor, many citizens want to take treatment in private hospitals. Right now, only few hospitals are giving treatment to Covid-19 patients. “All hospitals must increase bed numbers. Government hospitals have enough beds, but we must be prepared to handle the situation,” Mohol said, adding, “There are total a total of 1,162 Covid beds are available in the city’s government hospitals, including Sassoon. If needed, beds will be added in these hospitals.” The mayor also instructed the police and the PMC to strengthen action against citizens not wearing masks. “Covid-19 is not gone . It’s here and if we all wear masks, we definitely will able to control it,” he said. Pune collector Rajesh Deshmukh has also ordered the strict enforcement of Covid standard operating procedures (SOPs) while setting a target of 10,000 tests per day – in PMC, PCMC and rural areas. “There has been a slight increase in positive cases although there is no need to panic. As cases have been exponentially increasing in other districts such as Amravati, we had a video conference with the chief minister and discussed the situation,” said Deshmukh. “We will be focusing on tracing and testing. Currently there are around 6000 tests per day. We have now set a target of 10,000 tests per day,” Deshmukh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-dist-administration-stress-on-more-tests-101613576221290.html
17-02-2021||Pune||Even as fresh Covid cases go up, deaths due to the infection drop in Pune city||Pune: As per the data released by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), though the city has been witnessing a slight rise in the number of new Covid-19 cases being reported, the number of deaths reported due to the infection has gone down in the past few weeks. The reported deaths in the city have gone down from 30 in a week by January end to 14 deaths in the second week of February this year. The city had reported 1,902 new Covid-19 infections between January 7 and January 13 which dropped until the end of January, but the first two weeks of February saw the number of cases showing a slight surge with 1,701 between February 11 and February 17. However, the number of deaths reported in the previous week, which was 30 deaths reported for the same period, went down to 14 deaths, for the ongoing week. Appealing to residents to exercise caution, Siddharth Shirole, MLA from Shivajinagar, said, “Unfortunately the Covid infections are on the rise once again in Pune and Maharashtra. Residents, including my colleagues and I, have become lax in following the social distancing and mask protocols. We need to remember that we may be close to containing the virus, but the pandemic is not over yet. It is evident from reports across the world that new waves of Covid-19 cause severe damage to the community. I strongly urge everyone — residents, colleagues, karyakartas, friends and even the vaccine skeptics to exercise extreme caution and not let the virus rear its ugly head again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/even-as-fresh-covid-cases-go-up-deaths-due-to-the-infection-drop-in-pune-city-101613575801240.html
17-02-2021||Pune||Pune district reports four Covid deaths, 864 new cases||Pune: Pune district has reported four deaths due to Covid-19 and 864 new cases in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department on Wednesday. The Covid toll reached 3.96 lakh while 3.80 lakh have been declared as recovered, 8,066 declared dead by the infection and 7,509 patients continued to remain active as patients undergoing treatment at hospitals or are in home isolation. The city has reported 443 new Covid cases which took the final count to 202,350 while one more death was reported taking the death toll to 4,557. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 223 new cases which reached the count to 98,977 while the death toll stood to 1,321 as one fresh death was reported. Pune rural reported 198 new Covid cases which took the final count to 95,244 while the death toll stood at 2,140 as two more deaths were reported. The department reported that 3,853 patients were discharged on Wednesday taking the final count of such cases to over 19.85 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 95.62%. Also, 4,787 new cases in the state were reported taking the total to over 20.76 lakh. In addition, 40 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 52,819. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.49%. Of 154,355,268 laboratory samples 2,076,093 have been tested positive (13.43%) for Covid-19 until Wednesday. Currently, 195,704 people are in home quarantine and 1,664 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-four-covid-deaths-864-new-cases-101613574901192.html
17-02-2021||Patna||Nothing political about meetings with LJP MP, Kanhaiya : Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday insisted that nothing much should be read into his recent meeting with an MP of the LJP, which is headed by his bte noire Chirag Paswan, since members of Parliament and the state legislature call on him regularly over matters relating to their constituencies.About the visit of CPI's Kanhaiya Kumar to his key aide and cabinet colleague Ashok Choudhary, the chief minister said that the former JNU student leader and an MLA of his party had met him earlier but did not discuss politics.Nitish Kumar, who gave up the post of JD(U)s national president recently but continues to wield supreme control over it, was asked by reporters at the partys state headquarters here whether Paswan needs to worry after LJP Nawada MP Chandan Kumar Singhs visit to the chief minister's official residence on Sunday.There is nothing to be worried about. Being the chief minister I am often approached by members of the state legislature and the Parliament who wish to discuss matters relating to their areas. They come when I grant an appointment and we talk. Thats it, he said.Notably, the Singh's visit came less than a month after LJPs lone MLA Raj Kumar Singh had taken part in a book launch ceremony held at Choudhary's residence.Chirag Paswans rebellion against Kumar ahead of the Bihar assembly election in which he fielded candidates against JD(U) nominees, cost the party dearly causing its tally to fall below 50 in the 243-strong house.The LJP and JD(U), both NDA allies, have since been at daggers drawn. At a recent NDA meeting in New Delhi chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Paswan excused himself citing ill-health after the JD(U) raised strong objections over invitation having been extended to him despite his brinkmanship in the assembly poll.About Kanhaiya Kumar, who met Choudhary Sunday afternoon along with CPI MLA Suryakant Paswan, the chief minister said Kanhaiya had met me before. And so had a legislator of his party. But our discussions were about issues relating to their constituencies. There was nothing political about it.Reports in a section of the media had claimed that Kanhaiya, who is understood to be sore over the manner in which he has been treated by the CPI a number of times, was considering crossing over to the JD(U), an ally of the BJP.The CPI central office in Delhi later came out with an angry statement condemning the mala fide and mischievous intentions of some sections of the media to malign the CPI and Kanhaiya Kumar.Asked about JD(U) raising the demand for caste-based census in the Lok Sabha, Nitish Kumar said This is a genuine demand and is one we have been raising for quite some time. In the past we had even sent resolutions to this effect which were passed by both houses of the state legislature to the Centre."We must have an accurate idea of the respective population of different social groups so that we can formulate policies accordingly, he said.Nitish Kumar also expressed confidence that the budget session of the assembly, which will commence on February 19 and conclude on March 24, will be conducted safely. Members have been asked to take precautions like wearing of masks in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.In 2020 the budget session was curtailed in view of the outbreak. This year, the opposition Grand Alliance led by RJDs Tejashwi Yadav has threatened to boycott the assembly and gherao the chief ministers residence if the session was shortened in the name of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nothing-political-about-meetings-with-ljp-mp-kanhaiya-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-101613571308355.html
17-02-2021||West||If voted to power, irregularities in teachers' recruitment to be probed: BJP||An inquiry panel will be set up to probe alleged irregularities in the appointment of teachers in West Bengal if the BJP is voted to power in the upcoming assembly polls, a saffron party leader said.BJP leader Shamik Bhhattacharya said that there was not an iota of transparency in the recruitment of teachers since 2014, and the merit list released this week was no exception. West Bengal Board of Primary Education on Monday released the state-wide merit list for the appointment of 15,284 primary teachers. The Board had earlier announced vacancies for 16,500 posts."Irregularities have been institutionalised by the Trinamool Congress government in the process of appointing teachers, even those on contractual basis", he alleged.The state government, he said, should come out with a complete merit list and not just roll numbers.The saffron party leader also alleged that para-teachers in West Bengal are facing huge disparity in salaries as compared to their counterparts in other states."On this issue, we will stage a protest march from College Street to Esplanade area in the city on February 19," he added.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had recently announced a three per cent annual pay hike for para-teachers in the state budget, but they said it was not enough.The education department had increased the salary of para-teachers at the primary level from ₹5,954 to ₹10,000 a month, and for those at the higher secondary level from ₹8,500 to ₹13,000.A section of para-teachers on Tuesday staged a protest near the high-security zone of the chief minister's residence, stepping into a canal to press for a salary hike.Contractual teachers have been holding a sit-in in the metropolis for more than 70 days, demanding immediate wage revision.With the assembly elections round the corner, it has snowballed into a major political issue with the opposition BJP and Left Front accusing the ruling Trinamool Congress of turning a blind eye to the plea of the para-teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/west-bengal-assembly-election/if-voted-to-power-irregularities-in-teachers-recruitment-to-be-probed-bjp-101613570900219.html
17-02-2021||Lucknow||UP Assembly Speaker seeks cooperation of all parties for smooth budget Session||Uttar Pradesh Assembly Speaker Hriday Narain Dixit held an all-party meeting on Wednesday and sought cooperation of the leaders for smooth running of the Budget Session beginning February 18.Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath (BJP), Leader of Opposition Ram Govind Chowdhury (Samajwadi Party) and leaders of other parties attended the meeting.The Budget Session will begin on Thursday with the Governor's address to the joint sitting of the Assembly and the Council, and will continue till March 10. The budget will be presented on February 22.Adityanath said, "We are committed to meaningful and constructive debates and deliberations to run proceedings for the maximum time. Keeping the high dignity of the House, if the serious discussion is carried forward, the dignity of the members will enhance and the public's faith in democracy will increase. The conduct of all of us in the House affects the society, gives a new direction, through which society then decides its direction.""We will always be ready to successfully conduct the proceedings on behalf of the government and discuss the issues raised by the members," he said.The chief minister said the government will make every effort to ensure positive action on all matters raised by members."This is the collective responsibility of the ruling party and the opposition. In this session, the e-budget of the country's largest state Uttar Pradesh will be presented on February 22," he said.Speaker Dixit said Uttar Pradesh, having the largest Legislative Assembly in the country, has an obligation to conduct the proceedings of the House with a firm commitment to the Constitution, a committed culture and in all respects."The cooperation of all is required for a substantive and quality discussion in the House," he added.Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Kumar Khanna sought cooperation from all party leaders for the successful and smooth functioning of the House.Bahujan Samaj Party leader Lal Ji Verma and Aradhana Mishra Mona of the Congress, Apna Dal (S) leader Neel Ratan Patel and Triveni Ram of the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party also attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-assembly-speaker-seeks-cooperation-of-all-parties-for-smooth-budget-session-101613567585723.html
17-02-2021||Delhi||Chowk near Rinku Sharma's house will be named after him: North Delhi Mayor||North Delhi Mayor and senior BJP leader Jai Prakash on Wednesday visited the family of Rinku Sharma at Mangolpuri who was killed last week here, and announced that the road intersection near his house will be named after him.After his nearly one-hour visit, the mayor also appealed to the Delhi government to release ₹1 cr in compensation and offer a job to his next of kin.A day earlier, Delhi BJP leader Kapil Mishra had met Sharma's family to provide financial assistance of ₹1 crore, and alleged that the youth was targeted and killed for taking part in collection of donation for Ram temple construction in Ayodhya.Pragya Thakur, the BJP MP from Bhopal also met his family at Mangolpuri and extended her support and sympathies to them, said an aide of the MP.Police has denied any communal angle in the murder of the youth in Mangolpuri last week, though BJP, VHP and Bajrang Dal leaders have been charging it was the fallout of his participation in a donation drive for the Ram temple."I met Rinku Sharma's family to express my condolences to them. As a mayor, I made the announcement there that the 'chowk' near his house will be named after him," Prakash said.Also, efforts will be made to see, if a job can be offered to his next of kin, he said, adding, "we have asked for the biodata from his family"."I also appeal to the Delhi government to release ₹1 crore as compensation to his family," he said.The mayor condemned Sharma's murder and demanded that strictest action be taken against the culprits."The North Delhi Municipal Corporation will name Mangolpuri chowk in the name of the deceased, Rinku Sharma, for which a proposal will be brought by the area councillor Raj Prakash," he was later quoted as saying in a statement issued by his office.Police has arrested five people in connection with 25-year-old Sharma's killing. The case has been transferred from local police to the Crime Branch of Delhi Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/chowk-near-rinku-sharma-s-house-will-be-named-after-him-north-delhi-mayor-101613567305853.html
17-02-2021||Patna||Second dose of Covid-19 vaccine being administered to beneficiaries in Bihar: CM Nitish Kumar||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said on Wednesday that work was going on towards administering the second dose of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine to health care workers in the state. He added that after their inoculation, people above the age of 50 and those below 50 and having serious illness will be vaccinated.The state government has assigned Mondays and Thursdays for administering the second vaccine dose. Bihar has received more than one million vaccine doses till now.“Vaccination work is going on. Two-section vaccination work is going on. After this, people above the age of 50 years and those below the age of 50 who suffer from serious illness will be vaccinated,” Kumar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Bihar witnessed a low turnout in its vaccination drive to inoculate health care workers for the second time. Nearly 67 per cent of the health care workers who took the first vaccine shot on January 16 had arrived on February 15 (Monday) to take their second shot. However, the state’s health department said that there was no uncertainty among the beneficiaries to get the second shot as a total of 12,101 were vaccinated on February 15 against the 18,122 that were administered the first dose on January 16.Also Read| CoWin glitches continue, hamper vaccination in BiharThe low turnout during the second vaccination drive happened due to communication problems, as some of the beneficiaries said they did not receive any details through an SMS on their mobiles, a health department official told Hindustan Times on Tuesday adding that the respective facilities had been ordered to manually follow up with those that were eligible for the second shot.Bihar has registered nearly 262,000 coronavirus disease cases so far out of which 259,748 people have recovered and 1,528 have died. The state has been in national news amid reports of irregularities in conducting Covid-19 tests. According to news agency PTI, reports showed that data was being fudged in Bihar, where the state government had been earlier accused of keeping testing rates deliberately low in order to conceal the severity of the spread of the virus.Bihar’s principal health secretary Pratyay Amrit had said on February 14 that serious discrepancies in testing data were found in the Jamui district and added that action had been initiated against the concerned officials. “We have found serious discrepancies in Covid test data in Jamui’s Barhat and Sikandra.” Amrit said while addressing a press conference.Rashtriya Janata Dal MP Manoj Jha had on February 12 asked for a high level enquiry into fudging of testing data. “There is no match of name and mobile numbers...10 times, ‘0’ (zero) has also been given as the contact number...no contact-tracing could be established,” Jha had said while citing a news report in the Rajya Sabha.Chief minister Nitish Kumar responded to the opposition leader’s request and said that state administration had started looking into the matter and action will be taken against people found guilty. “I had a word with the Principal Secretary of the state about it, and he said the matter has been investigated. A total of 22 districts have already been looked into. This was seen at one location and action is being taken,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/second-dose-of-vaccine-being-administered-to-beneficiaries-in-bihar-cm-kumar-101613563186981.html
17-02-2021||Lucknow||4 booked for extorting money from bookie in UP’s Bulandshahr||Four people claiming to be journalists have been booked for allegedly extorting money from a bookie in return for convincing the local police to let him operate his betting racket in the area, an official said on Wednesday.Two of the accused -- Kuldeep Saxena and Ansh Kaushik – have been arrested while the others are still at large, police said, adding that ₹90,000 were recovered from them.Senior Superintendent of Police Santosh Kumar Singh said Ashok Kumar (60), a bookie, had contacted the accused and sought their help to influence the authorities and paid ₹1.60 lakh in return.Later, the four demanded ₹one lakh more from Kumar and threatened to expose him if he refused.The accused were booked under sections 420 and 384 of the IPC and section 8 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, police said.According to police, Saxena is the editor of a weekly newspaper called ‘Bulandshahr Anti-Corruption Mail’, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/4-booked-for-extorting-money-from-bookie-in-up-s-bulandshahr-101613564489484.html
17-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Function halls under scanner amid rise in Covid-19 cases||In light of the rise in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, local authorities have been instructed to crackdown on function halls where the number of guests are beyond the permissible limits, an official said on Wednesday.According to the police, as many as 50 guests are allowed to attend indoor events, while 200 can participate in outdoor functions.Divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar said authorities in eight districts of Aurangabad division have been asked to reach out to function halls in the region to check if the number of guests are within the permissible limits.If the number of people is found beyond limit, the administration will register an offence against the establishments, the official said."The administration should monitor function halls and check the number of persons present during functions. If the number is found beyond limit and Covid-19 guidelines are flouted, the administration will serve a notice and if the practise continues, an offence will be registered and the premises will be sealed," he said.The divisional commissioner also asked local authorities to ramp up testing in Beed, Hingoli, Parbhani and Nanded districts.As per the official data, with the addition of 120 fresh cases of Covid-19, the tally of infections in Aurangabad district reached 47,842 on Tuesday night.At least 46,190 patients have recovered from the infection, while 1,245 have succumbed to it so far, an official said, adding that the district is now left with 407 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-function-halls-under-scanner-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-101613564092095.html
17-02-2021||Patna||Two die after consuming hooch in Bihar’s Gopalganj||Two labourers from Jharkhand died on Wednesday and another was taken ill after they allegedly consumed spurious liquor in Gopalganj district of Bihar, where prohibition was imposed in 2016, even as the district administration said that the cause of death will be confirmed only after their post-mortem.The families of the two, Budhwa Panna, 45, and Karma Panna, 50, insisted they died after consuming liquor on Tuesday evening. Komal, a relative of one of the two, said over six labourers had liquor. When the condition of three of them deteriorated, they were rushed to a Bhore hospital.District magistrate Nawal Kishor Choudhary, who rushed to the brick-kiln where the labourers worked, said a medical board has been constituted for their post-mortem and viscera will be preserved.Also Read | 3 labourers killed, 5 ill, after consuming spurious liquor in BiharA joint team of excise officials and district police carried out searches around a five-km radius of the brick-kiln but found nothing.“Preliminary investigation suggested that one of the victims was suffering from a lung infection while another complained of the stomach pain,” said Choudhary.On February 5, three people died and five fell ill after consuming spurious liquor in Kaimur district.Manufacturing, sale and consumption of liquor are banned in Bihar. Opposition Congress leader Premchand Mishra slammed the Bihar government. “These deaths prove that the prohibition regime has failed. It has only enriched illegal traders and government officials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/two-die-after-consuming-hooch-in-bihar-s-gopalganj-101613563501479.html
17-02-2021||Mumbai||Woman's death: BJP accuses Maharashtra govt of suppressing case||Amid allegations that a Maharashtra minister was connected to the death of a woman from Pune, the opposition BJP on Wednesday sharpened its attack on the Shiv Sena-led government, saying it was trying to suppress the case.Some social media posts and the BJP have claimed that the 23-year-old woman, who died after falling from a building in Hadapsar area on February 8, was in a relationship with a cabinet minister in the state."The state government is suppressing the death of the woman whose death evoked suspicions. The person under scanner is state forest minister Sanjay Rathod who is still missing. Nobody in the state government knows about his whereabouts," former state Power minister and BJP leader Chandrashekhar Bavankule told reporters.According to Wanwadi police in Pune who have registered a case of accidental death, there was no suicide note.Maharashtra BJP vice president Madhav Bhandari said the state government was supposed to carry out investigation in this case but it intends to either suppress or to slow down the investigation.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who heads the three-party Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, had already promised a detailed probe and action against the guilty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/womans-death-bjp-accuses-maharashtra-govt-of-suppressing-case-101613560737073.html
17-02-2021||Pune||Demand for special buses grows, PMPML resumes special bus for students||The use of public transportation is expected to exponentially rise with the city opening up post-Covid-19 and colleges resuming offline classroom lectures. In an effort to meet the rising demands, the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has now started a special bus service for PMC school students and gradually it will be starting the bus service for other students as well. Earlier this month, students in classes 5 to 12 began attending school physically which includes both Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and private schools. “We have started the special students’ bus service for PMC school children as schools have now reopened for classes 5 to 12. Colleges around the city have also resumed offline lectures. Transportation of school and college students is a major part of our public bus transport service and we are going to gradually increase the buses for PMC schools. Also, there are plans to start the bus service for private schools which existed prior to the lockdown,” said Rajendra Jagtap, chairman and managing director (CMD) of PMPML. Since schools and colleges have resumed offline classes, a large number of students are plying on the roads to travel across the city. A majority of them do not have their own vehicle or parents are dependent on private auto-rickshaws, school vans, buses or public transport buses. So, daily a large number of school and college students are seen during the peak hours travelling by the PMPML buses. Harish Jadhav, a class 10 student from New English School, Tilak road said, “I stay at Dhankawadi and earlier used to travel daily by a PMPML bus to school, there were special buses for students. Now, we travel by normal buses but there is a crowd during the peak morning hours, as other office going people are also there. Social distancing is not maintained that much so our demand is that special buses for students should be restarted immediately.” While parents are worried to send their children in crowded buses, Geeta Pathare a mother of two said, “Both my son and daughter daily go to school and college by a public transport bus, it is risky but now we do not have any option to send them for attending the lecture. Already one year has gone at home and children do not comprehend online teaching properly. If more special buses for students are given by the PMPML then it would benefit thousands of students who cannot afford private auto or cab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/demand-for-special-buses-grows-pmpml-resumes-special-bus-for-students-101613560980618.html
17-02-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Row over proposed name change of medical college in Rudrapur||Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Rajesh Shukla has opposed a proposal of renaming Rudrapur’s Pandit Ram Sumer Shukla Government Medical College after the country’s first home minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. The local zila panchayat on Tuesday passed a resolution for the name change.The college is named after Shukla’s father. “It is the privilege of the state government to decide the name of any institution. The zila panchayat cannot pass such a proposal. Such an act is an insult to our freedom fighters.”The college’s foundation was laid in 2004 and it was named after Pandit Ram Sumer Shukla, a freedom fighter in 2016.“I respect Sardar Patel but the proposal to change its name is politically motivated.”Also Read | Uttarakhand glacier burst: 31 of 58 recovered bodies identifiedSuresh Gangwar, a nominated representative of the panchayati raj minister in the zila panchayat, said Pandit Ram Sumer Shukla’s statue has been installed at the main intersection of Rudrapur close to the medical college. “What is the point of naming the medical college after him.”Shukla said he is an ex-officio member of the panchayat but was not invited to the meeting where the proposal was mooted. “It is a political conspiracy, and I will move a privilege motion in the assembly against Apar Mukhya Adhikari of the zila panchayat for not inviting me. The name change is not a good practice.”He rushed to the panchayat after learning about the proposal and protested against the move, triggering a heated exchange of words with Gangwar, who is also the husband of zila panchayat chairperson, Renu Gangwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-row-over-proposed-name-change-of-medical-college-in-rudrapur-101613560501332.html
17-02-2021||Pune||Foam in Indrayani river worries Alandi residents||Residents from Alandi have raised an alarm as a huge amount of foam has been noticed in the Indrayani river since Sunday. On February 1 the same foam formation was noticed in the Pavana river at the Keju Devi temple boat club and the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) sent the water samples for testing. “We have not received any complaints, but the pictures are very dangerous. We will look into the matter,” said an official from MPCB on request of anonymity. On Tuesday, a thick layer of foam was noticed in the temple town. Residents blamed industrial units from Pimpri-Chinchwad for releasing waste, while untreated sewage waste is also released into the river. “Every year we face this issue, but there is no concrete solution by MPCB so far. In the past few occasions incidents of fish dying have also occurred,” said Suresh Kali, who was taking pictures when HT visited the spot. The Indrayani river originates in the Western ghats near Lonavala, passes through Kamshet, Dehu, Pimpri- Chinchwad and Alandi, and later meets the Bhima river at Talapur in Shirur tehsil. “Many residents have a habit of using the Indrayani river water for drinking purposes which we keep on telling them not to, as water pollution is happening at the regular intervals in the river,” added Kali. MPCB claimed it was sending officials to the river on Tuesday evening. “Unless strict action is not taken against industries who discharge waste in the river, the pollution issue will not be sorted. PCMC and MPCB need to come out with strict measures, which have not happened till now,” said Prashant Raul, an environmentalist from PCMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/foam-in-indrayani-river-worries-alandi-residents-101613559901978.html
17-02-2021||Lucknow||Light rains, thundershowers in parts of UP; forecast for dry weather tomorrow||Very light to light rains/thundershowers occurred at isolated places in Uttar Pradesh in the past 24 hours, the Meteorological office said on Wednesday.Thunderstorms lashed a few places over western UP, they said, adding that dense to very dense fog occurred at isolated places in the same region.Day temperatures rose appreciably in Prayagraj and Jhansi divisions while there was no large change in the remaining divisions of the state.They were appreciably above normal in Moradabad, Agra, Meerut divisions; above normal in Varanasi, Lucknow, Bareilly divisions; below normal in Jhansi division and normal in the remaining divisions of the state.The minimum temperature in the state was 7.4 degrees Celsius at Muzaffarnagar while the maximum temperature at 30.5 degrees Celsius was recorded at Varanasi.The department has forecast that the weather is likely to remain dry with shallow to moderate fog very likely in the morning at isolated places over eastern UP and the weather is most likely to be dry over western parts of the state on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/light-rains-thundershowers-in-parts-of-up-forecast-for-dry-weather-tomorrow-101613559082636.html
17-02-2021||Delhi||Youth Congress activists protest in Delhi against fuel price hike||New Delhi, Feb 17 (PTI) A group of Indian Youth Congress (IYC) activists staged a demonstration at Connaught Place here on Wednesday against rising prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas, and demanded that the government roll back the hike.The protesters gathered at Outer Circle of Connaught Place, rode bicycles and wore cricket kits to highlight how petrol and diesel prices are rising and about to hit the century mark -- ₹100 per litre.By increasing the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders again, the Modi government has made it clear that it was not concerned about the problems of the common people, said IYC president Srinivas BV."...common people are badly hit by inflation. Petrol and diesel prices are increasing continuously despite the low prices of crude oil in the international market," he said.Petrol and diesel prices on Monday were hiked for the seventh day in a row as a rally in international oil prices took retail rates in India to new highs.Petrol price was increased by 26 paise per litre and diesel by 29 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The hike took petrol price in Delhi to a record ₹88.99 per litre and diesel to ₹79.35 a litre.The cooking gas cylinder prices have increased by ₹75 within the last 14 days. It is a "pity" for the Modi government that a new record is being set in the prices of petrol and diesel, Srinivas said.National media in-charge of IYC Rahul Rao said, "We demand that the increased prices should be withdrawn with immediate effect and the increase in excise duty should be rolled back to provide relief to the masses suffering from inflation and recession."The protesters also included IYC national secretary Khushboo Sharma, secretary Mukesh Kumar, Delhi Youth Congress vice president Ranvijay Singh Lochav and Shubham Sharma among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/youth-congress-activists-protest-in-delhi-against-fuel-price-hike-101613558836939.html
17-02-2021||Chandigarh||Congress sweeps Punjab local body polls, wins 7 out of 8 municipal corporations||The ruling Congress in Punjab on Wednesday registered a stunning victory in the state local body polls, winning seven out of eight municipal corporations for which results were declared on the day. The seven municipal corporations are Bathinda, Abohar, Batala, Moga, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur and Pathankot. The results for the eighth corporation, Mohali, will be announced on Thursday as the Punjab state election commission (SEC) ordered repolling in two wards, which took place on Wednesday.Follow Punjab municipal polls live updates hereThe Abohar Municipal Corporation was near-perfect for the Congress, with the party winning 49 out of 50 wards, with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) winning one. The SAD is a former ally of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), whose government at the Centre passed three contentious farm laws last September, leading to protests by farmers belonging mostly to Punjab and the neighbouring state of Haryana. Former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal’s party announced its split from the BJP in protest against the three laws.The fight for the municipal corporation in Moga was a close one as the Congress won 20 wards against SAD’s 15, with the remaining 15 split among the BJP, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the independents. Punjab’s ruling party also won 41 and 37 wards in Hoshiarpur and the BJP’s bastion of Pathankot respectively. Meanwhile, in Bathinda, the Congress won 43 out of 50 wards, with the other seven going to the SAD.Also Read | Congress steals the show in Majha, defeats BJP in PathankotThe result in Bathinda is significant as it is the Lok Sabha constituency of SAD’s Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who was the party’s only representative in the central government before quitting in the wake of the passage of the agricultural laws. Congress leader and Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal is the MLA from the Bathinda urban assembly seat. Badal is the cousin of SAD president and former Punjab deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal, the Lok Sabha MP from Firozpur and the husband of Harsimrat Kaur Badal.The result is historic also because this is the first time in 53 years that Bathinda will get a Congress mayor. “History has been made today. Bathinda will get a Congress Mayor for the 1st time in 53 years! Thank you to ALL Bathinda residents,” tweeted Manpreet Singh Badal.Thank you to all contestants who kept the flame of democracy bright and burning.We stand committed in working together for the development of Bathinda and ensuring a better future for our residents. pic.twitter.com/N7Y2xMahO3According to reports, the Congress has also been victorious in both the Kapurthala and Batala municipal corporations.The municipal corporation results come as a huge boost for the Congress ahead of next year’s assembly elections in Punjab. The party has wholeheartedly backed the farmers’ agitation in Delhi against the central farm laws. Voting for the seven municipal corporations along with 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats took place on February 14, with over 71% voters casting their votes. More than 9,000 candidates were in the fray for the local body elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-sweeps-punjab-local-body-polls-wins-7-out-of-8-municipal-corporations-101613557401281.html
17-02-2021||Bhopal||Four people rearrested for thrashing woman in Madhya Pradesh’s Guna||The Madhya Pradesh police have rearrested four people for beating a pregnant woman and forcing her to carry a teenager on her shoulders for three kilometers in Madhya Pradesh’s Guna district. A minor has also been held in connection with the assault.The arrests were made days after two videos purportedly showing the woman being thrashed while carrying the teenager went viral on social media.The woman’s estranged husband led the attack when she began living with another man after the couple separated.Also Read | MP bus accident: 4 more bodies recovered; toll rises to 51Rakesh Sharma, the local police station in-charge, has been suspended for inaction, said Guna police superintendent Rajesh Kumar Mishra.The accused were earlier released on bail after they were booked for voluntarily causing hurt, using obscene words, and criminal intimidation on February 9.“After the viral videos, police added Indian Penal Code’s Sections 342 [wrongful confinement] and 365 [kidnapping] to the First Information Report filed against the accused...the minor, who was seen sitting on the shoulders of the woman, was also booked,” said Mishra. He said they were looking for three other accused.(With inputs from Yogendra Lumba from Guna)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/four-people-rearrested-for-thrashing-woman-in-madhya-pradesh-s-guna-101613557921189.html
17-02-2021||Jaipur||Poverty coming in the way of Pakistani brides' reunion with Indian husbands||Three Rajasthan residents have requested the Central government to grant visas to their Pakistani wives, enabling them to travel to India by the road route in view of their poor financial condition, which has prevented their wives to avail of the offer of visa by the Indian high commission through the air route, according to the affected residents.These cross border couples, living separately on two different sides of the Indo-Pakistan border for at least past two years, were overjoyed when the Indian high commission agreed to give their wives visas to travel to join their husbands via air routes. On February 9, officials of the Indian high commission in Pakistan asked the women to submit documents for visa, which they stated, will be valid for travel through the air route.A week passed since then but the brides in Pakistan did not submit the documents. Reason is simple- the families can’t afford to travel by air.Mahendra Singh Girab, a resident of Khejad Ka Paar in Barmer, who got married to a Pakistani girl in April 2017 and Vikarm Singh and Nehpal Singh of Baiyaa village in Jaisalmer district, who married Pakistani girls in January 2019, have now requested Union agriculture minister for state Kailash Choudhary for help in procuring a changed visa type from the external affairs ministry."We have again approached the Union minister Kailash Choudhary and urged him to help us in getting permission (to travel) via road route. It would be a great help,” said Vikarm, who is hoping to see his newly-born daughter soon.Mahendra Singh Girab, who has been hoping to be joined by his wife for the past four years, told HT he was thankful to the government for considering their cases on humanitarian grounds but at the same time stated that they cannot afford to pay for their wives' travel by the air route.Vikarm told HT that it was minister Kailash Choudhary, whose efforts resulted in the in-principle grant of visas to their wives. "We have again approached the Union minister and urged him to help us in getting permission to travel via the road route. It would be a great help,” said Vikarm.Choudhary said he had written to the external affairs ministry to take these cases on humanitarian grounds."Now the family members have again approached me to arrange them a road route (visa) citing financial reasons. I am trying to help the families in all possible manners,” said Choudhary.27-year-old Nehpal Singh Bhati and his 25-year-old sibling Vikarm Singh Bhati got married across the border in January 2019. After their marriages, both stayed in Pakistan for close to three months before returning to India without their brides, who were denied visas on technical grounds, they claimed.Also Read: Rajasthan police, ATS seize 7 kg heroin in Barmer, arrest suspected drug runnerNehpal was married to the daughter of Ranjeet Singh Sodha on January 22, 2019, while Vikarm wed the daughter of Taneraj Singh Sodha on January 25, 2019.In December, last year, Vikarm’s wife delivered a boy but till this day, he hasn’t been able to see his son in person and has been content catching a glimpse of him on video calls.Mahendra Singh Girab’s wife is from Sinoi village in Amarkot district of Sindh. She was also allegedly denied a visa by the Indian consulate after marriage to Girab in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/poverty-coming-in-the-way-of-pakistani-brides-reunion-with-indian-husbands-101613556862174.html
17-02-2021||Bangalore||'Not opposed to Ram Temple but money collection needs more transparency' says former Karnataka CM H D Kumaraswamy||Days after alleging RSS was marking houses of those who did not donate for Ram Temple in Ayodhya, former Karnataka chief minister H D Kumaraswamy on Wednesday said he was not opposed to the construction of the shrine, but only wanted more transparency in the fund mobilisation. The government has a responsibility to check who was collecting funds for the Ram Temple, he told a press conference here. "I am neither opposed to the Ram Temple nor did I speak ill of any organisation or the collection of funds for Ram Temple. Even my party members have given money, but I want to know who has authorised those collecting money door-to-door? What's their background? Who gave them licences," he said. He said his objection was only to collection of funds for the temple construction without transparency and "loot and misuse" of funds in the name of Ram.Kumarswamy had on Monday accused the RSS of marking houses of those who gave donations for Ram Temple in Ayodhya and those who did not and alleged it was similar to what the Nazis did in Germany. The RSS dismissed the allegations, saying they do not qualify for any response while the state unit of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, which is among the organisations collecting funds for the temple, condemned Kumaraswamy for the charges. The JDS leader said the donations could be done through online transactions. "We have opened so many Jan Dhan accounts, then why cannot we collect money online? Why collect on the street and mark the houses?" the JD(S) leader asked. He further alleged no one gave any account of the money collected in 1990 for the Ram Temple from across the country. Kumaraswamy said he came from a family which has faith in God, but never misused the name of God. "We have commitment to the 130 crore people but we dont believe in breaking the society," the former Chief Minister said. The VHP Organising Secretary in Karnataka Basavaraj on Tuesday condemned Kumaraswamy's earlier statement against RSS. "It happens to be a highly irresponsible tweet coming in from former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy on Sri Ram Mandir Nidhi Samarpana Abhiyan," (fund mobilisation), Basavaraj said in a statement. Volunteers of various organisations, including the VHP, were reaching out to all sections of society. The latter were responding positively and contributing towards the construction of the grand temple at Ayodhya, he added. They did not even demand money from people and the outreach was merely to enable the whole country take part in the effort as "everyone believes strongly that Lord Ram is the identity of Bharat," he added. "VHP takes serious note of baseless allegations made by an individual who held the highest office of the state.The VHP also condemns Kumaraswamy's statement for making unwarranted remarks on the patriotic organization RSS," Basavaraj said. The fund collection drive for the Ram Temple started from January 14 on the occasion of Makar Sankranti and will go on till February 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/h-d-kumaraswamy-demands-transparency-in-ayodhya-temple-fund-collection-drive-101613556618966.html
17-02-2021||Chandigarh||Congress steals the show in Majha, defeats BJP in Pathankot||The ruling Congress swept the civic body elections in the Majha region, comprising Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot and Taran districts, by winning 13 of the 16 municipalities. Three civic bodies, namely the Majitha nagar council, Qadian nagar council and Ajnala nagar panchayat, were won by the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). In Majitha, former state minister Bikram Singh Majithia’s home turf, the Akalis managed to win 10 of the 13 seats. However, Ajnala witnessed a tough fight between the SAD and the Congress. The SAD candidates won eight wards and the Congress seven. The SAD won seven of the 15 wards in Qadian. The other civic bodies of Rayya, Jandiala and Ramdas in Amritsar district were won by the Congress. Its candidate won the Amritsar municipal corporation’s ward number 37 byelection. BJP faces farm protest heat in Pathankot The Congress defeated the Bharatiya Janata Party in its bastion of Pathankot district mainly due to the backlash the BJP is facing amid the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws. The Congress won 37 of the 50 wards, while the BJP managed to retain only 11 wards of the Pathankot municipal corporation. In Pathankot district’s Sujanpur nagar council, the Congress won eight of the 15 wards. The BJP and Independent candidates won five and two seats, respectively, in Sujanpur. The BJP and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) put up a dismal show in Majha as they failed to win a single municipality. Gurdaspur goes the Congress wayIn Gurdaspur district, the Congress registered a thumping win, bagging the nagar councils of Gurdaspur, Dhariwal, Hargobindpur, Fatehgarh Churian and the municipal corporation of Batala. Gurdaspur district public relations officer Harjinder Singh Kalsi said the Congress won five of the six municipalities in Gurdaspur. In Tarn Taran district, the Congress won the Bhikhiwind nagar panchayat and Patti nagar council. Both the municipalities in Tarn Taran witnessed clashes on polling day. The AAP, which managed to win only two wards in Patti, alleged bogus voting and booth capturing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-steals-the-show-in-majha-defeats-bjp-in-pathankot-101613555101757.html
17-02-2021||Other||Sutradhara’s tales: Pune’s Roman connection… bangles offer the clue!||Reading about my claims of Stonehenges in Pune and now Pune’s Roman’s connections would leave many of you in disbelief… Is the Sutradhara of Pune’s story bluffing to keep up the interest in mundane finds from pits, you may wonder? Certainly not! But, do indulge me for a while as we contextualise the humble findings from the salvage excavations that we talked about in the last column. Last week’s column told us that the settlement of Pune has been here for around 2000 years, atleast. So, what did the historical scene of those times look like? Satavahana, the first empire of Maharashtra, did not rise to be an empire as a result of accident. As we observe frequently in history, political power rises to control the economic resources that the land has to offer. And in case of Satavahana it was not just the land, but the sea played a major role. The western coast of India was abuzz with flourishing trade with Rome and middle-eastern countries under the western Shaka Kshatrapa, or Indo Scythian kings who were contemporaries of the local Satavahana dynasty and the Kushanas in the north. The political conflict between the Kshatrapas and Satavahanas made other associated clans such as Mahabhojas and Maharathis side with either Satavahanas or Kshatrapas, to take control of the flourishing trade, ports and trade routes. The anonymous work of first century CE, “Periplus of Erythrian Sea” and Roman texts such as Ptolemy’s “Geography” and geographer Pliny offer us a plethora of evidence of Indo Roman connections and ancient routes prevalent during those times. Hippalus, a greek navigator discovered the monsoon winds and the route across the Arabian Sea to India around 45 CE. Roman trade in India began with overland caravans and later, by direct maritime trade following the conquest of Egypt by Augustus in 30 BCE. This flourishing trade came to complete stop by the third century CE due to the collapse of the Roman economy and siltation of western Indian ports, but let us understand its nature. Roman traders preferred trade in silk, pearls, cotton, cotton cloth, indigo, ivory, spices, sesame, medicines and animals like tigers, monkeys, cheetah, peacock, and rhinoceros, from India to Europe; in exchange, Indians profited greatly by dealing in gold and silver. European markets were full with Indian goods. Wealthy roman citizens were in love with Indian silk and pearls. Roman wine, and slave women were coveted and one comes across evidence of wine carrying Roman amphorae in many archaeology excavations in western India. Romans took a circuitous sea route around Africa to reach the Persian Gulf and further touch the western Indian shores. Main Ports on western coast of India were Barygaza (Bharuch), Shurparak (Sopara), Kalyan and Chaul. Kalyan was a major loading and offloading centre from where traders would proceed by roads either by wagons/carts or loading the goods on animals to various parts of India. The principle route of Kalyan travelled to the important town of Junnar which was a trade centre and capital via the great Nanghat pass. It is on this pass the famous inscriptions of Satavahana queen Naganika are located in a rock-cut cave. Further important destinations were Satavahana towns of Paithan, Nevasa, Tagar (Ter) and Amaravati in Andhra Pradesh. One important route went south from Junnar travelling though Pune onwards to Karad, Kolhapur and Karnataka. The Roman texts are not the only sources which tell us about this ancient trade. The spread of Buddhism in the Deccan coincides with the Indo-Roman trade and the large scale of evidence is found in the form of western Indian rock-cut caves and inscriptions there in. Along with main cave groups of Kanheri (Mumbai) and hundreds of caves in and around Junnar, the trade routes along the Sahyadris are marked by scattered rock-cut caves mainly affiliated to Buddhism. The traders who travelled on these routes were known to take shelter in many of the Buddhist cave monasteries on the way and numerous inscriptions in the cave stand testimony to their association and patronage. Even today, as you travel via the Pune-Mumbai highway along the Bor ghat, and further down south towards Bengaluru, important cave groups with water tanks such as Bhaje Bedse, Karle, Agashiv, are located on both the side mountains along the way. Near home, the cave group of Shelarwadi, Buddhist vihar at Man near Hinjewadi and Vruddheshwar/Pandav caves (Hanuman Tekdi, Wadarwadi) are of ancient origin dating to early centuries of the Common Era. (We shall learn more about caves of Pune in future articles). Thus, Pune falls right on the ancient Indo Roman trade route. However, till recently we were unaware of any settlement from Pune which has any connection to this trade route. Amongst various objects reported in Pune’s urban excavations of Pune old town, Archaeo-zoologist, Dr Arati Deshpande-Mukherjee of Deccan College studied 95 fragments of shell bangles to find a clue to their origin. These particular fragments were made into circular shape by cutting sections of Turbinella pyrum shell by a sharp saw-like cutting tool. The decorations on the bangles consist of slight incisions, circles, rope-like patterns, embossed knobs and channelled grooves. However, most of them were plain. Adding to the interest, the debitage or discarded shell material after making the bangles was found along with these fragments suggesting a bangle-making industry. Though it is not possible to determine the extent of the activity, evidence certainly establishes a working industry in the heart of Pune. Further enquiry into the particular shell used as raw material took the search to Gujarat coast near Saurashtra from where the original Turbinella pyrum shell can be procured. Similar bangle making industry operates even today in Bengal. These types of bangles were earlier reported from various Satavahana trade centres such as Paithan, Bhokardan, Ter and Nevasa thus underlining the significance as relevant trade goods. Thus, one can reasonably surmise that the market for such crafted bangles was definitely not local in small settlement of Pune and operated across western India and along the international Indo-Roman trade route. So don’t be surprised if handcrafted bangles manufactured in Pune with shell procured from the Gujarat coast are found in any excavated graves in Rome or Middle East! It is quite intriguing that the legends which mention the early beginnings of Pune as a settlements mention Kasari as one settlements where Kasars (Bangdi Kasar) are engaged in bangle making. Though it is difficult to trace a direct connection of the ancient shell bangle makers of Pune to medieval localised Kasar communities of old Pune, it definitely marks the similarity in the occupation. As they say all the roads lead to Rome, we can be sure that in the past, the one from Pune definitely did.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sutradharas-tales-pune-s-roman-connection-bangles-offer-the-clue-101613554260507.html
17-02-2021||Delhi||DU fests shift online: Seniors happy, freshers sad||Scores of students wait with bated breath, for the whole year, to attend the coveted college fest. February used to be the time, in previous years, when DU students would party their socks off! Given the pandemic, it’s normal for many to despair and sulk at missing out on all that fun this time, however that’s not exactly the case for some colleges have announced that they’ll be organising online fest, which is a first in the university. “Mahek, the fest of Aurobindo college is being hosted online this year around twelve March. With the ongoing pandemic we thought it would be a good idea for the students to showcase their talents on an online platform rather than gathering physically at a place. And if we start, others will follow,” confirms Professor Sangeeta Kaul, Cultural Convenor of Mehak. What can one expect in the online fest? “We will have all the societies performing from Dance, Music, Dramatics to Fashion society. They will be given a week to prepare and record their performances and that will be showcased at the fest. We are also planning an interactive spic macay session and a Quwaali show. We are also looking for a celebrity who can perform at the online fest. There are many things planned, hopefully they all fall in place. Students are excited to execute and attend the online fest for the first time,” she adds. “At least I get to attend a fest in my final year. Else I thought my final year is going to be a #nofestyear. Last year, too, many college fests got cancelled because of the pandemic. So under the present circumstances, the idea of an online fest is awesome,” says Mukul Malik, a final year student of Sri Aurobindo College. He adds that most final year students are glad that the possibility of online fests has come up. “We are ecstatic that our college is organising an online fest! What would the students prefer? An online fest or no fest? Everyone knows that an offline fest is impossible since the pandemic isn’t over yet. Besides, whenever we use to go to fests of other colleges, we had to wait in long queues, and now none of that is needed. All we need is a click, to enter any college fest!” Some students are worried about losing out on candid moments as fests shift to the online space. Yukti Aggarwal, a first year student of Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies, says, “In many colleges, fests are happening online just to do the formalities. There is no doubt that on-ground fests are much better and worth going. The fun, dance, craziness and group photographs, which become the most memorable moments of college life, can only be gathered when in offline mode. Regardless, I must admit that an online fest is better than a college year with #NoFest. I’m secretly hoping they call Neha Kakkar this time!” But not all freshers are looking forward to online fest, and wish to be back on campus soon to be able to attend fest in their physical avatar. “Obviously offline fests are more lit. They are the best thing in college life, specially when you are a DU student. I wish that they don’t do online fests as yet, because that’ll just take the whole feel away. Rather, colleges must organise an offline one when we resume campus, and the experience is truly worth the wait,” says Aarushi Chaudhary, a student of Daulat Ram College.Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-fests-shift-online-seniors-happy-freshers-sad-101613553306130.html
17-02-2021||Chandigarh||Left-backed Independents win 12 of 13 seats in Joga town in Mansa||Backed by the Communist Party of India (CPI), a group of Independent candidates won 12 of the 13 seats in the nagar panchayat at Joga in Mansa district on Wednesday. It is for the second consecutive time that the Left candidates registered their victory in the semi-urban town. In 2015, the CPI panel had won nine of the 13 seats. “This time, voters have reposed more faith in us. The mandate expresses a rejection of the Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). People have supported us for the works initiated by our panel in the last term,” said Gurmeet Singh, who won from ward number 10. The panel contested on the bucket election symbol. The winner panel has six women candidates. Gurmeet’s wife Gurmel Kaur, a retired teacher, also got elected from ward number 4. “The SAD and the Congress did not field their candidate on their respective symbols. There was a hidden alliance between supporters of the two traditional parties as their candidates contested on the tractor symbol. At a meeting, the majority of our panel also decided to contest without the party symbol,” said Gurmeet, a district member of the CPI unit. Mansa is a bastion of the Left and three-time MLA Jangir Singh Joga is a native of Joga village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/leftbacked-independents-win-12-of-13-seats-in-joga-town-in-mansa-101613551561022.html
17-02-2021||West||Dinesh Trivedi explains why Trinamool leaders don’t want Prashant Kishor around||On Friday (February 12), Trinamool Congress's member of Parliament Dinesh Trivedi resigned in a dramatic gesture inside the Rajya Sabha, becoming the latest to quit the party ahead of Bengal elections. In a conversation with HT's Sunetra Choudhury, Trivedi blames election strategist Prashant Kishor's team for interfering in even his tweets and also says that he couldn't deal with the corruption that was rampant in Bengal. Trivedi hasn't revealed his future plans but has praised the Prime Minister and the Bharatiya Janata Party. Edited excerpts:What happened that led to your dramatic resignation on Friday?I did an emotional thing. I tried my best to salvage but I was sitting in Parliament and thinking - what am I doing? I am representing the ruling party of Bengal, I am a founder member of the Trinamool Congress, when nobody was there, when we were struggling against the might of the Left which was an ideological fight. We had asked for poriborton (change) and what is that poriborton? It is peace, prosperity and corruption-free (rule). Everybody must try and achieve that but every day I get a call that in my building, TMC goons are coming and asking for money. If you don't give money, there is violence. So, I was sitting, and I said - what am I doing here? I can't change, nobody's listening, I tried my best. There's not a single senior leader who doesn't know what's going on in my mind. The other day I was travelling with Saugato Roy and he agreed with me. He agreed with me and said - what do I do? He appeared so helpless. Politics is not master and slave or master or karamchari, but that's what it's been reduced to. And I said enough is enough. When I went inside the chamber, I didn't even have a letter written. I sat down there and wrote the letter and gave it.Prashant Kishor's team took over my social media: Dinesh TrivediSo the trigger was people calling from your area?It was a combination. For instance, the PM, the Governor of West Bengal are all constitutional positions. Does it look good to start abusing all of them? And if I give a speech in Parliament, the leader of the party in Rajya Sabha tells Mamata that Dinesh Trivedi didn't abuse the PM. That I didn't speak bad of the Home Minister. Are we here to abuse them? If there's something wrong with their policies, in a civilised manner you debate.You are referring to your tweet praising the PM ahead of your resignation?It was much bigger. Why are we in politics? For the country. When I resigned as rail minister, I said the same thing, that country comes first before the party. That's why it was dramatic for you, but for me it was natural and all building up. For instance, my Twitter account - party takes all our details. I could have said no also, and I don't know who uses my account. With my Twitter account, they abused the PM, they abused the governor. I asked why did you do that? I had to delete it many times too.Prashant Kishor's team tweets for you?I don't know who tweets, but the fact is, they do take our account password details. In good faith I shared but many times I'd see abusive tweets. I had to put my foot down and asked them to delete or I would. The governor also realized that Dinesh can't use such abusive language. One day they tweeted in Hindi, abusing the PM and used a bad word. I said that firstly, I don't tweet in Hindi and this isn't my language. My image would be tarnished. They want some kind of conflict with the Centre all the time, but I don't believe in that. If the state scheme gives ₹10,000 and Centre's 15,000, you can add and give ₹25,000. But this ego of not taking Centre's funds harms Bengal which needs development. So too much violence, too much corruption...I'll come back to the violence and corruption but to clarify you were referring to Prashant Kishor's company I-PAC when you said in Rajya Sabha that a corporate group has taken over Bengal?I called them consultants of political parties. Have political parties become so out of touch with the people that you need a consultant? It's not a bad word but the party which I have formed, we have struggled with our blood and sweat. After coming to power, somebody's given hundreds of crores and their employees tell you what to do, how to address rallies- then I think it's a shameful thing. When Mamata fought the Left single-handedly, there were only two general secretaries- Mukul (Roy) and me - we didn't need anybody. That was the time when emotions were there, liberation and the dream of a better Bengal. And the person who was involved ( Mukul Roy) is being abused day in and day out. For what? Everyone understands the problems, but they don't have the guts. Biggest enemy are the chaploos (the sycophants).But weren't the consultants (Prashant Kishor) also credited for Narendra Modi's 2014 win?Has Mr Modi said that? Consultants may have a role to play but you don't sell off your role and the party. They can't decide the party strategy.What you said about corruption, do you agree with what the BJP says about corruption in the TMC?Why should I have to go by the BJP? The people of the state are saying it. I've never opened my mouth but let me tell you that I sent a complaint to the principal home secretary and it goes down to the police. The person who goes is told- “Sabko dena parta hai (Everyone has to be paid)”'. The other day I fired the Home secretary by saying that have you put termites everywhere? Will you let the ordinary person live? I have everything here (signalling his phone). This is an everyday affair.You talk about violence now but isn't that a feature of Bengal politics down the ages?A- Are you trying to say that we should have accepted that? What was poriborton? If it was business as usual, then we have cheated the people. There was no change as far as violence and corruption were concerned. It's 100-fold now. At least during the Left, we didn't see political functionaries taking money on camera. When Narada tapes came, I was the first one to tell the leader to keep all those featured out. And for that, I was kept out and made the bad guy. I was not allowed to go campaigning in 2016.Do you think she favours her nephew Abhishek Banerjee?I don't want to go down that route. I only think that the time has come in India that we must get out of this family business. You must give credit to the Left and also the BJP that at the very top, they don't have bhai-bhatija (brothers-nephews). It is vulgar. For someone who's just come the other day.You mean Abhishek?Whether it's Abhishek or someone else, don't start using the chopper to go to your constituency. It doesn't gel. He was a kid when we were struggling. I understand that he uses a lot of foul language, that's not our culture. If someone in your household leaves, you call that person. Here you start abusing. And just because the prime minister is from Gujarat, you don't have to abuse Gujaratis every day.But aren't a lot of the people who are accused of corruption joining BJP?You should ask them that, who am I to reply to that? I can talk about TMC and when you talk about dynastic politics - if a CM's son or daughter becomes an MLA and everybody bows to them, that's wrong. If everyone starts touching their feet, isn't that vulgar?Is that what's happening there?I don't want to name. Abhishek Banerjee is otherwise a very intelligent boy. India is all about Gandhi. Mamata Banerjee is praised because of her simplicity, because of her hawai chappal and way of life but you can't have a split personality. If your leaders are found in some kind of corruption, no mercy. Due process has to be followed.Has the BJP been in touch?When asked I said it would be a privilege to join the BJP as it is the number 1 party in the world. Sitaram Yechury is also a good friend, so is Uddhav Thackeray, I met Sharad Pawar, everybody's a friend. I have seen it allDid the PM speak to you post the resignation?I don't have to wait to speak to him. At least he listens, here there was nobody to listen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/west-bengal-assembly-election-2016/dinesh-trivedi-explains-why-trinamool-leaders-don-t-want-prashant-kishor-around-101613549327396.html
17-02-2021||Other||Entrepreneur from Maharashtra village buys helicopter worth ₹30 crore||Janardhan Bhoir, an entrepreneur from Vadape village in Maharashtra’s Bhiwandi, has bought a helicopter for ₹30 crore to avoid traffic snarls he would face during his business-related travels in the state and other parts of the country.Vadape residents thronged a helipad built for the helicopter in the village when it arrived after a trial flight on Sunday. Bhoir said he has got permission from the Thane collector and police commissioner to bring the helicopter and develop the helipad on a three-acre plot. The helicopter will be permanently available at the helipad from March 15. A workshop to maintain the helicopter has been set up at the helipad. Bhoir has also hired a pilot, two engineers, and five guards. Bhoir said he will pay salaries of around ₹10 lakh to them monthly.Also Read | Surge in Covid-19 cases in Maha: Find out which districts have high caseload“Even if I have to travel to Mumbai [over 50 km away], my entire day is wasted because of the snarls. I also travel to other states at least four times a month. The traffic snarls and the time consumption are the reasons why I decided to buy the helicopter,” said Bhoir, who comes from a farming family and lives in the village with his wife and their two sons.The family owns a 50-acre farm, where they grow rice and vegetables. They also run a dairy and own 300 cows. “These cows are not available here locally and to buy them I have to travel to Punjab, Rajasthan, Gujarat, and Haryana often. The helicopter will save my time and help me reach these places conveniently,” said Bhoir, who is also a five-time village head.Bhoir is also involved in the real estate business and has leased 50-acre land to build godowns. He also owns several godowns. Apart from its power loom industry, Bhiwandi is also known for godowns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/entrepreneur-from-maharashtra-village-buys-helicopter-worth-rs-30-crore-101613549461082.html
17-02-2021||Delhi||Farmers installed CCTV cameras, toilets at Ghazipur border protest site||As the protest against the Centre's three new farm laws entered 84th day on Wednesday, with no breakthrough in the standoff between government and farmers in the sight, protesters at the Ghazipur border have installed CCTV cameras and temporary toilets for their convenience.Talking to ANI, Dinesh Sharma, one of the protesters said toilets are installed to keep up with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision of Swachh Bharat."Our Prime Minister always talked about cleanliness, so as farmers we are taking all precautions to maintain cleanliness at Ghazipur border. That is why we have also installed toilets here," he said.He said in the past goons had misbehaved with the protesting farmers and that is why CCTV cameras have been installed in the area to identify such anti-social elements in the future.Sharma added that farmers are also planning to grow vegetables on the border too."There is an empty land to grow vegetables on both sides. We will stay here for a long time as we have a long fight with the government. Concrete preparations have to be made for the long fight. There is wilderness around, we will clean the area and make it suitable for farming. The government may take as long as they want. We want to make it clear that farmers will not go without taking their rights," he stated.Another farmer Virender Singh who is also part of the protest at the Ghazipur border echoed similar concern."Farmers have been attacked many times here, and the government is not ready to take any action against attackers. Now with CCTV cameras installed, farmers will know how these attacks are being conducted and who are the people conspiring against farmers," said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-installed-cctv-cameras-toilets-at-ghazipur-border-protest-site-101613548297119.html
17-02-2021||Mumbai||BMC says over 15 lakh people fined for not wearing facemasks since April 2020 in Mumbai||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Mumbai civic body has caught over 15 lakh people without face masks at public places in the city since April last year and collected more than ₹30 crore as fine from them, officials said on Wednesday.Out of these offenders, 13,008 were caught on Monday and a fine of ₹26,01,600 was collected from them, a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said.Concerned over the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday asked citizens to strictly follow government-mandated guidelines on masks and social distancing or be prepared to face another round of lockdown.The BMC has been imposing a fine of ₹200 for not wearing a face mask in public places.From April 1, 2020 to February 15 this year, the BMC caught 15,16,398 people without face masks and collected a total of ₹30,69,09,800 from them, civic officials said.As per the BMC data, the highest number of 1,08,069 people were caught without face masks in Mumbai's K-West ward, which includes areas like Juhu, Andheri (West) and Versova.Besides, the lowest number of 25,847 offenders were found in M-East ward, which comprises Anushakti Nagar, Deonar, Cheetah Camp and Shivaji Nagar areas.The BMC has repeatedly appealed to citizens to follow all Covid-19 protocols, including wearing of face mask, maintaining social distance and sanitising hands regularly.Of late, the city has been witnessing a spike in daily Covid-19 cases, and some civic wards have issued letters to housing societies under their jurisdiction and instructed them to follow the Covid-19 guidelines, a civic official said."At present, the M-west ward is reporting highest daily cases, which is a matter of concern, and there are chances that we might have to impose local lockdown measures," said a notice issued to a society in the M-West ward.The notice further said sealing of buildings/ societies having high prevalence of positivity has been started in the ward."If the same is observed in your society, the same restrictions with sealing can be imposed in your society," the notice warned.In the notice, the civic body also instructed housing societies to restrict the entry of outsiders to minimum, including domestic helps and milk delivery persons.It asked the housing societies take measures like thermal screening and if a positive case is found, then the family members should follow strict quarantine guidelines for 14 days and get tested compulsorily.Any other symptomatic person in the society should also get checked for the coronavirus infection, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-says-over-15-lakh-people-fined-for-not-wearing-facemasks-since-april-2020-101613546864140.html
17-02-2021||Other||Kerala HC rejects priest’s bail please to marry woman he is convicted of raping||The Kerala high court on Tuesday dismissed defrocked priest Robin Vadakumchery’s plea seeking bail to marry the woman he has been sentenced to double life for raping when she was a minor. It said granting bail would mean granting judicial approval to the marriage while observing the woman was a minor when she was raped.Vadakumchery maintained they were in a consensual relationship and that he quit his priesthood to marry her. He added the woman, and her family were also keen for the marriage to protect their child.“The trial court arrived at the finding that the victim was a child at the time of the incident. As long as the finding remains, allowing the [bail] prayer will amount to granting judicial approval to the marriage directly, indirectly, or by implication,” said Justice Sunil Thomas, while rejecting the bail plea.Also Read | Sister Abhaya Murder: Kerala priest, nun get life imprisonmentDuring the trial, the woman’s parents suggested the marriage. But the trial court in 2018 rejected it and sentenced Vadakumchery to a double life term. A year after his conviction, he was defrocked in 2019.Vadakumchery, 54, was set to become a bishop when he was convicted of raping the girl. The case surfaced in early 2017 after the girl gave birth to a baby.Initially, her father claimed to have raped his daughter and was arrested. But police found major discrepancies in his statements and during sustained interrogation, he broke down and named Vadakkumchery. He said the church authorities had forced him to own up. Vadakkumchery was arrested near the Kochi airport while trying to flee to Canada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-hc-rejects-priest-s-bail-please-to-marry-woman-he-is-convicted-of-raping-101613547180881.html
17-02-2021||Delhi||SDMC to fix technical glitch, tweak notification sent out for death certificate||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) is likely to change the format of messages sent to phone numbers registered for death certificate. The civic body’s standing committee has given directions in this regard after Aya Nagar councillor Ved Pal raised the issue of an erroneous message sent to a resident in his ward.Pal said that a resident in his constituency received a message saying, “Your request for death registration has been approved”. “The person who received this message was shocked. He has never applied for anyone’s death certificate. Later, after checking with the SDMC authorities, we found out that it was wrongly sent. But still, the language of the text could have been different... It should be changed,” Pal said.Senior SDMC officials insisted that the text message was “wrongly delivered” due to some technical glitches in the system. However, after Pal raised the issue in the standing committee meeting on Monday, the Leader of the House in SDMC, Narendra Chawla, directed the officials of public health department to change the content of these messages and also ensure that they are not delivered to the wrong people. “We have asked the department to change the format and include the name of the deceased and the person who has applied for the death certificate. The language of the message, which was sent to the wrong person, was also such as if he/she had applied for the certificate,” Chawla said.He added that the department has also been asked to make its system of application for and downloading of various certificates more user friendly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sdmc-to-fix-technical-glitch-tweak-notification-sent-out-for-death-certificate-101613547000775.html
17-02-2021||Patna||Bihar Speaker tells departments to submit timely replies to members’ questions||Bihar assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha has asked all the government departments to furnish timely replies to questions asked by members, bringing the spotlight to an important tool of ensuring government's accountability ahead of the Budget session starting February 19.“A lot of money from the consolidated fund is spent on holding House sessions. If the answers to the questions raised by the members are still not made available on time, it amounts to misutilisation of funds. Besides, it also leads to criticism of the government, which is accountable to the Vidhan Sabha,” said Sinha.The Speaker has also called for a meeting on Wednesday with the nodal officers of all the departments and the principal secretary, parliamentary affairs department to underline the importance of timely replies to questions.Sinha said timely replies to questions will give an opportunity to the members to ask related supplementary questions on issues of public importance. ”This is important to create an atmosphere for meaningful discussions and debates, which is the essence of a healthy democratic system,” he added.The Speaker is quite particular about timely replies, according to a senior official of the assembly secretariat. “Many a time, replies come, but quite late or after the session. Usually, on a day not more than 40-50 questions are taken up in the house during the Question Hour, but the actual number is quite high and the replies need to reach the concerned members and also the media,” he added.For the 104 first-time members in the newly-elected assembly, the month-long Budget session will provide a first-hand experience of the legislative practices. The Speaker got a helpdesk set up earlier this month in the assembly secretariat to help them.Since 2018, Bihar assembly has implemented online questions and replies management system which refers questions posted online to concerned departments for replies.The forthcoming Budget session will have 22 sittings, exactly the same as the 2020 Budget session. It will feature debates on the budgetary demands of various departments. Some important bills will also be tabled during the session.Last year, the Budget session had come to a premature end in view of the health emergency triggered by the outbreak of Coronavirus.Also Read: CoWin glitches continue, hamper vaccination in BiharThe inaugural five-day session of the 17th Vidhan Sabha was held from November 23-27 at the Central Hall. However, the Budget session will be held in the Vidhan Sabha building.On the first day itself, two important ordinances – one on commercial taxes and another on the state higher education council (SHEC) – will be tabled. After that the economic survey will be laid on the floor of the House. The state budget will be presented on the following working day -February 22. Deputy chief minister Tar Kishore Prasad, who is also the finance minister, will table the Budget for the first time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-speaker-tells-departments-to-submit-timely-replies-to-members-questions-101613546095196.html
17-02-2021||Chandigarh||Cong left red-faced in Moga as Akali nominee defeats MLA’s wife||In an embarrassment to the ruling Congress, Harwinder Kaur Gill, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) candidate, defeated Dr Rajinder Kaur, the wife of Moga MLA Harjot Singh Kamal, by 151 votes at ward number 1 of the Moga Municipal Corporation on Wednesday. Dr Rajinder Kaur polled 576 votes, while Harwinder Kaur Gill got 727 votes and Kulwinder Kaur of the Aam Aadmi Party managed only 27 votes. Dr Rajinder Kaur was contesting for the first time. She had surprised everyone after she filed her nomination papers from ward number 1, predominantly a rural area comprising Landke village. On other hand, Harwinder Kaur Gill is the wife of a former councillor of the ward, Amarjeet Singh, who is also a former sarpanch of Landke village and ex-chairman of the Moga marketing committee. Meanwhile, of the total 50 wards, Congress won 20 wards, the Akalis 15, Independents 10, AAP 4, and the BJP 1. Sarbjeet Kaur of the AAP won from ward number 9, where two SAD workers Harminder Singh and Jagdeep Singh were allegedly killed by Narinderpal Singh Sidhu, the husband of the Congress candidate, and nine others during campaigning in Moga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-left-red-faced-in-moga-as-akali-nominee-defeats-mla-s-wife-101613546340846.html
17-02-2021||Chandigarh||Cong sweeps south Punjab, Akalis routed in Bathinda home turf||The ruling Congress is emerging as the winner in the civic body elections in south Punjab. The party is set to have its mayor in the high-stake municipal corporations of Bathinda and Abohar.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) was routed in its stronghold of Bathinda, where the local Congress legislator and state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal led an organised election campaign.In Bathinda, the Congress won 43 of the 50 wards that went to the polls on Sunday. It is for the first time in 53 years that the Congress has managed to win a majority in the municipality, which was the bastion of the Akalis earlier.For the last two consecutive terms, the Akalis were having their leaders as Bathinda mayor in support of their former political ally, the Bharatiya Janta Party.The BJP failed to win a single seat, whereas in the last elections, the party had eight councillors when it contested in alliance with the SAD.Congress wins 49 of 50 seats in AboharAfter sweeping 49 of the 50 seats, the Congress is set to get its first mayor in Abohar, the home turf of state Congress president Sunil Jakhar.Interestingly, the Abohar assembly segment is represented by the lone BJP MLA, Arun Narang, but the party has been routed as it faces a backlash in Punjab over the passage of the farm laws in Parliament.The Congress is leading in the civic bodies of Mansa, Moga, Muktsar and Ferozepur districts.The Aam Aadmi Party won two seats in Fazilika municipality and one in Jalalabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-sweeps-south-punjab-akalis-face-tough-fight-in-bathinda-101613545140837.html
17-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local trains see surge in passengers; 3.7 million commute everyday||Passengers on suburban local trains in Mumbai have increased since the services were resumed for the general public on February 1. Nearly 3.7 million passengers commute everyday by the local train network on the Central and the Western Railway. Two million passengers on the Central Railway and 1.7 million passengers travel on the Western Railway everyday. The first week of February saw nearly 3.2 million passengers travel everyday by the local trains. Also Read | With Mumbai locals open to all, BEST buses see drop in ridersThe general public is allowed to commute by local trains during particular time slots: from the first train service till 7am; 12pm to 4pm; and after 9pm.“There has been an increase in the number of commuters on both Central and Western Railway. Average daily commuters have increased, ” said a senior Central Railway official. Local train services for the general public were suspended on March 23,2020, due to the spread of coronavirus in the city. Later, services were resumed for employees working in essential care on July 15,2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-trains-see-surge-in-passengers-3-7-million-commute-everyday-101613544661330.html
17-02-2021||Delhi||Man held for attacking SHO at Singhu border, fleeing with his car, say Police||A man has been arrested for allegedly attacking an SHO of the Delhi Police and fleeing with his car at the Singhu border, where farmers are protesting against three new agriculture laws of the Centre, officials said on Wednesday.The incident that resulted in minor injuries to the officer took place around 8 pm on Tuesday, they said.According to the police, the accused, who was in an inebriated state, snatched the car keys of one of the officers at the protest site and fled the spot.Being chased by the police, the accused abandoned the vehicle, snatched a two-wheeler from another man and fled.The security personnel finally overpowered him near the Mukarba Chowk around 8.30 pm and the station house officer (SHO) sustained injuries caused by a sword on his finger and neck while trying to nab him, a senior police officer said.The SHO was admitted to a hospital, from where he was discharged after treatment, the police said.The accused has been arrested and further investigation is underway, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-held-for-attacking-sho-at-singhu-border-fleeing-with-his-car-say-police-101613544035122.html
17-02-2021||Bangalore||Doctors at Bengaluru hospital remove 3.5 kg tumour from 15- year-old girl's neck||Doctors at a hospital here have successfully removed a 3.5 kg crippling tumour from a 15- year-old girl's neck. Extending from her neck onto her chest, the benign tumour which had affected Surbhi Ben's life for more than a decade is identified by the doctors as fibromatosis. A team of 21 doctors at Aster CMI Hospital performed the surgery to remove the football-sized tumour stuck on her neck. She is now able to resume her life normally, according to hospital statement on Tuesday. Born in an underprivileged family of farm labourers in Amreli district of Gujarat, Surbhi Ben was still a toddler when her parents first noticed the lumps around her face that have since then engulfed her neck, making her social pariah of sorts. Over the years, her family had approached several doctors in and around Amreli district where many of them had suggested that the tumour cannot be excised upon at local hospitals and recommended her to approach hospitals in metro cities. The treatment involved surgeries and injection sclerotherapy which were quite expensive, the hospital statement said. Due to the prevailing economic condition of the family, they were unable to bear the cost of the treatment and pinned all their hopes on a miracle that could gift their child a new life. Explaining her plight, Surbhi said she was unable to go anywhere because of the tumour and had to drop out of school a year ago due to the immense pain in her neck while doing my homework or an assignment. "Even while stepping out, I had to cover myself and unlike other girls, I could not wear normal clothes and dresses due to the ailment. I often used to ask my mother, why am I the only one who is suffering and there were several moments where I used to feel hopeless and frustrated", she said. Despite her crippling ailment, Surbhi had an optimistic outlook and wanted to resume her schooling to fulfill her dream of becoming a teacher. Fortunately for her, hope soon arrived in the form of a few well-wishers -- the 'NewsLions' helped facilitate the treatment along with 'Milaap' and raised over ₹70 lakh through a crowdfunding effort to provide her this life- changing surgery of multiple sittings over last one year. Once the funds were arranged through Milaap, the family then reached out to Aster CMI Hospital, where the team of doctors and surgeons worked for several months to remove the growth from her neck. Speaking about the complications involved in Surbhis surgery, Consultant - Paediatrics & Paediatric Intensive Care, Aster CMI Hospital, Chetan Ginigeri said there were three tumours present in her throat and that was intertwined with the nerves of her neck, which made her surgery extremely complicated. Consultant - Surgical Oncology, Girish G said the case had extensive involvement of structures in the neck going to upper torso both within and out of the thoracic cavity. "The case was also immensely critical as the tumour had grown in the neck region where all the essential structures of life are located and hence we had to take extra precautions during the surgery", Girish said. "Presently she is fine, tolerating oral diet with no breathlessness and talking comprehensively. We overcame challenges in treating her successfully through a multi-disciplinary approach", he added. Lead and Senior Consultant - Plastic Surgery, Madhusudan G said the complete removal of the tumour posed a challenge of wound cover over the big blood vessels of the neck, exposed to sternum which was as large as 20 x 18 cms. Lead Consultant - CTVS Surgery, Ganeshakrishnan Iyer said: "This was a very extensive tumour growing in front and behind the sternum (breast bone). Hence the difficulty involved in removing the tumour from the front of the chest and then cutting open the breast bone was very challenging as the tumour was also stuck to the chest wall on the inside." President and Co-founder of Milaap, Anoj Viswanathan, said,"The powerful visual impact of the images on the fundraiser page and the video Milaap shot for Surbhis fundraiser accelerated the fundraising process." The video had over a million views on Facebook and was shared more than 1000 times. Over 6200 donors from all over the world united for this cause on Milaap. Expressing her joy on the successful recovery of her daughter, Surbhi's mother Rekha said:"We are seeing a new, beautiful, bubbly and bold Surbhi, thanks to all my brothers and sisters who contributed to her life-changing treatment". "Your kind gesture towards a stranger has reinstated my faith in humanity. She is now leading a normal life, freely riding her bicycle, playing with friends in the neighbourhood and doing her studies, without being subjected to any humiliating remarks from onlookers," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/doctors-at-bengaluru-hospital-remove-3-5-kg-tumour-from-15-year-old-girl-s-neck-101613542872062.html
17-02-2021||Mumbai||Surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra: Districts with high caseload and govt response||As Maharashtra records a surge in Covid-19 cases, the government has started issuing stern warnings to people of the state asking them to follow preventive measures.The state has seen a sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 cases over the past few days which has led to the government to say that it will be forced to impose another lockdown if people keep flouting the guidelines.The concern regarding the rise in cases among the health officials in Maharashtra was seen after the state reported 4,092 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day tally in a month. The daily count did fall on Monday and Tuesday but it still remained over 3,000. Notably, before the reported rise on February 14, the state did record more than 3,000 cases for 4 days in a row.The state government has termed the situation as alarming saying that it is displeased with the conduct of the people as the pandemic continues to take lives despite vaccination drives being conducted in the country.The Shiv Sena on Wednesday in its mouthpiece Saamna said that the public has failed to take the government’s advice. It said, “Follow the rules, otherwise the lockdown will have to be imposed again. The same warning has been given by the State Health Minister (Rajesh Tope) himself. The public should take it seriously.”The Maharashtra government on Tuesday said that more than 15 districts have reported a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, Jalgaon, Dhule, Jalna, Beed, Latur, Parbhani, Amravati, Akola, Buldhana, Yavatmal, Nagpur and Wardha were districts which reported a rise in the number of cases between January 4 and February 15.Amravati (10.69 % rise), Wardha (4.62% rise), Akola (4.27% rise), Yavatmal (3.16 % rise) and Buldhana (2.28% rise) were districts which saw a notable increase in the number of cases, according to a statement released by the Maharashtra chief minister’s office. Sindhudurg (7.15%), Beed (6.21%), Ratnagiri (6.09%) and Bhandara (4.69%) saw a rise in the number of deaths. The Union ministry for health and family welfare has asked Maharashtra to increase its RT-PCR testing if it wants to arrest the rise in the number of cases.“Over a period of time, both in Maharashtra and in Kerala, the number of RT-PCR tests have gone down and there is a need to substantially increase RT-PCR tests; this is something we have shared with both the states,” NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/surge-in-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-districts-with-high-caseload-and-govt-re-101613541946576.html
17-02-2021||Mumbai||Mandatory RT-PCR tests continue to create problems at Mumbai airport||Three months after Maharashtra mandated reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests for passengers from Delhi, Goa, Rajasthan, and Gujarat, Mumbai airport officials said they continue to face challenges in implementing the rule.On February 14, a group of around 70 passengers refused to undergo the tests at the airport when they could not produce their Covid-19 negative test reports. The refusal left other inbound passengers stranded around the RT-PCR testing area for over two hours.Satish Menon, a Mumbai resident who had arrived from Goa and got tested, said the group refused to get tested even as the officials explained the rule. “They got aggressive in a manner that authorities had to close the door that led us towards the baggage counter. I tried explaining to the group that they were wrong and would have to get tested just like I did. But they were too violent to listen, which left over 200 passengers stranded for more than two hours. ”The authorities had to call the police to bring the situation under control.An airport official said passengers in large groups find it difficult to pay ₹850 per person for the test. “Despite being aware of the rule, they refuse to take the test and get violent with the staff in charge.”Maharashtra made a negative RT-PCR mandatory from November 25. Passengers flying into the state should have tested negative 72 hours before landing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mandatory-rt-pcr-tests-continue-to-create-problems-at-mumbai-airport-101613542200680.html
17-02-2021||Kolkata||Ahead of assembly polls, political cartoons adorn Saraswati Puja pandals in West Bengal||Ahead of Assembly polls in West Bengal, several Saraswati Puja pandals were decorated with political cartoons in College Square area of Midnapore district on Tuesday.A large number of people yesterday was seen thronging to the pandals for the worship of Goddess Saraswati on the occasion of Basant Panchami."People affiliated with different political parties try to put forth their views through cartoons that are enjoyed by visitors," a local said here.Another visitor Kangana Mukherjee said that these cartoons attract everyone who comes for the Pooja.While at another pandal in Sainthia area of Birbhum district of the state, Goddess Saraswati was portrayed as a healthcare worker amid the ongoing pandemic.The tenure of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government led by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in West Bengal will come to an end on May 30, 2020. The upcoming state elections in West Bengal are slated to take place in 2021 for 294 Assembly seats.Basant Panchami, the festival which marks the arrival of the spring season in India, celebrated this year on February 16. Held on the fifth day (Panchami) of the Magha maas (month), Basant Panchami is also celebrated as Saraswati Puja in some parts of India.As per Hindu Mythology, Lord Brahma is believed to have created the universe on this day.Apart from that, the reason for the celebration of Saraswati Puja in some parts of the country is because it was believed that on this day Goddess Durga gave birth to Goddess Saraswati.The significance of the occasion is huge in Hindu culture, as the day is considered extremely auspicious to start new work, get married or perform house warming ceremony (Grah Pravesh).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/ahead-of-assembly-polls-political-cartoons-adorn-saraswati-puja-pandals-in-wb-101613540315773.html
17-02-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC cites possibility of death by suicide, acquits murder convict||The Bombay high court has acquitted a 35-year-old murder convict from Satara saying there is a strong possibility that his wife he was convicted of murdering may have died by suicide.According to the prosecution, the woman was found dead under a tree hours after the couple in May 2013 left together to fetch wooden logs to support the roof of their hut. The woman’s mother found her daughter drenched in blood with a broken sickle and a blade nearby. She reported the matter to the police, accusing her son-in-law of having murdered her daughter. An additional sessions’ judge in Vaduj in April 2015 accepted the prosecution case based on circumstantial evidence and convicted the man of murdering his wife and sentenced him to life imprisonment.The man challenged the conviction. His lawyer, Aashish Satpute, argued the prosecution failed to prove the homicidal nature of death beyond a reasonable doubt.A division bench of justices Sadhana Jadhav and NJ Jamadar accepted Satpute’s argument. It said the prosecution proved that the couple was last seen together. But the bench added the nature of injuries indicated death by suicide. “The wounds found on the person of the deceased especially the situs, elective parts, and nature are suggestive of suicidal infliction.”The judges noted the woman was right-handed and had two injuries each on her left wrist and left side of the neck. “One injury each on the wrist and neck was superficial - like a test suicidal infliction and other injuries were deep - perhaps inflicted after the victim gathered more courage to take her own life.” The judges said both the injuries were parallel and the clothes of the deceased were not soiled, which they called “other signs of suicidal infliction”.“As the fundamental fact of the deceased having met a homicidal death itself is in the corridor of uncertainty, in our view, the circumstance of last seen and the failure of the accused to offer a plausible explanation, on their own, are not sufficient to sustain the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt,” said the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-cites-possibility-of-death-by-suicide-acquits-murder-convict-101613539500849.html
17-02-2021||Chandigarh||Rail Roko: Railways deploys 20 additional RPSF companies, focus on Punjab, Haryana, UP||The railways has deployed 20 additional companies of the RPSF across the country, with focus on Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, in the wake of the "rail roko" called on Thursday by farmer groups protesting against the Centre's new agri laws.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions which is spearheading the protest, last week had announced the rail blockade to press for its demand to repeal the legislations.Director General, Railway Protection Force, Arun Kumar on Wednesday said, "I appeal to everyone to maintain peace. We will be liaisoning with district administrations and will have a control room in place.""We will gather intelligence. States such as Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, and some other areas will be our focus. We have deployed 20 companies of the Railway Protection Special Force (RPSF) in these areas," he said."We want to persuade them to not cause inconvenience for passengers. We have a four-hour window and we want it (rail roko) to get over peacefully," Kumar said.The SKM had said that the rail blockade will held across the country from 12 pm to 4 pm.Sources in the northern railways said they are expecting that 'rail roko' agitations will be concentrated in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh."No decision has yet been taken on train movement in the backdrop of the rail blockade. Once we get a better picture of the status of the protests and have identified sensitive spots, we will put in place a plan of action. We have around 80 trains which run through potentially sensitive areas and most of them would have passed through them before 12 pm," an official said.The announcement of the rail roko movement came amid the ongoing protests against the laws at Delhi's borders by farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, and 'mahapanchayats' that are being organised in these states to garner support for the movement.On Tuesday, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni had said that farmer unions will hold meetings in poll-bound West Bengal as well and indicated that they will ask people there not to vote for those who are "snatching our livelihood".Railway unions which had earlier supported the farmers' movement have distanced themselves from the 'rail roko' protest.Sources indicate that the unions are not in favour of such "short protest" calls.Farmers are protesting against the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rail-roko-railways-deploys-20-additional-rpsf-companies-focus-on-punjab-haryana-up-101613538900793.html
17-02-2021||NA||Punjab municipal polls highlights: AAP demands recounting of votes in Jagraon||The counting of votes for the 2252 wards in seven municipal corporations in Punjab, namely, Bathinda, Abohar, Batala, Moga, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur and Pathankot and 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats began at 8am on Wednesday.All major parties including the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) have contested alone in the elections, which is the precursor to the assembly elections next year.A total of 9,222 candidates have contested the elections, which saw 71 per cent voting being recorded in 117 municipal bodies on Sunday. Three booths in Patran and Samana also had re-polling on Tuesday.The state election commission (SEC) had promised the deployment of micro-observers in sensitive and hyper-sensitive wards for the smooth conducting of the counting. “The commission has ordered the deputy commissioners to depute IAS, PCS or other senior officers as micro-observers for vote counting in such wards. These micro-observers will submit their reports through observers,” a SEC spokesperson said.Earlier, on Sunday, protesting farmers raised slogans against the BJP over the three farm laws in Amritsar's ward number 37. Many farmers from Punjab have been protesting at Delhi's borders for the repeal of the farm laws and legal assurance on minimum support price (MSP).Follow all the updates here:Congress sweeps Punjab local body polls, wins 7 out of 8 municipal corporationsThe ruling Congress in Punjab on Wednesday registered a stunning victory in the state local body polls, winning seven out of eight municipal corporations for which results were declared on the day. The seven municipal corporations are Bathinda, Abohar, Batala, Moga, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur and Pathankot. Read moreSAD leader addresses a conference with winning candidatesSAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia along with winning candidates and party leaders addresses a press conference in Amritsar.Results are indicative of 'changing times': Congress MPपंजाब नगर निगम चुनाव में असाधारण जीत के लिए @INCPunjab, मुख्यमंत्री श्री @capt_amarinder जी समेत प्रदेश कांग्रेस कमिटी के सभी सदस्यों को ढेरों शुभकामनाएँ।ये नतीजे ‘बदलते वक्त’ के सूचक हैं, ये किसान-मज़दूर-व्यापारी-कर्मचारी-नौजवान की ‘मन की बात’ है।"These results are indicative of 'changing times', this is the 'Mann Ki Baat' of the farmer-worker-businessman-employee-youth," wrote Congress MP Deepender S Hooda on Twitter.It is a tight slap on the face of BJP, SAD and AAP: Congress"This is a tight slap on the face of BJP, SAD and AAP by people of Punjab for playing with the feelings of our Anndaatas," tweets Punjab Congress after registering victory in municipal polls.AAP demands recounting of votes in JagraonAam Aadmi Party stages protest, block National highway alleging discrepancies in counting. Seeking recounting of votes in Jagraon Municipal Council, AAP MLA Jagraon and deputy leader of opposition in the vidhan Sabha, Sarabjit Kaur Manuke alleged that there is a difference in number of votes polled and count of votes in many wards. The party agents were not shown the EVM machines and the results were announced by SDM himselfCounting for all 50 wards in Pathankot municipal corporation overCongress bags Pathankot municipal corporation as it wins 37 wards out of 50. BJP wins 11, SAD and Independent win one each.Congress in 15 wards in Sujanpur municipal councilCongress has won 8 out of 15 wards in Sujanpur municipal council in Pathankot district, BJP has won 5 seats while independent candidates win 2 seats.Congress registers wins in Jaitu and Kotkapura municipal councilJaitu town municipal council results show that out of a total 17 wards Congress has registered win in 7 seats, SAD won in 3 seats and independents have won in 4 seats. In Kotakapura municipal council, Congress registered wins in 21 wards, while BJP and AAP registered wins in 5 and 3 seats resepctively.Congress registers win in BJP bastion PathankotPathankot municipal corporation which is a BJP bastion saw Congress come out victorious as the party recorded wins in 23 out of 50 wards.Faridkot sees Congress win by a huge marginCongress wins Faridkot municipal council in the Punjab municipal polls elections. Out of 25 wards, Congress has registered wins in 16 wards, Akalis have won 7 while main opposition party in Punjab assembly, AAP, has won only 1 seat. 1 seat went to an independent candidate.Congress candidates celebrate in BathindaCongress workers were seen outside playing with colours as they celebrated their win in Bathinda. The candidates were not seen adhering to social distancing protocols amid the pandemic.Congress registers wins in Dera BassiCongress has won 13 seats in Dera Bassi in 13 out of 19 total wards. BJP has managed to win 1 seat.Congress candidate victorious in AmritsarCongress candidate Gagandeep Singh celebrates victory from Amritsar Municipal Corporation ward no 37Bathinda sees Congress record wins in 14 wardsIn Bathinda municipal corporation, Congress won in 14 wards while former NDA-ally SAD won in 7 wards.Congress bags 19 wards in FazilkaCongress has won 19 wards in Fazilka, the Bharatiya Janata Party recorded wins in 4 wards and 2 wards went to Aam Aadmi Party in the Fazilka municipal constituency.Independent candidates record major wins in Kartarpur wardMC Kartarpur saw a large number of independent candidates record major wins in the municipal council polls. Here is a list of winning candidates:Congress registers huge win in Hoshiarpur municipal corporationOut of 50 wards, Congress has registered wins in 31 wards. The Shiromani Akali Dal and BSP did not win any wards. BJP has won 4 wards in Hoshiarpur. AAP has won 2.Congress wins 20 out of 50 wards in Moga; SAD wins 15Moga results - Congress wins 20 out of the 50 wards and SAD finishes in the second with 15 wards. Independent candidates won 10 wards, while the AAP and the BJP wins four and one wards respectively.Congress wins 49 out of 50 wards in Abohar, SAD wins 1Congress wins 49 out of 50 wards in Abohar and the SAD wins the remaining one seat.Congress wins 13 out of 15 seats in Bhawanigarh municipal councilBhawanigarh results declared - Congress wins 13 out of the 15 seats while SAD wins one seat and an independent candidate wins one seat. BJP and AAP fail to secure any seats.SAD candidates celebrate win in MajithaSAD candidates from Majitha showing victory sign after win in Punjab Municipal Elections in Amritsar.Congress wins 4 seats in ZirakpurCongress candidates in Zirakpur have won the first four seats||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-live-congress-registers-wins-in-zirakpur-moga-and-hoshiarpur-101613537504569.html
17-02-2021||Delhi||Red Fort violence: Delhi Police arrest mechanic from Pitampura, recover 2 swords||A 30-year-old car AC mechanic has been arrested by the Delhi Police’s special cell for his alleged role in the violence at Red Fort during the tractor parade on Republic Day, the police said on Wednesday. Maninder Singh, a car mechanic, was arrested from near a bus stop in north-west Delhi’s Pitampura on Tuesday, said Pramod Kushwaha, deputy commissioner of police (special cell). Two swords were also recovered from Singh after a video helped police identify him, the officer said. “He was seen swinging his swords at the Red Fort and that incited the gathering there to cause more mayhem,” said the officer. The Republic Day violence left several police personnel injured after a group of farmers strayed from the pre-decided route of the tractor parade to reach Red Fort and storm it.Also Read | Deep Sidhu, Iqbal Singh taken to Red Fort to recreate sequence of R-Day clashesKushwaha said that Singh also ran a sword training school near his home in Pitampura. “He was a regular visitor to the Singhu border protest site and was motivated by speeches made by leaders there,” said Kushwaha. There was, however, no word on how speeches of farmer leaders at Singhu border motivated Singh to allegedly turn violent. The officer also said that on Republic Day, Singh had taken six other men from his neighbourhood on motorcycles from Singhu border to Red Fort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/red-fort-violence-delhi-police-arrest-mechanic-from-pitampura-recover-2-swords-101613538240483.html
17-02-2021||Bangalore||Father of 19-yr-old who died due to pothole makes emotional appeal for justice||“Just because someone in authority didn't do their job, a life is lost. Has anyone been held responsible?” asked Syed Mushtaq Ahmed, father of the 19-year-old medical student killed in a road accident on February 5.Tasdeeq Bushra died after her scooter was hit by the truck belonging to the Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) while she was trying to avoid craters on Lingarajapuram-Hennur main road. She died on the spot.“One life is lost, one dream is lost, just because of negligence. But no one is responsible. Even now, one department blames another one for the negligence. Days after the accident, they have filled the pothole now, does it take a life for authorities to fill potholes,” he asked while speaking at a meeting organised in Bengaluru to demand justice for his daughter.“She was a law-abiding citizen, who wore a mask and a helmet. She is killed because of negligence and no one is responsible. The cycle of blame will continue but there should be action against those who were responsible for this road project,” he added.The Bengaluru Police have decided to limit the investigation to the driver of the vehicle that allegedly ran over her. No probe has been initiated against the officials of the civic body or Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited (BESCOM), who monitor civic amenities.A senior officer at Pulakeshinagar traffic police station earlier confirmed to HT that only the driver of the truck, Palani, was booked in the case. “He has been booked for rash and negligent driving and we have collected CCTV footage as part of the investigation. Apart from him, no one is booked... No one from BBMP,” the officer said on February 12.This isn’t the first time that a pothole has claimed a life in Bengaluru. The Karnataka High Court is already hearing public interest litigation filed in 2015 on the condition of roads in the city. At a hearing earlier this month after Tasdeeq Bushra’s death, the high court lamented that the BBMP was yet to fix the problem and asserted that it was time the civic body came up with a clear timetable, not just status reports.“Imagine people dying because of potholes on roads. Imagine the plight of the family,” a division bench of Justice BV Nagarathna and Justice MG Uma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/father-of-19-yr-old-who-died-due-to-pothole-makes-emotional-appeal-for-justice-101613537842864.html
17-02-2021||Delhi||Four doctors assaulted in east Delhi hospital over parking dispute||Doctors from Dr Hedgewar Arogya Sansthan in Karkardooma went on a flash strike on Tuesday evening after four doctors on duty were allegedly beaten by two persons who brought a patient to the hospital emergency wing. Two of the four doctors suffered head injuries, one has a fractured wrist, and the other suffered minor injuries, according to doctors at the hospital. The scuffle broke out after a guard on duty asked the persons accompanying the patient to remove their car parked in front of the emergency wing’s gate. The two persons were soon joined by many others and when the doctors on duty intervened, they were also beaten. Also Read | Man held over death of constable during Delhi riots granted bail“One of the two doctors who sustained head injuries is serious and is feeling giddy. This should not happen and we have asked the hospital medical superintendent to register an institutional FIR. The doctors on strike have demanded that the culprits be arrested,” said Dr Ajay Lekhi, former president of the Delhi Medical Association, who reached the hospital after the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-doctors-assaulted-in-east-delhi-hospital-over-parking-dispute-101613535000006.html
17-02-2021||Bangalore||Over 300 alumni from Disha Ravi's college slam her arrest in toolkit case||Over 300 alumni of Mount Carmel College on Tuesday criticised the arrest of fellow alumnus and 22-year-old activist Disha Ravi by Delhi Police in the toolkit case.The alumni, in a statement, condemned the “blatant targeting of a young woman citizen expressing her support with the nation’s protesting farmers.” “We, the alumni of Mount Carmel College, condemn the arrest of our fellow alum Disha Ravi by the Delhi Police. The blatant targeting of a young woman citizen expressing her support with the nation’s protesting farmers is horrifying and completely unacceptable. We demand that the Delhi Police release her and the Bangalore police and Karnataka governments act to protect the constitutional rights of a woman resident of the state of Karnataka,” the statement read.Also Read: Explain Disha Ravi's arrest, Delhi women’s panel to cops“...Her sense of history is remarkable as she has drawn not only from her personal, familial history of farmer-grandparents and the difficulties they suffered due to the impact of climate change on agricultural practices. She has also drawn her inspiration to protest and lend her voice to farmers’ protests in the country from the greatest of people’s movements in India - the Independence struggle,” read the letter.Ravi, who was on Sunday sent to a five-day police custody after being arrested in Bengaluru for allegedly creating the toolkit, was allowed by a Delhi court on Tuesday to speak with her family members over the phone for 15 minutes a day and meet her lawyer for 30 minutes a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/over-300-alumni-from-disha-ravi-s-college-slam-her-arrest-in-toolkit-case-101613532615401.html
17-02-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Multiple Delhi borders still closed, traffic remains hit||Multiple borders of Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained closed fully or partially for traffic movement on Wednesday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three farm laws. The Ghazipur border is closed for those coming to Delhi from UP. The traffic police have advised the motorists to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. Commuters can also take Chilla border which was cleared of farmers soon after the Republic Day violence. The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh continue to remain closed.Also Read | Explain activist’s arrest: Women’s panel to copsThe traffic police have advised motorists travelling between Delhi and Haryana to take alternative routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders or other routes passing through Gurgaon and Faridabad.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and Grand Trunk Road.Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu for nearly three months now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-multiple-delhi-borders-still-closed-traffic-remains-hit-101613532780409.html
17-02-2021||Chandigarh||Counting of votes for 7 MCs, 109 councils begins in Punjab||The counting of votes for the local body elections in Punjab, a precursor to the state assembly elections early next year, began at 8am on Wednesday.The results for the 2,252 wards of seven municipal corporations of Bathinda, Abohar, Batala, Moga, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur and Pathankot and 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats are expected to start trickling in from most areas by afternoon. The State Election Commission (SEC) has made all arrangements for the smooth conduct of counting , including the deployment of micro-observers in sensitive and hyper-sensitive wards.“The commission has ordered the deputy commissioners to depute IAS, PCS or other senior officers as micro-observers for vote counting in such wards. These micro-observers will submit their reports through observers,” a SEC spokesperson said. Over 71% voting was recorded in Sunday’s elections to 117 municipal bodies amid stray incidents of skirmishes at some places.Repolling was held in three booths of Patran and Samana municipal councils on Tuesday. Counting for the Mohali municipal corporation has been deferred to Thursday after the poll panel ordered re-polling in two booths.A total of 9,222 candidates were in the fray for the civic elections that saw all major parties, particularly the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), go all-out to try and send a warning to the ruling Congress. The SAD and the BJP fought the elections separately after the former left the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over the farm laws passed by the Centre last year. The BJP, which leads the government at the Centre, faced opposition from farmers across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/counting-of-votes-for-7-mcs-109-councils-begins-in-punjab-101613532240181.html
17-02-2021||Lucknow||UP STF ‘foils’ terror attack plan with arrest of PFI men with explosives||The special task force (STF) of Uttar Pradesh police claimed to have foiled a terror attack in the state by arresting two members of the Popular Front of India (PFI), and recovering arms and explosives from their possession, said a top police official.“A team of STF arrested Asad Badruddin and Firoz Khan, PFI members, from near Gudamba area in Lucknow. The duo are from Kerala and had planned to conduct explosions at Basant Panchami celebrations by Hindu organisations, and other strategic locations in UP. Their aim was to create religious enmity in society by doing so,” said additional director general (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar. He added that the STF recovered 16 high explosive devices with battery detonators, a pistol and live cartridges from the possession of the accused.PFI, which claims to be a social youth organisation based in Kerala, has been under the radar of police in several states. In 2019, many of its members were arrested across the state of Uttar Pradesh in connection with violent anti Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) protests.Recently the Enforcement Directorate filed a charge-sheet against office-bearers of PFI and its students’ wing -- Campus Front of India (CFI) -- for allegedly conspiring to incite violence and disturb harmony in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district, where a Dalit woman was gang-raped by four upper caste men last September. ED claimed that more than ₹100 crore were deposited in the accounts of PFI over the years and a very large part of this money is feared to have come in from the middle east. The organisation is also being probed for its alleged role in Delhi riots last year.Also Read: UP not doing enough to stop sex determination tests: Khattar tells AdityanathKumar said STF came to know about PFI’s plan to conduct terror attacks in Uttar Pradesh and recruit educated youngsters in their organization.“We came to know from intelligence sources that two members of PFI have come to UP by train. We formed a team and alerted our sources to track them,” said ADG, STF, Amitabh Yash.A case was in the process of being registered against the duo at the anti-terror squad (ATS) police station in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-stf-foils-terror-attack-plan-with-arrest-of-pfi-men-with-explosives-101613531444483.html
17-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi AQI in very poor zone; calm winds predicted through the week||Delhi’s air quality continued to remain in the very poor zone on Wednesday, with the hourly average air quality index at 7am being 325.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall AQI of Delhi on Tuesday was 327, in the very poor zone.India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists have forecast that the winds will remain calm in the early morning hours through the week, which will lead to deterioration of the air quality.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that the air quality is forecast to deteriorate on Wednesday. “During the day, as the sun comes up, the air quality will improve slightly,” Srivastava said.Also Read | Artificial intelligence to detect air-pollution sources in BiharAQI in Delhi-NCR has remained in the very poor zone for days now. The average air quality across Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Fridabad and Gurgaon was also recorded very poor on Tuesday.Pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 also remained in the air of the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the CPCB. The average 24-hour AQI at 4pm on Tuesday was 356 in Ghaziabad, 335 in Noida, 375 in Greater Noida, 310 in Faridabad and 302 in Gurgaon, according to CPCB’s Sameer app. (With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-aqi-in-very-poor-zone-calm-winds-predicted-through-the-week-101613530079903.html
17-02-2021||Delhi||24x7 water soon, will clean Yamuna in 3 years: Delhi CM Kejriwal||The Delhi government on Tuesday said it will clean the Yamuna river in three years, marking the completion of its first year in power.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also released a video to let people know about the achievements of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in the first year of its third term.“One year ago, today, you all gave your son another opportunity to serve everyone. It has been a very tough year, but all the citizens of Delhi have worked together. All of us together have made Delhi a model of success in the world. Today, the Delhi government’s home isolation model, setting up the first plasma bank and oximeter distribution are getting discussed across the world,” he said.Delhi health and urban development minister Satyendar Jain said after defeating Covid-19, the Delhi government will now focus on cleaning the Yamuna in three years.Read more: CM Kejriwal writes: As world battled Covid, Delhi stood its ground, fought back“Nobody believed us when we promised to provide 24x7 electricity, but today, the Delhi government is providing 24×7 electricity to the people of Delhi. Soon, we will also provide 24×7 water supply as well. Kejriwal has given clear instructions to complete the Yamuna cleaning project as soon as possible and we are working day and night for this,” said Jain.The minister said 1.3 million people got zero water bills during the last year. He also said that 73% of residents got zero electricity bill during the Covid-19 pandemic. Now, Delhi’s Electric Vehicle policy will help in minimising vehicular pollution, he added.However, leader of opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said despite having a budget of ₹65,000 crore, the Kejriwal government “failed” to make any significant progress in all the major sectors in the Capital, including health, education, power, water, pollution and even roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/24x7-water-soon-will-clean-yamuna-in-3-years-delhi-cm-kejriwal-101613509292062.html
17-02-2021||Delhi||Two shot after scuffle in Jahangirpuri, 1 held||Two brothers received gunshot wounds after they allegedly beat up and injured four others in a fight that broke out over a knocked down scooter in north-west Delhi’s Jahangirpuri on Monday night, the police said.“One of the men, Suresh, received a gunshot wound to his shoulder and has been hospitalised. His brother, Suraj, has a bullet graze past him. He was discharged after treatment. The injuries to the other four are relatively minor,” said Usha Rangnani, deputy commissioner of police (north-west).Police arrested the alleged shooter, Shafique, and apprehended four minors allegedly involved in the firing. They have been booked for attempt to murder and under the Arms Act.“Around 10pm on Monday, four drunk men were walking past the house when one of them accidentally knocked down the scooter. The brothers came out on hearing the noise and a quarrel ensued,” said the DCP.Suresh and Suraj allegedly beat up the four drunk men, including Shafaque, Rangnani said.Soon, Shafique called two of his friends who reached the scene with guns. “Together, they opened fire on the two brothers, leaving them injured,” the officer said.While the six suspects fled the scene, the two injured brothers were taken to a hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-shot-after-scuffle-in-jahangirpuri-1-held-101613509222470.html
17-02-2021||Delhi||Kanhaiya, Umar, Anirban among 10 summoned for hearing in JNU case||A Delhi court on Tuesday summoned Kanhaiya Kumar, Umar Khalid, Anirban Bhattacharya and seven others in a case of sedition that was filed against them after anti-India slogans were allegedly raised at an event on JNU campus on February 9, 2016.Chief metropolitan magistrate Pankaj Sharma directed the accused persons to appear before the court on March 15. The judge noted that the Delhi government has granted sanction to prosecute the accused.“After careful perusal of the charge sheet and material, all the accused persons are summoned to face trial for the offence. .. Accused persons be summoned through the IO [investigating officer] for March 15,” the judge said.A police officer associated with the case said the investigating team will examine the court’s order and accordingly respond to the directions given to the investigating officer. “As per the procedure, each person will be served notices asking them to present before the court on the scheduled date,” said the officer who declined to be named.Read more: Kanhaiya, LJP MP meet JDU leaders; fuel speculationA case was registered on February 11, 2016 under sections 124A and 120B of the IPC against unidentified people at the Vasant Kunj (north) Police Station, following complaints from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Maheish Girri and the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student wing of the RSS.Delhi police’s special cell filed a charge sheet on January 14, 2019. The police claimed that JNU student leader Kanhaiya Kumar and the other accused led a procession and supported seditious slogans raised on the campus in 2016, during an event to mark the hanging of Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru.The accused were charged with offences under sections 124A (sedition), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), 143 (pun149 (being a member of an unlawful assembly), 147 (punishment for rioting) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Besides Kanhaiya, Khalid and Anirban, who were JNU students at the time of the event, other seven accused charge sheeted in the case are Kashmiri students Aquib Hussain, Mujeeb Hussain, Muneeb Hussain, Umar Gul, Rayeea Rassol, Bashir Bhat and Basharat.Earlier, the case was adjourned several times due to lack of sanction by the Delhi government. The government’s home department granted the sanction in February last year.After the charge sheet was filed in January, Kumar and Khalid said the police action was “politically motivated”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kanhaiya-umar-anirban-among-10-summoned-for-hearing-in-jnu-case-101613508821564.html
17-02-2021||Delhi||Top cop hails police’s handling of anti-CAA protests, Delhi riots||Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava on Tuesday was all praises for his personnel for what he termed their “firm handling” of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests, the “technology-intensive” probe into the north-east Delhi riots and their exemplary efforts during the Covid-19 pandemic.The police chief was speaking at the force’s 74th Raising Day celebrations.“Delhi Police has registered a record 755 cases in the riots that broke out (in February 2020) and conveyed in no uncertain terms its intention of investigating the riot cases freely and fairly. Intensive use of technology in identification and arrest of culprits was the hallmark of the investigation,” the commissioner said. He also commended his personnel for their “firm handling” of anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests.Shrivastava also praised the police’s efforts during the pandemic. “The force emerged from these challenging times by earning the goodwill, respect and trust of the people,” he said.Minister of state (home) G Kishan Reddy, who was the chief guest at the function, appreciated the Delhi Police for its efforts in checking crimes against women, implementation of ERSS-112 (Emergency Response Support System) and leading the fight against cybercrime||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/top-cop-hails-police-s-handling-of-anti-caa-protests-delhi-riots-101613508917523.html
17-02-2021||Delhi||‘Varsities must find way to stop the brain drain’: Deputy CM Manish Sisodia||Deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said the higher education institutions in the country should work on stopping the “brain drain”.In his valedictory address at the north zone vice-chancellors’ meet, organised by the Association of Indian Universities on Tuesday, Sisodia said, “Universities play a big role in the development of a country. They identify talent and nurture it. As a nation, all of us have failed if our students are studying in universities abroad and thereafter contributing to the economy of others. Therefore, universities need to reflect on how to stop the brain drain.”Stressing upon the difference between education and human resources development, he said, “Human resources development is a mere tool of education; it is not the foundation of education. It is the role and responsibility of education to ensure that our children are not considered as mere tools or instruments by the world but as thriving human beings.”'Sisodia said universities and educators will face certain challenges in India in the post-Covid and post-National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 scenario. “The first challenge pertained to the challenge of quantity. We introduced several missions and laws such as the Right to Education. We ensured that all children attended school. We created a bumper crop of school graduates. But then the child asks: Where should I go? What should I do now? And we don’t have answers,” he said.Read more: Congress fights polls to help BJP win, alleges AAP's Manish SisodiaSisodia urged universities to think out of the box to find solutions for the large quantities and lack of enough space for the students in higher education.“The bottom line is that we can say that students who graduate from our universities and colleges stands at some level of achievement. We cannot decide the maximum success a child can reach, but we can decide the minimum limits for quality education. We should guarantee minimum levels of education.Read more: No plan to cancel nursery admissions so far, says Manish Sisodia“Talk about research. Talk about entrepreneurship in your convocation, that after graduating, our students created jobs for 2000 people. We have to celebrate our job providers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/varsities-must-find-way-to-stop-the-brain-drain-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-101613507408258.html
17-02-2021||Delhi||Man held over death of constable during Delhi riots granted bail||The Delhi high court on Tuesday granted bail to a cab driver who was arrested for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to incite the communal riots in north-east Delhi in February last year. The court said that according to the call detail records (CDR), the accused person was not even in the vicinity of the area where the incident took place.Justice Suresh Kait granted bail to Mohammad Danish who was arrested in connection to the death of head constable Rattan Lal in the Chand Bagh area. According to the call records, no call was made by him to any of the other accused, the judge said.Lal’s death was the first reported casualty when incidents of stone pelting in north-east Delhi on February 23 turned into a full-blown riot the next morning. He had received a bullet wound, apart from multiple injuries to his head and body during one of many incidents of stone-pelting that took place that day.“Undisputedly, there is no CCTV footage or viral video to implicate the present petitioner (Danish)… In view of the facts discussed above and the facts that the charge-sheet has already been filed, the petitioner is no more required for investigation and trial of the case shall take substantial time, I am of the view, the petitioner deserves bail,” the court said.The court granted bail to Danish on a personal bond of ₹20,000 and one surety of the same amount.It directed Danish not to influence the prosecution witnesses during the trial and disposed of his bail plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-held-over-death-of-constable-during-delhi-riots-granted-bail-101613507330135.html
17-02-2021||Delhi||DDA receives nearly 31,000 applications for its housing scheme this year||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has received over 30,000 applications, till Monday evening, for its Housing Scheme 2021, which was announced this January.As all payments are being made online, the DDA allowed applicants to submit payments till midnight, said an official from the land owning agency.The DDA had put up for sale 1,354 flats, mostly in the high-income and middle-income group categories, located in Dwarka and Jasola. DDA officials said the response has been good despite the current slump in the real estate sector.“The response has been very good. We have received over 30,669 applications and 19,607 applicants have made the payments and completed all formalities till Monday afternoon,” said the official.Read more: DDA gives nod for eco-friendly revamp of green belt villages in cityOn the last day, over six thousand people had made the payment ranging between ₹1 lakh and ₹2.5 lakh, depending on the type of flat they had selected.The DDA has received over 6,000 applications along with payment for its 1,011 HIG and MIG flats. The 254 HIG flats are located in Jasola, Vasant Kunj, Rohini and Dwarka. There are 757 two and three-bedroom MIG flats located in Dwarka, Rohini, Vasant Kunj, Jahangirpuri and Madipur.Read more: New DDA policy to regulate development in green belt villages on Delhi peripheryApart from the location of the flats, DDA officials said the quality of construction, facilities at the housing complex, and two parking slots per HIG flat are some reasons why people are keen on applying for these flats.The HIG flats, which are 87.9 sqm to 177.3 sqm in size, are priced between ₹69.62 lakh and ₹2.14 crore. “These are spacious flats, located on the Delhi-Noida border and well-connected with the rest of the city via Metro and other public transport systems. There is a dual water pipeline system as the complex has its own sewage treatment plant. The most important thing is that each flat has two parking slots. The ₹2.1 crore cost is as per the market rate,” said a senior DDA official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-receives-nearly-31-000-applications-for-its-housing-scheme-this-year-101613507276970.html
17-02-2021||Delhi||Fewest new Covid-19 cases in Delhi since April 30||The Capital added the fewest new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday in 292 days, recording just 94 new infections, the lowest since it added 74 cases on April 30.The new cases on Tuesday came on the back of 56,944 new tests, at a positivity rate of 0.17%.However, the number of tests in general — and RT-PCR tests specifically — has seen a slight dip over the past few weeks.The Capital conducted a daily average of 38,366 RT-PCR tests in the seven days ending February 16, as against the 41,493 tests it was performing at the start of the year.Experts have warned that if the RT-PCR tests slacken, it could catch the Capital off guard if the outbreak begins resurging.In December, the city conducted over 76,500 tests each day on average. This reduced to just 67,100 tests in January and just over 57,700 as on February 16, according to the daily data shared by the Delhi government.Read more: Uddhav Thackeray warns of another lockdown amid rising Covid-19 casesThe proportion of RT-PCR test has, however, increased from 49.9% in December to 58% in January and 63.8% in February.The daily positivity rate — proportion of samples that return positive among total tested — stood at 0.17% on Tuesday, the lowest ever recorded in the city. The positivity rate in Delhi has been steadily declining since early-December and has been below 1% for 52 days now and below 5% for 76 days.Experts believe that the spread of the infection is under control if a positivity rate of 5% or less can be maintained over two week. However, experts and the state government have warned repeatedly against residents slackening their guard.“The reason for the number of cases going down across the country seems to be immunity gained by the population through exposure to the infection,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research.Read more: Amid fall in India's Covid-19 cases, 3 states see a surgeAs many as 56.13% of the 28,000 people sampled during Delhi’s fifth serological survey, conducted in January, were found to have developed antibodies against the virusDr Kant however warned that the new Brazilian, South African, and UK variants of the virus may pose causes for concern. “If there is indigenous transmission of these variants, it will be very difficult to stop as these variants have a higher transmissibility and the vaccines may not be as effective against them,” he said.He also urged the government to maintain a high testing level.“The surveillance needs to be kept up at the same level that it was when the number of cases was high. It will be important to help the government in detecting any new cases that happen, especially if there is indigenous transmission of the new variants. Currently, a consortium is also sequencing a proportion of the genomes of positive cases and should be able to identify is that happens,” said Kant.Read more: South African Covid variant detected in 4 returnees, Brazil variant in 1: ICMRVaccination drive in DelhiOn Tuesday, over 15,000 doses of the vaccine against Covid-19 were administered across 265 centre in Delhi. Of these, 2,532 were the second doses received by health care workers. There hasn’t been an increase in the proportion of health care workers getting the second shot, which still remains at just over half as on Tuesday.Among those who received the shot for the first time, over 70% were frontline workers.So far, 214,625 people have been vaccinated against the viral infection in Delhi, including frontline workers. However, the number is still less than the total 240,000 healthcare workers who had been registered to receive the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fewest-new-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-since-april-30-101613507016434.html
17-02-2021||Chandigarh||UP not doing enough to stop sex determination tests: Khattar tells Adityanath||Rampant gender determination screening in Uttar Pradesh has set alarm bells ringing in Haryana with chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar telling his counterpart Yogi Adityanath that its administration was not doing enough to check the illegal practice even as teams from Haryana were making inter-state raids. Since January 22, 2015, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao campaign from Panipat, Haryana has successfully carried out 109 raids in 14 districts of UP and registered around 100 cases against UP residents after busting sex determination rackets involving touts targeting pregnant women from Haryana. In 2020, notwithstanding the pandemic, teams hand-picked by the Haryana health department, lodged around 100 FIRs under the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PC-PNDT) and Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Acts, of which approximately 40 cases were inter-state — 22 in UP and 11 in Ghaziabad. “It was against this backdrop that Khattar wrote a two-page letter in immaculate Hindi to Adityanath informing him that UP officers appointed under the PC-PNDT Act were not showing much interest in their duties,” a government official privy to the correspondence said, on condition of anonymity. In the letter, penned on February 9, to which HT has access, Khattar said, “The teams of my state have conducted over 100 inter-state raids in UP and registered cases but UP has not conducted a single raid either in Haryana or in any other neighbouring states. This is a matter of concern for Haryana.” “During these raids,” Khattar said, “there were instances when Haryana teams were confronted with lack of coordination from UP officials. It would be commendable if UP’s PC-PNDT teams increased surveillance activities and started conducting inter-state raids not only in Haryana but also in other neighbouring states in order to bust sex selection rackets.” “Both states must make joint efforts, especially in bordering districts, to stop this heinous crime of female foeticide. These steps will benefit both the states with far-reaching positive results,” reads the letter. ‘Ghaziabad hub of sex determination, illegal abortions’As per the data shared with UP, Haryana had conducted 26 raids and lodged as many FIRs in UP’s Ghaziabad district, which prompted Khattar to describe the district as an emerging ‘hub of sex determination and illegal abortions’ in the National Capital Region (NCR). A team from Haryana conducted one such raid in Ghaziabad on Monday, in which two people were arrested after recovering three foetuses and a portable ultrasound machine from a prominent nursing home. Another major hotspot is Saharanpur where Haryana has conducted 26 raids, followed by Meerut (14), Shamli (9), Noida (6), Bagpat (5), Aligarh, Bulandshahar and Bijnore (4 each), Mathura (3), Muzaffarnagar, Amroh and Agra (2 each) and Sambhal (1) “Barring four districts, pregnant women from 18 Haryana districts visit UP for carrying out sex determination tests. This indicates UP has become a safe haven for those seeking boys,” an expert involved in the Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao campaign said, requesting anonymity. Improved sex ratioHaryana has registered 922 female births per 1,000 males in 2020. Khattar’s letter traces the steps taken by his government to improve the sex ratio at birth (SRB), which has improved by 51 points since 2014. In 2019, Haryana’s annual SRB was 923, the highest so far. While the annual SRB of the state in 2011 was 833, it rose to 876 in 2015, and further improved to 900 in 2016. The annual SRB remained static at 914 in 2017 and 2018, and jumped to 923 in 2019. “In the last six years, Haryana has saved the lives of around 30,000 girls,” Khattar said. Offering to help replicate Haryana’s successful ‘save the girl child’ programme in UP, Khattar told Adityanath, “I request you to issue directions to deputy commissioners and health department officials to extend active support to Haryana teams during inter-state raids in UP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/up-not-doing-enough-to-stop-sex-determination-tests-khattar-tells-adityanath-101613506500786.html
17-02-2021||Other||SC dismisses BJP’s plea for Opposition leader’s post in Mumbai civic body||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition filed by Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Prabhakar Shinde, to stake claim to the post of the leader of the Opposition (LoP) in Shiv Sena-ruled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The post is currently occupied by the Congress party.Shinde’s filed a special leave petition in the Supreme Court in January after the Bombay high court, too, had rejected his claim over LoP post in BMC in September 2020. “We have decided to file a review petition soon,” Shinde said on Tuesday evening.After the 2017 BMC elections, BJP had voluntarily forfeited LoP post. Of the 227 seats in BMC, Shiv Sena and BJP, who were in alliance in the state government at the time, had 84 and 82 corporators, respectively. The LoP’s post then went to the Congress, which had 31 seats.Current LoP, Congress corporator Ravi Raja, said, “If BJP truly had the interest of the people of Mumbai in mind, it would have accepted the Opposition leader’s post in 2017 itself. Now they are only being political.”After the Assembly elections in 2019, the Sena and BJP parted ways, and the Shiv Sena, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) formed the government in the state.In February 2020, BJP staked the claim to the Opposition leader’s post in BMC after party’s city president Mangal Prabhat Lodha wrote a letter to mayor Kishori Pednekar. However, Pednekar denied BJP the post, stating that once it was forfeited voluntarily, it could not be given back.Currently, BJP has 83 seats in BMC, including the support of one Independent corporator and another corporator from the Akhil Bharatiya Sena (ABS), while Congress has 29 seats. The Sena’s strength rose to 97, including the support of 3 Independents. NCP has eight corporators, while Samajwadi Party has six, Maharashtra Navnirman one and the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) has two corporators. The numbers changed owing to defection of MNS corporators to Shiv Sena, disqualification of corporators after their elections were challenged as well as due to death of sitting corporators..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sc-dismisses-bjp-s-plea-for-opposition-leader-s-post-in-mumbai-civic-body-101613506318406.html
17-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body budget: Drop in funds for gardens, disaster management||While the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s budget size in 2021-22 for some crucial departments such as health, bridges, fire brigade have increased, the allocation for some others such as the disaster management, water supply projects, market, and garden and zoo departments have seen a drop. On February 3, BMC presented a budget of ₹39,038 crore for the financial year 2021-22 – up from ₹33,441 crore in 2020-21. BMC increased its capital expenditure by about 48%-49% of the budget value, with focus on infrastructure such as coastal road, roads and bridges, several small and medium development projects, as well as on health and education departments. The disaster management department saw a dip in the budgetary allocation from ₹50.25 crore in 2020-21 to ₹39.47 crore. Though the allocation has gone down this fiscal, BMC has announced to conduct a risk assessment of all areas of the island city and its suburbs. The seismic microzonation, tsunami atlas and hazard vulnerability risk assessment (HVRA) will investigate the severity of the impact of disasters on various areas and on the livelihood of citizens. It will identify the threats that require a timely and coordinated response to protect lives, property and reduce socio-economic loss. The budget size of the garden department – which handles the open spaces in the city – was reduced from ₹685 crore to ₹521 crore. But despite the drop in allocation, BMC aims to modernise at least five gardens in each ward, as well as modernise the Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan and Zoo in Byculla. BMC has also proposed to plant 400,000 trees across 65 locations trees using the Miyawaki method. The markets department that overlooks the construction, upgradation and maintenance of municipal markets in the city was allocated ₹180 crore, down from last fiscal’s ₹264 crore. In the case of the water supply projects’ department, the allocation has gone down to ₹701 crore from ₹1,185 crore in 2020-21. Despite this, BMC has announced a new drinking water supply project which involves the construction of a desalination plant to turn seawater into potable water. A sum of ₹5 lakh has been allocated for the study of its construction. Commenting on the drop in allocation of certain crucial departments, additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said, “It is better to allocate the money that will be spent. We don’t want to allocate money and not spend it. For gardens, we aim to increase our focus on maintenance and construction via corporate social responsibility (CSR) method, through which BMC will save money and the citizens will even get the required facilities and infrastructure.” Viraj Mamania, a civic activist from Borivli, said, “Crores are spent on gardens and open spaces every year, as there is no fund crunch in BMC. But the amenities are not maintained. Few years ago, BMC provided the city with many gardens and gym equipment, but today they are non-functional or lying in rust.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-budget-drop-in-funds-for-gardens-disaster-management-101613506020528.html
17-02-2021||Other||5-year-old mauled to death by stray dogs in Sangrur||SANGRUR A five-year-old boy was mauled to death by a pack of stray dogs near a dump yard for dead animals, locally known as ‘hadda rodi’, at Behra village of Sangrur district on Tuesday. The incident took place when the victim’s mother, a domestic help, had gone to work and the boy was trying to catch a kite with people in the area celebrating the Basant Panchami festival. Some passersby rescued the child, identified as Ravneet, when they noticed him being dragged by the stray dogs. They took him to the Dhuri civil hospital from where he was referred to Sangrur town. The victim belonged to a migrant family. “I was at work when someone informed me that my son was attacked by stray dogs. I wake up at 5am and work as a domestic help in the village. My husband left us a year back. I was taking care of two daughters, aged 13 and 10, and my son,” said Meena Rani, the child’s mother. Paramjit Kaur, a resident of the village, said, “The family is poor and Meena is caring of all her children alone. The stray dogs also attack the locals and cattle. One cannot go in the ‘hadda rodi’ area alone. The administration has failed to curb the stray menace.” “The issue of ‘hadda rodi’ has been raised several times, but to no avail. The administration should shift the location to resolve the stray dog menace,” said Ishwar Singh, a local resident who took the child to hospital. Dr Sumit Goyal of Sangrur civil hospital said that post-mortem on the child body will be conducted soon. Dhuri sub-divisional magistrate (DSM) Latif Ahmed said, “The issue of stray dogs will be addressed soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5yearold-mauled-to-death-by-stray-dogs-in-sangrur-101613506018495.html
17-02-2021||Other||Man’s body found stuffed in sack in Ludhiana’s Jagraon||The body of a man stuffed in a sack was found in a nullah during a cleanliness drive near Grewal Colony of Jagraon on Monday.Sub-inspector Gaganpreet Singh, station house officer (SHO), Jagraon City police station, said the body was decomposed, indicating that the victim was murdered at least four days ago.The SHO added that the man appeared to be in his early 40s. The body had been sent to the Jagraon civil hospital for post-mortem examination to establish the cause of death.Police have also registered a murder case against unidentified accused on the statement of Anil Kumar, sanitary inspector, Jagraon municipal council.Kumar said MC staff were cleaning the nullah near Subhash Gate in Grewal Colony, when they found the sack containing a body and immediately sounded the police.Announcements are being in the adjacent areas to identify the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mans-body-found-stuffed-in-sack-in-ludhiana-s-jagraon-101613504938544.html
17-02-2021||Chandigarh||Rohtak wrestling arena firing: Toll rises to six as 3-year-old succumbs||The three-year-old son of coach Manoj Kumar and his wife Sakshi, who were shot dead at a wrestling arena in Rohtak along with three others, succumbed to bullet injuries at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), in Rohtak, on Tuesday, five days after he was grievously injured in the firing. PGIMS spokesperson Gajender Singh said, “The toddler had been brought to PGIMS on February 12 at 8.20pm. He was undergoing treatment in the Paediatric Intensive Care Unit. He had received bullet injuries to his head and one of his eyes was damaged. His blood pressure had been continuously decreasing. He breathed his last on Tuesday morning.” With the toddler’s death, the firing incident’s toll has increased to six. On February 12, Sukhvinder, 29, a National Institute of Sports (NIS)-certified coach had shot coach Manoj Kumar of Sonepat, his wife Sakshi, two NIS-certified coaches — Satish Dalal of Jhajjar and Pardeep Malik of Rohtak — and national-level wrestler Pooja dead on campus. The couple’s three-year-old son and a coach, Amarjeet Singh, were injured in the firing. Amarjeet is still undergoing treatment at Medanta Hospital in Gurugram. Sukhvinder has been sent to a four-day police remand. The police on Tuesday took Sukhvinder to the crime scene. Sampla deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Narendra Kadian said, “There are three days left in the remand and we will try to ascertain why he committed the crime, where he spent the night after killing the five persons and other details,” he added.A police official part of the special investigation team (SIT) probing the case said, “ The accused had plotted the killing to take over the wrestling arena. Amarjeet had sacked him from Mehar Singh Akhara a few years ago and now Manoj had asked him not to visit Jat Collage’s gymnasium.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rohtak-wrestling-arena-firing-toll-rises-to-six-as-3-year-old-succumbs-101613504758354.html
17-02-2021||Other||Govt school in Ludhiana closed as 15 students, two employees contract Covid-19||The district administration closed Government Senior Secondary School, Chaunta, till March 2 after 15 students, a teacher and a peon tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma also directed the Ludhiana civil surgeon to depute a medical team at the school, where students will report only for testing.The cases come nine days after a teacher was found infected on February 7. However, the sampling of the school staff and students was started by the Community Health Centre, Koom Kalan, only on February 11, exposing more people to the virus. All infected students, who are from Classes 11 and 12, the teacher and the peon have been sent into isolation. “In the wake of the fresh cases, the school will hold pre-board examinations for all classes after the school will reopen on March 3,” said Rajinder Kaur, district education officer, secondary.School principal Rooma Rani said, “As we got to know regarding the positive results of the students in the morning, we informed them to stay home. We also sounded the education department about the new cases, following which it was decided to conduct the pre-board exams after the school reopens on March 3.” She added that none of the students had symptoms and were found positive after sampling by the health department.According to sources, all infected students had appeared in the pre-board exam on Monday and had come in contact with other students. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar confirmed that reports of 15 students and two employees had returned positive and added that they had started the contact-tracing process.Since February 11, a total of 410 students and 19 teachers of the school have been tested, while another 140 gave their samples on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-school-in-ludhiana-closed-as-15-students-two-employees-contract-covid19-101613504698386.html
17-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: HSC exams from April 23, SSC from April 29; don’t believe rumours, urges board||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) declared the tentative timetable for SSC (Class 10) and HSC (Class 12) exams on Tuesday. While HSC exams will be held between April 23 and May 21, SSC exams are scheduled to take place from April 29 and May 20. The board has uploaded a tentative schedule on its website www.mahahsscboard.in. Objections to the dates can be sent to the board by February 22. The board has urged students and parents to not believe in rumours regarding board exams. “We have declared the tentative timetable to help students prepare well for the exams. A final timetable will be sent to the schools soon,” said the board in a release. Nearly 15 lakh students appear for the HSC exam, while more than 17 lakh students write their SSC exams in Maharashtra every year. While the board conducts these exams in February and March every year, they have been pushed further this year due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-hsc-exams-from-april-23-ssc-from-april-29-don-t-believe-rumours-urges-board-101613504098307.html
17-02-2021||Other||Thane looks to raise Covid-19 vax target, staff strength at centres||Manpower has been increased to raise Thane district’s daily vaccination target by 50%. At present, first doses of the vaccine are being administered to frontline workers (FLWs) while already-inoculated healthcare workers (HCWs) are getting the booster dose. Of the targeted 1.15 lakh beneficiaries, 61% have received the first dose. In two days, only 1% of the target for the booster dose has been met across the district. So far, the first dose of vaccine has been administered to 70,731 beneficiaries (51,034 HCWs and 20,542 FLWs) and 845 have received the booster dose. There are 72 vaccination centres across Thane district. Civil surgeon Kailas Pawar said additional staff has been assigned to centres. “If a centre has a target of 100 beneficiaries and one team of vaccinators, they will administer vaccines to FLWs while the additional team provides booster vaccines to HCWs. Centres with two teams of vaccinators will get two additional teams and their target will increase to 400,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-looks-to-raise-covid-19-vax-target-staff-strength-at-centres-101613503978794.html
17-02-2021||Mumbai||288 commuters in Mumbai local trains fined daily for travelling without masks: Data||Between February 1 and February 14, an average of 288 commuters have been penalised daily for travelling without face masks. Wearing face masks is mandatory while travelling on local trains, which resumed services for the general public during specified time slots from February 1. According to the Westerna and Central Railway data, 4,618 commuters have been for travelling without face masks on Central (CR) and Western Railway (WR) between February 1 and February 14. With 1,715 people fined, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) has recorded the highest number violating this Covid-safety protocol. Fines worth ₹4.5 lakh have been collected so far, with ₹1.21 lakh recovered on CR and ₹3.28 lakh recovered on WR. “We request passengers to follow Covid-19 protocol while travelling by suburban local train services. Commuters are requested to maintain social distance and wear face masks during their commute,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, CR. Passenger associations have also asked commuters to wear facial masks while travelling. “It is very important to wear face masks while travelling by local trains and when in public. All passengers should wear masks and commute,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad. Local train services resumed for the city’s general public on February 1 with restricted timings. Commuters are permitted to travel by train between noon and 4pm; after 9pm and from first local train service until 7am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/288-commuters-in-mumbai-local-trains-fined-daily-for-travelling-without-masks-data-101613503798946.html
17-02-2021||Mumbai||Positivity rate rises to 4% with spike in new Covid-19 cases: Mumbai civic body||In the last seven days, the city’s average positivity rate has risen to 4% after it had dropped below 3% last month. Positivity rate signifies the percentage of people who have tested positive of the total tested for Covid-19. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is conducting an average of 15,000 tests daily for Covid-19 and has said that at present, the increased numbers are not high enough to merit any speculation of a “second wave” of infections. Between January 22 and February, Mumbai’s Covid positivity rate had dropped to below 3%. However, since February 9, the positivity rate has been going up. “There are several reasons for the spike. People have remained home for months and dropped their guard due to fatigue, which is leading to the spread of infection,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. Dr Bhupendra Patil, medical officer (health) (MOH) of M (West) ward, which covers Chembur, said citizens need to adhere to Covid-19 protocol. “If people don’t follow the safety guidelines issued by the state, we might witness a second wave. But it is too early to say. We need more data for analysis, which will take another week,” he said. City doctors pointed to the resumption of local train services for the general public since February 1 as a possible cause for the spike in numbers. “To some extent, we did expect the cases to go up after the lifting of restrictions. However, we will land up with a second wave if we do not follow Covid-19-appropriate behaviour. Besides handwashing, face masks and social distancing, we should probably consider having staggered office timings, delay starting schools and colleges, and consider vaccinating vulnerable groups as soon as we possibly can,” said Dr Anita Mathew, infectious disease specialist at Fortis Hospital in Mulund. However, Kakani said, “Though cases have increased recently, we cannot say we have been hit by the second wave.” Dr Mathew also advised against attending big gatherings. “Unless absolutely necessary, we should stop venturing out for gatherings, family events and shopping. As much as we would love going back to pre-Covid-19 times, we have to understand that we need to control our social behaviour and restrict ourselves for another year or year-and-a-half,” she said. As a precautionary measure and for early detection, BMC has started using mobile vans to screen and test in Dharavi. “The number of new cases is almost constant in Dharavi, but residents have started going to work with the unlocking. To identify high-risk contacts, mobile vans will go around appealing people to test,” said assistant municipal commissioner Kiran Dighavkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/positivity-rate-rises-to-4-with-spike-in-new-covid-19-cases-mumbai-civic-body-101613503558266.html
17-02-2021||Dehradun||Everest summiteers to IITian top cop: People at forefront of U'khand rescue ops||The tragedy that struct Uttarakhand's Chamoli on February 7 has been testing those involved in the search and rescue operation every day. Those leading the challenging task and at the forefront of it include trained mountaineers, IITian top-cop, structural engineers to Everest summiteers and senior officers of state police, rescue agencies and state administration.Posed with new difficulties and challenges every day, they have been working tirelessly to bring relief to the affected families. HT spoke to some of the main rescuers and officers on the frontline who are leading and coordinating the search and rescue operations at Rishiganga, Tapovan and downstream, in which the death toll has now reached 58 while 146 are still missing.Navneet Bhullar, commandant, SDRF UttarakhandNavneet Bhullar, who was part of the 2018 Everest expedition, said after he came to know about the tragedy and its magnitude, he, along with five other SDRF members, flew to Joshimath and reached the disaster site by 12.45 pm.“There was chaos and people were panic-stricken. The first thing we did was to mobilise 11 SDRF teams of nine members each. The Army from Joshimath had already reached there. The ITBP also came by the second and the third day the NDRF personnel joined. We spoke with NTPC engineers for maps and details of workers at the site. We had to change our rescue tactics to see whether if there were workers in the underground tunnel. Boulders and water percolation also created many challenges. Personally, I feel not knowing exactly where workers could be was very difficult to process,” he said.“My mountaineering experience, especially the Everest expedition, helped me lead the SDRF team to the lake that had formed upstream and get back with its first up-close visuals,” he said.Also read: Activists question govt's move to push on with Uttarakhand hydel projectsEverest summiteers of SDRF's Hight Attitude Rescue Team (HART)When inputs came that a lake was forming again upstream Rishiganga, an eight-member HART team, which included six people who had scaled Mount Everest in 2018, and Navneet Bhullar, who had to stop 160 metres short of Everest peak due to malfunctioning of his oxygen cylinder in the same expedition, was sent to the area for the ground survey on Friday. The team trekked the whole day, camped for the night and reached the lake the next day. They took stock of the ground situation and took photographs, samples of soil and water from the lake for analysis by the experts.“We had been given four tasks. We had to get photographs and videos of the lake. Second, we had to get water, soil and mud samples. Third, we had to check the possibility of a helipad in the area, which we realised was not possible given the terrain there. And four, we were asked to widen the point where the water of the lake was draining out, if possible. We sent one team member, Manoj Joshi, there but it was too risky. He widened it by few feet but then we called him back as it was too dangerous,” said Ravi Chauhan, member of the team and an Everest summiteer.Manoj Joshi, another Everest summiteer, said, their experience of rescue operations in Kedarnath area in 2013 and the 2018 Everest expedition helped them reach the lake upstream faster.“With the help of a rope, I even reached the drainage point of the lake to see whether it can be widened. It was a very dangerous incline and widening it was difficult. But being the first team that reached there, we gave our inputs that lake was draining slowly and apprised authorities and experts about the ground situation,” said Joshi.Swati Bhadoriya, district magistrate, ChamoliSwati Bhadoriya, the district magistrate of Chamoli, an IAS officer of 2012 batch, said it has been her most challenging time in the service so far at many levels. “I was at Gopeshwar when I came to know around 10.40 am on February 7 that something had happened. Initially, we didn’t think it was such a big tragedy but when more inputs came, I cancelled all my engagements and left for Tapovan and reached there within nearly two hours so. I started coordinating the search and rescue operations with local officials, the police, the SDRF, the Army and the ITBP. I called senior government functionaries and requested for a chopper and an expert team and also issued alert for downstream banks to be vacated. I left my three and half-year-old son with my help. For the next four days, I didn’t see my son. After 4 days, I brought him to Joshimath where I stay for the night these days. I am devoting all my time to coordinate search and rescue operations and take care of issues like providing relief to the affected people and restoring connectivity to 13 villages," she said.Bhadoriya said the first major operation was rescuing 12 people trapped in one of the tunnels in Tapovan on February 7. “We took the help of structural engineers of NTPC who gave us maps and we prepared a list of missing people. One major thing concern is to find ways to keep the morale of the rescuers up. To keep them motivated has also been a big task,” she said.Ridhim Agarwal, DIG, SDRF UttarakhandAn IPC officer of 2005 batch, Agarwal said the biggest challenge initially for her was to mobilise the manpower immediately for rescue and search operation.“I came to know about the tragedy at around 11.45 am after which we immediately mobilised the state emergency operation centre. The nodal officers of the departments concerned came and started mobilising teams for rescue and search operations. We mobilised our three close SDRF posts at Rudraprayag, Gochar and Joshimath. The flood team at Dalwala was also mobilised immediately. Overall, 100 SDRF personnel are pressed into rescue and search operations in 18 to 20 teams, including six teams from Srinagar to Joshimath which are looking for bodies downstream. Identifying decomposed bodies and body parts is emerging as a big challenge for us,” she said.“In such difficult times, you forget all your personal travails. You just want to save people and find bodies so that their families can get some relief. I had to leave my two sons studying back home. They are having their final examinations but they are managing on their own as I can’t give them any time these days,” she said.Also read: Uttarakhand glacier burst - Heavy damage to two hydel projects at the epicentreAshok Kumar, Uttarakhand DGPUttarakhand director general of police (DGP), Ashok Kumar, who became an IPS officer after passing out from an IIT was on his official tour of the Kumaon range and on his way to Almora from Nainital when he received a video of the flash floods on his phone. Seeing the video, he immediately sensed "it is something big" and rushed to contact all concerned police officers from Chamoli to Haridwar districts along the Alaknanda river to issue a high alert.Kumar said it was the first big challenge before him after being appointed the DGP last year. “The first thing I did after knowing about the disaster was to alert the people living alongside river and move them to safe places,” he said."The villagers near the river had shifted to safer places. Social media played a crucial role in alerting people as we had put out alert posts across all social media platforms, and it worked," said Kumar."Right from day one, our biggest challenge has been finding missing people and then identifying them," said Kumar.“Lessons learnt from the Kedarnath disaster helped the police and other agencies in the rescue and search operation. This time, we received four times more help than required," said Kumar.Aparna Kumar, DIG ITBPAparna Kumar, deputy inspector, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) sector headquarters, Dehradun, who is also the first ITBP woman officer to scale the South Pole, said when disaster struck, she immediately mobilised personnel under her command in Joshimath and left for the spot in her official car. She said that being the first responder to any disaster in the Himalayas, the ITBP personnel, after knowing about the disaster, immediately rushed to the spot from their base in Joshimath."Being a high-altitude force, the ITBP is trained to work for rescue in such disasters,” she said."It was a tremendous feat that our personnel worked with complete focus and determination amidst the chaos at the disaster site and were able to rescue the 12 workers trapped in the tunnel at NTPC's hydel power project site on day one itself. For others, the number of deaths or missing might be just a number but for us, every life trapped there is precious to be saved."Kumar said that she had called the force's doctors and medical staff at the spot to provide medical assistance to the survivors."I also ensured to provide solace to the workers of NTPC and the villagers who lost their dear ones in the disaster as it was important to keep a humane approach," said Kumar, adding that it was her first experience of working in such a "mammoth disaster."Neeru Garg, DIG GarhwalDeputy inspector general, Garhwal, Neeru Garg, an engineer-turned-cop had rushed to the disaster spot with chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and Garhwal divisional commissioner (DC) Ravinath Raman on February 7. Recalling the day, Garg said she was directed to leave for the spot with the CM and the DC. “Meanwhile, I had issued an immediate alert across all the districts downstream of Alaknanda river which included Tehri Garhwal, Pauri Garhwal, Rudraprayag and Haridwar," said Garg.A first of its kind experience for her, she said she "had never handled such a disaster as a cop before.""I had immediately asked all the police stations and outposts near the river to alert the residents to go to safe places apart from stopping all the activities in the river including adventure sports," said Garg.With the search and rescue operation still on to find those missing, the senior police officer said, "at present, the main focus is to recover the bodies and ascertain their identities."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/everest-summiteers-to-iitian-top-cop-people-at-forefront-uttarakhand-rescue-ops-101613502732378.html
17-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: MMRDA hasn’t given clean chit to TopsGrup, says RA Rajeev||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday recorded statement of Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) commissioner RA Rajeev in connection with the money laundering case linked to Rahul Nanda’s TopsGrup Security Services Limited (TGSSL) and Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik.The senior IAS officer reached ED around 11.45am and left after around seven hours.While speaking to the media outside ED office, Rajeev said, “Officials tried to understand the functioning of MMRDA, tendering process and whom all are involved in decision making. The question session was over by 4pm, but as senior ED officers were not present,, I had to wait till 7pm for certain procedures.”Responding to a question regarding MMRDA reportedly having given clean chit to TopsGrup and Sarnaik, he said, “Clean chit has not been given.”ED sources said that Rajeev was requested to share details on the contract effected for taking security service from Topsgrup for MMRDA properties in 2014 and alleged irregularities linked to it. During that period, UPS Madan was heading the MMRDA, and as he is retired now, Rajeev was called by the investigators to know much about the dealings with TopsGrup. Commissioner’s statement was also recorded in connection with the say filed by MMRDA before Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) regarding alleged irregularities linked to MMRDA. MMRDA had informed EOW that MMRDA never required so many security personnel as claimed in the FIR.Rajeev was also questioned about the role of another senior MMRDA officer who was involved in the decision-making process of awarding a contract for security service to TopsGrup, sources said.ED sources claimed that the agency has in possession of some phone call recordings and text messages between a senior Topsgrup executive and Sarnaik’s aide Amit Chandole, who were discussing bribing an MMRDA official. ED may call another senior officer from MMRDA for questioning. More details about the questioning of senior IAS officer was not shared by ED officers.According to ED, a contract was signed between TGSSL and MMRDA in 2014, as per which about 350-500 guards had to be deployed at MMRDA sites every month. Of these, only 70% of guards were deployed, but the billing was done for all the guards as per the contract.ED in past had stated before the court that it appears that Topsgrup obtained the contract from MMRDA in collusion with Sarnaik through “illegal means by a well-thought-out strategy”. These illegal manoeuvres aimed to get additional inadmissible benefit by inflating the bills at the cost of MMRDA and illegal cash gratification to Sarnaik for facilitating this scam, the agency claimed. Against this active role and criminal conspiracy, Sarnaik used to get 50% profit earned out of the said contract through his close aide Amit Chandole, said ED. Chandole and Topsgrup’s managing director M Shashidharan were arrested.In past MMRDA had refuted all the allegations in its statement submitted to the Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing (EOW), which is carrying out a parallel probe against Topsgrup. MMRDA’s letter to EOW stated that there was no financial misconduct on its part and all the works were done through tendering under the rules.Earlier Sarnaik and his son Vihang were questioned by ED.BOX: The ED has also issued fresh summons to actor Armaan Jain, cousin of actor Ranbir Kapoor for questioning in connection with the TOPSGRUP-Sarnaik money laundering case. ED has previously summoned Jain, but he did not appear. The investigators have also searched his premises in past. ED wish to question him in connection with business dealings, if any, with Vihang Sarnaik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mmrda-hasn-t-given-clean-chit-to-topsgrup-says-ra-rajeev-101613503378906.html
17-02-2021||Mumbai||If citizens don’t follow norms, city might head towards lockdown, Mumbai mayor warns||Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Tuesday cautioned citizens that if Covid-19 protocol is not followed and the number of cases reported daily keeps rising, Mumbai could see another lockdown. Pednekar was speaking to reporters at the inauguration of Byculla zoo’s social media accounts. She said that while there had been deliberations on reopening schools in the city, the authorities may rethink this since the number of cases of Covid-19 in Mumbai have been rising of late. “An increase in the number of cases is witnessed in the city and if in this scenario citizens don’t take precautions, we will have to go towards lockdown. There is no other option if citizens do not take precautions. Hence, face masks, sanitising and social distancing are things we should continue to follow,” said Pednekar on Tuesday. “Citizens have to take precautions and even almost a year after the Covid-19 outbreak, I see many not taking precautions. It is because of this carelessness that we might have a scenario where the state government might consider another lockdown for the city.” Since local train services resumed for limited hours for the general public on February 1, there has been a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases reported daily in Mumbai. Last week, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) wrote to the University of Mumbai (MU) and said it would decide on reopening colleges in the city after monitoring the situation till February 22. On Monday, BMC had said a review meeting would be held on February 22 to decide on further relaxations or restrictions in the city. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani had earlier told HT, “Daily cases being reported has increased and one of the reasons can be local trains, but there are other factors too involved here. With unlocking, social mingling has increased, and also citizens have stopped practicing Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/if-citizens-don-t-follow-norms-city-might-head-towards-lockdown-mumbai-mayor-warns-101613503198405.html
17-02-2021||Mumbai||TRP case: WhatsApp chats contain proof of my innocence, says Partho Dasgupta||The state government on Tuesday argued before the Bombay high court (HC) that Partho Dasgupta, former chief executive officer of the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), was the mastermind behind rigging of television ratings and his WhatsApp chats with the anchor of a news channel proved that he was very closely involved in the rating manipulation to benefit the channel. Dasgupta, however, refuted the allegations and maintained that the WhatsApp chat, wherein he had told Goswami that he would not compromise on the outlier policy, was proof of his innocence, hence not granting him bail would be a travesty of justice. Senior counsel Aabad Ponda refuted the allegations of the state that the former CEO of BARC had direct involvement in the rigging of ratings at the behest of some English news channel. The single bench of justice PD Naik, while hearing the bail application of Dasgupta, was informed by Ponda that the gifts in the form of jewellery which his client had allegedly received from Goswami and were used at the time of his wedding. The jewellery that was purchased even before Goswami was conceived.Ponda further submitted that the statement of the BARC employee, which alleged that Dasgupta had not taken any action on her complaint of a sudden spike in the ratings of some news channel was negligence and not a crime. The statement was pertaining to Ramgarhia, and Dasgupta’s failure to act on a complaint. He also submitted that there was no grievance on the part of the advertisers who may have been induced to pay more to the channels, whose ratings had been allegedly rigged, hence he should be granted bail. Earlier in the day, the state through special public prosecutor Shishir Hiray continued argument opposing Dasgupta’s application for bail in the TRP manipulation case and said that the content of the WhatsApp chats recovered from Dasgupta’s mobile was proof that he was very close to some news channels and had masterminded the rigging of ratings. Hiray submitted that the post of managing director and CEO was equivalent in terms of authority and hence Dasgupta could not hide behind the argument that his powers as CEO were limited. Hiray also added that the post on which Dasgupta was appointed was sanctified and he had misused it to benefit some channels. After hearing the submissions, the court said it had concluded hearing the arguments and reserved its order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/trp-case-whatsapp-chats-contain-proof-of-my-innocence-says-partho-dasgupta-101613503018427.html
17-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Court refuses to deport eight Pakistani nationals held with heroin worth ₹600 crore||The Mumbai sessions court on Monday refused to deport back eight Pakistani nationals caught by the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) with 232kg heroin worth ₹600 crore on the high sea in 2015. All the eight Pakistani nationals, lodged in a Mumbai prison, had approached the special NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) Act court seeking directions to the government authorities to deport them back to Karachi. They had claimed that a court at Mumbai did not have the territorial jurisdiction to try they and they can be prosecuted back in Pakistan, in accordance with the law of that country. ICG and Indian Navy had on April 20, 2015, intercepted a boat carrying Pakistani flag, AL-Yasir, 157 nautical miles away from the baseline of Indian territorial waters. The accused, namely Alibakhsh Allahbakhsh, 30, Yunus Sutar, 35, G Siddique, 40, Gulshan Maulabakhsh, 30, Bakhsh Natho, 40, Mohmmad Yusuf, 40, Mohmmad Ahmed, 28 and Maqsood Akhtar, were all found in the boat from which the packets containing heroin was seized. The lawyer for the Pakistani nationals, advocate Anil Lala, had pointed that territorial jurisdiction of the NDPS court at Mumbai extends only to territorial waters of India – up to 12 nautical miles from Indian shores. Therefore, Lala argued that, the applicants accused allegedly found on the boat in question, AL-Yasir, approximately 157 nautical miles away from the Indian coast were beyond the territorial limits or jurisdiction of any Indian court.” The public prosecutor SS Panjwani had opposed the plea, saying territorial waters of India continue up to continental shelf, exclusive economic zone and other areas determined in accordance with provisions of the Maritime Act, 1976. Panjwani further pointed out that as per section 7(1) of the said Act, there was an Exclusive Economic Zone of India which is an area beyond and adjacent to the territorial waters and limit of such zone is 200 nautical miles. Besides, the prosecution relied on the United Nations resolution on the prohibition of illicit traffic in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances to point out that a country can act against offenders even if the alleged offence is committed beyond its territory, if that affects the country concerned. “Therefore, even if the offence is committed beyond territorial limits or jurisdiction of Indian courts and if it is within its exclusive economic zone of India which extends up to 200 nautical miles, Indian courts will have jurisdiction to try such offences, being an offence against the country,” Panjwani argued. After hearing both the side, the court rejected the plea. The court said considering the seriousness of the alleged offences, the quantity of the narcotic drugs allegedly seized from the boat in question and that the aspect of national security is involved, it will be just and proper to give the prosecution reasonable and proper opportunity to prove the aspect of the jurisdiction of the court and its case on merits.” The court has, however, expedited the trial of the eight foreign nationals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-refuses-to-deport-eight-pakistani-nationals-held-with-heroin-worth-600-crore-101613502838312.html
17-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Amid Covid-19 pandemic colleges, alumni help students pay their fees||The Covid-19 pandemic and eventual lockdown has affected the financial situation of people across sectors. Keeping this in mind, several higher education institutes have introduced various methods to ensure no student ends up losing out on education, due to their inability to pay fees. While fee payment in instalments and part-waiver of fees were introduced in some institutes, in some cases, the college has reached out to their alumni to raise funds for students. “We realised that there were around 27 students facing similar issues and we didn’t want anyone to lose out on education due to lack of funds. Every year, Grenville Solomon, our ex-student gives scholarship of ₹1 lakh each to three meritorious students. But this year, around 27 students were in need of financial assistance and the alumnus helped without any hesitation,” said Marie Fernandes, principal of St Andrew’s College, Bandra. Solomon helped the college with ₹4.5 lakh to cover the fees of 27 students who were in no position to pay their fees this year. “Such kindness and generosity in such pandemic stricken times is all we need to boost the spirits of students,” added Fernandes. In July 2020, the management of the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) had decided to start their regular lectures virtually and almost immediately, the IIT-B Heritage Foundation (IITBHF) run by the alumni of the institute pledged to address the issue of necessary infrastructure needed to implement online classes. The group announced a grant of ₹2.35 crore which was used to buy around 1,000 laptops and to provide necessary internet and broadband services for current students who were attending lectures from across the country. At Jai Hind College, a handful of students approached the institute seeking extension in deadline for fee payment and the college promptly gave students the freedom to pay the fees, at their convenience any time in the year. “We also made it clear that in case a student can’t pay the full fees, they will not be forced to do so. We luckily have a corpus fund put together by our alumni and end up utilising that fund as and when needed for the benefit of our students only,” said Ashok Wadia, principal of the institute. In October last year, less than a month after colleges reopened with virtual classes etc, the University of Mumbai released a circular addressed to all affiliated colleges asking them to make instalment facility available for all students whose families are facing the economic strain of the Covid-19 imposed lockdown. During admissions for first year courses for the 2020-21 academic year as well, several colleges had dropped the basic admission fee in order to accommodate all students. In some cases, the college staff and management stepped up to cover up expenses of students in order to avoid more financial burden on the students’ family. “We had a case of a student who participates in national level sports activities and for that purpose, his stay and food etc when he travels for sports activities had to be taken care of. Towards the end of last year these sports activities have restarted and we (college management) decided to fund this student’s participation, travel and stay,” said Naresh Chandra, principal of BK Birla College, Kalyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-amid-covid-19-pandemic-colleges-alumni-help-students-pay-their-fees-101613502418407.html
17-02-2021||Other||Tweets by celebrities: Congress demands action against BJP’s IT cell, associates||HT CorrespondentMumbai The Maharashtra Congress, while stating that the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) conspiracy behind the tweets by the celebrities has been exposed by the Maharashtra Police, has demanded action against the party associates involved in it.Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant, while referring to the statement by state home minister Anil Deshmukh, said that their apprehension, about BJP hand behind celebrity tweets, has proven true. Celebrities including Lata Mangeshkar, Sachin Tendulkar Ajay Devgn and Akshay Kumar took to Twitter on February 3 after Rihanna and climate change activist Greta Thunberg expressed support for the farmers’ protest. The Indian celebrities tweeted using #IndiaAgainstPropaganda and #IndiaTogether, framed by the external affairs ministry.“The preliminary inquiry by the police has established the involvement of BJP’s IT cell and 12 influencers. This is a conspiracy by BJP against the country. The police should now take strict and immediate action against them,” he said.Sawant also questioned why the celebrities did not come forward to clarify that their tweets were not under pressure from BJP and but they had tweeted out of their own will. “BJP resorted to false propaganda that the state government was probing Bharat Ratna recipients Mangeshkar and Tendulkar, though the inquiry initiated was into the pressure put on them to tweet. The tweets were sent out by Indian celebrities under pressure from BJP. None of the celebrities have come forward to say that there was no pressure on them to tweet,” he said.Maharashtra BJP’s media cell head Vishwas Pathak said, “The statement by the home minister is a face-saving attempt after the state government realised that their earlier announcement of action against Tendulkar and Mangeshkar had evoked a backlash. The tweets were by the celebrities. How can an action be initiated against our IT cell? What action and under which laws can be taken for tweets posted for the sovereignty of the country? We are ready to face any such action then.”‘Congress to fight on all BMC seats’Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole on Tuesday said that the party is set to contest on all the 227 wards in Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections, slated to be held early next year. A review meeting attended by key party leaders including Mumbai chief Bhai Jagtap, state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, public works department minister Ashok Chavan, former CM Prithviraj Chavan, among others, was held at party office to take stock of the preparations for the polls. The party has also decided to request CM Uddhav Thackeray to relook at the delimitation of wards done in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tweets-by-celebrities-congress-demands-action-against-bjp-s-it-cell-associates-101613501458312.html
17-02-2021||Mumbai||Parents to protest inaction of Maharashtra government against private schools||Tired of the government’s inaction over issues concerning private schools, several parent organisations in the state have decided to protest at Azad Maidan on Wednesday (February 17), to demand redressal of their complaints.Parents said they have been writing to the education department over the last several months, demanding action against schools that levied charges indiscriminately during the pandemic, but there has been no action so far. “Several people have been rendered jobless due to the pandemic and the resultant lockdown, and many have faced salary cuts. Schools, on the other hand, are exploiting parents by hiking fees and harassing parents and students for non-payment and late payment of dues. We demand a 50% reduction in tuition fees and a 100% waiver in term fees,” said Jayant Jain, president of the Indiawide Parents Association, which has organised the protest.Parents from Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Pune are expected to join the protest today. They said they have been demanding that the government conduct audits of private schools. “The government gives us an excuse that it cannot control fees of private schools, but it can definitely conduct audits as per the existing Fee Regulation Act. Why is it not doing so despite several complaints in the last few months?” asked a parent.The organisations plan to urge the education department to take action against schools which discriminate against students with pending dues by removing them from online classes, refusing to give their mark sheets and not allowing them to write exams.A government resolution released on May 8, 2020, stated that schools should stay all fee hikes for the current academic year and have to allow parents to pay fees in instalments. The GR was, however, stayed by the Bombay high court (HC) on June 26 in response to a petition by several organisations of private school owners. The petitioners had argued that the government cannot regulate fees of private schools as per the current rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/parents-to-protest-inaction-of-maharashtra-government-against-private-schools-101613501218568.html
17-02-2021||Other||CM Uddhav Thackeray can’t accept Sanjay Rathod’s resignation: Narayan Rane||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray will not accept the resignation of forest minister Sanjay Rathod, claimed former chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Narayan Rane, while speaking to media persons in Thane on Tuesday. Rane remarked that Thackeray would first have to ask environment minister Aaditya Thackeray to resign for his alleged ties to the case regarding the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput (SSR). Rane addressed a press conference in Thane to express his views on the Union budget. He also spoke on the suicide of a woman following which the forest minister had submitted his resignation on Tuesday to the CM. “Rathod might have sent his resignation to the CM, but the CM will not accept it as then he would have to ask Aaditya to resign due to the SSR case. The people of Maharashtra are still unaware who their actual chief minister is; Thackeray is merely the CM of Matoshree and not the state,” said Rane. Thane mayor and Sena leader Naresh Mhaske refused to comment on the issue, while MLA Ravindra Phatak and guardian minister Eknath Shinde did not reply to HT’s calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cm-uddhav-thackeray-can-t-accept-sanjay-rathod-s-resignation-narayan-rane-101613500564755.html
17-02-2021||Mumbai||With AQI at 98, Mumbai’s air quality ‘satisfactory’ for the first time this year||The air quality in Mumbai improved significantly on Tuesday and fell in the satisfactory category for the first time this year. The overall air quality index (AQI) of the city was 98 on Tuesday, down from Monday’s 115. The AQI – a pollution measuring indicator – was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. Of the 10 locations measured, Andheri had the most polluted air with an AQI of 190. Malad recorded an AQI of 159 and Navi Mumbai recorded 141, all in the moderate category. “Temperatures have been on the rise for some time now, bringing down pollution levels. Clean winds from the ocean have further improved the air quality in Mumbai. It is expected to remain in the moderate category for the next two days,” said a spokesperson for SAFAR.Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted rainfall accompanied by thunderstorms and lightning in parts of interior Maharashtra from Wednesday. “Under the influence of a wind discontinuity in lower levels over central India, its south-westward movement and moisture incursion from the Bay of Bengal, light to moderate rainfall is likely over Marathwada and central Maharashtra, with isolated thunderstorms, lightning and hail. The conditions will persist for a couple of days,” said an IMD official. Rain and thundershowers are very likely at Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg for the next two days. Meanwhile, Dhule, Nandurbar, Jalgaon, Nasik and Ahmednagar are expected to get thunderstorms and lightning. Temperatures are expected to drop marginally during the next two days, said the IMD official. Minimum temperatures in the city remained slightly high on Tuesday. At the Colaba station of IMD, a minimum temperature of 21.5 degrees Celsius was recorded, up from Monday‘s 21.2 degrees. The minimum temperature at Colaba was 1.1 degrees above normal. At Santacruz, the minimum temperature was up from Monday’s 20.2 degrees Celsius to 20.5 degrees Celsius. It was 2 degrees higher than normal. The maximum temperature at Colaba was 29 degrees Celsius, 0.8 degrees below normal. At Santacruz, the maximum temperature was 28.9 degrees Celsius, 2 degrees below normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/with-aqi-at-98-mumbai-s-air-quality-satisfactory-for-the-first-time-this-year-101613500318590.html
17-02-2021||Mumbai||MVA allies versus BJP and Centre: It is an all-out war in Maharashtra||If the recent bitter episode of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray denying state aircraft to governor BS Koshyari to fly to Uttarakhand is any indication, the war between the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and the Raj Bhavan, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Centre is set to intensify in the coming days. Considering Union home minister Amit Shah’s meeting with Koshyari in New Delhi, the Centre and the BJP seem to have taken serious note of the way Koshyari was treated, viewed as a challenge to the BJP-led Centre. Leaders from both the BJP and MVA camps say the coming days will see both the Centre and the BJP taking aggressive stand against the Thackeray-led government. The three-party MVA coalition of the Shiv Sena, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), too, is gearing up to hit back at the BJP, beginning with the election of Assembly speaker and later luring some of the legislators who had crossed over to the BJP ahead of 2019 elections. The three parties are also looking to win maximum civic bodies and district councils in the elections to be held later this year. Guv episode The BJP is seeing the Koshyari incident as a deliberate attempt to confront the governor, who has not cleared the state’s recommendations to nominate 12 persons to the legislative Council for three months. Every six years, 12 of the 78 seats of the upper house of state legislature are filled by the governor on the recommendation of the state. “There will be consequences,” said a BJP MP. Through its mouthpiece Saamana, the Shiv Sena said the episode was the fallout of a delay in clearing the names. “The delay in appointments is because he follows the orders from Delhi,” the editorial on Saturday. Senior BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar said, “Saamana editorial said it’s an open war. How can it be a battle when the governor has been acting within the framework of the Constitution?” The ruling parties have now threatened to move court if the recommendations are not cleared soon Speaker’s election Nana Patole’s resignation from the post of Assembly Speaker has necessitated fresh election for the post. The election gives the BJP an opportunity to tap into the dissidence in the ruling camp, as a defeat in the election would lead to collapse of the government. The MVA is looking at it as a chance to show its strength on the floor of the Assembly, ending speculations over its stability. During its confidence vote on November 30, 2019, the ruling combine had garnered support of 169 members, while the BJP had claimed the support of 114 MLAs. Parties like AIMIM, CPI(M) and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena had abstained from voting. Fadnavis had said last week, “A speaker is elected unopposed and it’s the tradition of the state, but it all depends on how the Opposition is treated by the ruling parties.” MVA leaders claim they can win upto 175 votes. NCP leader Shashikant Shinde said, “The MVA has retained its strength, but the question is whether the BJP has it?” Local bodies’ battle As many as 15 municipal corporations, 27 district councils and about 100 nagar panchayats are going to polls over next two years. Touted as mini assembly polls, the political ground will heat up among the four parties. When it was in power for five years until September 2019, the BJP successfully gained top position in local bodies, winning over 14 of 27 municipal corporations, 11 of the 34 district councils. This helped the party drum up support at ground level during the 2019 elections. The first such confrontation will be in the next few months as five municipal corporations, Navi Mumbai, Vasai Virar, Kalyan-Dombivli, Kolhapur and Aurangabad; two district councils of Bhandara and Gondiya and about 90 nagar panchayats governing small towns go to polls. MVA leaders say they have begun deliberations on the strategy, which means the three parties will form a coalition where the BJP is strong. They will contest separately where they have strength and do not want the BJP to take up the entire Opposition space. For instance, in Navi Mumbai, the three parties are likely to contest together to defeat strongman Ganesh Naik who is now with the BJP. In Kalyan-Dombivli, where the Sena is dominant, the NCP and Congress may contest as its junior partner or strategically as Opposition. In Aurangabad, the three ruling parties cannot come together due to fundamental differences over renaming of Aurangabad. “In local body elections, we will contest either as an alliance or individually depending upon the local equations to ensure the BJP is kept out of power,” said Congress working president Arif Naseem Khan. “The Sena will fight alone in areas where it is strong, just like the Congress and NCP. We have the option of post-poll alliance,” said Shiv Sena MP Vinayak Raut. Reverse poaching “If it is going to be an all-out war, we, too, need to be aggressive. Don’t be surprised if you see defectors returning to the NCP or Congress,” said a top NCP leader. “We have been getting feelers for quite some time. Now there could be time for action. This would discourage the BJP from trying to topple our government.” NCP leader and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said last month that Shivendra Raje Bhosale (BJP’s Satara MLA who was earlier in NCP) and some other BJP leaders are eager to join the party. BJP leaders maintain that the speculations are being spread by the MVA partners. Collapse talk The first year of the MVA government saw uncertainty and speculations of collapse. “It is not hunky-dory. Neither the Congress, nor the Ajit Pawar faction in the NCP is happy. There is resentment over the style of functioning of CM Thackeray. Sooner or later the MVA will implode,” said a senior BJP leader. Mungantiwar said: “We are not interested in toppling the government.” Political analyst Hemant Desai said, “Metro car shed, TRP probe too will be the flashpoints between the MVA and BJP in near future. NCP chief Sharad Pawar has a strong back up to Uddhav Thackeray, and so is the coordination with the key Congress leaders. However, the faceoff is majorly between Shiv Sena and BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mva-allies-versus-bjp-and-centre-it-is-an-all-out-war-in-maharashtra-101613499959311.html
17-02-2021||Noida||5 of private lab in Noida detained for ‘unauthorised’ Covid vaccine||The Gautam Budh Nagar health department on Tuesday conducted a search at a pathology laboratory in Greater Noida’s Dadri after it received reports that an unauthorised Covid-19 vaccine was being administered to people in that town.Five persons were detained from the path lab, Gopal Pathology Lab, on GT Road, and the premises sealed after it was ascertained that 18 people were administered the unauthorised vaccine, said the district health department. The health department is yet to ascertain whether those who received the unapproved vaccine are fine.Currently, only two Covid-19 vaccines are approved for use in India -- the Covidshield vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India, and the Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech.Later, the lab management informed the health department that they were conducting the third phase clinical trial of a Covid vaccine, developed by private pharma company, Zydus Cadila Healthcare Limited.The health department said the vaccine manufacturer had authorised Flores Hospital in Ghaziabad to conduct the clinical trial. “The hospital was supposed to conduct the trial, but it shared the vaccine vials with the Dadri lab. We have seized 275 vials and initiated action against the hospital and the lab,” chief medical officer Deepak Ohri said.Dr Manoj Kumar, owner of Flores Hospital, said he had permission from the competent authority of the Union government to conduct the clinical trial. “We were supposed to conduct trials on 1,000 people. We signed an agreement with Dadri lab as a satellite centre on Monday to share the work. We had no idea that the local district health department’s permission was needed to conduct the clinical trial,” he said.A Zydus Cadila spokesperson said the company’s Covid vaccine is at present in the trial stage and people are not being vaccinated. The spokesperson said they would release more details in this matter soonDr Sanjeev Kumar, the in-charge of the Community Health Centre, Dadri, said the laboratory was administering a new Covid vaccine to people on Tuesday. “They had placed a banner informing people about the free Covid vaccination drive in collaboration with Nari Raksha Dal. Some locals took a photo of the vaccination drive and that went viral on social media,” he said.Kumar said when he received the information about the illegal drive, he informed his seniors about the matter. “I was directed to go and verify the matter. The lab management told me that they were conducting a clinical trial of a Covid vaccine, developed by Cadila Healthcare Limited. They had by then administered the vaccine to 18 persons,” he said.“They showed us some documents having the approval from the Drugs Controller General of India, for the clinical trial, but they had not informed the health department or the district administration about this exercise,” he said.Dr Ohri said the health department was not informed about this exercise. “The vaccination drive or a clinical trial can’t take place in such a lab. The government has notified certain sites for such clinical trials. They (the lab) had no permission from the health department or the district administration. We have sealed the premises and also arrested five persons from the lab,” he said. Ohri said a police complaint has also been filed against them.Rajveer Singh Chauhan, SHO Dadri police station, said a case will be registered based on the complaint. “The health department and the police team are questioning the lab employees. The FIR may be registered once the primary investigation is over,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/five-of-private-lab-in-greater-noida-detained-for-administering-unauthorised-covid-vaccine-to-18-people-101613499298195.html
17-02-2021||Mumbai||RSS chief meets Mithun Chakraborty; actor says 'nothing to do with politics'||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat met veteran Bollywood actor and former Member of Parliament Mithun Chakraborty at his Mumbai residence on Tuesday morning. The meeting that lasted for around 90 minutes has sparked speculations in political circles ahead of West Bengal assembly elections which are scheduled to be held in the next few months.Chakraborty told the media that the meeting had nothing to do with politics as he is away from it now and wants to remain an actor. The RSS too said that the meeting was pending for around two years and has no political connection.“The first thing I wanted to say is that I have a spiritual relationship with Bhagwat ji which is also not new. He had once told me that he will come to meet me when he will be in Mumbai. He loves me and my family. Today, he was in the city and a meeting took place. You (media) are trying to connect dots because of West Bengal polls but the meeting has nothing to do with politics,” Chakraborty told reporters in response to a question after the meeting.“I have always fought for the poor section of the society. Whoever will work for the welfare of the poor, I will support them anytime but this time no politics,” he said on a question of getting an offer to join another political party.“I am far away from politics now. I am an actor and want to live like that,” he added, responding to another question.The BJP is reportedly looking for a popular Bengali face for the Bengal polls and the meeting has triggered speculations if Chakraborty would be joining the party.Also read: Kiran Bedi removed as Puducherry LG, Tamilisai given additional chargeThe popular Bollywood actor was nominated as a Rajya Sabha member by the Trinamool Congress in 2014 after Mamata Banerjee came to power in Bengal but resigned within two years citing health issues. He was also summoned by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the Saradha scam in 2015.Chakraborty met the RSS chief in 2019 in Nagpur, which was termed as a ‘courtesy visit’. The actor spent an hour at the RSS headquarters and then visited the Hedgewar memorial.Pramod Bapat, in-charge, western zone media relations, RSS, termed the meeting as a courtesy visit. “The meeting was pending for almost two years. Chakraborty wanted the RSS chief to visit his Mumbai residence for a long time. The RSS chief could not do it because of lockdown restrictions that stretched for months. Today’s meeting should not be linked to politics,” Bapat said."Bhagwat Ji met Chakraborty in a cordial atmosphere before the Bengal elections. The actor is loved by a wide section of Bengalis not just for his contribution to cinema but also to the nation. He was the country's highest individual income tax payer for four consecutive years. He returned the money he took from Saradha. That establishes his devotion to the nation. He is a thinking person. It is expected that Mithun will contribute positively to shape the future of Bengal which stands at the crossroads of history right now," said Bengal BJP vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar.The TMC was quick to react and described the meeting as BJP's act of desperation."The meeting shows the desperation of the BJP. Mithun is an actor who has confined himself to Ooty. He has no relevance in Bengal politics now. He was made a Rajya Sabha member by Mamata Banerjee but he quit after facing threats from the Enforcement Directorate," said TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy.In 2015, Chakraborty returned ₹1.16 crore to the ED. He received the money when he was the brand ambassador of the Saradha group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ahead-of-bengal-polls-rss-chief-meets-mithun-chakraborty-101613492208823.html
