19-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees 823 new Covid-19 cases, highest since Dec 3||The city on Friday reported 823 new Covid-19 cases, the highest in the city since December 3, when Mumbai reported 878 new cases. Mumbai also reported five deaths, taking the toll to 11,437. Mumbai’s doubling rate is 393 days, and its growth rate of Covid-19 cases is 0.18%. As Mumbai reported over 700 new cases for second day in a row on Thursday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) announced tight measures to check the spurt, including stricter containment zone rules and quarantine norms. Clean-up marshals began night patrolling of the city from Thursday to ensure people wear face masks at public places. From this weekend, ward-level teams will begin surprise inspections of marriage halls, restaurants and cinema halls to ensure social distancing, and that the organisers and management, apart from visitors, are wearing masks. Criminal action will be taken against those flouting rules. On Thursday, Mumbai reported 736 new cases and 721 on Wednesday. In the past two days, Mumbai’s doubling rate has dropped to 417 days on Thursday, from 445 days on Tuesday, and 455 days on Monday. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, in a statement on Thursday, said, “Although the spread of Covid-19 in Mumbai is under control, there has been a surge in the number of cases in the past few days. Hence all BMC machineries need to be extra vigilant. As public life returns to normalcy, it becomes all the more important for citizens to follow all Covid-19 prevention norms. It is also pertinent to take stringent action against offenders to limit the spread of the virus.” The BMC has now reverted to its earlier decision of sealing entire buildings if more than five Covid-19 patients are detected. Police cases will be filed against high-risk contacts of patients found violating home quarantine, which can result in up to six months of imprisonment, or fine, or both. All persons who are to be home quarantined are being hand-stamped for identification. The number of clean-up marshals patrolling the city will be doubled to 4,800 from the present 2,400 in the coming week. The Mumbai Police are now authorised to act as marshals and fine those not wearing face masks in public places. Not more than 50 people are allowed at weddings and religious places at a time, and restaurants, malls and cinema theatres can function at 50% of their occupancy capacity. All assistant commissions (ward officers) will submit daily reports on action and fine to the deputy municipal commissioners of each zone, who in turn will report to the municipal commissioner daily. Vishwas Shankarwar, deputy municipal commissioner incharge of zone 7, north Mumbai, said, “We are in touch with doctors and hospital staff to find cases and understand which areas are more affected and the source of infection in positive patients. The ward officers will chalk out area-specific measures.” Bharat Marathe, deputy municipal commissioner of zone 5, said, “Ward-level teams will conduct surprise inspections at restaurants, and marriage halls to ensure social distancing rules are followed, organisers and caterers and servers are wearing masks, and following Covid-19 hygiene. The target is upto five marriage halls per day.” In slums and densely populated areas, mobile vans are conducting tests. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of G/North ward, which covers densely populated areas of Dharavi, Mahim, said, “In slums like Dharavi, and high-risk areas such as Mahim and Dadar, mobile vans have started doing rounds. Fifteen high-risk contacts of every positive patient are being traced.” At railway terminus, such as Dadar, passengers from Gujarat and other states are being screened before being allowed to leave the station premises. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Friday conducted a surprise inspection of SevenHills hospital to review preparatory work, and also inspected a hotel where international travellers are being quarantined. “A floor of the hotel has been cordoned off to quarantine passengers. Separate staff has been appointed to cater to these people. This staff will not interact with the rest of the visitors. Covid-19 testing of this staff is being done from time to time,” she said, adding, she will no longer attend any ceremonies, functions, and will not accept invitations for weddings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-823-new-covid-19-cases-highest-since-dec-3-101613759160694.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai Municipal Transport’s ₹379.50-cr budget gives push to self-sustenance||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Transport (NMMT) has presented a ₹379.50Cr budget for the financial year 2021-22. With NMMC giving a grant of ₹150Cr to the transport body, the objective was to ensure that the transport body achieved self-sustenance over the next 2-3 years.The budget, presented by NMMT general manager Shirish Aradwad, estimates income to the tune of ₹379.50Cr against expenditure of ₹379.45Cr, leaving a surplus of ₹5.35 lakh.Aradwad said, “We have inducted 40 CNG and 30 electric buses this year. We will also be getting 100 more electric buses. Of these, 30 buses will be commissioned in March 2021 and the remaining 70 buses in August 2021. There are also plans to induct 50 more electric buses in future. We are working towards ensuring 100 per cent electric or CNG buses in the city. It will help us provide environment-friendly services to the residents and also save on fuel cost, while increasing revenue.”NMMT has also given its lands at Ghansoli and Asudgaon depots to MGL on lease to generate additional revenue, while work has begun on commercial development of bus terminal in Sector 9 of Vashi.Speaking on the budget, municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar said, “NMMC has given a grant of ₹150Cr to NMMT to help it recover its expenses. However, we want the transport body to become self-sustaining in the next 2-3 years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-municipal-transport-s-379-50-cr-budget-gives-push-to-selfsustenance-101613758620219.html
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn finalises firm to run 40 electric buses||The public transport in the city will soon go eco-friendly with the UT administration finally hiring the services of a private firm for running the electric buses.After a long tendering process, marred by several setbacks including financial difficulties due to the pandemic, the administration has awarded the contract of running 40 electric buses to Ashok Leyland.The Indian multinational company was one of the three firms to come forward to run the electric buses in the city.The UT in June 2019 had decided to procure electric buses on a gross cost-contract model, under which the successful bidder procures, operates and maintains the buses. All revenue is collected for the administration, and the company is paid on a per kilometre cost basis. The medium-sized (9-metre) battery-operated buses are to be equipped with air-conditioners and will be used on local city routes.The administration had to defer the project for a while on account of financial constraints due to the pandemic. But the project was revived in September last year, after the Centre had sanctioned 80 electric buses for the UT under the second phase of the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid and) Electric Vehicles in India (FAME India) scheme.After getting approval from the Centre, the UT administration had started the process for procurement of the buses. Under the scheme, the Centre will provide ₹50-lakh subsidy for each bus to the seller. The buses will be hired for ten years, and the CTU will get ticket sales through the company, which will also maintain the vehicles.The UT will now start the process for procuring 40 more buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-finalises-firm-to-run-40-electric-buses-101613758500100.html
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala MC House meeting on February 23||High drama was witnessed at the first House meeting chaired by the Ambala mayor on Thursday where only eight out of the 20 councillors, all from the Haryana Janchetna Party (HJP), turned up in the absence of commissioner Parth Gupta and civic body officials.Secretary Jarnail Singh has now called for a House meeting on February 23.The eight members had protested outside the office of MC chief and raised slogans against local MLA Aseem Goel for “interfering in the corporation’s functioning”, while Gupta said, “It was not our meeting.”Among the absentees were eight councillors of the BJP and two each from the Congress and the Haryana Democratic Front. The members who attended the meeting put forward proposals and called for an action against those who remained absent, besides discussing issues such as cleanliness, state of community centres, and no dues certificate. Mayor Shakti Rani Sharma belongs to the HJP and is the wife of political stalwart and former MLA Venod Sharma. Interacting with media after the meeting, the mayor had said, “I wrote many letters to the commissioner to call for a meeting, but when he didn’t, I used my powers under the rules and called for it with a majority of 1/4th of the House.”However, MLA Gupta said that “being unbiased” and taking into consideration the objection raised by eight other members (from the BJP), he had requested to reschedule the meeting. “I received the mayor’s letter on February 15 and there has to be a five-day gap before the meeting. Eight members had met me earlier and told me that neither had they received any letter nor were consulted. Moreover, the notice for the meeting has to be issued by the secretary of the MC, who has called the first meeting on February 23,” he added. Meanwhile, eight councillors from the BJP handed over a memorandum to city magistrate Aanchal Bhaskar in the name of DC Ashok Kumar Sharma, stating that “the meeting was called illegally to spread chaos” and there should be an action against the mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-mc-house-meeting-on-february-23-101613758439818.html
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||Get vaccinated within deadline: Chandigarh adviser tells Covid warriors||UT adviser Manoj Parida on Friday directed all departments to intensify the drive to remove vaccine hesitancy among frontline workers, as Chandigarh’s rank slipped to the last but one in vaccination coverage across the country.According to figures released by the UT health department, achievement rate among health workers stands at 30%. Among other frontline workers from the municipal corporation and police, it is as low as 26%. As per the health ministry’ figures released on Friday, vaccination coverage (first dose) among Chandigarh’s health workers is 34.3%.“Such poor coverage does not suit a fairly aware city, which should have taken the lead in this initiative,” said Parida. “Priority groups should get the benefit of free vaccines within the stipulated time, as once the drive starts for the general public, the government may start charging money for it.”The administration has created 15 session sites at various locations for the beneficiaries to get vaccinated, stated a release.On Tuesday, 843 frontline workers were inoculated out of the 4,352 called for vaccination. It took the total of vaccinated persons to 12,759. The second dose was administered to 124 persons. In the neighbouring Panchkula district, the first dose was administered to 110 people, including 10 health workers, taking the total to 9,419. The second dose was given to 83 persons. HC: Physical hearings at 9 courtsThe Punjab and Haryana high court administration has increased the number of courts for physical hearing from six to nine. The remaining courts will take up cases through virtual mode. The development comes at a time two HC employees tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. One staff member is working in the court of chief justice RS Jha and the other in the court of justice Raj Mohan Singh. They had attended office on February 15 and 16, an official spokesperson said. The HC had opened three courts for physical hearings on February 8 and three more were added on February 15, after protests from lawyers. Physical hearings were suspended due to the pandemic outbreak in March 2020.No casualty, 64 test +ve across tricityAs many as 64 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the tricity on Friday, while no casualty was reported.Mohali recorded 30 cases, followed by 19 in Chandigarh and 15 in Panchkula.The UT has reported 21,322 cases so far, of which 156 are active. While 20,867 (97.86%) patients have recovered, 348 have died. In Mohali district, the infection tally has climbed to 19,896, of which 379 cases remain active. Among the fresh cases, 24 surfaced in Mohali city alone. While 19,136 (96.18%) patients have been cured, 381 have died.At 10,716, Panchkula district has recorded the least number of cases. While 10,464 (97.64%) patients have been discharged, 148 have died and 104 are still undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/get-vaccinated-within-deadline-chandigarh-adviser-tells-covid-warriors-101613758379731.html
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||Caroline Rowett to be UK deputy high commissioner in Chandigarh||Andrew Ayre, the British deputy high commissioner in Chandigarh, completes his four-year tenure and will be handing over charge to his successor, Caroline Rowett, next week. Rowett, the UK’s charge d’affairs in Haiti, will be joining as the first British woman deputy high commissioner in India. “She is looking forward to meeting you all as soon as she has completed her self-isolation,” Ayre said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/caroline-rowett-to-be-uk-deputy-high-commissioner-in-chandigarh-101613758320327.html
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||In a first, diesel crosses ₹80 mark in Chandigarh||Diesel price in Chandigarh crossed the ₹80/litre mark for the first time on Friday. It now stands at ₹80.30. Petrol costs ₹86.79, also an all-time high, and is expected to cross the ₹87 mark in a couple of days.The fuel prices have gone up by around ₹7 since January 1, when petrol cost ₹80.35 and diesel ₹73.58. Before 2021, petrol had never gone beyond the ₹81 mark.A similar trend is being seen in Mohali and Panchkula. Fuel remains costliest in Mohali, with petrol at ₹92.09 and diesel at ₹83.15. In Panchkula, the prices stand at ₹87.97 and ₹80.99, respectively. “The hike is due to taxes imposed by the government. The dealer’s cut remains the same,” said Arjan Singh, president, Chandigarh Petroleum Dealers Association. He said the hike seen this year is still lower than that in June 2020, when the prices of both petrol and diesel went up by around ₹10 per litre in just a month.“Transporters are anticipating heavy losses this year. The common man will have to suffer as well, as onion prices may also rise further in the coming days,” said BL Sharma, secretary, Chandigarh Transport Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-a-first-diesel-crosses-80-mark-in-chandigarh-101613758259899.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||NCP leader Sule demands SIT inquiry against Navi Mumbai MLA||The Nationalist Congress Party Member of Parliament, Supriya Sule, has demanded an SIT inquiry against BJP MLA Ganesh Naik following his statement at a public meeting that ‘international dons’ know him. She said that she will take up the issue with Union Home Minister Amit Shah and also raise it in the next Parliament session.Naik, once a close associate of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, had quit the NCP to join BJP along with his sons, former MP Sanjeev Naik and former MLA Sandeep Naik. He had also taken most of the NCP corporators with him to BJP.With NMMC elections expected in April, Naik had, in a public meeting in Turbhe recently, alleged ‘goondagiri’ by the opposition and declared that not just the local goons but also the ‘international dons’ knew who he was. He had also stated that he was the principal of the school where the goondas studied. The statement had generated a lot of controversy, following which Naik had stated that his statement had been misconstrued.Taking him on at a party workers’ meet in Vashi on Friday, Sule said, “If an MLA states in public that international dons know him, then it is terrifying. It is a matter of national security and very worrying for us all, especially women to have an elected representative say this.”Sule asked the workers to pass a resolution demanding an SIT inquiry against Naik. She said, “We will send it to state home minister Anil Deshmukh to take it up with Union Home Minister, Amit Shah, at his level. I will also take it up with Shah as the BJP under Narendra Modi had declared when it came to power that it will get these international dons. I assure you that I shall also raise the issue in the next session of Parliament in April.”Expressing confidence of winning the NMMC elections, Sule said, “The MVA will have its mayor in Navi Mumbai.”While Ganesh Naik was not available for comment, Navi Mumbai BJP president, Ramchandra Gharat, said, “These are politically-motivated statements. There is absolutely no connection between Ganesh Naik and the dons. Everyone knows that Naik was a minister and so it is natural for people to know him. His statement is being blown out of proportion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncp-leader-sule-demands-sit-inquiry-against-navi-mumbai-mla-101613758199930.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan-Dombivli civic body conducts surprise checks at crowded places as Covid cases rise||In order to tackle the increasing number of Covid cases in the city, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) chief has issued directives that any area with more than 25 Covid cases will be declared as containment zone and action will be taken if any event is held with more than 50 people and hotels operate with more than half the capacity.The Covid norms are intensified with the spike in the number of cases in the twin cities of Kalyan and Dombivli. KDMC recorded around 130 cases in the last two days, compared to 50 to 80 daily cases since the last few weeks. KDMC recorded 146 new cases on Friday. The total positive cases recorded in KDMC so far is 65,706. The total number of deaths so far is 1,050 with none on Friday.A team of senior officials has been formed to tackle the increase in the number of cases. The KDMC chief, Vijay Suryavanshi, also conducted a surprise check at crowded places like markets and shops to survey the situation.Suryavanshi said, “We have identified crowded spots in the city and will be keeping checks on them to avoid overcrowding. We have intensified action against those not wearing masks and fined around 200 people on Thursday. Apart from those not wearing masks, action will also be taken against the organiser of events, where more than 50 people are present while hotels running more than 50 per cent capacity will also be penalised.”The areas with more than 25 Covid cases shall be termed as containment zones and the ward officers will carry out contact tracing in the ratio 1:20. Suryavanshi added, “The medical officer will ensure that antigen testing is being carried out at railway stations, for traders, hawkers and other essential workers. The team of officers will also check all the Covid beds facilities, CT- scan centres and carry out RT-PCR tests for such patients. A structural audit of temporarily built Covid hospital in Kalyan-Dombivli will also be carried by the city engineer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyandombivli-civic-body-conducts-surprise-checks-at-crowded-places-as-covid-cases-rise-101613757899777.html
19-02-2021||City||'National Anthem played for first time in Nagaland Assembly': Minister||The seventh session of the 13th Nagaland Legislative Assembly (NLA), which got underway on February 12, ended before schedule on Friday with its share of a new tradition. Cabinet minister and president of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Nagaland state unit Temjen Imna Along said the state Assembly has created history by playing the National Anthem for the first time before Governor RN Ravi’s inaugural address.Assembly commissioner and secretary Dr PJ Antony confirmed this, saying that playing the National Anthem was never the convention in the Nagaland Assembly for unknown reasons. But, he added there is not much to read between the lines because when the National Anthem was included as part of the Governor’s address in the house this time and the move was well-received by all the members.Also read: Mumbai, Nagpur, Amravati - New restrictions as Covid-19 surge continuesWhile a retired commissioner and secretary of the Assembly also said it was not the norm to have the National Anthem played in the house during his time, a former aide of two former chief ministers and an ex-governor, Sebastian Zumvu felt differently.He said it was a normal practice to have the National Anthem played not only in the Assembly hall but also at various public events wherever the Governor, as the constitutional head of the state, went.A former speaker of the Assembly, Neiba Ndang, whom the Hindustan Times reached out to, responded that this was not the practice during his tenure.“But nothing is wrong if they start playing the National Anthem as part of the Governor’s address in the Assembly. It was just not in practice during my time,” he stated.Another former speaker Chotisuh Sazo also said it was not the tradition before but some Governors insisted the National Anthem was played wherever they went, however, it was not mandatory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/national-anthem-played-for-first-time-in-nagaland-assembly-minister-101613757149454.html
19-02-2021||Patna||Nitish attends JD(U) legislature party meet after budget session kicks off||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Friday urged legislators of his Janata Dal (United) to set an example with "positive" use of the social media.At a meeting of the JD(U) legislature party held soon after the inaugural day of the budget session, he also underscored the need for MLAs and MLCs, especially the newly- elected ones, to make themselves well acquainted with the rules pertaining to proceedings of the House."Among the many pieces of advice given to members at the meeting was positive use of social media which has, sadly, become a handy tool in the hands of those with anti-social tendencies," Kumar told reporters outside the party office here.The chief minister, who gave up the party president's post last month, was accompanied by veteran leader and former Speaker Vijay Kumar Chaudhary, and he said "another session will be held on Wednesday when the experienced ones will help the newbies learn the ropes".Kumar also expressed satisfaction over the rate at which the first round of Covid-19 vaccination has taken place in Bihar."We are looking forward to the next round which would begin next month and cover people from walks of life outside the health sector. Priority will be given to those over the age of 50, and those who may be younger but have serious medical conditions," he said.He disclosed the state machinery was fully geared up for the next round, and expressed confidence that the Centre will keep up its cooperation and provide Bihar with an adequate number of vials.Replying to a query, the chief minister said he will be attending via video conference a meeting of the Niti Aayog scheduled on Saturday."Officials of the policy formulation body have been in touch with state officials for quite some time and necessary inputs have been shared.Tomorrow's meeting, which will begin before noon and continue till the evening, is a formal one in which I will also be present," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-attends-jd-u-legislature-party-meet-after-budget-session-kicks-off-101613756695555.html
19-02-2021||Other||After turbulent year, auto expo a refreshing change for Ludhiana's industry||After an extremely turbulent year, the micro, small and medium industry swung into action with the commencement of the 10th edition of Mach Auto Expo 2021, an exhibition of machine tools and automation technology, on Friday.The four-day expo that began at GLADA Ground, Chandigarh Road, is being organised by the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), in association with the Association of Ludhiana Machine Tool Industries (ALMTI) and supported by Auto Parts Manufacturers Association (APMA).Around 850 live machines and over 10,000 products and machines are on display at the expo that was inaugurated by Ricardo A Berna, deputy chief of mission, the embassy of Panama, in the presence of Juliana Somba Banda, first secretary, high commissioner of Malawi, Oscar Sikanda, commercial counsellor, the embassy of Namibia, Souleymane Bouremia.While interacting with the media, Ricardo A Berna stressed that the countries, which will strengthen their supply chain and manage to operate safe air travel, will excel in the post-pandemic era of commerce and trade.When asked about the reason behind the industrial focus on the southern pacific and African nations, Pankaj Sharma, general secretary, CICU, said that they were becoming the emerging markets due to their simple trade regulations.Punjab medium industries chairman Amarjit Singh Tikka, youth development board chairman Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, industrialist Kamaljit Singh Karwal, CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja, and Youth Akali Dal district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha, among others, graced the occasion.Tikka said that such exhibitions were beneficial for the industry and assured that the government will build exhibition centers to promote such events.He added that owing to business-friendly government policies, the state had turned into an investment destination of the county.Upkar Singh Ahuja said that the ‘Mach Auto Expo’ has set new standards, and that it will soon be a destination for industrialists, who are looking for low-cost automation with high-end quality and various solutions related to automation machinery.He said that the expo has set the ball rolling. “We are showing that trade is possible by adhering to the Covid guidelines of social distancing,” said Ahuja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-turbulent-year-auto-expo-a-refreshing-change-for-ludhiana-s-industry-101613756039621.html
19-02-2021||Bhopal||40 people fall ill after consuming food at public gathering in MP's Gwalior||As many as 40 people fell ill after consuming food at a public gathering in Bamor village, Gwalior, said an official on Friday.Dr Manish Sharma, Chief Medical Health Officer (CMHO), Gwalior told ANI that a survey will be conducted in the village."Of the 40 persons, four persons shifted to hospital after their condition deteriorated. They are stable now. It was a case of food poisoning. The team will conduct a survey in the village and will submit a report," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/40-people-fall-ill-after-consuming-food-at-public-gathering-in-mp-s-gwalior-101613755710386.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||Presumptions under Pocso Act can only be rebutted at trial: Bombay HC||Once prima facie case is established, the presumptions under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012, can only be rebutted by leading evidence during the trial, said the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC), while dismissing the petition filed by a Nagpur resident booked for sexually assaulting her six-year-old nephew.The woman was booked by Shanti Nagar police station in October 2017, under relevant sections of the Pocso Act, for allegedly inappropriately touching the child and making him touch her.She had moved the HC, claiming that she had been booked in a false case, and the offence was registered based on a complaint lodged by the disgruntled father of the child. She claimed that he had tutored the child to level false allegations against her.The division bench of justice Sunil Shukre and justice Avinash Gharote, however, dismissed her petition after noticing that the child was independently examined by the child welfare committee, a judicial magistrate and the investigation officer, and the minor was consistent in his allegations regarding the abuse at the hands of his maternal aunt.“The allegations of sexual abuse being clear and specific, we do not feel that this is a case which merits interference. This is clearly a matter which will have to undergo the tribulations of a trial,” said the bench.The bench added that it cannot be doubted that offences of such a nature, as alleged against the woman, might not be disclosed for multiple reasons. “However, once such allegation has been made, the same has to be tested on the anvil of evidence to be led at the trial, unless the allegation is absurd to its core,” the court said.“In our considered opinion, the nature of allegations of sexual abuse, as has been made in the present matter, and the fact that those have been independently verified by three different agencies, leaves no room to exercise of any discretion in favour of the petitioner,” the bench added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/presumptions-under-pocso-act-can-only-be-rebutted-at-trial-bombay-hc-101613755379383.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses to interfere with tender process for Maharashtra’s mid-day meal scheme||Reluctant to delay the provision of nutritious meals for children belonging to disadvantaged and economically weaker sections of society, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has refused to interfere with the state government’s decision to centralise the tendering process.HC rejected a petition filed by a women’s cooperative challenging the government’s decision to conduct the tendering for mid-day meals centrally and not district-wise. The cooperative, which had participated in the district-wise tendering process in the past, alleged that the centralised tendering process was aimed at benefiting contractors close to the government, and hence, the process should be stalled.In January, the government had issued a tender notice inviting bids to provide mid-day meals in the form of food grains to eligible school children in 7,549 schools across 19 districts at ₹245 crore.A division bench of justice SV Gangapurwala and justice Shrikant Kulkarni, while hearing a petition filed by Indira Mahila Sahakari Gruh Udyog and Jivanavashyak Vastu Purvatha Bhandar Ltd, was informed by advocate PD Bachate, who represented the petitioners, that the women’s cooperative had participated in district-level tenders since 2011 and was aggrieved at the decision of the government to have the process centralised.In light of the Covid-19 lockdown, the Supreme Court (SC) in March 2020 had directed the states to continue the mid-day meal scheme. In the light of the SC’s directions, the Central government had issued orders to states in July and August 2020 asking them to supply food grain and pulses to eligible students instead of cooked meals.Bachate submitted that the conditions stipulated in the centralised tendering process made it clear that there was an attempt to bypass small contractors like the women’s cooperatives and benefit only the bigger contractors who were close to the government.Special counsel for the state, RN Dhorde, however, informed the court that as the implementation of the SC and Central government order had been delayed, the said food grains and pulses were to be supplied within 20 working days of the supply order being issued. He further added that the centralised process was intended to save time, and hence it should be allowed. He further submitted that in the future, the previous system of having district-wise tenders would be resorted to.After hearing the submissions, the court observed that as the scheme was intended to benefit children belonging to the disadvantaged sections of society and those from economically poor families, it was not inclined to interfere. “Stalling further process pursuant to the tender would in a way be depriving the children… of the benefit of food security allowance in the form of food grains,” said the court. In light of these observations, the court disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-to-interfere-with-tender-process-for-maharashtra-s-mid-day-meal-scheme-101613755079355.html
19-02-2021||Kolkata||PM Modi, Shah focus on Bengal’s glorious past on election eve||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday focused on West Bengal’s rich heritage and some of its lost glory in back-to-back addresses to people in the poll-bound state.PM Modi, while virtually addressing the convocation ceremony of Visva Bharati, the state’s only Central university of which the Prime Minister is the chancellor, said its founder Rabindranath Tagore’s vision on education has contributed to the Centre’s new education policy.Shah, who was in Bengal on a two-day political tour, attended a cultural event held at Kolkata’s National Library as part of the programmes on freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose, and paid rich tribute to Bengal’s martyrs and talked of sacrifices Bose made.In the eastern state where elections are to be held in March-April, their speeches sought to counter chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s constant efforts to brand the BJP’s central leaders and those visiting Bengal from the Hindi belt as “outsiders” who are “ignorant of Bengal’s culture and history.”Some of the statements the BJP leaders made seemed to have underlying messages.During his long speech, the prime minister talked of Shivaji, whose birth anniversary was celebrated during the day, and recited in Bengali a few lines from a poem Tagore wrote on the Maratha icon.“These lines draw inspiration from Shivaji and talk of fighting for one India. We must live the message Tagore sent. You are not part of a university but part of a living heritage. Tagore could have named this institution a global university but he chose to call it Visva Bharati. He wanted the students to see the world as Indians and uphold the nation’s heritage. This is what the nation expects of you,” said Modi.Also read: Toolkit case - Greta Thunberg extends support to jailed activist Disha Ravi“Knowledge, opinions and visions are not static. They are dynamic. There is scope for course correction. Knowledge and power come with responsibility. People in power have to maintain restraint. The same applies to people with knowledge. Your knowledge is not yours alone. It is an asset to the society and the nation,” Modi said.“It is all about mindset. It all depends on whether you want to be part of the problem or part of the solution. One has to rise above self-interest and put the nation first... As the prime minister, I am not worried as long as you have the zeal to take the risk,” PM Modi told the students and asked them to prepare a vision document for the nation’s 75th year of Independence. He also asked them to help local artisans and make villages around the Santiniketan campus in Bengal’s Birbhum district self-reliant.Talking of a survey British major general Thomas Monroe conducted in 1820, Modi said, “The survey found villages in India having more than one school and temples linked to education before the British education system was thrust on us. Another survey showed Bihar and Bengal having more than one lakh village schools in 1830. This shows where we used to be.”“Tagore wanted the education system to be free. Today, the nation’s new education policy gives you the freedom to choose your subjects, show your skills and develop entrepreneurship. It also focuses on gender equality in education... This will lead to Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India). The recent Union budget has sanctioned ₹50,000 crore for research. Bengal led India in the pursuit of knowledge. The world is watching you,” Modi said, addressing the students.At the Kolkata event, Shah patiently watched a 'song and dance' programme on India’s freedom fighters. He later said, “Subhas Bose is remembered by millions despite the efforts made to make people forget him. The Centre has formed a committee to pay homage to him on his 125th birth anniversary not only in India but abroad as well. He topped the Indian civil service, something today’s youths aspire for, but quit the job to serve India. He sent a message. He became the president of the Congress party twice and on one of these occasions, he went against the wishes of Bapuji (Gandhi). We may not die for the nation like the freedom fighters but we can live for it,” said Shah.The Trinamool Congress was quick to react with party Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy alleging that Modi and Shah both fall short of the secular idealism that Tagore and Bose stood for.“They build the Ram temple and differentiate between high-caste and low-caste Hindus. They are mentally and ideologically unfit to talk about such icons. The later stanzas of Jana Gana Mana, our national anthem, or Tagore’s poem 'Bharattirtha' focuses on a universal society where caste and creed do not exist. Similarly, Bose made the Azad Hind Fauz or the Indian National Army an ideal vehicle for secularism where general Shah Nawaz Khan was the second in command,” said Roy.CPI(M)’s Sujan Chakraborty, leader of the Left parties in the state assembly, said, “Do Modi and Shah live the spirit of universal brotherhood that Tagore and Bose uphold? The BJP and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh represent an entirely different ideology. Tagore believed in freedom of thought and speech while Bose believed in a classless society.”Veteran columnist and political commentator Suvashsis Maitra said, “It is fine if the BJP’s top leaders speak on Bengal’s rich heritage but some specific things need to be done.”“Why doesn’t the Centre declare its stand on the report of the Justice Manoj Mukherjee Commission that former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had set up to probe Bose’s mysterious disappearance? The commission said he did not die in the plane crash. The Centre should also declare what happened to the research on the Indian National Army that historian Pratul Chandra Gupta was asked to carry out by the Centre in 1956. The manuscript disappeared," said Maitra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/pm-modi-shah-focus-on-bengal-s-glorious-past-on-election-eve-101613754222635.html
19-02-2021||Kolkata||Goyal dedicates series of projects for rail infrastructure in poll-bound Bengal||Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Friday dedicated a series of projects for the development of rail infrastructure in poll-bound West Bengal, which he said will not only enhance passenger experience but also help in faster movement of goods.He inaugurated a second foot over-bridge at Santragachi, Freight Terminal at Sankrail (Phase-I) and Vivekananda Meditation Centre at Howrah and an executive lounge at Sealdah station. He also dedicated to the nation, two escalators at Sealdah station, two lifts at Sealdah station and a premium lounge at Kolkata station."The Sankrail freight terminal has eight full electrified lines. It will provide the facility of quick freight movement from industrial areas around Sankrail. New elevators, escalators at busy Sealdah station will provide facilities to the passengers."A new foot over-bridge at Santragachi will connect such platforms and will facilitate passenger movement. It shows the railways' commitment to offer best services to our passengers and also enhance movement of goods," Goyal said while inaugurating these facilities digitally.He also launched the integrated security system at Barddhaman station, foot over-bridge at Jhamatpur Baharan and Nimo stations, extension of platform shed at Balagarh and Guptipara stations and escalator at Barddhaman, Tarkeswar and Nabadwip Dham stations through video conferencing.Goyal also expressed his condolences on the tragic incident that took place at Nimtita railway station.West Bengal minister Jakir Hossain was seriously injured after unidentified attackers hurled bombs at him in Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad district on Wednesday night.Santragachi station is one of the busiest stations over the Howrah-Kharagpur section. It is being developed with all modern amenities. The second foot-over bridge at Santragachi constructed at a cost of ₹20 crore is 12 metre wide and 166 metre-long connecting platforms numbers one to six of Santragachi station, the Railways said in a statement.This facility will improve and ease the dispersal and mobility of incoming and outgoing passengers at Santragachi station, it said.The Sankrail Freight Terminal (Phase-I) has been developed with modern facilities for freight rake handling to ensure faster turnaround of rakes for speedy transportation of inward/outward consignments serving major industries like iron and steel, textile, garments, plastic, food and beverages, foundries, cement.This freight terminal will serve around 40 sqkm industrial belt spreading over Kolkata and Howrah in West Bengal has been constructed at a cost of ₹109 crore, it said.The Vivekananda Meditation Centre at Howrah has been constructed at a cost of ₹65 lakh of which ₹30 lakh has been arranged from the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) fund of MP Pradip Bhattacharya. The total built up area of this centre is 3,528 sqft and the meditation hall area is 2,100 sqft. It has a capacity to hold 70 persons.The executive lounge at Sealdah station covers an area of 2,000 sq ft and is provided with a separate capsule lift for easy access.A fully air-conditioned premium waiting lounge has been set up at Kolkata station. This has been developed at platform number one of Kolkata station at a cost of ₹85 lakh on a covered area of 2,000 sqft, the Railways said.In order to augment security of passengers and railway property, an Integrated Security System has been commissioned at Barddhaman station. This will strengthen security checking at all entry/exit gates, frisking of passengers through Hand Held Metal Detector (HHMD), screening of passenger luggage through Luggage Scanner Machine (LSM) and Door Framed Metal Detector screening.The total cost incurred to complete the Integrated Security System Work is ₹2.3 crore. Commissioning of this system will ensure better surveillance through CCTV control rooms and enable the Railway Protection Force (RPF) to discharge their duties and responsibilities in an organised manner, the Railways said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/goyal-dedicates-series-of-projects-for-rail-infrastructure-in-poll-bound-bengal-101613753282995.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||No foreign Covid strains found in Amravati, Yavatmal, says Maharashtra govt||With Maharashtra witnessing a rise in its daily Covid-19 cases, the state government said on Friday that new strains originating from South Africa, Brazil and the United Kingdom (UK) were not found in Amravati, Yavatmal and Satara districts - the three districts reporting a sudden surge in the number of cases.According to a statement by the health department, four samples each from these three districts were tested at Pune’s B J Medical College where no mutation similar to the ones found in the UK, South Africa or Brazil was detected. It added that more samples were taken from Amravati and Yavatmal and were sent to the National Institute of Virology and the National Centre for Cell Science.Friday’s update by the state government comes just a day after an official had told news agency PTI that researches had discovered two new mutations in Covid-19 samples from Amravati and Yavatmal- both a part of Maharashtra’s eastern region. Dr Rajesh Karyekarte from the B J Medical College said on Thursday that the two new mutations were characterised by the virus’ ability to escape neutralising antibodies in the host person’s body.Also Read| Over 6,000 new cases as Covid-19 continues to surge in MaharashtraMeanwhile, the Amaravati district has seen the biggest surge in the Covid-19 disease cases since this week. The fresh cases jumped from 82 on February 16 to 230 on February 17. Apart from the mutations, the carelessness of people, in general, is being blamed for the sudden spike. A weekend lockdown has been imposed in Yavatmal from February 20, 8pm to February 22, 7 am with district collector Shailesh Naval urging residents to abide by all Covid-19 norms failing which strict action would be taken by authorities. A 10-day lockdown has been imposed in Yavatmal district.Maharashtra on Friday recorded 6,112 fresh cases and 44 more related deaths which pushed the overall tally to nearly 2.1 million and the death toll to 51,713. A total of 1,989,963 have recovered in the state till now after 2,159 recoveries were added today.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-foreign-covid-strains-found-in-amravati-yavatmal-says-maharashtra-govt-101613754107056.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||Low-key celebration of Shiv Jayanti in Maharashtra amid Covid crisis||Shiv Jayanti, the birth anniversary of iconic warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, was celebrated in a subdued manner in Maharashtra on Friday amid the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic.The state government had asked people to desist from taking out processions and bike rallies which are witnessed in many parts of Maharashtra on Shiv Jayanti in normal times.Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari offered floral tributes to the equestrian statue of the 17th century ruler at Shivaji Park in Dadar here.Minister Ashok Chavan, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar and Municipal Commissioner I S Chahal were among those present.The governor later participated in the Shiv Jayanti celebrations organized by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation at Krida Bhavan, a Raj Bhavan statement said.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his deputy Ajit Pawar visited the Shivneri Fort, Shivaji Maharaj's birthplace in Pune district.The warrior king was born on the hill fort on this day in 1630."Shivaji Maharaj fought several battles and established 'swaraj'.... There is no need to tell how he fought the opponents. No such battles are being fought now, and there are no swords and shields. But right now we are fighting a battle against the coronavirus and face mask is the only shield in the fight," the chief minister said."One cannot win a battle by just holding a sword. One needs a determined heart and the desire to win. Shivaji Maharaj continues to provide that inspiration," he said.Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis paid tributes to the warrior king by garlanding his statue in Nagpur.NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut and Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole also paid tributes to Shivaji Maharaj."Humble tributes to pro-people's welfare ruler Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, who awakened self-pride in the minds of the people and realized the concept of the people's rule. Greetings to all on the occasion of Shiv Jayanti," Pawar tweeted.The Raigad Fort, the capital of Shivaji Maharaj's state, was illuminated with colored lights on the eve of the anniversary on Thursday.In Aurangabad district, R R Patil Foundation, a private organization, showered flower petals on statues of Shivaji Maharaj and other monuments in the district from helicopter.Like all festivals, Shiv Jayanti too was affected by the pandemic as no big gatherings and processions could be organized.Maharashtra, particularly its Vidarbha region, has seen a spike in coronavirus cases this month. The state reported more than 5,000 new cases after a gap of 75 days on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lowkey-celebration-of-shiv-jayanti-in-maharashtra-amid-covid-crisis-101613753100064.html
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||Fate of 25 Haryana’s non-SCS officers’ selection to IAS hangs in balance||The fate of Haryana government’s policy decision to fill five IAS posts from among the 25 non-state civil service (non-SCS) officers shortlisted after the written test will remain uncertain at least till March 8 due to the ongoing legal battle.When the case came up for resumed hearing on February 15 before the Punjab and Haryana high court, the division bench described the February 12 short reply of the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) as “inadequate” and “returned” it.The court adjourned the matter to March 8 after the counsel for UPSC sought time to file “a better affidavit,” according to the court order. This means the UPSC will not hold any interviews till March 8.The UPSC had postponed the interviews and meeting of the selection committee in wake of the February 11 order of the HC directing the UPSC “to positively file its response” to an application filed by petitioner Surender Singh Dahiya, additional director, agriculture department, seeking stay of interviews the UPSC had decided to hold on February 15.On February 12, GS Rawat, under secretary, UPSC, had sent a letter to the Haryana chief secretary and referring to the court order in question, stated: “In view of the above order, the selection committee meeting scheduled for February 15 has been postponed.”At the heart of the petitioner’s application was the contention that no selection had been completed till December 31, 2020, thereby in view of Regulation 5 of the Indian Administrative Service (Appointment by Selection) Regulations, 1997, the entire process of recruitment through this source will be deemed to have lapsed.In his February 14 affidavit that the court did not accept, Rawat had referred to the key contention of the petitioner and said: “...a short reply affidavit is being filed as the time was short to file a detailed reply.”The UPSC, pleading for more time to file a detailed reply at a later stage, had stated that in view of December 28, 2020 court order (of another bench), the UPSC had convened the February 15 meeting of the selection committee to select shortlisted non-SCS officers to IAS of Haryana cadre “so as to avoid any disobedience or violation” of the court order.“It is further submitted that in the meantime, the commission received the February 11 orders...Keeping it in view, the meeting scheduled for February 15 has been deferred. It is humbly submitted that further action in the matter will be initiated as per direction of the HC in the instant case of the petitioner,” UPSC submitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fate-of-25-haryana-s-non-scs-officers-selection-to-ias-hangs-in-balance-101613751658397.html
19-02-2021||Other||No two-wheeler riders without helmets to be allowed access to govt offices||PUNE The next time you visit the Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO), Sangamwadi make sure you are wearing a helmet, as the RTO has made it mandatory for all two-wheeler riders to follow traffic rules or face action.Also, in coordination with the Pune district traffic safety committee, the helmet rule will be implemented at all the government offices soon, said, officials.“In our Motor Vehicle Act it is mandatory for two-wheeler riders to wear a helmet, and if anyone is found violating this rule they will be penalised . The same rule we are implementing in the RTO premises,” said Sanjay Sasane, deputy regional transport officer, Pune RTO.“Soon we would be implementing this rule across the city and in government offices too. Through the Pune district traffic safety committee we have submitted a proposal and all the government offices are part of the committee. Once it is approved it will be implemented,” he said.”Any applicant coming to RTO to obtain a learning or permanent license for a two-wheeler should wear a helmet. The rule is for their own safety. Also, in the new Motor Vehicle Act penalties for this violation would be charged multiple times, so to create awareness amongst the public we have undertaken this initiative,” he said.Two RTO inspectors have been appointed on duty inside the Sangamwadi RTO premises, to penalise the violators. Those people coming without a helmet at the RTO are first told the importance of wearing a helmet for their safety and then told to pay a fine of ₹1,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-two-wheeler-riders-without-helmets-to-be-allowed-access-to-govt-offices-101613750817680.html
19-02-2021||Other||Pune district records 1,000 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours||PUNE Pune district reported a record jump in new Covid-19 cases, with 1,000 infections being reported in a 24- hour period by the state health department on Friday. This puts the district active cases count at over 8,528. The progressive count stands at 3.98 lakh, of which 3.81 lakh have recovered. The death toll for Pune district stands at 8,068. This has been the highest number of cases reported in the district since the beginning of January 2021. The department also reported one death on Friday in the district. Pune continues to top the state in terms of active cases. Pune city reported 535 new cases, taking the progressive count to 2,03,352. The death toll stood at 4558. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 259 fresh cases, which takes the progressive count to 99,407. The death toll in PCMC is 1,321. Pune rural reported 211 new cases with the progressive count at 95,648, while the deaths toll stood at 2,141 with one death reported on Friday. 44% vaccinated, 566 get second dose Pune district also saw 44% of the target beneficiaries vaccinated for the first time on Friday. Of the 7,400 beneficiaries, 3,241 were vaccinated. This included 1,237 health care workers and 2,004 frontline workers. The lowest percentage was recorded by the PCMC as only 38% of the targeted beneficiaries were inoculated on Friday. PMC recorded a 48% vaccination percentage and Pune rural recorded a 43% vaccination percentage. A total of 566 beneficiaries got their second dose, of which 137 are from PCMC, 185 from PMC and 244 from Pune rural. Zero adverse effects following immunization (AEFI) were reported from the district on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-records-1-000-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-101613750759383.html
19-02-2021||Other||PMPML to restrict number of passenger travelling per bus from Feb 22||PUNE In the light of increasing Covid-19 cases in Pune, the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), has decided to limit the number of passengers travelling in a bus from Monday, February 22. Passengers as per the seating capacity of a bus will be allowed on board. No passengers will be allowed to stand. PMPML’s chairman and managing director (CMD) Rajendra Jagtap communicated this decision on Friday. Jagtap has also directed PMPML staff to follow the norms of sanitisation in buses. “Because of the spike in cases, on the request of the PMC commissioner, we are reducing the number of passengers per bus. No standing travel will be allowed from Monday,” said Jagtap. The load on PMPML buses is comparatively lower on weekends. Hence, the decision is to be implemented strictly from Monday. “The seating capacity of our buses varies from 32 to 54, depending on the size of the bus. For peak hours, we will be adding 50 more buses from Monday,” said Jagtap. Covid violations: collector orders checks to begin Rajesh Deshmukh, district collector, Pune, has ordered authorities to conduct surprise inspections at marriage halls, multiplexes, theatres, schools, coaching classes, gardens, religious places, shopping malls, and restaurants, to take action against Covid violations such as not wearing masks, not following social distancing and improper arrangements of sanitisation. Any event for will draw a crowd will require prior permissions from the police. Deshmukh has also ordered a check on the preparedness of Covid care centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmpml-to-restrict-number-of-passenger-travelling-per-bus-from-feb-22-101613750757692.html
19-02-2021||Pune||BJP issues notices to 27 corporators for not attending GB meetings||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) issued show cause notices to 27 corporators who had been absent for general body meetings. The ruling BJP in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) wants to pass resolutions through majority voting and hence, requires attendance of all its party members.These absent members have been asked to submit their reply to member of Parliament (MP) Girish Bapat, city unit president Jagdish Mulik and leader of the house Ganesh Bidkar.Bidkar said, “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, PMC has not been able to hold general body meetings. Almost 300 proposals are pending. The BJP has 100 members, but with some of them remaining absent, it becomes a problem during voting. If all party members are present, the ruling party can approve city’s development proposals through voting.”“We want to ensure that all our elected members remain present for the general body meetings. Recently, a two-day residential workshop had been organised at Rambhau Mahalgi Prabodhini in Mumbai for them where instructions had been given to the elected members that they should attend meetings and put the party’s views in the meetings,” Bidkar added.Officials aware of the developments said that among the 27 members, many are senior members who had been appointed to various committees. These members have been given instructions to remain present for the general body meetings as the party would need to call vote on some topics, however, despite that they were absent for the online general body meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-issues-notices-to-27-corporators-for-not-attending-gb-meetings-101613750758234.html
19-02-2021||Other||Rapid Antigen Tests accounts for 18% of Covid tests conducted in Pune city||PUNE As per the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), out of close to 10.98 lakh Covid tests conducted in the city, 1.98 lakh tests were conducted through Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT), which is 18 per cent of the total tests.Dr Sanjeev Wavare, PMC assistant medical officer of health, said, “Out of the 10.89 lakh Covid tests conducted in the city, 1.98 lakh tests were conducted through RAT. We focus more on RT-PCR tests and do keep a follow up on symptomatic negative RAT tests.”“We have kept a lower target for RAT and aim for more RT-PCR tests,” he added.According to a reply given to a Lok Sabha member’s question, the central health ministry has listed out the proportion of RT-PCR and RAT tests conducted by states/Union territories in their overall testing.According to that reply, in Maharashtra, almost 40 per cent of the Covid tests conducted, from March 2020 until February 9, 2021, were done through RAT and 60 per cent was through RT-PCR testing.The local authorities continue to ignore the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) advisory to follow up on symptomatic negative RAT’s which RT-PCR tests, which is considered the gold standard for detection of the virus.According to the reply, out of the 1.45 crore tests done as of February 9, 2021, 40 per cent of tests in the state are done through RAT and the rest through RT-PCR. Despite a higher dependency on RAT which provides faster results and is useful especially before surgeries like pregnancy or emergency, the ICMR considers RT-PCR to be the gold standard for detection of the infection.As of February 18, the state overall positivity rate stands at 13.4 per cent as out of 1.55 crores, 20.81 lakh have tested positive for the infection, as per the state health department.Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said, “I think at 40 per cent RAT tests is a good enough number. However, we conduct RT-PCR tests of those symptomatic who come negative in a RAT test. It may be said that it is not strictly followed in all cases, but we do insist district authorities to follow the norms as much as possible and keep pushing them for better implementation.”With 40 per cent RAT dependency, the state still fares much better than other major states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Delhi which have more RAT tests than RT-PCR tests. RAT tests have often been criticised by experts to give false negatives.Some of the states that fare well in terms of more accurate testing strategy are Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan that do have close to 100 per cent use of RT-PCR in their testing mix.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rapid-antigen-tests-accounts-for-18-of-covid-tests-conducted-in-pune-city-101613750698175.html
19-02-2021||Other||No samples from Amravati, Yavatmal and Satara test positive for any foreign Covid strain: state||PUNE A day after Pune’s government college, the BJ Medical college, and Sassoon General hospital claimed that the samples from Amravati, Satara and Yavatmal showed mutations which escape neutralising antibodies, the state health ministry clarified that none of the mutations were similar to those found in Britain, Brazil or South Africa. The Maharashtra government in a statement on Friday said, “Till now, BJ Medical college has tested four samples each from Amravati, Yavatmal and Satara. None of the samples showed any mutations similar to the ones being reported from Britain, Brazil or South Africa.” The samples were sent for genome sequencing in view of increasing cases being reported from these districts. The state said that although the genomic sequencing of these samples do show certain mutations, these mutations are not similar to ones being reported from other countries. On Thursday, Dr Rajesh Karyekarte, head of the department of Microbiology at B J Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital, said, “Our findings suggest the D614G strain, which is prevalent, was found in all the samples. The samples from Amravati, Yeotmal and Satara also showed different mutations. For example, in Amravati, we came across a mutation named E484K in all the four samples. When we inquired if all four samples belong to one family, we were informed that all four samples were taken from different locations. So the conclusion was that it was a common mutation.” Explaining the significance of the mutation, Dr Karyakarte added that the character of the strain found in Amravati is that it escapes neutralising antibodies. “In a nutshell, even if there are neutralising antibodies in the human body, the particular mutation escapes or saves itself from these antibodies,” he said. Talking about Yavatmal, he said that in the samples, they did not find any foreign strain, but a new mutation named N440K. “This particular mutation is commonly seen in Andhra Pradesh. It was also found in a case of re-infection in Delhi. This mutation too can escape the neutralising antibodies and can cause re-infection,” he added. As far as the Satara samples are concerned, Dr Karyekarte said that they came across a new mutation named V911I. “Unfortunately, we could not get significant scientific references about this mutation in any published journals,” he added. He added that all these new mutations are specific to India. “All these strains are of A2 type of coronavirus, which is common in India,” he said. Dr Murlidhar Tambe, dean of B J Medical and Sassoon General Hospital said that in any major outbreaks or pandemic, following a big curve, small curves take place. “It seems all these small curves are happening due to lax behaviour such as gathering, weddings and various functions where no physical distancing is followed.” The state also said that none of the 12 samples sent from Pune showed any mutation following the genomic sequencing. The district has been reporting an alarming spike in the number of new cases. “More inquiry is going on and so more samples from Akola, Amravati and Yavatmal have been sent to Pune’s National Institute of Virology and National Centre for Cell Sciences for genomic sequencing. The report is likely to come out new week,” said the state statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-samples-from-amravati-yavatmal-and-satara-test-positive-for-any-foreign-covid-strain-state-101613750697655.html
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula plot allotment case: ED springs surprise by filing chargesheet before CBI could||The recent move of the enforcement directorate (ED) to file a prosecution complaint (a chargesheet) under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in a trial court against former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and 21 others in Panchkula industrial plots allotment case came as a surprise for the official circles.Reason: The CBI probing the alleged “currying of favour” by Hooda to his acquaintances in allotments is yet to submit a chargesheet for the predicate offences registered under the IPC and the Prevention of Corruption Act. In fact, CBI is yet to seek sanction from the state government to prosecute Hooda and others, a mandatory requirement now under the Act.ED’s chargesheet filed in a trial court on February 15 thus triggered discussions on why the agency submitted a chargesheet charging the accused for money laundering before the CBI, probing the predicate offence, could do so. ED says that every scheduled offence is a predicate offence and the occurrence of the same is a pre-requisite for initiating investigation into the offence of money laundering.The predicate offences are investigated by agencies such as police, customs, SEBI, NCB and CBI, under their respective Acts, the ED says.‘Time limit of 365 days was coming to an end’Legal experts said the answer to ED’s urgency in submitting the chargesheet lays in the 2019 amendments made in the PMLA which now provided that attachment of property involved in money laundering will remain valid during the period of investigation for 365 days.In this case, the 14 industrial plots were attached by ED in August 2019 and the attachment was confirmed by the adjudicating authority in February 2020.“Once the attachments have been confirmed by the adjudicating authority, the ED will have to submit a chargesheet in court within 365 days. Otherwise, these attachments would become invalid,” said a law expert. ED officials did not respond to a list of queries e-mailed to them.‘Money laundering a standalone crime’Secondly, an explanation inserted in 2019 for removal of doubts about Section 44 of the PMLA states “the jurisdiction of special court while dealing with the offence under this Act, during investigation, enquiry or trial under this Act, shall not be dependent upon any orders passed in respect of the scheduled offence, and the trial of both sets of offences by the same court shall not be construed as joint trial.”Experts say that the explanation was inserted to insulate the trial of money laundering offences from the outcome of the trial of the predicate offence by an agency like CBI. “The ED says money laundering is a standalone offence. The amended law means that any order passed by a court with regards to a predicate offence will not have a direct bearing on the trial of offence under money laundering law. In a nutshell it means that even if an accused is discharged by the CBI court, it will not affect his role or involvement in any process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime,” said an IPS officer.However, the Delhi high court in at least two cases has ruled otherwise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-plot-allotment-case-ed-springs-surprise-by-filing-chargesheet-before-cbi-could-101613749978123.html
19-02-2021||Dehradun||2 Uttarakhand men crushed to death under dumper after their bike hits Nilgai||Two men were crushed under a dumper while another person sustained severe injuries in Bazpur area of Uttarakhand's US Nagar on Friday after their bike hit a Nilgai. The animal, which was pregnant, couldn’t be saved and died while receiving treatment, said an official.Sanjay Pandey, inspector, Bazpur police station, said, “We rushed to the spot and two of them had succumbed to the injuries by then. One who had sustained severe injuries was rushed to the hospital.”Nilgai (Boselaphus tragocamelus), also called Blue Cow, is the largest Asian antelope found across the north Indian subcontinent. It is categorised as of Least Concern by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural resources (IUCN). In India, it is protected under Schedule III of the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972.Pandey said the three men belonged to Ratanpura village under Bazpur police station. They on their way to Garjiya temple of Ramnagar in Nainital on a bike at about 11 am on Friday.Also read: Over 6,000 new cases as Covid-19 continues to surge in Maharashtra“When they reached near a stone crusher at Bannakhera, a Nilgai suddenly jumped before them to cross the road. They lost control over the bike after hitting the wild animal and fell on the road. A speeding dumper loaded with sand crushed two of them. The third man sustained severe injuries”, he said.Pandey said the deceased have been identified as Aman Kumar, 21 and Rohit Kumar, 16, while the one who sustained severe injuries has been identified as Vinod Kumar. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem, he added.He said the dumper driver has also been nabbed and his vehicle has been seized. “Police are waiting for the complaint from the deceased’s families to register a case,” he said.Nandan Prasad Aagri, a veterinary doctor of Bannakhera veterinary hospital, said, “The Nilgai was three-to four-years-old and was in an advanced stage of pregnancy. It had a tail cut and fracture in the rear left leg. The animal was suffering from internal bleeding too and couldn't be saved.”He said Nilgai died due to injuries and shock while it was being brought to the Bannakhera forest outpost in a tractor. Its body was buried after a post-mortem, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/2-uttarakhand-men-crushed-to-death-under-dumper-after-their-bike-hits-nilgai-101613748847336.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||Over 6,000 new cases as Covid-19 continues to surge in Maharashtra; 823 fresh infections in Mumbai||For the third consecutive day, the cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continued to spike in Maharashtra after a dip was witnessed in the last 75 days. On Friday the state reported 6,112 cases, 685 higher than the previous day. While 44 people lost their lives to the viral disease pushing the death toll to climb at 51,713.Out of the total fresh cases, 823 cases reported in Mumbai. The capital city's death toll reached 11,437 after five fresh fatalities.Meanwhile, the number of people recovered in the span of 24 hours was 19,89,963 after 2,159 were cured of the disease. The number of tests conducted in the last 24 hours was 67,126 and the state has tested 1,55,88,324 people so far.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageMaharashtra is witnessing a spurt in the daily cases of Covid-19 infection. On Thursday, it clocked 5,427 cases of Covid-19. A day before that it had reported a spike of 4,787 which was the biggest one day spike in 70 days. The state had earlier registered 4,981 cases on December 9. Experts have attributed the spike in cases to a drop in tests and poor contact-tracing in districts where cases are on the rise.Over the last seven days, the state added 31,057 cases of Covid-19 to the tally. While the average number of daily cases hovered between 3,300 to 3,600. On February 16, 15, 14 and 13, Maharashtra registered 3,663, 3,365, 4,092 and 3,611 cases respectively.Meanwhile, the number of fatalities in a day remained under 50. On February 17, fatalities surged as 40 people succumbed to the disease. However, it came down to 38 on February 18. The lowest number of fatalities was reported on February 15 when 23 people were killed due to the Covid-19. On February 16, 14 and 13, it registered 39, 40 and 38 fatalities.These "small curves" (spurts in infections) are happening due to lax behaviour as gatherings, weddings and various functions are happening and no physical distancing is being followed, news agency PTI quoted Dr Murlidhar Tambe, Dean of B J Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital, as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-6-000-new-cases-as-covid-19-continues-to-surge-in-maharashtra-823-fresh-infections-in-mumbai-101613743700071.html
19-02-2021||Jaipur||NHRC recommends Rajasthan to initiate action against erring police officials||citiesThe NHRC has recommended to the Rajasthan government to initiate disciplinary action against erring police officials for the delay in the registration of an FIR on the allegations that a class 5 student had died after being beaten by a teacher in his school in Kota in 2017, officials said on Friday.The rights panel has also asked the state government, through its chief secretary, to pay a relief of ₹2 lakh to the mother of the deceased child as the delay in the registration of an FIR on her complaint in a cognisable offence "amounted to violation of human rights".The National Human Rights Commission, in a statement, said it had registered the case on the basis of a complaint dated December 12, 2017, by the victim's mother that her son was "brutally beaten with a bamboo stick by a teacher, who taught environment subject, for not completing his homework".When her son came back home, he was so struck by the fear of his teacher that he found it hard to recognise his mother and brother, and was having hallucinations that the teacher would come and stab him. He was not eating anything, it said.When rushed to the emergency ward of Government Medical College Hospital, the doctor said that her son was suffering from high fever and panic attack, which was also confirmed by the psychiatrist next day. After two days, the boy died on December 3, 2017, the statement said.Allegedly, the police officials were not taking any action against the accused teacher, the right panel said.The Commission had issued notices to the Superintendent of Police, Kota and the principal secretary, department of school education, government of Rajasthan, seeking reports, and it had also directed its Director General (Investigation) to submit an enquiry report.The Superintendent of Police, Kota, Rajasthan informed that a case had been registered in the matter as per the directions of a court in Kota. The Principal Secretary Department of School Education, Rajasthan submitted its report in February 2019. The report revealed that an inquiry committee was constituted. As per the enquiry committee report, "the cause of death of the student was not due to beating". Though the case has been investigated and a final report has been submitted in the court by the police on the grounds of cause of death being brain fever and lungs disease, the non-registration of an FIR by police on cognisable reported offence, in itself is a violation of human rights, the statement said.On the findings of its Investigation Division, the Commission had issued a notice to the Rajasthan government to show cause why a monetary relief of ₹2 lakh should not be recommended to be paid to the victim's mother, the statement said.Setting aside the contention of the Rajasthan government, the NHRC has "reiterated its recommendation that the state initiate disciplinary action against the erring police officials for the delay in the registration of an FIR on the allegations".The state government had contended that there was "no delay", which the Commission did not accept and reiterated its recommended relief too, the rights panel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/nhrc-recommends-rajasthan-to-initiate-action-against-erring-police-officials-101613746968443.html
19-02-2021||Kolkata||Over 200 dogs found dead in 3 days in Bengal town triggering panic||Over 200 stray dogs have died in the last three days in Bishnupur town in West Bengal's Bankura district, triggering panic among the people, officials said on Friday.While 60 dogs died on Tuesday, 97 were found dead on Wednesday and 45 on Thursday, they said.Bishnupur's civic body chief Divyendu Bandyopadhyay said the matter has been informed to the district authorities.Samples have been collected from the dead dogs and sent to Kolkata for testing, officials said.Veterinarians said that they suspect the deaths to be caused by a viral infection, which is common during this time among dogs, and urged people not to panic as there are no chances of transmission to humans or other animals.The carcasses are being buried at the dumping ground by the Bishnupur Municipality, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/over-200-dogs-found-dead-in-3-days-in-bengal-town-triggering-panic-101613746755807.html
19-02-2021||Kolkata||BJP youth leader held with 100 grams of cocaine in south Kolkata||A Bharatiya Janata Party youth leader, Pamela Goswami, was arrested from a posh area in south Kolkata with nearly 100 grams of cocaine allegedly in her possession, according to the police.Goswami is the secretary of the BJP’s youth wing. Her friend Prabir Kumar De, who was with her, has also been arrested.The police claimed that the two had been purchasing drugs from a peddler in New Alipore area of south Kolkata. The cops had prior information that they would be buying drugs on Friday. Women police personnel were deployed accordingly.The duo was intercepted from the spot and a search revealed that there was at least 100 grams of cocaine in some plastic pouches in the woman’s handbag.“I have heard about it but we are yet to gather details. If she has really done something illegal, then the law will take its own course. But it could also be planted. The elections are near, and the Model Code of Conduct is yet to be enforced. The police are now under the control of the chief minister. We also need to keep these in mind,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP’s state spokesperson“BJP has connections in Bollywood where the NCB has found cocaine in the possession of some people. Earlier, allegations of child trafficking had surfaced against a BJP leader in Jalpaiguri. This Pamela Goswami is another addition to the list. Let the police take action,” said Saugata Roy, TMC MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-youth-leader-held-with-100-grams-of-cocaine-in-south-kolkata-101613745234522.html
19-02-2021||Delhi||Over 15 per cent drop in crime rate in 2020: Delhi Police||The Delhi Police registered 2,66,070 cases under the Indian Penal Code in 2020, a drop of more than 15 per cent as against 2019, officials said on Friday.While there was a decline in the number of crimes against women, cases of snatching and robbery increased in the national capital, they said.A total of 2,66,070 IPC cases were registered last year as against 3,16,261 in 2019, a drop of 15.87 per cent, the police said.The number of arrests, however, increased by 15.43 per cent, they said.In 2020, a total of 1,25,986 people were arrested as compared to 1,091,38 in 2019, they said.Last year also saw a drop in the number of PCR calls received.A total of 18,08,384 and 29,25,531 PCR calls were received in 2020 and 2019, a drop of 38.19 per cent.The number of crimes against women also saw a decline.The rape cases have gone down by 21.63 per cent, those of molestation by 25.16 per cent and insult to modesty of women by 12.32 per cent, the police said.Murder cases in the city have gone down by 9.40 per cent. A total of 472 such cases were registered in 2020 while 521 were registered in 2019, the police said.Cases of kidnapping for ransom dropped by 26.67 per cent, burglary cases went down by 27.33 per cent, motor vehicle theft cases by 24.23 per cent and other theft cases by 30.52 per cent, they said.Nine cases of dacoity were registered last year as against 15 in 2019, a drop of 40 per cent, they said.However, there was a marginal rise of 0.35 per cent in the number of robbery cases. A total of 1,963 cases were registered in 2020 as compared to 1,956 in 2019, according to the police.The number of snatching cases in 2020 also went up by 27.11 per cent from 2019. As many as 7,965 such cases were registered last year as against 6,266 in 2019, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-15-per-cent-drop-in-crime-rate-in-2020-delhi-police-101613745246368.html
19-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi-based philanthropist develops skill centre for underprivileged youth||“I learnt the meaning of service from the Sikh guru, Guru Nanak Dev ji. Kirat Karo Naam Japo, Wand Chhako (work hard, worship God and share your gains with the poor). And this is the philosophy of my life,” says Padma Shri Vikramjit Singh Sahney. A resident of Delhi, a social worker and a philanthropist, Sahney has set up World Class Skill Centre at ITI, Jail Road to help the underprivileged find employment. “The main focus of this centre is to impart free and full time training to the youth, for various courses such as in fashion design, interior design, refrigeration repairs, solar panel installation, and various other advanced IT courses that will help them get placement in the industry. The long term goal is to empower the underprivileged youth of Delhi-NCR by letting them acquire these skills that will help them earn a livelihood,” says Sahney, chairman of the NGO Sun Foundation. Courses for personality development, digital literacy and spoken English will also be rolled out at this newly developed centre. And Sahney says that it’s the support of his family that has enabled him to accomplish all this. “My wife Daisy Sahney, and children Aman (son) and Damandeep (daughter) have been gracious in lending me their support to fulfil this dream,” says Sahney, who maintains a fine balance between his entrepreneurial duties and philanthropic endeavours. “I devote equal time to office work and social activities. Since I received the prestigious Padma Shri award in 2008, I’ve multiplied my philanthropic activities and embarked upon various programmes as I feel all the more responsible to give back to the society,” says Sahney, whose NGO has donated two AI equipped mobile corona testing buses and ambulances to the Government of Punjab and Delhi, to support the fight against Covid-19. Sahney, whose foundation has been running 50 skill centres over the past 10 years in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi-NCR, says the recently established centre was developed specifically for those underprivileged who are victims of 1984 riots, the Afghan refugees and the BPL families. He says, “Many migrant labourers and a lot of other people lost their jobs during the pandemic, and I thought that such job-oriented courses were the need of the hour. We therefore ran a massive awareness campaign in west Delhi and slums nearby the area to enrol the students for the centre, and we’ve already gathered about 200 students for the first batch.”Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhibased-philanthropist-develops-skill-centre-for-underprivileged-youth-101613745240094.html
19-02-2021||City||Tamil Nadu CM drops charges against CAA protestors, other groups ahead of polls||Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami on Friday announced that all cases against those who protested against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and for Covid- lockdown violators would be withdrawn, continuing with his announcements of withdrawing cases before April-May assembly elections.“Ten lakh cases filed during the lockdown period and 1,500 cases filed during the anti-CAA protests will be withdrawn in the public interest,” Palaniswami said. “Except for cases filed against specific serious offences, and for not allowing police personnel from discharging their duty, all other cases will be withdrawn.” A subsequent statement added that cases of violence, fraudulently getting an e-pass will continue to be investigated.Activists have welcomed the state’s decision.During the CAA protests, a case was filed against human rights activist and senior advocate of the Madras High Court Sudha Ramalingam.“After students were attacked in Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University, we held a candlelight vigil. Police stationed there shook hands with me for keeping the protest peaceful,” said Ramalingam. “Months later, I came to know that an FIR was filed and I was the number one accused. It goes on to show how the entire police machinery and criminal law is being abused by the state to silence people. The chief minister and the politicians know that there is no case here and when taken to trial, it will end up in acquittals. That’s why in most cases there is no charge sheet filed. It will be kept pending. One fine day, it will be dropped and that’s nearer to the elections. It’s time we take cognisance that these were cases foisted by abusing the process of law,” she said.Also read: ‘Born and brought up in Bengal’ - Amit Shah on poll-bound state’s next CMThe ruling AIADMK government in alliance with the BJP has been in support of the CAA that allows Hindus, Sikhs, Jains, Parsis, Christians and Buddhists from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanisation, who have come before December 2014, to get citizenship in India.However, Palaniswami has repeatedly assured minorities in the state that they will be protected. He has met Muslim and Christian leaders-led delegation to convey that they need not fear the alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party.Palaniswami also announced on Friday that they will consider withdrawing cases filed between 2011 and 2014 against people who protested against the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant (KNPP). The charges range from petty offences for unlawful assembly to sedition.A request for the same was made by villagers of Idinthakarai to the chief minister on Thursday night for the withdrawal of 105 cases filed against thousands of protestors between 2011 and 2014.“We explained to him (Palaniswami) that it was a non-violent protest by the people for their lives and livelihood,” said SP Udayakumar from the People’s Movement Against Nuclear Energy. During that period, late J Jayalalithaa was the chief minister and the UPA was in power at the Centre. “There are 20 sedition cases. The pendency has affected our villagers' job prospects. They can’t avail passports to travel for their work,” said Udayakumar.The petition stated that 350 cases were registered against 2.27 lakh people. After a 2014 government order, 213 cases were closed and another 31 following a Madras High Court directive, 105 cases are still pending. “Some of the cases are now being investigated by the court. Other cases are in the FIR stage. People in that area have asked these cases to be taken back. We will consider their request under the purview of law,” Palaniswami said.A few weeks ago, Palaniswami announced the withdrawing of cases against pro-Jallikattu protestors from January 2017 except for crimes like assaulting policemen and setting fire to vehicles. Disciplinary proceedings against thousands of government teaching staff for an indefinite agitation in January 2020 were also withdrawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tamil-nadu-cm-drops-charges-against-caa-protestors-other-groups-ahead-of-polls-101613743943413.html
19-02-2021||Pune||NIBM forest main gate lock found broken, security cabin unmanned||Pune: The 200-acre reserve forest at NIBM is in a state of neglect with the lock of main gate broken, security cabin unmanned and found open and fencing breached at various locations. Residents report of vandals entering the green belt, engage in binge drinking and bonfires. Some even use the space to dump waste. An incident of fire at the grassland portion of the forest area near EDP restaurant was reported a few days ago angering residents to demand a probe into the case as they claim that such happenings are taking place often. The gates of the forest area are located near the connecting road to Dorabjee Heritage Mall and opposite to Anand Van forest reserve in Kondhwa. A spot visit revealed that the lock of the gate near Dorabjee Heritage Mall was broken and the security cabin door unmanned and open. The cabin’s nearby area was littered with liquor bottles, plastic garbage and remains of burnt wood. “The private security guard posted here is missing since one month. There is no police patrolling and the forest department is least bothered about protecting the green space,” said Ashutosh Kumar, who is regular at the hill in the evenings. Green activist Praveen Kumar Anand said, “We have been requesting the state government to hand over this forest land to us for conservation and due care will be taken to protect and preserve the reserve forest.” Kumar, who heads Anandvan Forest Trust, an NGO that carries out plantation and other conservation works at Anand Van forest reserve, said Mohammadwadi and NIBM forests have long been neglected. “We have demanded that the 100 acres of reserve forest lying unused and abandoned behind DPS school must be transformed into urban forest. Also, 11 acres of reserve forest in Krushnagar must be immediately handed over for developing an urban forest park. Currently these areas are neglected and occupied by hooligans.” Daljeet Goraya, secretary, Ganga Kingston Society secretary, said, “The forest has to be protected, walled and put under CCTV camera surveillance.” Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forests, Pune, did not respond to queries and calls on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nibm-forest-main-gate-lock-found-broken-security-cabin-unmanned-101613742536656.html
19-02-2021||Delhi||DU Waale: An app by a student to provide free study material to peers||The pandemic posed challenging times in lives of most, but many youngsters ensured that they use this as an opportunity to bring forth the best in them. One such exemplary story is of Pranav Singh, a student of BSc (Hons) at Bhaskaracharya College Of Applied Sciences, Delhi University, who used his time during the pandemic to benefit his peers by developing an app named DU Waale: Study Material of Delhi University, which can be accessed by students at the tap of a finger. With the help of this app, students can download and upload study material for free, at a time when it’s becoming difficult to visit the library or borrow books from seniors. “Colleges were closed amid the pandemic but online exams and online classes were taking place, and students did not have all the necessary study material to prepare for the exam. Moreover, many students didn’t have stable internet connection or enough broadband data to attend online classes. The libraries were closed, photocopy and book shops on campus were inaccessible because many students had to go back to their home towns. A number of students didn’t even have the money to buy books because the pandemic had hit their parents financially. I wanted to help all these students, and that inspired me to create this app, which we have launched this month,” says Singh. One of the downsides to having an online campus has been the gap between seniors and juniors and the app helps bridge that gap to some extent. “When we are on campus, it’s easy to pass on our course books and notes to the juniors, but in an online campus mode this has been a challenge. Freshers even now don’t have enough knowledge about study resources and course structure so this app will be proving very helpful for them by making it easy to understand course structures and provide all study material for free,” says Singh.The app has had more than 450 downloads already, and Singh plans to create audio books out of all the available study material, to benefit the visually impaired students. “It took me nearly three months to create this app, which is slowly finding its popularity among the campus kids. Most users are happy with it as they are able to get all books and previous years’ question papers – everything at one place, and for free! I’m working to make the app more user friendly, so that the students who aren’t tech savvy can also use it without any hesitation. I’ll try to provide material for most courses and subjects, and will also introduce some new features through which students can directly contact their seniors,” he adds. Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-waale-an-app-by-a-student-to-provide-free-study-material-to-peers-101613742434466.html
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||Hoshiarpur DCA win Trident inter-district cricket title||Providing a platform to cricketers of the region, the Trident Group organised Trident Inter-District One Day Cricket Tournament that concluded in Barnala on Thursday, with Hoshiarpur District Cricket Association (HDCA) clinching the title. Riding high on useful knocks from Happy Kulvir (53) and Karambir Singh (43) HDCA beat Muktsar District Cricket Association (MDCA) by 44 runs to emerge champions in this Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) backed tournament. Batting first, HDCA posted a total of 224 runs for the loss of eight wickets in 34 overs. Happy Kulvir (53), Karambir Singh (43) and Manjinder Singh (31) were the principal run-getters for the Hoshiarpur side. For MDCA, Amandeep Singh Sikander (4 for 56) and Vicky Kinger (2 for 34) were the main wicket-takers. In reply, MDCA could score 180 runs, losing eight wickets in 34 overs. For the winning team, Karan Saini (3 for 19) and Ashish Ghai (3 for 31) were the main wicket-takers. Due to foggy conditions, the match was reduced to a 34 overs game instead of 50 overs. Happy Kulvir was named man of the match. Bathinda defeat Nawanshahr for third place In a match played for the third place at the Cops Club in Bathinda, Bathinda District Cricket Association beat Nawanshahr District Cricket Association by 95 runs. The victorious HDCA team was given ₹1.5 lakh, runner-up MDCA team took ₹1 lakh, while the Bathinda team finishing third got ₹50,000. Uday Pratap of Bathinda team was adjudged as the best player in the tournament. He was awarded a cash prize of ₹21,000. During the tournament, 15 teams from Muktsar, Bathinda, Ropar, Hoshiarpur, Ferozepur, Sangrur, Nawanshahr, Gurdaspur, Faridkot, Barnala, Kapurthala, Moga, Fazilka, Mansa and Fatehgarh Sahib participated. Over 150 cricketers competed in the meet. Need more such tournaments: Ex-national selector Former India fast bowler and former national selector Bhupinder Singh Senior said, “Such tournaments provide ample chance to cricketers from all districts. PCA president Rajinder Gupta is making efforts and creating platforms for cricketers of the region by organising such tournaments. The first tournament was organised in Ludhiana, the second in Amritsar and the third concluded in Barnala. There is talent in smaller districts of Punjab; it is just that they need more such tournaments. The scouts can pick such talented players and then the PCA can groom them.” Gupta, who is the Trident Group chairman, said, “It is important to organise such sporting events to provide a world-class platform for budding cricketers to polish and improve their game.” Scores in brief Hoshiarpur DCA: 224 for 8 in 34 overs (Happy Kulvir 53, Karambir Singh 43, Manjinder Singh 31, Amandeep Singh Sikander 4 for 56, Vicky Kinger 2 for 34) beat Muktsar DCA: 180 for 8 in 34 overs (Amandeep Singh Sonu 35, Dhruv Verma 25, Shahbaz Brar 22, Karan Saini 3 for 19, Ashish Ghai 3 for 31) by 44 runs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hoshiarpur-dca-win-trident-inter-district-cricket-title-101613741519038.html
19-02-2021||Lucknow||SP MLCs stage walkout over appointment of UP Legislative Council acting chairman||Samajwadi Party legislators on Friday challenged the appointment of BJP member Kunwar Manvendra Singh as the acting chairman of the UP Legislative Council and walked out from the House when the presiding officer rejected their plea for moving a no-confidence motion against him.The notice served under Rule 143 and signed by Members of the Legislative Council (MLC) Naresh Uttam and Rajpal Kashyap was rejected by presiding officer Suresh Kumar Tripathi, citing rules.Leader of Opposition Ahmed Hasan said though he was not questioning the decision of the Chair, he was unhappy with his party not getting its due despite being in majority in the House.All SP members staged a walkout shouting slogans against the government. Governor Anandiben Patel had last month administered the oath of the protem chariman to Manvendra Singh.The Samajwadi Party having 51 members in the 100-member Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council had objected to it and demanded election for the post, stressing that since the party was in majority in the house, its candidate should be made the chairman.Earlier talking reporters, Samajwadi Party MLC Sunil Singh Sajan said," Fourteen days ago, we gave a notice for the removal of the acting chairman of the UP Legislative Council. It was accepted. The notice was given 14 days ago under the rules. When the Samajwadi Party is in majority, then the acting chairman is only for administering oath to members and not for running the House."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-mlcs-stage-walkout-over-appointment-of-up-legislative-council-acting-chairman-101613739644977.html
19-02-2021||Pune||Kusumagraj’s Marathi musical translated into English to broaden aappeal||Pune: Marathi literature and theatre is adorned with musical dramas with some being commercially successful. One of such dramas is “Yayati Ani Devyani” written by poet and writer Vishnu Vaman Shirwadkar (1912-1999), who is popularly known by his pen name Kusumagraj. Theatre artist Ninad Jadhav, 50, has translated this popular musical, including its 7-8 songs, into English, in an effort to shatter the language barrier for theatre lovers. He said that the English version of the musical will be on stage in a few months. Kusumagraj was the recipient of many national awards, including Jnanpith, Sahitya Akademi and Sangeet Natak Akademi.“I believe that theatre breaks language barriers. We have very few examples in the theatre where a drama is translated and performed in another language. That’s why I decided to translate “Yayati Ani Devyani”, a story connected to the Mahabharat, into English. The English version will allow theatre enthusiasts across the globe to watch, perform and enjoy. We have seen this in the case of the dramas written by Kannada writer Girish Karnad (1938-2019). His works were translated into English first and then it was adopted in other Indian languages,” said Jadhav. “Yayati Ani Devyani”, the musical play was published in 1966. The play narrates the story of King Yayati, an ancestor of the Pandavas and Kauravas, and his two wives Devyani and Sharmishtha. Through these main characters, the play unfolds the complexities of human relations. The music score was given by Hindustani classical vocalist and composer Jitendra Abhisheki. The play became a commercial success. “Performing this drama on the stage is an experiment as it will depend on the imagination of a theatre artist. The theatre director can keep the original music score and blend the translated songs into it. Also, the dialogues could be in English and the songs could be performed in Marathi in its original form, as they are popular. Based on the translated songs, maybe a new music score could be done,” he said. The translated text version of the drama will be published on February 27, the 109th birth anniversary of Vishnu Vaman Shirwadkar. “A drama is alive when it is staged. Primary readings have been going on and the audience can see the English version in the course of two months,” said Jadhav. “My effort is to let the world see the writing style of Kusumagraj. I remember there was an attempt to stage Vasant Kanetkar’s Marathi classic music play “Matsyagandha” (the story of Satyavati from the Mahabharat) in Hindi. I had given playback to one of its songs in Hindi and it was experimental theatre. There has not been any such performance in commercial theatre,” said Charudatta Aphale, a senior vocalist and kirtan (ballad) performer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/attempt-to-stage-kusumagraj-s-marathi-musical-before-english-audience-and-others-101613739296366.html
19-02-2021||Bangalore||Reservation demands: Karnataka govt discussing modalities regarding way forward, says CM||The Karnataka government was discussing modalities on the way forward following demands by various communities in the state to revise the existing reservation, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Friday. "I have discussed it at the cabinet meeting (on Thursday), all the Ministers have expressed their opinion, discussions are on regarding the way forward....how and what is to be done," Yediyurappa told reporters in response to a question.The state government is facing demands for revision of the existing quota from various communities, including the dominant Vokkaliga and Veerashaiva-Lingayat.After the cabinet meeting on Thursday, Home and Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai had said that the Chief Minister took note of opinions expressed by various Ministers and suggested about the government taking suggestions from legal experts and also reviewing court orders in this regard.Amid demands for better reservation, Yediyurappa had recently said his government would do whatever was possible within the ambit of the law and the Constitution.The Veerashaiva-Lingayats, to which Yediyurappa belongs, are demanding OBC status under the central list, whereas the sub-sect of the community-Panchamasali Lingayats- wants to be put under Category 2A in the state quota.The other dominant Vokkaliga community has decided to seek for enhancement of reservation, formation of a Vokkaliga Development Authority and greater quota access to the urban poor from the community.They want all Vokkaliga sub-sects to be included under OBC.On the other hand, while the backward Kuruba community is seeking ST tag, the Valmiki community wants ST quota to be hiked from 3 per cent to 7.5 per cent.Karnataka at present provides 15 per cent reservation for SCs, 3 per cent for STs and 32 per cent for the other backward classes (OBC), which adds up to 50 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/reservation-demands-govt-discussing-modalities-regarding-way-forward-says-cm-101613738428383.html
19-02-2021||Other||Trader found dead at Ludhiana hotel: 30-year-old NRI held for culpable homicide||A day after a 45-year-old hosiery trader was found dead in a hotel in Bhadaur House, police on Friday arrested an Italy-based NRI for culpable homicide.According to police, the NRI, Sandeep Kumar, 30, had checked into the hotel with the victim, Rahul Jain, on Tuesday.While leaving on Wednesday, Kumar had told the hotel staff not to disturb Jain. A day later, the trader was found dead in the hotel room due to suspected drug overdose. Police had found syringes, a lighter and cigarette packets in the room.Through CCTV footage, investigators also found another man with Kumar in the hotel and are working to trace him. They said the NRI was nabbed from his native Partappura village in Phillaur. He had returned from Italy on February 4 and met Jain through an app.Before checking into the Bhadaur House hotel on Tuesday, the two men had previously also met at a hotel on February 5.Deceased left home citing pilgrimageAccording to the deceased’s wife, Jyoti Jain, of New Kitchlu Nagar, her husband had left the house on Tuesday, stating that he was going to pay obeisance at Mata Chintpurni temple in Himachal Pradesh with his gym friends. On Thursday, her nephew, Vineet Jain, informed her about his death in a hotel room.Sub-inspector Harjit Singh, station house officer, Division Number 1 police station, said following a complaint by Jyoti Jain, they had booked Kumar under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested him from Phillaur. He will be produced in court on Saturday.Kumar told the police that when he left the hotel on Wednesday, Jain was fine.Meanwhile, the victim’s autopsy was conducted at the Ludhiana civil hospital and viscera samples were sent to the forensic science library in Kharar for further examination to establish the exact cause of death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/trader-found-dead-at-ludhiana-hotel-30-year-old-nri-held-for-culpable-homicide-101613738631082.html
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt okays jobs for kin of minors killed in Maur Mandi blast||The Punjab government on Friday approved special provisions in its rules to provide government jobs to the kin of the four minors killed in the Maur Mandi bomb blast in 2017.The decision was taken by the state cabinet in a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, according to a government statement.Seven people were killed and 13 injured in the bomb blast at Maur Mandi in Bathinda district on January 31, 2017.The explosion had taken place close to an election campign site of Congress candidate Harminder Singh Jassi, just days before the assembly polls in the state.The Punjab government on Friday approved special provisions in its rules to provide government jobs to one of the family members or kin of the each of the four minors killed in the bomb blast, the statement said.It was decided at the cabinet meet to grant special provision to provide jobs on compassionate grounds as per the educational qualifications to a member of the families of Japsimaran Singh (15), Sourav Singla (14), Ankush (11) and Ripandeep Singh (9).The existing rules did not provide for employment in the state service on compassionate grounds for minor victims.With the cabinet decision, the relevant rules or policy have been relaxed to provide jobs to a member of the each family as per their educational qualification, the statement said.The jobs to be provided by the state government are in addition to a financial grant of ₹5 lakh given to the each family. Each injured was given ₹50,000 from the Chief Minister's Relief Fund.The state government had earlier provided government jobs to the next of kin of two victims--Harpal Singh (40) and Ashok Kumar (35)-- as per the existing policy since both were the breadwinners for their families.In Ashok Kumar's case, his minor daughter Bago (11) was also killed but since one member of the family has already been given a job, Bago was not been included in the special provision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-okays-jobs-for-kin-of-minors-killed-in-maur-mandi-blast-101613737879342.html
19-02-2021||Patna||Bihar records 10.5% growth rate in 2019-20, says economic survey||Bihar recorded a 10.5% growth rate (at constant prices) in 2019-20, higher than the growth rate of the Indian economy(estimated to be around 5%), according to the Bihar Economic Survey 2020-21.Constant prices are a way of measuring economic change considering a year as base year. In this case, it is 2011-12. It gives the real Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) growth.Deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad, who also holds the finance portfolio, tabled the 15th Bihar Economic Survey on the floor of the Legislative Assembly on Friday, ahead of the Budget, for the first time. Later, industry minister Shahnawaz Hussain also tabled a report prepared by the Centre for Policy and Public Finance in the Legislative Council. Prasad also tabled the Bihar Settlement of Taxation Disputes (Second) Ordinance, 2020, while Parliamentary Affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary tabled the Bihar State Higher Education Council (2nd Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. Also Read | Bihar budget session to start today, Speaker appeals for cooperationAmong the three major sectors, says the Economic Survey report, the tertiary sector(the service sector including retail, financial services, hospitality, real estate, etc.) recorded a noticeable increase in its share—up from 57.3% in 2013-14 to 60.2% in 2019-20, largely due to growth in road transport and other services. The sectoral composition had started witnessing a change from 2011-12 with a shift from primary to tertiary sector.The primary sector involves all economic activities that directly use natural resources, viz. mining, forestry, fishing, etc. The secondary sector involves manufacturing and processing to add value to natural resources, viz. cotton converted into cloth. The tertiary sector helps in developing the primary and secondary sectors, viz transportation or other services.The report shows financial management in the state was within the prescribed limits of the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act (FRBMA), 2006, with the gross fiscal deficit as a percentage of the GSDP at 2% and the revenue account in surplus during 2019-20, lower than 2.7% in 2018-19. Bihar has consistently claimed to be a revenue-surplus state since 2004-05. The revenue account remained in surplus during 2018-19 also, says the report, though borrowing by the state as a share of the GSDP witnessed a jump from 3.6% in 2018-19 to 4.8% in 2019-20. Economic experts, however, say that for a poor state like Bihar, which depends so heavily on central transfers and has low expenditure, showing revenue surplus could hurt, as it would lose revenue deficit grants that many relatively better-off states avail, as per the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission. Besides, they said, it was a matter of concern for the state that it was already under the impact of economic slowdown, as was the case elsewhere in the country, even before the advent of Covid-19 pandemic, as reflected through the fall in revenue and capital expenditure in 2019-20, compared to 2018-19. While revenue expenditure dropped from ₹1,24,897 crore to ₹1,23,533 crore, the capital expenditure fell from ₹29,759 crore to ₹20,080 crore. The report, however, points to a slight increase in the state’s own tax and non-tax revenue from ₹33,539 crore in 2018-19 to ₹33,858 crore in 2019-20. According to the report, the share of revenue expenditure in the total expenditure has increased over the years from 74.4% in 2015-16 to 86% in 2019-20, while the share of expenditure in the capital account has declined from 25.6% to 14% during the same period. “Over 70% of the state revenue comes from central transfers. With Bihar maintaining revenue surplus, it is certainly disadvantageous, as it cannot avail revenue deficit grant,” said Sudhanshu Kumar, an economist at Centre for Policy and Public Finance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-records-10-5-growth-rate-in-2019-20-says-economic-survey-101613738090927.html
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh yoga college to host webinar on positivity during pandemic||To address the Covid-19 induced stress and anxiety in society, particularly among students, Government College of Yoga Education and Health, Chandigarh, is organising an international webinar at 11am on Saturday. The webinar on the theme, PPP during P, that is Peace, Positivity, Prosperity during Pandemic, will be streamed live through the college YouTube channel https://www.youtube.com/c/GCYEH from 11am on February 21. The session is expected to last an hour and 15 minutes. Manoj Parida, the adviser to the Chandigarh administrator, will be the chief guest, while spiritual teacher Shivani of the Brahma Kumaris movement will be the guest speaker, a release issued by the college said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-yoga-college-to-host-webinar-on-positivity-during-pandemic-101613738030964.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 surge in Maha: NCP ministers postpone 'janta darbars'||Redressal meets for citizens, popularly known as 'janta darbars', of NCP ministers in Maharashtra have been postponed for two weeks in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases in the past few days, the party said on Friday.In a statement, the NCP said people can email their problems to ncpjantadarbar@gmail.com during this period.Incidentally, two of the NCP's ministers, Jayant Patil and Rajesh Tope, had, on Thursday, announced that they had tested positive for coronavirus.Such janta darbars were being held by the party since August last year.As on Thursday, Maharashtra had a caseload of 20,81,520, including 51,669 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-surge-in-maha-ncp-ministers-postpone-janta-darbars-101613737553120.html
19-02-2021||Jaipur||Farm laws against farmers, middle class, says Sachin Pilot||Congress leader and former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Friday said the Centre’s agricultural laws are not only anti-farmer but also against people from the middle class and they will force the government to withdraw these.Addressing a large "kisan mahapanchayat" in the Kotkhawada area of Chaksu town of Jaipur, Pilot claimed that the laws will push the future of farmers into darkness due to which farmers from all over the country are against it.“There is a huge crisis for farmers in the country today. We all have to understand that the Union government has brought the laws that are not only anti-farmer but also against the middle class and the youth," he said, adding that his party was committed to the farmers' interest and will compel the government to withdraw the laws.He also said farmers are not begging but fighting for their rights as the biggest force in a democracy are people.A three-point resolution was passed in the “mahapanchayat”, demanding the withdrawal of the farm laws, a legislation to ensure the minimum support price (MSP) for crops and the rollback of the hike in fuel prices.It was the first major farmers' rally in Rajasthan after the recent visit of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to the state and third "kisan mahapanchayat" addressed by Pilot after similar events organised in Dausa and Bharatpur.Former ministers Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena, MLAs Hemaram Chaudhary, Brijendra Ola, Murari Meena, Rakesh Parekh, G R Khatana, Prashant Bairwa and other leaders of the party were present in the rally organised by Chaksu MLA Ved Prakash Solanki.Chaksu is a region dominated by Meena, Dalit and Jat communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/farm-laws-against-farmers-middle-class-says-sachin-pilot-101613735002112.html
19-02-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru makes way for pedestrians, pedallers: Citizens welcome first Slow Street||What if you step on a road, and instead of hearing a blaring honk see vehicles slow down for you? No, this isn’t any foreign location but Alexandra Street in Richmond Town, which has been officially announced as the first Slow Street in Bengaluru! A slow street is one that employs traffic calming measures in residential areas, and makes it safer for people to walk, cycle alongside providing space for children to be able to play. A new experience, indeed! “Earlier, I could not walk in Richmond Town owing to the vehicular traffic. During the lockdown last year I picked up cycling; it was good for a few months before cars again consumed the roads,” says Priyabrata, a cycling enthusiast adding, “Making Alexandria Street a Slow Street will help locals travel safely, and will stop instances of speeding as well. In fact, it’s important for all metro cities to encourage pedestrianisation.”The pandemic saw many take to their old love for cycling and walking, to stay fit in the new normal where #WorkFromHome has become common. And this initiative by Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT) aids Bengaluru to become a safe haven for cyclists and walkers. Nihar Thakkar, a cyclist and an urban planning enthusiast, opines: “Lockdown helped push the agenda to make city roads safer for people. More cars mean more pollution, and the perils of environmental damage are apparent to people today. Earlier, it wasn’t easy to cycle or even walk on the roads due to the fear of traffic. But, incorporating simple changes around the city like pop-up bicycle lanes, banning traffic on busy streets like Church Street or even making artificial curbs for better pedestrian movement are adding to the eventual goal of sustainability.” DULT had earlier undertaken project MarkYourCycleRoute, to create bicycle districts in the city, with the aim to provide better mobility for residents. In fact, cycling and pedestrian safety has been encouraged through various measures, which includes the weekend vehicular ban on Church Street under the Clean Air Street initiative and Sustainable Mobility Accord (SuMA), wherein nine neighbourhoods were selected to implement sustainable mobility interventions over the next one year. “The Slow Street initiative is a positive and progressive step in the direction,” says Sathya Sankaran, Bicycle Mayor of Bengaluru, adding, “We’ve been encouraging cycling and pedestrian spaces since Bengaluru has many small streets. We need to slow them down so that the dedicated pathways on them can be used by other commuters, and we need to dedicate space on the streets to people, not cars... We’ve seen how the business on Church Street, post the weekend traffic ban, increased. The restaurants, pubs and book shops on the street are witnessing better customer footfall now. Even families turn up to cycle, walk or simply spend time. These initiatives prove that even with a limited bandwidth, a lot can be achieved to make our cities safe for pedestrians and cyclists.”Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-makes-way-for-pedestrians-pedallers-citizens-welcome-first-slow-street-101613733293786.html
19-02-2021||Bhopal||Shivraj Chouhan finds mosquitoes in Sidhi circuit house. Official suspended||By Harendra Paratp SinghA sub-engineer was suspended for alleged mismanagement after Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's stay at the circuit house in Sidhi. The chief minister took notice of poor hygiene, cleanliness and bad arrangement during his stay at the circuit house on Wednesday, said an official.During his visit to Sidhi, to meet the survivors and families of the deceased of a bus mishap that claimed 52 lives, the chief minister spent a night at the circuit house and took notice of the unhygienic condition and poor management. There were mosquitoes in his room and a water tank was overflowing. He scolded the authorities for the mismanagement, said the official who did not wish to be named.Releasing a suspension order on Friday, Rewa divisional commissioner Rajesh Kumar Jain said, “Public works department (PWD) sub-engineer Babulal Gupta had been told about the stay of the VIPs in the circuit house but we received complaints of poor cleanliness, mismanagement and mosquitoes. The arrangements were not found as per protocol.”Also read: Activist Disha Ravi sent to jail for 3 days, cops want to question her next week“Gupta failed to discharge his duties as per the instructions which tarnished the image of the district administration. Gupta has been suspended for negligence in discharging his government duties as per MP Civil Services Act 1966,” read the order.After his suspension, the opposition attacked the BJP-led state government. MP Congress committee spokesperson Ajay Yadav said, “The CM had gone to Sidhi to pay tribute or on tourism? Due to poor roads, 52 people lost their lives in Sidhi but the CM and the district administration are looking more concerned about the mosquitoes and an overflowing water tank.”However, BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “The CM showed sensitivity and took quick action in Sidhi bus mishap whether it is related to rescue operation or distributing compensation. Congress leaders are now left with no issue to raise so they are indulging in cheap politics.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/shivraj-chouhan-finds-mosquitoes-in-sidhi-circuit-house-official-suspended-101613731731781.html
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab budget to be presented on March 8||The Punjab budget will be presented on March 8 during the assembly session convened from March 1 to 10. A cabinet meeting, chaired by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, on Friday approved the summoning of the 14th session (budget session) of the 15th Punjab Vidhan Sabha from March 1 to 10 and recommended the same to governor VP Singh Badnore, who is to officially summon the House. An official spokesperson said after the cabinet meeting that the chief minister has been authorised to approve the governor’s address. Besides the state budget estimates for the next fiscal, the session will see the presentation of the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India for 2018-19 (civil, commercial) and financial accounts of the Punjab government for 2019-20, as well as appropriation accounts for 2019-20. Supplementary demands for grants for 2020-21 and the appropriation Bill on supplementary demands for grants for 2020-21 will also be laid on the table of the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-budget-to-be-presented-on-march-8-101613731549797.html
19-02-2021||Business||IKEA to open mall in Noida, 'Congratulations,' tweets Yogi Adityanath||Swedish retailer Ikea will shell out ₹850 crores in developing shopping malls, office spaces, hotel and retail outlets etc in Noida city after it signed a memorandum of understanding with the government of Uttar Pradesh. The announcement was made by the state chief minister Yogi Adityanath as he took to Twitter to congratulate the company and the Noida authorities. "Heartfelt congratulations to Noida Authority and IKEA for this MoU. I am confident that IKEA's decision to invest in Noida, Uttar Pradesh will prove to be a decisive factor in their own investment growth manifold. My best wishes," the UP chief minister wrote on the micro-blogging site.नोएडा अथॉरिटी और IKEA को इस MoU के लिए हृदय से बधाई।मुझे विश्वास है कि 'IKEA' का नोएडा, उत्तर प्रदेश में निवेश का निर्णय उनके स्वयं के निवेश में कई गुना वृद्धि हेतु निर्णायक सिद्ध होगा।मेरी शुभकामनाएंIn the following tweet, the state chief minister wrote "IKEA will build shopping malls, hotels, offices, retail outlets etc. in the Noida area for the common man. With the creation of many jobs in the region, it will prove to be helpful in making 'Ease of Living' perfect.IKEA, जन सामान्य के लिए नोएडा क्षेत्र में शॉपिंग मॉल, होटल, ऑफिस, रिटेल आउटलेट आदि का निर्माण करेगा।यह क्षेत्र में अनेक रोजगारों के सृजन के साथ ही 'ईज ऑफ लिविंग' को उत्तम बनाने की दिशा में सहायक सिद्ध होगा।The MoU was signed virtually at the Yogi Adityanath's residence in state capital Lucknow. As per the statement, the company will purchase 48,000-square-metres of land in Noida where it will open its first shopping centre in India. Once done it will be one of the world's largest Ikea shopping centres.The land was allotted to Ingka centre India Pvt Ltd in October 2019 and the lease deed was signed on Thursday. The state government is set to earn 54 crores as stamp duty after the land purchase deal.Ikea, a worldwide known retailer of furniture, kitchen appliances and home accessories, entered the Indian market in 2018 by opening its first store in Hyderabad. After the success at Hyderabad, it went on to open its second store in Mumbai in 2020.Ingka Centres, which has 45 IKEA store-anchored malls across Europe, Russia and China and plans to enter the United States in 2021. It will announce more detailed plans for the project in the near future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business/ikea-to-open-mall-in-noida-congratulations-tweets-yogi-adityanath-101613730696230.html
19-02-2021||Dehradun||46-year-old killed by leopard in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh||A 46-year-old woman was mauled to death by a leopard in Kapri village, around 35 km from the Pithoragarh town in Uttarakhand. At least six people have lost their lives to leopard attacks in Pithoragarh alone since September last year. Authorities are looking for permission to catch the leopard responsible for the recent death, said officials.“Forest officials rushed to the spot on the information and recovered the mangled body of the woman from the forest area. We have handed over the woman’s body to her family members after post-mortem on Friday, said Navin Pant, sub-divisional officer, Pithoragarh forest division.Pant said Kalawati Devi of Kapri village in Kanalichinna area had gone to her field to collect fodder on Thursday evening but didn’t return.“Her family members and villagers launched a search for her in the nearby forests. Finally, they found her mangled body around 1.5 km from the agricultural field,” he said.Pant said the leopard dragged her to the forest area and ate her body parts. Her head was found severed from her body, he added.“An ex-gratia relief of ₹20,000 has been handed over to the deceased’s relatives on Friday. Rest of the amount will be given after we receive the post-mortem report. We have sought permission for catching the leopard from chief wildlife warden,” Pant added.He said the forest officials were also carrying a cage to the village where the incident took place but it will be installed only after they get the permission.More than half-a-dozen persons have lost their lives in leopard attacks in Pithoragarh since September. Two leopards have been eliminated during this period, forest officials said.Also Read: Uttarakhand flash flood: Death toll increases to 61A 45-year-old woman was killed by a tiger on the morning of February 11 in Ramnagar of Nainital district. Earlier, a 60-year-old woman was mauled to death by a leopard in Khatima of US Nagar on February 6. On January 20, a 50-year-woman was killed by a leopard in Almora district, making it the fourth incident of man-animal conflict in the area. On December 1, a 65-year-old man was killed by a leopard in Chamoli district. In the first week of November, a 21-year-old woman was killed in a leopard attack in Champawat district. Three women including a teen lost their lives to leopard attacks in a week in October in Okhalkanda block of Nainital. On October 15, an 11-year-old girl was killed by a leopard in Jaspur area in US Nagar district when she was playing with her siblings outside her house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/46yearold-killed-by-leopard-in-uttarakhand-s-pithoragarh-101613730399898.html
19-02-2021||Other||ED arrests three brothers for involvement in PDS scam in Maharashtra||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested three brothers from Nagpur for their alleged involvement in diverting food grain to be distributed to the poor through public distribution system (PDS), said the agency. The agency, which is looking into the financial aspect of the ration scam, claimed that the trio, arrested this Wednesday, generated about ₹177 crore with their illegal activities.The ED has charged Sampat Namdeo Ghorpade, Arun Namdeo Ghorpade and Vishwas Namdeo Ghorpade under the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA). A special court has remanded them to ED’s custody till February 26.Also Read | ED attaches over ₹17cr Amnesty India assets in laundering caseThe ED probe stems from a First Information Report registered by the Nashik police in 2015 against the three for forgery, falsification of documents and criminal conspiracy. The case involved purported misappropriation of foodgrains in Sinnar taluka where more than 250 sacks of rice from government godowns were sold directly to rice mills in 2015.Further investigation revealed irregularities on a much larger scale and a full fledged, organised syndicate behind it, prompting the state government to invoke the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) which is generally used against organised crime syndicates of the underworld. In fact, it was the first such instance that a charge sheet was filed against the ration mafia in the state under MCOCA. The brothers allegedly bought reserved foodgrains from godowns of Food Corporation of India and distributed them to other companies floated by the other accused.“The three accused had indulged in unlawful activities as an individual singly and jointly as a gang. The three and their syndicate generated the proceeds of crime of around ₹177 crore,” an ED official said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ed-arrests-three-for-involvement-in-pds-scam-in-maharashtra-101613729930170.html
19-02-2021||Patna||Bihar governor addresses House, lists govt’s successes, plans||Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan on Friday detailed the state government’s achievements including in controlling Covid-19 even as he called for the continuance of precautions to deal with the pandemic.“The government...worked in coordination with the Centre during the Covid-19 pandemic. ...over ₹10,000-crore has been spent on providing relief to the people... Against the national average of 140,440 tests per million, Bihar has done 17,24,25. The recovery rate in Bihar at 99.19% is also higher than the national average, while the death rate is 0.58% against the national average of 1.43%. The number of active Covid cases in Bihar is now just 597,” he said in his joint address to the Bihar legislature on the first day of the Budget Session. He said this became possible because of the government’s concerted efforts.Also Read | Bihar budget session to start today, Speaker appeals for cooperationChauhan called the rule of law the state’s top priority and added Bihar has successfully controlled organised crime and maintained communal amity. He added the government has a policy of zero tolerance to corruption and added the Vigilance Investigation Bureau has registered 22 cases involving corrupt public servants in 2020. “Four other cases involved the misuse of office and six other disproportionate assets. ...161 recommendations related to money laundering have been sent to the Enforcement Directorate...property worth 45.81 crore of 28 accused has been seized.”Chauhan maintained the government has continued with its inclusive development agenda. He added it will implement its Seven Resolves announced ahead of the 2020 polls and they include youth empowerment and generation of two million jobs. “Apart from the skill development, the government will also provide incentive up to ₹5 lakh for new enterprises at just 1% interest. The government will set up engineering, medical and sports universities.”Chauhan said the government has started a grievance redressal system and taken steps to empower especially the women through 35% reservation in government jobs and 50% in panchayati raj institutions. He added the government has started working on its resolve to provide water to every farm in the next five years. “In villages, basic amenities have been provided and now the effort is to ensure street lighting and solid waste management.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-governor-addresses-house-lists-govt-s-successes-plans-101613729629674.html
19-02-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh Cong calls for half-day bandh on Saturday against fuel price rise||The Madhya Pradesh Congress on Friday gave a call for a half-day 'bandh' in the state on February 20 against the rising fuel prices.The party urged the people to cooperate and make the half-day shutdown a success."People are in distress due to skyrocketing prices of diesel, petrol and cooking gas. The government is busy collecting revenue and it is least bothered about giving relief to the public," Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath said in a video message to the media on Friday."The Congress has given a call for a half-day bandh on February 20. I appeal to the people to join in the attempt to wake up the government. All should be part of it," he added.State Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta said the party would take out a rally on Saturday and request people to shut their shops.Milk booths, medical stores and hospitals will remain open during the bandh, he added.Meanwhile, MP Petrol Pump Owners Association secretary Nakul Sharma said additive-mixed petrol of a leading oil marketing company is now priced at ₹101.85 per litre, while regular petrol is being sold at ₹98.18 and diesel at ₹88.82 in Bhopal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-cong-calls-for-half-day-bandh-on-saturday-against-fuel-price-rise-101613729145981.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||Face mask only shield against coronavirus: Maharashtra CM Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said that swords and shields were used in the battles fought during Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj's times but in the fight against the coronavirus, face mask is the only shield.He made the statement at the Shivneri fort in Junnar tehsil of Pune district, where he paid homage to Shivaji Maharaj on his birth anniversary. Shivaji Maharaj was born on Shivneri fort in 1630.Thackeray visited the fort in the morning and paid floral tributes to Shivaji Maharaj and his mother Jijabai.Thackeray said that entire Maharashtra reveres Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj as a deity."Numerous kings came and disappeared.... Numerous battles were fought, several kingdoms came and vanished, but there is something special about Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj," he said."Shivaji Maharaj fought several battles and established 'swaraj'.... There is no need to tell how he fought the opponents. No such battles are being fought now, and there are no swords and shields. But right now we are fighting a battle against the coronavirus and face mask is the only shield in the fight," he said."...we will strike whenever it is required, but while defending, we have to use a shield. In this battle, mask is our shield...do not forget that," Thackeray added.One cannot win a battle by just holding a sword. One needs a determined heart and the desire to win. Shivaji Maharaj continues to provide that inspiration, he said.The chief minister also attended several programmes, including the "cradle ceremony", at the fort.Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar was also present there on the occasion.In view of the coronavirus pandemic, the district administration had urged people not to gather at Shivneri fort to celebrate the Maratha warrior king's birth anniversary.Thackeray also said that he considers himself fortunate and blessed as he got the opportunity to come to Shivneri for the second consecutive year to pay homage.He added that the radiance of history linked to all the forts in the state needs to be spread across the globe.The chief minister said that during the programme, someone told him that Shivaji Maharaj possessed a certain skill."Even Dada (Ajit Pawar) has that skill. I am going to learn it to find out what is going on in his mind," he said in a lighter vein.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/face-mask-only-shield-against-coronavirus-maharashtra-cm-thackeray-101613728817787.html
19-02-2021||Delhi||Kitty parties: Limited members, sanitisers, masks make entry in 2021!||Scrumptious food, outdoor gathering, large groups, and fun games — Kitty parties used to be all this and more in the pre-Covid era. But in 2021, there’s a stark difference in how kitty parties are being organised. We speak to members of kitty groups across Delhi-NCR to know more. A Gurugram-based homemaker Isha Bountra shares that she recently went to a gettogether with close friends and family. “It was organised at a close friend’s showroom where we knew it was safe and hygienic. We were conscious, but everyone was like family, so we weren’t that rigid. We knew each other’s family history, whether someone was Covid-19 positive in the past or not. It was a bit scary, but we hadn’t seen each other for long, so we met at our own risk,” she says, adding, “Jo ladies kitty groups ki member hain, unki families se aap itne touch mein nahin hote, toh aap wahan jane mein thoda conservative hote ho. Kyunki aapko nahin pata kaun kaha hai... They also have reservations about resuming meet-ups. I’m part of more kitty groups but they haven’t resumed yet. Even the ones we are planning to organise will most likely have only neighbours. Our next meet will be this month as part of the couple kitty. We haven’t been to restaurants yet... Regularity aane mein bahut time lagega abhi because of Covid 19.”Reshma Arya, who runs a boutique in the city, is part of a kitty that will be hosting its first meet since the pandemic hit. She says, “We will be meeting after a year, and couldn’t be more excited! Sabko itni boriyat ho gayi hai ghar mein iss stage pe; aur sabko pata hai ki tabiyat theek hai toh hi aana hai. Earlier, we used to have around 20 members at an event, now it will be around 12 members only. We will most likely be going to a restaurant, and are really excited as there will be a dress code and we’ll all wear matching masks! Dur dur baithke kaise games khelenge?”Sangeeta Sahni, a Gurugram resident, says her kitty members meet once a month, and their last was at the Delhi Golf Club. “After a long quarantine, we restarted our kitty parties. It was a gettogether with nice chit chat and good food,” she shares, adding, “But we don’t play games since Covid-19, to maintain safety, and we all sit at a safe distance and order separate dishes to avoid sharing food. We plan our kitties at places where sanitisation has been done really well. Life has to move on, we have to move on, but this time we need to be a little more cautious than before.” “Earlier, kitty parties meant lavish food and drinks, but now everything is being kept bare minimum,” says Saroj Gulati, a resident of sector 28 in Noida. She informs that her kitty parties have shifted to homes, and adds, “We meet to catch up and play cards, and we find our homes safer for this. Initially, we were very hesitant to meet due to the age factor of some of the group members. But, now we’ve started meeting twice a week with precautions. We ensure that the mask is worn by everyone present, and at all times. We avoid offering food or tea, but sanitiser is available in plenty!” Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kitty-parties-limited-members-sanitisers-masks-make-entry-in-2021-101613728913163.html
19-02-2021||Delhi||DU tales: Cosplay mania takes over Venky’s society freshers’||If you thought that quirky fashion, so typical to Delhi University, had taken a back seat owing to the pandemic, think again! With the uncertainty concerning reopening of colleges, senior students of various societies have found a virtual route to welcome freshers and keep things exciting. Recently, Petrichor – the creative writing society of Sri Venkateswara College – took the same path. But what’s more exciting is that they chose the theme of the online freshers as: Favourite Character Cosplay. New and old members of the society dressed up as characters they admire the most from pop culture. Naman Kapoor, a student of Economics (Hons), who enjoys sharing memes, jokes and even raps, decided to showcase his creative streak with costumes, and dressed up as a joker to “entertain people”. Kapoor says, “It was always fun whenever I watched jokers do tricks in live circus. So I thought let’s spread some smiles by dressing up as this character.” Freshers didn’t limit themselves to the American or English series, and even tried vibrant costumes and makeup based on Anime. “I dressed as Akame from Japanese anime Akame Ga Kill,” says an excited Divya Goyal, a student of B Com (Hons), adding, “When I got to know about this freshers, it suddenly injected me with a new found energy! And I chose Akame because she is brave, courageous and uses her sword in a way to put the strongest people to shame. She fights for right things, and I feel we can all learn from her values. It was so much fun to dress up and talk about my favourite character when everyone was online.” Even the second and final year students participated, and were given the choice to be online with or without dressing up in the theme. But the seniors didn’t let the chance pass by! Describing Harley Quinn as her alter ego, a second-year student Tanushree Singh Balayan, says, “I thought why not be part of this... at least we’ll get something exciting to do. And I chose Quinn because although people might view her as a psychotic villain, but I see her as a passionate lover. There is a lot of depth to her character if one wants to look properly. I associate myself to her as a lover who can go to any extent to save her love and a woman nobody wants to mess with.” When asked about her inspiration behind the theme, Bhavini Malhotra, a core member of the society, says, “I felt character cosplay was an ideal theme for the freshers as it’s a fun way to introduce yourself as a newcomer and brings about enthusiastic interaction. Also, as a literary society, it was fitting! The aim was to bolster the freshers’ creativity in the current monotonous environment. I hoped we managed to spark interactions between the freshers and senior members by having them bond over common interests in light of the current pandemic. Above all, Petrichor is a family, and we wanted to find a way to make the freshers feel welcome and have a good time.”Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-tales-cosplay-mania-takes-over-venky-s-society-freshers-101613726452162.html
19-02-2021||Lucknow||No more advice, time for SP to form govt: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav on Friday challenged the Yogi Adityanath-led government in Uttar Pradesh as said he won’t point out the flaws of the current dispensation any more. “I am not giving any advice to the government, now I will form the next government. The Samajwadi Party will do well in the forthcoming UP panchayat polls and win the 2022 UP assembly polls,” Yadav said while addressing a press conference.The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the state has been re-inaugurating projects already been inaugurated by the Centre. “This government is strange, it re-inaugurates already inaugurated projects, relays foundation for projects of which foundation stone has been already laid and signs Memorandum of Understandings (MoUs) of already signed MoUs,” Yadav said.He also said that he will observe how the BJP’s vision of transforming the economy of Uttar Pradesh into a $1 trillion economy comes into fruition during the ongoing budget session of the state assembly. Yadav said, “The government said it will make India a $5 trillion economy and then the Uttar Pradesh government said it will make UP a $1 trillion economy. Let's see how all this gets reflected in the budget, which will be presented in UP assembly in the ongoing budget session.”Yadav also attacked the government over the ongoing protests against the farm laws. He said that his party will continue to demand farmers’ rights.During the press conference, several leaders from the Congress, Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) and BJP joined the SP. RK Chaudhary, a former minister who was a member of the BSP, and a retired officer of the Indian Police Service (IPS) Harish Kumar Yadav also joined the party in the presence of Akhilesh Yadav. Yadav said that the party will welcome new joinees “indiscriminately” in the future as well.(with inputs from Pankaj Jaiswal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-more-advice-time-for-sp-to-form-govt-akhilesh-yadav-101613725316527.html
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||Rats nibble farmer’s body kept at mortuary in Sonepat||The body of a 70-year-old farmer, who had been taking part in the farmers’ protest at Delhi’s Singhu border against the Centre’s three farm laws, was allegedly gnawed at by rats at the Sonepat civil hospital’s mortuary, prompting the authorities to order a probe. The body of Rajender Saroha of Baiyanpur village in Sonepat district was kept in the mortuary for post-mortem after his death on Wednesday night. On Thursday morning, the farmer’s son, Pradeep Saroha, noticed rodent bite marks on the face and a foot. “My father had been taking part in the agitation and was on dharna at Rasoi village for four days. His health deteriorated on Wednesday and he was brought to the civil hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead after a heart attack. I found blood oozing from the face and a foot,” Pradeep said. Sonepat principal medical officer Jai Bhagwan said a team of three doctors, deputy medical superintendents Ginni Lamba, Sandeep Lathwal and senior medical officer Sushil Jain, has been formed to inquire into the matter. “The doctors will see on whose part there has been negligence. The body was handed over the family and the cremation was carried out on Thursday,” Dr Jai Bhagwan said, adding the team of doctors will submit its report in two days. Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala described the incident as shocking. In a tweet, he said a farmer’s body has been nibbled by rodents and the “BJP government acts as a mute spectator”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rats-nibble-farmer-s-body-kept-at-mortuary-in-haryana-s-sonepat-101613724348661.html
19-02-2021||Other||Slam Dunk: Defence, defence, defence... combatting the Golden Age of NBA offence||What defensive schemes are used to contain the most gifted, versatile and skilled basketball players in the world?The evolution of professional basketball in the NBA has influenced all aspects of the modern game – so far, the changes seen in player size and offensive schemes have shown how much variation exists between eras. With the explosion in NBA offence triggering a record point totals and a faster game, it brings to mind the words of the famed ex-Boston Celtics head coach Red Auerbach: “Basketball is like war in that offensive weapons are developed first, and it always takes a while for the defence to catch up.” While multiple rule changes have tilted the game decidedly in favour of very skilled offensive players, this has forced defensive schemes to adjust and evolve with time to be able to account for the increased skill- level and rule changes favouring offensive players.Due to the lack of emphasis on three-point shot attempts after the introduction of the three-point line to the NBA, early NBA defence was heavily focused on man-to-man defensive schemes. There were often instances where doing a great job and only focusing on the man you were singularly guarding resulted in your team still forcing a missed shot from the opposition. NBA rules at this time also discouraged and had penalties for defenders who “zoned” an area of the court without directly guarding a single man. What this meant was that great scoring players during this time could only be neutralised by the defence double teaming them and completely disregarding another player on their team, leaving him wide open.This defensive strategy proved to be most effective to neutralise the offensive schemes of the 1980s, 1990s and 2000s, which we predicated on elite players who would singularly attempt to score against multiple defenders. With the improved skill, size and athletic ability of players, the NBA changed a few rules in the mid-2000s to benefit offensive players. No longer were defences allowed to “hand check” or “body bump” offensive players, while the NBA also introduced zone defence as an allowable tactic. The increase in pace that teams played with as well as the reliance of teams on analytics and data in decision making mean that offences in the modern NBA focus largely on efficiency, with the most efficient shots usually being close to the rim or 3-point shots. As the “pace and space” increased on court, NBA teams largely turned to pick and roll plays to generate good offence for their players.To combat this, current New York Knicks and ex-Boston Celtics coach Tom Thibodeau popularised a defensive concept usually called an “ICE” in the NBA. This involved an athletic and versatile big man essentially guarding two players at once, something that Kevin Garnett was able to do with great success in leading the Boston Celtics to an NBA championship in 2008, with the help of Thibodeau’s defensive schemes. As an additional layer, teams attempted to increase the difficulty of shots at the rim by teaching players to contest shots by jumping completely vertically, a defensive technique that was brought to the forefront of action by Rob Hibbert from the Indiana Pacers in the NBA playoffs when facing the LeBron James and Dwayne Wade-led Miami Heat team. The NBA continues to evolve, with the current generation of players becoming even more skilled at learning the offensive nuances of the game such as step-back and side-step 3 point shot, or drawing contact and tricking the defence into fouling them while shooting. This puts the evolution of NBA defence all the more into the spotlight in order to maintain the yin and yang balance that leads to an exciting competition between the offence and defence in NBA basketball.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/slam-dunk-defence-defence-defence-combatting-the-golden-age-of-nba-offence-101613724287753.html
19-02-2021||Bangalore||Sharing natural acts of kindness and inclusion||In the heart of Cubbon Park, in the middle of the former British Cantonment, is a seemingly incongruous structure. A sacred ashwath katte, a platform with gigantic Ficus and neem trees. Worshippers from across the city come daily, to pray to these trees. In the mornings, water and grain is kept out by volunteers to feed the birds. The grain is provided by grain merchants, old families that have lived in the city for generations. People come here in the evening to eat – meals are provided free, again based on collections from residents – acts of charity, which are also acts of worship, of gratitude to these trees. Pigeons eat grains, but other birds eat meat. The priest also feeds the kites, the Garudas, throwing pieces of meat into the air as they swoop down deftly.Across the road lies the Kanteerava Sports Stadium. This area used to be the home of the Sampangi lake, one of Bengaluru;s largest water bodies. The Vahnikula Kshatriya or Thigala community start their iconic Karaga festivities here, and the Karaga pot is traditionally made from the clay of the uppu neerina kunte in Cubbon park, close to the giant ashwath katte. The Karaga is one of Bengaluru’s oldest festivals, and hundreds of thousands of people congregate to view the procession as it makes its way across the city. But the lake is now gone, converted into a symbol of prestige – the site of major sports events for Bengaluru.All that is left is a tiny pond, surrounded by a fence. The lake once supported the livelihoods of hundreds, and fed thousands more – the grazers who grazed their cattle in the wetlands, and the people who drank the pure organic milk; the fisherfolk or Bestaru who plied their boats in the lake, and the customers who bought the fish, feeding their families; and the dhobis who washed clothes in the lake – clothes that came from miles around.The Vahnikula community still fish here, but only for local consumption. They still share, even though their share has dwindled to almost nothing. As a man fishes, a kite swoops down from the sky, with its familiar keening keeeeyuuuh call. He tosses a fish to the kite – it swoops down to eat. Adu ondu jeeva, he says – this is also a life. If I can eat, so should it.Just outside the katte, near an ant hill, a man comes by with a small bottle of milk, sweetened with sugar. He pours it out carefully, at the base of the ant hill, to feed the ants.A woman with a small child in tow circumambulates another sacred Ficus tree. She stops every few steps, and carefully places a piece of dry fruit, a banana, a lump of rock sugar, at the base of the tree. Offerings to the tree, to be consumed later by the squirrels, monkeys, dogs and other curious denizens of this urban forest.No one should go hungry. In the heart of the city. In everyday conversations, you will find simple acts of kindness and inclusion. They cleanse the heart of a city that seems to be becoming ever more fragmented and hate-filled.(Harini Nagendra is a professor of sustainability at Azim Premji University, and the author of Nature in the City: Bengaluru in the Past, Present and Future and Cities and Canopies: Trees of Indian Cities.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/sharing-natural-acts-of-kindness-and-inclusion-101613723035968.html
19-02-2021||Lucknow||Chinmayanand’s plea against rejection of rape case withdrawal to be heard today||The Allahabad high court has listed for hearing on Friday former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Swami Chinmayanand’s plea seeking quashing of a trial court’s rejection of an application for the withdrawal of a 2011 rape and criminal intimidation case against him. The trial court in May 2018 rejected the application filed by the public prosecutor in the case in March that year.Chinmayanand has moved the high court seeking quashing of the rejection order, the charge sheet filed in October 2012, as well as the entire proceedings of the case filed in 2011 in Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur.Also Read | Chinmayanand case: Levelled charges under pressure from anti-social elements, says womanA former woman disciple and manager of Chinmayanand ashram filed the case alleging that she was held captive, raped, and assaulted for years.The high court last year in February granted bail to Chinmayanand in a separate case months after he was arrested when a 23-year-old woman accused him of sexual harassment and blackmail. The woman was a student of the Chinmayanand-controlled SS Law College in Shahjahanpur.A Special Investigation Team formed on the directions of the Supreme Court investigated the case, which came to light after the student posted a video in August 2019 on social media alleging that “a senior leader of the saint community” was harassing and threatening to kill her. The law student went missing a day later. Her father later lodged a complaint, accusing Chinmayanand of harassing his daughter.Chinmayanand was expelled from the BJP after his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/chinmayanands-plea-against-rejection-of-rape-case-withdrawal-to-be-heard-today-101613720268046.html
19-02-2021||Patna||BJP MP Rajiv Pratap Rudy’s security cover elevated to Z category Avinash Kumar a||The security cover for BJP MP Rajiv Pratap Rudy has been upgraded to Z category enabling protection by 24 armed Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) commandos in shifts, according to a Central notification.Sector headquarters of CRPF in Patna was informed by the ministry of home affairs about the security upgrade on Thursday evening.At any point in time, Rudy will be guarded by more than six to seven CRPF commandos, said a home ministry official. The BJP leader will also be provided one escort car and two personal security officers (PSOs), said the official.The decision was taken after a routine assessment of threat perception on Rudy.In 2019, Rudy’s security cover was downgraded to Y category along with many other leaders, including Lalu Yadav and Pappu Yadav.In Bihar, Aurangabad MP Sushil Singh, Maharajganj MP Janardhan Singh Sigriwal and industry minister Shahnawaj Hussain enjoy Z plus security cover.Earlier, on September 26, 2020, the state government categorised VIP security, right from the governor, chief minister to former chief ministers and MLAs level. Three former CMs, Lalu Prasad, Rabri Devi and Jitan Ram Manjhi are amongst the 31 VIPs provided security in Bihar.Currently, the CRPF, a 3.5 lakh-strong force, has been providing Z category security cover to 20 protectees that include Baba Ramdev.It has also been providing Z plus security cover to 11 VIPs including home minister Amit Shah, Union minister Nitin Gadkari, former prime minister Manmohan Singh and his wife Gursharan Kaur.Also Read: Bihar CM asks officials to expedite completion of ITI buildingsThe Prime Minister of India is provided with the most elaborate Special Protection Group (SPG) category security, whose strength is classified. Z+ category is a security detail of 55 personnel, including 10+ NSG commandos and police personnel. Z category is a security detail of 22 personnel, including 4 or 5 NSG commandos and police personnel. Y category is a security detail of 11 personnel, including 1 or 2 commandos and police personnel. X category is a security detail of 2 personnel, with no commandos but only armed police personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bjp-mp-rajiv-pratap-rudy-s-security-cover-elevated-to-z-category-avinash-kumar-a-101613718951306.html
19-02-2021||Lucknow||‘After the boy was with us, we decided not to have our own child’||While travelling with Shabnam on a bus to attend classes in JS Hindu Post-Graduate College of Amroha in 2003, her college mate, Usman Saifi, had never thought that someday he would meet her in jail and take custody of her son (now 12 years).In 2008, Shabnam along with her lover Salim (a labourer in a sawmill in Bawankheri village of Amroha), had killed the former’s entire family in Amroha district.After graduation, Shabnam became a ‘shiksha mitra’ in a village school and Usman was inclined towards journalism.In 2008, Usman was shocked to learn that Shabnam and Salim had killed seven members of her family. Shabnam and Salim were arrested and lodged in Moradabad jail and later shifted to different jails. Now, 13 years on, Shabnam is in Rampur jail while Salim is languishing in Mathura jail. The President of India had rejected their mercy petition and Shabnam could be the first woman in Independent India to be hanged for her crime.Also Read: UP teacher who killed her family may be India's 1st woman to be hanged in 70 yrsUsman Saifi, 37, now based in Bulandshahr, recalled that after going through the news he decided to write a book on Shabnam and her involvement in such a gruesome crime. “She would travel in a bus from her village to attend college, and a few times even shared a seat with me,” he recalled explaining why he chose to write a book on her. After the incident, Usman tried to meet her in jail, but Shabnam refused.Usman came to know that she had given birth to a boy in jail in 2008 and the kalyan samiti published a notice to give the child’s custody to an appropriate couple. “I gave up the idea of the book and decided to take the child’s custody so that I could keep him away from jail life,” said Usman.The then jailor of Moradabad jail, Dr BD Pandey, said according to the Jail Manual, a child can stay in jail with the mother or father or a guardian till the age of six years. Thereafter, the child’s custody has to be given to a couple through the district Bal Kalyan Samiti, after following a set procedure of verification.“From among a few couples, we found Usman and his wife Vandana Singh (a teacher) most appropriate for the boy’s custody. He was handed over to them in 2015,” said Pandey.He recalled that Shabnam wanted to hand over the boy to a fellow prisoner who assured her of taking care of him after her release from jail. “I was not in favour of handing over the child to a woman who was a repeat offender. The samiti rejected her name on my recommendation,” added Pandey.After much persuasion, Shabnam agreed to meet Usman and his wife and the procedure of handing over the boy was completed. Usman shared that he got married to Vandana in May 2015 and the couple got custody of the boy in July 2015. Usman dubbed his wife as the real angel of the story. “We decided not to have our own child after taking custody of the boy as she feared it would divide her love and affection,” he said.The Bal Kalyan Samiti renews custody of the boy every three months and it was last renewed on January 20. The couple takes the boy to her mother in jail on the (renewal) date. “This would continue till he attains the age of 18. Thereafter, the boy would decide where he wants to stay,” said Usman.Usman said the boy gets upset before visiting his mother in jail because he doesn’t like jail. “When he came to us in 2015, he had three wishes... eat ice-cream, meet actor Salman Khan and wear office dress (coat and trousers). I fulfilled his first wish, we watched Salman Khan’s movie ‘Bajrangi Bhaijan’ and then I bought him coat and trousers,” shared Usman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/after-the-boy-was-with-us-we-decided-not-to-have-our-own-child-101613717974230.html
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||Allow Sikh jatha to go to Pakistan, Akal Takht urges Centre||Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Friday said that the Centre has committed a historic wrong by not permitting the Sikh jatha (group) to go to Pakistan to attend the centenary of the Nankana Sahib massacre at the birthplace of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak on February 21. He urged the Union government to reconsider its decision. In a video message released in Amritsar, Giani Harpreet Singh said, “The Nankana Sahib massacre is an important chapter in the history of Sikhs who sacrificed self to liberate the sacred historic gurdwaras from the clutches of mahants who were indulging in immoral acts under the patronage of British rulers. To mark the centenary of the massacre, the main event is being organised at Gurdwara Janam Asthan, Nankana Sahib in Pakistan, while in India the centennial functions are being organised at Godharpur village in Gurdaspur district.” “The Indian government is extremely wrong in denying the Sikh jatha permission to attend the main event in Pakistan,” he said. Cites Kumbh being held in March to counter Covid-19 argument Besides security, the government has cited the Covid-19 pandemic as the reason to deny permission. To this, he said, “The Kumbh festival is being held in March. Crores will take a dip during the festival and no restriction has been imposed. Secondly, this festival is organised every 12 years, but the centenary of Saka Nankana Sahib has come after 100 years. Denying permission to attend an event that comes after 100 years is unfortunate.” “Sikhs and Hindus from Sindh and other distant areas of Pakistan will travel to Nankana Sahib to attend the event in large numbers. They are eager to listen to Sri Harmandar Sahib’s ragi jathas (groups of traditional Gurbani singers) who were to be a part of the jatha. Besides, Pakistan’s sangat was looking forward to listen to Sikh preacher Bhai Pinderpal Singh’s address”, said the head of the highest Sikh temporal seat, who was to lead the Pakistan-bound jatha. “The government still has time to reconsider its decision. We have a day,” he said. SGPC to send books on event to Modi The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee announced that it will send a set of books on the Nankana Sahib massacre to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to make him aware of the historic significance of the event’s centenary. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur told reporters that the books shall be hand delivered. On Thursday, she said that she had also written to Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to register the committee’s protest against the denial of permission and urged them to reconsider the decision. Of the 700 pilgrims granted visa by Pakistan, 505 were part of the SGPC jatha and were to leave by road via the Attari-Wagah border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/allow-sikh-jatha-to-go-to-pakistan-akal-takht-to-centre-101613717447635.html
19-02-2021||Kolkata||CBI raids 13 locations in West Bengal over illegal mining, coal theft||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday conducted raids at 13 locations in four districts of West Bengal in connection with a multi-crore coal scam, involving a businessman Anup Majhi alias Lala, officials said. The raids were carried out in Kolkata, Bankura, Paschim Bardhaman and Purulia, they added.The investigative agency is probing Manjhi for his involvement in embezzling thousands of crores of rupees in the scam, arising out of illegal mining from abandoned mines of Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) in Kunustoria and Kajora areas.The searches were conducted in the premises of Amiya Steel Pvt Ltd in Kolkata and Bankura and that of Joydeb Mandal, the alleged deputy of the suspected kingpin of the racket Manjhi, news agency PTI reported.CBI had registered a first information report (FIR) in November last year against Manjhi, Eastern Coalfield Ltd general managers Amit Kumar Dhar (of then Kunustoria area now Pandaveswar area) and Jayesh Chandra Rai (Kajor area) besides ECL chief of security Tanmay Das, area security inspector Kunustoria Dhananjay Rai and SSI and security in-charge of Kajor area Debashish Mukherjee.The agency acted on information from "reliable sources" that indicated illegal excavation and theft of coal in the leasehold area of ECL in "connivance" with officials of ECL, the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and Indian Railways.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cbi-raids-13-locations-in-west-bengal-over-illegal-mining-coal-theft-101613714626583.html
19-02-2021||Lucknow||UP prepares for Covid-19 vaccination of elderly population||Uttar Pradesh health department has begun planning for Covid-19 vaccination of people over 50-years of age after the drive to vaccinate front line workers gets over in the state, said an official.“We have started second dose for health workers and frontline workers are getting their first dose. Once the healthcare workers are administered the second dose and the frontline workers are given the first dose, the focus will shift upon 50-years plus aged people,” said Dr Rakesh Dubey, director general family welfare.Six states -- Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar and Gujarat – began giving their second doses for the first time on Monday. The vaccination drive has been hit by glitches in the CoWIN application launched for this purpose and hesitancy among recipients driven mostly by the fear of adverse reaction.Dubey said the authorities will soon get the guideline for vaccination of the elderly. He added that currently registration of people outside the two groups of healthcare workers and frontline workers was not taking place. However, it may be announced soon. “We are yet to get the information about it, but may be announced soon,” said Dr Dubey.Medical experts said that aged people with comorbidities or some other kind of illnesses should be given preference for vaccination. “People with respiratory illness, immunocompromised people, diabetes patients should be vaccinated first ideally,” said Prof Kausar Usman, HoD geriatric medicine at the King George’s Medical University in Lucknow.Also Read: WWE wrestler Rinku Singh takes a dip at Sangam, prays for success in ring“This has a simple reason, as elderly with a comorbid condition are more vulnerable to catching infection. And since Covid is under control but not finished hence they (elderly with comorbidity) need protection quickly,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, association of international doctors.In Uttar Pradesh 9.37 lakh health workers were listed for vaccination and 75% of them have been vaccinated. About 20,000 have also got their second dose and authorities hope that the mop up round planned on February 19 will take the vaccination (first dose) among healthcare workers to beyond 80%, said Dr Ajai Ghai, state immunisation officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-prepares-for-covid-19-vaccination-of-elderly-population-101613715267663.html
19-02-2021||Dehradun||Kumbh preparations in Haridwar underway; registration, Covid-19 report mandatory||The preparations are underway for Kumbh Mela 2021 to be held from 1st to 30th April in Haridwar. The Uttarakhand government has decided to limit the Kumbh this year to 30 days.Officers in charge of the Kumbh Mela said that those who attend the religious congregation should do prior registration at a portal and have a Covid-19 negative report.Kumbh Mela Officer in Charge Deepak Rawat told ANI, "Our front line workers posted on duty are to be administered with Covid-1 vaccine compulsorily. Visitors should have Coronavirus negative report, issued not earlier than 72 hours,""The construction of permanent and temporary amenities is underway. Work at ghats, Astha path and toilet construction has been completed. The work on bridges is going on," he said.He also said that crowd control during Mukhya Snan is the biggest challenge that the police is expecting to face."Crowd 'Hold ups' are in place and markings at Ghats has been done to manage the crowd," he said."There will be sanitisation units at each ghat. More than 2000 will be deployed to sanitise people. Large scale distribution of free masks will be done," he added.Sanjay Gunjiyal, Inspector General of Police in charge of Kumbh Mela, said: "Crowd and traffic management will be a big challenge as the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar takes place in a small area.""Other than traditional crowd management methods we will also employ the use of Artificial Intelligence for head counting, detection of unattended baggage, traffic rule violations and automatic number plate detection," he added.Kumbh Mela is not only a religious pilgrimage, but one of the largest mass gatherings at one place. It is celebrated four times over a course of 12 years and spans four locations namely Prayag, Haridwar, Ujjain and Nashik. The Maha Kumbh is celebrated in a cycle of 12 years at four river-bank pilgrimage sites across India. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/kumbh-preparations-in-haridwar-underway-registration-covid-19-report-mandatory-101613714445925.html
19-02-2021||Delhi||Parts of Delhi engulfed in dense fog, visibility at Palam dips to 50m||Dense fog was reported at the Palam weather station in Delhi early Friday morning as the visibility dipped to around 50 metres between 7am and 8am, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). In other parts of the city, including Safdarjung observatory, which is the official marker of the city, moderate fog was reported. According to the Met department, the visibility here in the morning was 200 metres. Several flyers were stranded as several departures at the Delhi airport were delayed due to the fog on Friday morning. Officials said the departure of flights between 6am and 7am was affected as the visibility dropped drastically. Even as the exact number of delays could not be verified, they said, operations are expected to normalise during the afternoon.Arrivals, however, continued normally, the officials said.Also Read | Delhi records very poor air, improvement likely over weekendMeanwhile the overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of the city remained in the “very poor” category, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar).“The overall Delhi air quality is in the low-end of the ‘very poor’ category as forecast. Surface winds are low and forecasted to improve and change in direction to easterly. Better ventilation is likely to influence AQI positively. AQI is likely to stay in the lower end of “very poor” for the next two days and it is likely to further improve on February 20,” Safar said in its bulletin.An AQI between 0-50 is marked good, 51-100 is satisfactory, 101- 200 is moderate, 201- 300 is poor, 301-400 is very poor and 401-500 is considered severe.As per Safar, the concentration of PM10 particles stood at 188 in the “moderate” category while the concentration of PM93 particles stood at 150 in the “poor” category on Friday.According to IMD, Delhi’s temperature was recorded at 12 degrees Celsius in Palam at 5.30am on Friday.The maximum temperature would be around 28 degrees Celcius whereas the minimum around 10 degrees Celcius respectively, the regional weather department said Thursday. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/parts-of-delhi-engulfed-in-dense-fog-visibility-at-palam-dips-to-50m-101613713367750.html
19-02-2021||Bangalore||Air pollution caused 12,000 deaths, ₹12,000 crore loss in Bengaluru: Report||At least 12,000 people have died in Bengaluru as a result of air pollution and related problems and caused economic damages to the tune of Rs12,365 crore in 2020, according to the Greenpeace Southeast Asia Analysis of IQAir data.The report by Greenpeace, a global climate activist group, on Thursday titled 'Greenpeace: Cost to Economy Due to Air Pollution Analysis 2021’ said around 1.2 lakh lives were lost due to air pollution in six Indian cities and that the economic losses on account of bad air amounted to over ₹2 lakh crore.It wasn’t clear how Greenpeace arrived at these numbers or attributed specific deaths to air pollution because these numbers are not tracked by the Union or state governments.Still, beyond the numbers, the report highlights the poor state or the air in major cities in the country, and the consequences.According to the study, there were 54,000 air pollution-related deaths in Delhi, 25,000 in Mumbai, 12,000 in Bengaluru, 11,000 each in Hyderabad and Chennai and around 6,700 in Lucknow.“To show the impact of air pollution-related deaths on the economy, the approach used by Greenpeace is called “willingness-to-pay”, a lost life year or a year lived with a disability is converted to money by the amount that people are willing to pay in order to avoid this negative outcome,” according to the report.But the report does not specify who incurred these costs, experts point out.“When we choose fossil fuel over clean energy, our health is put at stake. Polluted air increases the likelihood of deaths due to cancer and stroke, a spike in asthma attacks and worsens the severity of Covid-19 symptoms,” Avinash Chanchal, Climate Campaigner, Greenpeace India said in a statement.One of the causes of poor air is construction; another is vehicular pollution.Bengaluru has 9.4 million vehicles in an area of just around 820 square kilometres.“Air quality had improved last year due to the lockdown and our own measures but increased vehicular population, the metro (rail) and other construction, and industrial activity have impacted overall figures,” said a Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) official who asked not to be named.“Though PM10 and PM2.5 pollutants have gone up, other gaseous pollutants are under control,” the official added.PM 2.5 and 10 refer to particulate matter with a diameter of 2.5 and 10 microns respectively.According to KSPCB, Bengaluru’s Air Quality Index (AQI) has fell from 107.1 in 2014-15 to 88.1 in 2018-19. a reading under 100 is considered satisfactory.The flaws of measuring air quality is pointed out by a former KSPCB official itself.When Metro construction was ongoing near Victoria Hospital near the busy KR Market of Bengaluru, the KSPCB monitors indicated this rise. But when construction was completed in this location, they came to the conclusion that pollution levels had gone down even though there was no effort to monitor hundreds of other areas where metro construction was being carried out in full swing.Experts also point to the “law of averages” as air quality tends to worsen sharply during peak hours and then marginally reduce through other times. Since AQI is calculated over 24 hours, the severity of the problem is diluted.KSPCB’s 41-point action plan includes measures such as pushing for the use of LPG and bio-fuels, promoting battery operated vehicles, and effective disposal of construction debris. It claims these have helped.While the Covid-19 induced lockdown brought some reprieve to the environment, lifting restrictions has ended that.The Work From Home policy adopted by technology companies in Bengaluru has brought down traffic and usage of air conditioning and other appliances in offices to some extent, but dependence on private transport has not helped the situation.Experts also point out that there are only around 20 monitoring stations (both manual and real-time) to capture pollution data in a city that expands to over 820 square km.“In areas such as Whitefield, where most of the pollutants are, due to construction and a concentration of vehicles, the situation has not returned to pre-Covid levels but in other places such as Indiranagar and Koramangala, (the rise in) traffic has brought it (pollution) to almost the same levels,” Madhusudhan Anand. B, CTO & Co-Founder or Ambee, a Bengaluru-based startup that works to find solutions for air pollution said.“In areas that lead to highways outside the city, pollution levels are back at pre-Covid levels,” Anand added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/air-pollution-caused-12-000-deaths-rs-12-000-crore-loss-in-bengaluru-report-101613712811275.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||PM Modi, Amit Shah pay tributes to Shivaji on his birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and several leaders from Maharashtra paid their respects to Maratha king Shivaji on his birth anniversary on Friday. Shivaji’s birth anniversary, Shiv Jayanti, is celebrated with zeal in the western state where the 17th-century ruler is a huge cultural and historical icon.Prime Minister Modi in a tweet shared a video highlighting the influence the Maratha king has had on generations of Indians. He paid tribute to Shivaji, saying that the Maratha king’s exemplary courage will light the way for Indians for generations to come. PM Modi said, “I pay my respects to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, the immortal son of Mother Bharati, on his birth anniversary. The saga of his indomitable courage, amazing valor and extraordinary intelligence will continue to inspire the countrymen for ages. Jai Shivaji!”Union home minister Shah lauded Maharashtra’s largest cultural icon by thanking him for introducing the culture of public welfare services in the nation. In his tweet, Shah also said that Shivaji showed how to implement good governance in a state. He said, “Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, a vibrant symbol of nationalism, established good governance with his unique intelligence, amazing courage and excellent administrative skills. With his foresight, he built a strong navy and also initiated several public welfare policies. My deepest respects to one of our greatest national heroes.”Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari on Friday paid his respects to the Maratha king by felicitating his statue in Mumbai. The Nationalist Congress Party's (NCP's) chief Sharad Pawar also tweeted in memory of the Maratha warrior king, saying that the ruler was instrumental in ‘awaken(ing) self-esteem in the minds of the people’ and also said that he worked towards establishing a government that cared for its ‘peasants’. “Birthday greetings to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, the public welfare ruler who awakened self-esteem in the minds of the people and made the concept of ryot state a reality. Happy Shiv Jayanti to all!" Pawar's tweet loosely translated from Marathi read.Shiv Sena lawmaker Sanjay Raut tweeted an illustration of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj while paying tribute to him on his birth anniversary.Shivaji was born on February 19, 1630, on the Shivneri fort in Pune district and people from across the state, as well as other parts of the nation, gather there and other forts in large numbers on the midnight of February 18 every year. The Maharashtra government has requested citizens of the state to celebrate the warrior king’s birth anniversary following the social distancing protocols advised due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pm-modi-amit-shah-pay-tributes-to-shivaji-on-his-birth-anniversary-101613712077218.html
19-02-2021||Lucknow||Rebel BSP MLAs denied separate seating arrangement in UP assembly||Nine rebel MLAs of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) were on Thursday denied separate seating arrangement in Uttar Pradesh assembly and were directed to sit in the area allocated to BSP MLAs in the House, said a rebel BSP MLA.Speaker of the assembly Hridaya Narain Dikshit told the rebels, who remain suspended by the BSP, that since they have neither floated or joined any political party nor been expelled from the BSP, there is no provision for separate seating arrangement for them. The rebels will have to sit with BSP MLAs, the speaker told the delegation, said Aslam Raini, rebel BSP MLA from Bhinga assembly seat.During the biennial election to Rajya Sabha in October last year, seven BSP MLAs were suspended after opposing the nomination of party’s candidate Ramji Gautam and meeting Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav. Ramveer Upadhyaya and Anil Singh were suspended from the party earlier.Also Read: Two Dalit girls die in UP’s Unnao, 1 critical: What we knowThe BSP’s strength in the house has effectively come down from 18 to nine after the rebellion of nine MLAs. BSP MLA from Mau assembly seat, Mukhtar Ansari, is currently lodged in a jail in Punjab.The nine rebels include Aslam Ali, Anil Singh, Bandana Singh, Sushma Patel, Mujtaba Siddiqui, Ramveer Upadhyaya, Hargovind Bhargava, Hakim Lal Bind, Ramveer Upadhyaya and Anil Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rebel-bsp-mlas-denied-separate-seating-arrangement-in-up-assembly-101613711179694.html
19-02-2021||Patna||Bihar budget session to start today, Speaker appeals for cooperation||The Budget session of the Bihar legislature starting Friday is likely to be stormy despite the Legislative Assembly’s Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha’s appeal at the all-party meeting for cooperation to ensure meaningful debates and discussions.The Budget session will commence with the address of governor Phagu Chouhan to the joint session of the Bihar Legislative Assembly and the Bihar Legislative Council at the central hall of the extended building of the Bihar Vidhan Sabha. On February 22, deputy chief minister Tar Kishore Prasad, who is also the finance minister, will table the Budget for the first time.Also Read | Tejashwi says Nitish trying to project caste-based census as his own idea“In a democracy, people are supreme and send us to the House to serve them. For this, all the parties need to have a positive and constructive approach and allow the House to run smoothly... The question hour should not be disrupted,” said the Speaker, to which all the leaders agreed.Those present at the all-party meeting included deputy chief minister Tar Kishore Prasad, parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, minister Shravan Kumar, leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Ajeet Sharma of the Congress, Satyadev Ram of the Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) or CPI(ML), Raj Kumar Singh of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) , Akhtarul Imam of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) and others.The ongoing war of words between the leaders of the ruling dispensation and the Opposition has, however, clearly pointed towards the things to come during the session.“The session’s duration has been increased on the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)’s demand. It is the second Budget session during the pandemic. The government had said an all-party panel will be formed to examine the allegations of discrepancies in testing, but that did not happen. No action has been taken on serious allegations against testing. Law and order is another big issue,” said Tejashwi Yadav soon after his return from Delhi.Congress MLC Premchandra Mishra said the party would, as always, like the House to run smoothly, but it cannot stop raising uncomfortable questions of public importance. “In a democracy, we will play the role of a constructive Opposition. If law and order has gone completely out of control, the government will have the answer,” he said.CPI(ML) leader Mehboob Alam said the government schemes for the poor were on paper only and this would be raised on the floor of the House.Janata Dal (United) spokesman Neeraj Kumar said the development the state has made over the last 15 years was there for all to see. “The road map for the next five years is also being implemented. A glimpse of that will be visible in the governor’s address. The government will answer all the questions of the Opposition,” he said.Bharatiya Janata Party spokesman Nikhil Anand said the best things would be for the Opposition to take interest in the legislative business. “The government will answer all their questions, but we hope the Opposition will play a constructive role and refrain from misleading the people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-budget-session-to-start-today-speaker-appeals-for-cooperation-101613711387579.html
19-02-2021||Bangalore||BJP MP’S son and independent MLA Sharath Bachegowda to join Congress||Independent MLA and BJP MP B N Bache Gowda’s son Sharath Bachegowda on Thursday said he would join the Congress party sometime in February.Amid speculation that he is joining the party on February 26, Sharath told PTI, “There is no date fixed as such but sometime in February I will join the legislative party of the Congress.” Sharath’s entry to the Congress had been on the cards for quite some time but it is now that he has confirmed his next political move.Sharath had rebelled against his party BJP and successfully contested the Hoskote assembly byelection in December 2019 defeating BJP’s M T B Nagaraj.Nagaraj, a BJP MLC and minister, was among the rebel Congress MLAs who had resigned from the assembly in 2019 bringing down the Congress-JDS coalition government. He joined the BJP later but was defeated in the bypolls.There were accusations that Bache Gowda helped his son indirectly to win the election but he refuted the charges.Sharath said he has not informed his father formally about his decision to join Congress. “Since everything is in the public domain, I did not inform him yet. He must be aware of it,” he added.To a question whether Bache Gowda approved his decision, Sharath said he had to think of his political career. According to BJP sources, Sharath had tried to make an entry into the BJP but Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and the state BJP leadership did not approve it as they were extremely upset with him for rebelling against the party and defeating their candidate||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bjp-mp-s-son-and-independent-mla-sharath-bachegowda-to-join-congress-101613709787422.html
19-02-2021||Bangalore||'You have to stay strong': 102-year-old freedom fighter's message to Disha Ravi||Harohalli Srinivasaiah Doreswamy was 23-years-old and had joined a new job as a school teacher when he was first arrested and imprisoned for 14 months for organizing strikes against the British government. His second visit to the prison was at the age of 57 when he took on then prime minister Indira Gandhi during the emergency.In an interview with Arun Dev, the 102-year-old draws parallels between the times he has lived through and the present state of affairs in the country. He says that a leader or a movement has always emerged whenever democracy was threatened in the country. He also has a message for 22-year-old activist Disha Ravi, who was recently arrested on charges of sedition in connection with the toolkit case – “you have to stay strong”. Edited excerpts:How do you look at the government using sedition against voices of dissent?Isn’t it clear? Those who do not support or speak up against the government are called traitors. What is even more concerning is that most of them have not been given a trial. Even the British had done the same (registered sedition cases) but when cases were filed against Gandhiji and (Bal Gangadhar) Tilak, they were produced before the court. By not producing them before the court, their (government’s) intention is to harass and create an environment of fear for the others. They want to see people silenced.How old were you when you were arrested during the freedom movement?I was 23-years-old when I was arrested. I had just got a new job as a teacher in a high school then. I started working in June but by then, the Quit India Movement has begun. I helped organise a 14-day strike at the mills across Mysore state and also blew up government record rooms and postboxes with very small time-bombs. Our intention was to disrupt the British government’s daily functioning.By December, I was arrested, and I lost my job as well.Was the jail term a difficult experience?Not at all, it was a learning experience. I had a purpose in life, to fight the British rule. I was not worried at all; in fact, it was like a university for me. The other leaders in jail used to give lectures. I learnt new languages when I was there.You lived through the Emergency also…Oh yes, there was an interesting incident from the time of Emergency. After the Emergency was announced, I wrote a letter to Indira Gandhi (then prime minister), saying she was a dictator. In the letter, I threatened to go village to village and mobilise the people against her dictatorship. Soon after that, I held the first meeting in Gandhi Bazar (in Bengaluru). I was arrested. But I was in jail only for four months.During the trial, the prosecution said that I had criticised the prime minister and that I was an enemy of the state. But that judge who was hearing my case said that I had every right to criticise the government and there is no proof to say that I am an enemy of the state. The judge then told the prosecution to ask the government under what charge should I be booked and released me.I hope our current judiciary will stand up for justice as that judge did then.What are your views on the recent arrest of 21-year-old Disha Ravi by Delhi Police?The police took a woman from Bengaluru to Delhi without informing the local magistrate… it is very harsh on their part. But she has braved it. It is very brave of her.If you could tell her anything, what would you say?You have to be strong. We are facing a dictatorial regime that is merciless, you need to stay strong.There are reports of parents telling their children not to take part in protests in the wake of the arrests of young activists. What are your views on it?You don’t worry about it. Today’s youngsters are smart and wiser. The youngsters of the country have always fought for the right causes. They know what should be done and no one can stop them.As someone who has seen the freedom struggle and emergency, what do you think of our country’s future?Nothing is permanent. There will be ups and downs. During the freedom struggle there was Gandhi, during the emergency there was JP (Jayaprakash Narayan) and then Anna Hazare also came, even though he was misguided later. If not a leader, there will be a movement that takes on what is wrong in our country.I see hope in the farmers’ protests, this has the power to unite people against this dictatorial government. The longer they stay on the streets, the stronger the resistance becomes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/we-are-facing-a-dictatorial-regime-disha-has-to-stay-strong-doreswamy-101613708637584.html
19-02-2021||Lucknow||Two Dalit girls die in UP’s Unnao, 1 critical: What we know||Angry relatives and neighbours on Thursday refused to let officials bury two Dalit girls found dead in a field in Uttar Pradesh’s Unnao district and demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe as police said a preliminary autopsy found no injuries on the victims and did not mention sexual assault. Here is what we know about the case:• Three Dalit girls, aged 13, 15, and 16, were found unconscious in a field near their home in Unnao district late on Wednesday. • Two of them died soon after, and the third, the oldest, was in critical condition in a Kanpur hospital.Also Read | Post-mortem shows no external injury: UP Police chief on Unnao shocker• The Uttar Pradesh Police registered a case of murder and concealment of evidence against unknown persons, and picked up six people for questioning, including two male cousins of the victims. • The families of the girls, however, demanded a federal probe, indicating they were not satisfied with the initial probe made by the police. • Officials and the victims’ families faced off twice during the day. • In the morning, hundreds of angry local villagers confronted officials supervising the digging of the grave and said they would not let the administration bury the victims. • In the evening, minutes after the bodies of the victims arrived after autopsies, family members threw themselves before the earthmovers and said they would not allow the burial in the night because it violated their local customs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-dalit-girls-die-in-up-s-unnao-1-critical-what-we-know-101613708748064.html
19-02-2021||Delhi||Petrol price crosses ₹90-mark, diesel at ₹80.60 per litre in Delhi||Petrol and diesel prices went up for the eleventh consecutive day in the national capital and stood at ₹90.19 and ₹80.60 per litre, respectively on Friday.The price of petrol was increased by ₹31 paise while that of diesel by ₹33 paise.Earlier, during her budget speech, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the imposition of Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess (AIDC) of ₹2.5 per litre on petrol and ₹4 per litre on diesel.The price of liquefied petroleum gas cylinder (14.2 kg domestic cylinder) has also increased by ₹50 per unit in Delhi on February 14, taking the cost of LPG gas to ₹769 per cylinder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/petrol-price-crosses-rs-90-mark-diesel-at-rs-80-60-per-litre-in-delhi-101613707276795.html
19-02-2021||Patna||Tejashwi says Nitish trying to project caste-based census as his own idea||Patna (Bihar) [India], February 18 (ANI): Leader of Opposition in Bihar Assembly Tejaswi Yadav on Thursday said chief minister Nitish Kumar was attempting to appropriate veteran socialist leader and former chief minister Karpoori Thakur's demand for caste-based census."Caste-based census is late Karpuri Thakur's formula, and not Nitish Kumar's. He is just trying to project this to originally be his demand. As for us, we had sent the proposal for such a census to the Centre after getting it approved by the state's legislative assembly. Now, it is for the Centre to take the call," Tejaswi told reporters here today.Nitish Kumar had on Wednesday reiterated his demand for a caste-based census aross the country."A caste-based Census will give a correct figure about the population of each caste. It will facilitate governments take better decision for the development and welfare of people," Nitish said.The chief minister said that he had been demanding for a caste-based census for very long. "Not just me, I have sent the proposal to the Centre multiple times after getting it approved by the state legislative council and the state legislative assembly," Kumar said while interacting with mediapersons here yesterday.Meanwhile Tejaswi Yadav speaking on Lalu Prasad Yadav's bail plea hearing said: "We have full faith in the court, and are assured that he will get the bail.""Lalu Ji had another medical screening following complaints of pneumonia. There is water in his lungs. He is also having problems in the passage of urine because of 25 per cent kidney functionality," he added.Tejaswi also attacked the Centre over petroleum products price hike saying, "People must remember now that 'Bahut Hui Mehngai Ki Maar, Abki Baar Modi Sarkar' slogan. People already are economic duress and this government is working to increase it." (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tejashwi-says-nitish-trying-to-project-caste-based-census-as-his-own-idea-101613697584555.html
19-02-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Curbs in place, Delhi traffic remains slow||As the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border continues to remain closed because of the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three farm laws, vehicular movement is disrupted and slow in areas around Delhi-Ghaziabad borders, especially during the morning and evening peak hours. Similarly, traffic is affected in areas around outer Delhi’s Singhu and Tikri borders that are also closed because of the agitation. All the six lanes of Delhi-Meerut expressway, NH-24 and NH-9 are closed at the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad border as the agitating farmers have occupied the roads and the routes are heavily barricaded by the police to stop the farmers from entering Delhi. As a result, traffic between Delhi and Ghaziabad has been diverted to alternate routes, causing increased volume of traffic and jams on them. Delhi Traffic Police have advised motorists travelling between Delhi and Ghaziabad to use EDM Mall, Anand Vihar, Kondli, Surya Nagar, Apsara, Bhopra and Loni borders as the alternate routes and avoid the Ghazipur border route. They can also enter Delhi through Noida. Also Read | ‘We will harvest as well as protest’: Tikait, vows to continue farm laws stirThose coming to Delhi from Ghaziabad, Vasundhara and Vaishali are advised to take the Anand Vihar (Maharajpur) border and take a left on the road towards Ghazipur roundabout from where they can use the NH-9 and NH-24 as well. The other route they can take is the EDM Mall border from where the motorists can either use the Ghazipur Mandi roundabout and can have access to the Delhi-Meerut expressway, NH-24 and NH-9 towards Delhi, or they can move towards the road leading to the Ghazipur roundabout and further on. According to the traffic police, Singhu and Tikri borders are completely closed for traffic between Delhi and Haryana. Auchandi border is kept open for traffic only from 6am to 9am and from 6pm to 9pm. The other borders, such as Lampur, Safiabad, Saboli, Piau Maniyari, Singhu school, Pall toll tax borders are open for traffic. Traffic police have advised motorists to follow alternate routes and avoid Outer Ring Road, GT Karnal Road and NH-44 to avoid traffic congestion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-curbs-in-place-delhi-traffic-remains-slow-101613705208419.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||High-risk contact of Covid-19 patient in Mumbai? Quarantine at home or face jail||As the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra and Mumbai becomes worrisome, authorities in the state's capital have issued a number of guidelines to further contain the spread of the coronavirus disease, including booking violators of home quarantine and sealing buildings.Mumbai on Thursday recorded 736 fresh cases and three fatalities due to the viral infection. This is the highest number of daily cases the city has witnessed since January 6 (795 new cases). Mumbai’s total caseload has gone up to 316,487 while 11,432 people have so far died of the disease. The city’s active caseload stands at 4,782.Also Read: Signs of Covid uptick as states lower guardThe figures come as Maharashtra crossed the 5000-mark of daily cases on Thursday. The state recorded 5,427 cases, crossing 5,000 for the first time in 76 days (since December 4), and 38 deaths, taking the tally to 2,081,520 and toll to 51,669.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to file first information reports (FIR) against home-quarantine violators and then send them to mandatory institutional quarantine, under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. The high-risk contacts of Covid-19 positive citizens in Mumbai may face up to six months imprisonment, or a fine of at least ₹200, or even both, if they do not remain in-home quarantine, the BMC has ruled.The civic body also released new guidelines on Thursday stating that buildings in Mumbai that have five or more Covid-19 patients will be sealed. Returning to earlier stricter Covid-19 norms, the BMC will hand-stamped all high-risk contacts of patients and Covid-19 war room officials will telephone home-quarantined patients five to six times a day to check if they are at home.According to the circular issued by BMC, it is mandatory for people to wear masks while using public transport, commuting in public places such as streets, footpaths, markets, shopping centres, malls, restaurants, gymnasiums, offices, clinics and hospital premises and also at wedding ceremonies and religious places of worship.The civic body will carry out regular inspections at banquet halls and said that the surprise inspection will happen in at least five such places every day. Criminal action will be taken against those violating the rules. The management of the premises and organisers such as parents and family members of the wedding will face action.Also, every ward in the city will now have at least one Covid Care Centre (CCC) 1 and CCC2 for quarantine of high-risk contacts and asymptomatic patients. BMC will also map areas where a high number of cases are being detected, to maximise testing in these areas. So far, BMC has conducted 3,080,528 tests since March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/highrisk-contact-of-covid-19-patient-in-mumbai-quarantine-at-home-or-face-jail-101613702406390.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Fire breaks out in Thane godown, no loss to life reported||A fire broke out in a godown in Manpada, Thane, Maharashtra, around 2.20am on Friday. Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC) officers, officers from Manpada- Chitalsar police station and fire brigade personnel rushed to the site with one fire engine, two jumbo water tankers, two water tankers, one rescue vehicle and one JCB. The godown is owned by one Rajendra Khanvilkar and is a warehouse for products by a popular cold drink and potato wafers brand. Around 12 vehicles loaded with these products are parked within the premises. The situation is under control now but most vehicles have been completely charred in the fire.Also Read | Mumbai cab driver posts photos on social media posing as cop; heldPolice did not report any loss to life.“It took four hours to douse the fire after which cooling operation was conducted. The vehicles on the premises include five Tata ace tempos, one three-wheeler tempo, two Tata ACE intra, three Tata 407 tempo and one Maruti Super Carry. All vehicles are loaded with product,” said an official from RDMC who was on site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-fire-breaks-out-in-thane-godown-no-loss-to-life-reported-101613703586812.html
19-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi records very poor air, improvement likely over weekend||Delhi’s air quality improved marginally on Friday, with the hourly average air quality index (AQI) recording 301, in the "very poor" zone at 7am. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed that on Thursday the overall air quality of the city was 302, also in the "very poor" category.Also Read | Almost a quarter of all freshwater fish species are in peril, thanks to humansUnion ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring centre System of Air Quality and Weather Forest and Research (Safar) on Thursday said that the pollution levels are expected to go down on Friday. “Wind is forecasted to improve and change in direction to easterly. Better ventilation is likely to influence AQI positively. AQI is likely to stay in the lower end of very poor for the next two days. AQI is likely to further improve on February 20,” the Safar forecast read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-very-poor-air-improvement-likely-over-weekend-101613702566781.html
19-02-2021||Lucknow||Bangladesh-based terror outfit helped PFI men arrange explosives for terror plot||Bangladesh-based terror outfit Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen helped the two members of Popular Front of India (PFI), arrested in Lucknow, in arranging explosives and firearms to carry out terror activities in UP and other parts of the country, said UP STF and ATS officials on Thursday.The special task force (STF) of Uttar Pradesh police arrested the two PFI members, Asad Badruddin and Feroz Khan, both residents of Kerala, from Lucknow’s Gudamba area on Tuesday. Sixteen high explosive devices with battery detonators, a pistol and live cartridges were recovered from them.The ATS booked them for illegal possession of explosives, firearms and waging war against the country.During interrogation, the two accused revealed that they visited Bangladesh a few months ago to seek Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen’s help for arranging explosives and firearms to trigger terror blasts in India, said an ATS official. The two accused were quizzed rigorously on the first day of their seven-day custody.Also Read: Outrage over girls' death: Villagers don’t let officials bury Unnao victimsA senior STF official said Jammat-ul-Mujahideen was operating in Bangladesh for the last 23 years. It was declared a terrorist organisation and banned by the government of Bangladesh in February 2005 after it carried out attacks on some NGOs.Another police official said identities of five other members of PFI’s hit squad had been established and efforts were on to trace them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bangladeshbased-terror-outfit-helped-pfi-men-arrange-explosives-for-terror-plot-101613699427646.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai cab driver posts photos on social media posing as cop; held||A 25-year-old cab driver has been arrested for allegedly posting his pictures on various social media platforms wearing the Mumbai police uniform, an official said on Thursday.According to the official, the arrested accused, Vijay Ghundre, was caught during a nakabandi (blockade) when he was driving his taxi with a plate written 'police' on it.During questioning, the police found he had posted his pictures on popular social media sites wearing the Mumbai police uniform (posing as a constable), the official said.Ghundre, a resident of Ghansoli in Navi Mumbai, may have duped people by posing as a policeman, he said.He was arrested and booked under various IPC sections, including 170 (personating a public servant) and 171 (wearing garb or carrying token used by a public servant with fraudulent intent), the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-cab-driver-posts-photos-on-social-media-posing-as-cop-held-101613698174584.html
19-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi education department official’s ‘advice’ kicks off a row||Several parents’ groups in the Capital raised objections on Thursday after a video on social media purportedly showed the Delhi government’s director of education asking students at a state-run school to “fill the answer sheets with anything” if they did not know the answers, and that there would be leniency in marking as long as there was something written on paper.The official, Udit Prakash Rai, also appeared to say in the video that the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) would give marks even if the students simply copied the questions down instead of attempting to answer them.HT has seen the video but could not independently verify its authenticity. It was also not clear who had recorded it.Read more: Can’t bar kids from e-classes over fees, Delhi govt warns schoolsAccording to Ashok Aggarwal, the national president of the All India Parents Association, the video showed Rai talking to Class 12 students.“I have written to the chief minister on the matter, asking him to take necessary action against the director. It is shocking that the director of education is issuing such instructions to students and asking them to write just anything or copying the questions on the answer sheet. He also said that they have spoken to CBSE on it,” Aggarwal said, adding that the video was shot on Wednesday. He did not, however, specify where the recording was made, who had made it, or how he knew about the details of the video.Despite repeated attempts, Rai did not respond to calls and messages seeking comments.A senior official from education department, requesting anonymity, explained the context of Director's conversation, “The Director’s motive was to assure the students that they should do lot of writing practice and give their best in the exams without worrying about anything. Children need to be motivated at this stage as they are going to take a public exam after a very difficult year. The fear of board exams needed to be taken out of their mind. It seems that specific parts of his conversation have been presented out of context and blown out of proportion.”Read more: Delhi government disburses ₹3.18 crore to construction workers under welfare schemesA CBSE spokesperson said the Delhi education department could “give the context to this specific video”. When asked whether the board had any discussion with the department over marking, CBSE secretary Anurag Tripathi said no such discussion had taken place.In the video posted on social media, Rai appears to be telling students: “Do not leave the answer sheet blank. Answer all questions. If you don’t know the answers, copy the questions in the space allotted for answers but don’t leave it blank. Write anything you remember, or can think of, but don’t leave it blank. We have spoken to your teachers and they have said that they will mark you if something is written on the answer sheets. We have also told CBSE that if the child writes anything, they should be marked.”In another video, he appeared to issue corresponding instructions to teachers, asking them to tell students to not leave question papers blank.Aprajita Gautam, the president of the Delhi Parents’ Association, said such instructions would harm the future prospects of children.The Delhi Congress criticised the official’s comments. “What kind of education model is this? Director Udit Prakash Rai is telling children that if they don’t know anything, they should write the questions and that the students would be marked on it. [They said] we have spoken to CBSE and students will be marked. This is playing with the future of children,” it tweeted on Thursday.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), too, criticised the comments. Naveen Kumar, media head of Delhi BJP, tweeted in response to the video: “This is the level of education in Delhi,”The government did not comment on the matter.To be sure, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi has been focusing on school education ever since they came to power in 2015. The pass percentage of the first batch of Class 12 students under the AAP government was 85.9% in 2016. It has improved over the years to 88.2% (2017), 90.6% (2018), 94.24% (2019) and 99% in 2020.Last year, as many as 569 students from Delhi government schools passed the National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) for admissions to medical colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-education-department-official-s-advice-kicks-off-a-row-101613680417960.html
19-02-2021||Delhi||BJP councillor, local office bearer joins AAP||A BJP councillor and a district level office bearer joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday, said AAP leader Durgesh Pathak, even as he accused the BJP of corruption and cited that as a reason for office bearers in Delhi leaving the party ahead of the 2022 municipal polls.The BJP dismissed the allegations as “baseless”.While the AAP is in charge of the government in Delhi, the BJP rules the three municipal corporations. Later this month, five municipal wards in the city will go polls. Full elections to the three corporations will be held next year.“People in Delhi are fed up with BJP’s corruption. That is also one reason why people who want to work for the people are leaving the party and joining the AAP. They believe that the AAP has a vision and we have proved that through our work in welfare and governance,” said the AAP’s municipal affairs in charge Durgesh Pathak, at a press conference in the party’s office in central Delhi on Thursday.In the conference, Pathak announced the induction of Rekha Dixit, the councillor of Anarkali ward in east Delhi, and Shravan Dixit, who was the BJP’s district general secretary in Shahdara.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “These allegations are baseless. If Mr Pathak feels that BJP councillors are corrupt, why is he welcoming them now? Few people who have failed in their duties as councillors and senior office bearers, and have learnt that they are not going to be given tickets for the next polls at any cost, are leaving the party and it is surprising that the AAP is happily welcoming them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-councillor-local-office-bearer-joins-aap-101613680375026.html
19-02-2021||Lucknow||Outrage over girls' death: Villagers don’t let officials bury Unnao victims||Angry relatives and villagers on Thursday refused to let officials bury two Dalit girls found dead in a field in Uttar Pradesh’s Unnao district and demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe, as police said a preliminary autopsy found no injuries on the victims and didn’t mention sexual assault.Three Dalit girls, aged 13, 15 and 16, were found unconscious in a field in Unnao late on Wednesday. Two of them died soon after, and the third, the oldest, was in a critical condition in a Kanpur hospital.The Uttar Pradesh Police, under pressure after alleged investigation lapses and forced cremation of a Dalit gang rape victim in Hathras last October, registered a case of murder and concealment of evidence against unknown persons, and picked up six people for questioning. Two of these were male cousins of the victims, and the rest were men from a neighbouring village.Read more: Post-mortem shows no external injury, poisoning suspected: UP Police chief on Unnao shockerThe families of the girls, however, demanded a federal probe, indicating they weren’t satisfied with the initial probe and arrests by UP Police. It was also unclear why a concealment of evidence charge was included in the FIR.“We want a CBI inquiry because our girls were murdered and we are being harassed. We have no enmity with anyone in the area and police should release our two relatives,” said the mother of one of the victims.“We are sure the girls were murdered; it is common in this area,” said the mother of another girl. Local officials and the victims’ families faced off twice during the day.The first was in the morning after police erected barricades at four spots, and brought in earth movers. Hundreds of local villagers confronted officials supervising the digging of graves with JCB machines and said they won’t allow the burial of victims.Watch: Unnao shocker: Two girls found dead in field, third critical l Latest updates“Everyone believed the police were trying to cover up the incident, and came out on the street,” said Shashi Pal, a local villager.Their apprehension was perhaps based on how the UP Police cremated the Hathras victim in the middle of the night against the wishes of her family -- an act the Allahabad high court later described as “violation of human rights”.Late on Thursday, the administration called back the JCB machines, minutes after the bodies of the victims arrived in the village after autopsy.Family members threw themselves before the machine in protest and said they would not allow the burial because it violated local customs. “The burial cannot take place at night. It will happen after my sons return to the house,” said the father of one victim.Police said the post-mortem report couldn’t ascertain the cause of death, and the remains will be sent for forensic analysis. “The doctors found no external or internal injuries on the girls’ bodies. There is no mention of sexual assault in the medical examination reports,” said UP director general of police Hitesh Chandra Awasthi. “We are taking help of forensic experts and looking into all possibilities,” he said.A panel of four doctors confirmed that a substance was found in the victims’ abdomen. This unidentified substance, they said, was smelly and frothy.Watch: ‘Is this Ram Rajya’? Congress attacks PM Modi & CM Yogi over Unnao caseThe report also suggested the girls ate a meal of rice and dal around six hours before they died. “Around 80 to 100 grams of undigested food was found in abdomen. Lab test will determine if the food was poisoned,” said an official aware of developments.Family members said the girls were close friends and left together to bring fodder from a field 1.5km from their house. They bought a packet of chips from a local shop around 3.30pm. It was the last anyone saw them. Their bodies were discovered by the families around 9.30pm.A medical bulletin by the Kanpur hospital said the third girl was in a critical but stable condition. “On primary assessment, she was found in shock, a suspected case of poisoning,” the bulletin read.Authorities said chief minister Yogi Adityanath took “serious note” of the incident and sought a detailed report. He directed officials to ensure proper treatment of the teenager. Awasthi said six police teams were constituted and senior officials were supervising the probe.But the victims’ families protested at the police’s decision to interrogate relatives.A police officer said one cousin was questioned because he was among the first people to locate the body. The second cousin was allegedly unable to explain his absence during a period of four hours on Wednesday.A second police officer also pointed to an alleged contradiction in the statements of the victims’ kin. The brother being questioned said the girls’ hands were tied with a dupatta while the mother of another girl said the dupatta was fastened around their necks. The autopsy report found no injury marks on the neck, hand or legs.Throughout the day, politicians, including from the Congress, Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party, Bharatiya Janata Party and Bhim Army, thronged the village. Opposition leaders blamed the UP government and compared the incident to the gangrape in Hathras.“The UP government is not only crushing Dalit society, but also the honour and human rights of women,” former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi tweeted. Congress leader Alka Lamba alleged the UP government was trying to stop the media. Bhim Army chief Chandrasekhar Azad demanded that the surviving girl should be airlifted to AIIMS for better treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/outrage-over-girls-death-villagers-don-t-let-officials-bury-unnao-victims-101613679757943.html
19-02-2021||Kolkata||CM Banerjee alleges conspiracy in attack on TMC minister, BJP seeks CBI probe||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said the bomb attack on state minister Jakir Hossain was part of a “conspiracy”, accusing some people of putting “pressure” on him to switch over to another party ahead of the upcoming assembly elections.“It was a planned attack on minister Jakir Hossain. It is a conspiracy. Some people were pressuring Jakir Hossain to join them for the last few months. I don’t want to disclose anything more as investigation is on,” Banerjee told reporters after visiting the SSKM Hospital in Kolkata, where the 50-year-old is undergoing treatment.Though she did not elaborate, the state’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of carrying out the attack immediately after the incident in Murshidabad district on Wednesday. The BJP said that the incident could be a result of infighting in the TMC.Read more: ‘Aim was to kill him’: Mamata condemns attack on ‘popular’ leader JakirAddressing a rally in South 24-Parganas on Thursday, state BJP president Dilip Ghosh demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar backed a probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA).Hossain, the minister of state for labour and the TMC MLA of Jangipur, was wounded in a bomb blast around 9:45pm on Wednesday when he was at Nimtita railway station to board a train to Kolkata. At least 26 others were injured in the incident. Of them, 15 were shifted to Kolkata for treatment. Banerjee has handed over the probe to three state-run agencies -- the Crime Investigation Department (CID), Special Task Force and Counter Insurgency Force.On Thursday, she announced a compensation of ₹5 lakh each for those seriously injured and ₹one lakh each for people who received minor injuries.Read more: Bomb attack on West Bengal minister Jakir Hossain part of conspiracy: Mamata Banerjee“How can the railways deny their responsibility over security lapses when the attack happened at a railway station?” she asked. “Those who were with him (Hossain) have claimed that the blast was remotely controlled. Police are investigating so nothing concrete can be said as of now.”Dhankhar, who visited Hossain at the hospital, said such incidents “are a shame on our society”. “I am sure the possibility of an investigation by National Investigating Agency (NIA) that has the requisite expertise to go into the matter will be involved by process of law,” Dhankar, who met the CM later in the day, told reporters.Officials probing the explosion said they found parts of a battery and a piece of wire from the spot. They said the explosives were kept in a bag on the platform and it was a matter of investigation if the bomb was triggered remotely. Referring to a video of the incident, officials said some of the people accompanying the minister had alerted about the bag.“Samples have been collected from the spot for forensic analysis. While a battery was found on the railway tracks, a piece of wire was found at a distance on the platform,” said an official who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cm-banerjee-alleges-conspiracy-in-attack-on-tmc-minister-bjp-seeks-cbi-probe-101613679339238.html
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||MPhil students allowed to return to Panjab University hostels||Panjab University has allowed MPhil students, who were previously living in hostels on campus, to return with consent of their supervisors.The notification was issued by dean students’ welfare (DSW) SK Tomar. However, newly enrolled PhD scholars and MPhil students have been asked to wait, till they receive further instructions.Before this, the varsity had allowed only research scholars to live in hostels from February. Several representations were given by students demanding that MPhil students should also be allowed to avail of hostel facility.Students to follow SOPsStudents have been asked to follow Covid standard operating procedures (SOPs) while living in the hostels. It has been made mandatory to get Covid tests done prior to joining. Also, an undertaking will have to be submitted to the warden of the hostel, forwarded through the chairperson of their respective department.Food will be served through tiffin on cash-payment basis and guest entry is not allowed till further orders. Moreover, a minimum number of messes/canteens will be opened. The same will be applicable to PU’s regional centres and affiliated colleges.45k appear for odd-semester examsAround 45,800 PU students appeared for the odd semester exams which is being conducted online on Thursday. As many as 29 exams were conducted on the fourth day and the varsity’s controller of examination, Jagat Bhushan, said everything went smoothly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mphil-students-allowed-to-return-to-panjab-university-hostels-101613679945944.html
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn’s advisory council recycling agendas since 2010||The administrator’s advisory council has been talking about the same issues for more than a decade now.The Hindustan Times examined the agendas and the minutes of meetings of several of the council’s meetings conducted since 2010 and discovered that there was no set format or uniformity for the UT administration to formulate and present the agendas. Also, issues raised in the meetings seldom got to the implementation stage.On certain occasions, several UT departments submitted detailed agendas before the meeting. On other occasions, the administration circulated a detailed agenda including issues dealt by the sub-committees. At times, however, the administration didn’t circulate any agenda among the council members before the meeting, as happened before the latest meeting held on February 10.The demand for a more structured meeting with action-taken reports on previous meetings has gone unheeded for more than a decade now.Members’ advice seldom paid heed toThe council is responsible for advising the UT administration on development issues and policy matters affecting the city. But critics say, its advice is seldom listened to or acted on; advice of the members is sought on the same issues again and again.Council members are the city’s prominent residents including current and former members of parliament, mayor, resident and business associations’ representatives, among others. In addition, all senior UT officials–(adviser, home secretary, finance secretary, deputy commissioner, etc) attend the meetings.Recycled issuesIssues related to traffic congestion, including the mass rapid transport system (MRTS), construction of an outer ring road and another route to the Chandigarh International Airport, have been deliberated upon on several occasions, but with no concrete results came out.For instance, the issue of MRTS came up for discussion the first time in 2010. Thereafter, it has been a regular feature at the council meetings. In the latest meeting too, it was part of the agenda through its sub-committee on transport.Similarly, views of the members have been repeatedly sought on “alternative route to Panchkula”.Another solution to decongest the city’s traffic, a ring road, has been featuring regularly in recent meetings. Improving public transport, particularly last mile connectivity, has been discussed and suggestions given several times in the past.Issues on industry such as conversion of leasehold property to freehold, rationalisation of charges of floor area ratio and collector rates have been brought up time and again, but not much has changed on the ground. For instance, the issue of collector rate rationalisation that came up in the latest meeting was debated over in 2014 as well.Other such recycled issues include extension of the lal dora and regularisation of construction outside it (featuring since 2010), banning of hookah bars in the city, expanding city’s parking infrastructure, shifting of the grain market from Sector 26 to Sector 39, expanding health facilities in residential areas and the Apartment Act.On a few occasions though, the administration has acted on the advice of the members and taken concrete decisions on the ground. For instance, the proposal for a “cattle village” was taken in a 2011 meeting, and after members disagreed to it, the administration took a decision to scrap the plan. Similarly, the issue of dedicated cycle tracks in the city, a regular agenda between 2010-2014, is a reality now.‘Admn should notify action taken’Sanjay Tandon, senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader and a regular at the council meetings for more than a decade, said, “It is understandable that policy issues take time to finalise. But on other issues, the administration should decide on merit and stop bringing these issues up repeatedly. They should at least share what happens to recommendations of the sub-committees and members.”Charanjiv Singh, president of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said, “The advisory council is being used not to take decisions but delay them. Discussions take place on the same issues and public demands without any concrete results coming out of them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-s-advisory-council-recycling-agendas-since-2010-101613679944567.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||Obscene content case: Sherlyn Chopra moves Bombay HC for pre-arrest bail||Film producer Sherlyn Chopra on Thursday filed a pre-arrest bail application before the Bombay high court (HC) in connection with a case registered against her by Mumbai Police’s cyber cell based on a complaint regarding obscene videos uploaded on internet.The application was filed after the session’s court rejected her application for similar relief on February 8. Chopra claimed she is a victim and the said videos were pirated and uploaded on free-to-view sites by someone else without her permission.After the police gave an oral assurance of not taking coercive action against her, the court posted it for hearing on February 22. A single bench of justice PD Naik while hearing the application filed by Chopra was informed by advocate Charanjeet Chanderpal that the producer apprehended arrest as she could not remain present for interrogation due to personal reasons when she was called by the police in November last year. Chanderpal said the alleged obscene content, which was found on some free-to-view sites, was created by a United Kingdom-based company in which Chopra is a director. He added that the content created by the company was a paid content but someone had pirated it and uploaded the same on the internet without her consent. Chopra was booked on November 6 under section 292 (obscene content) of the Indian Penal Code read with sections 67 and 67A (for transmitting obscene material) of the Information Technology Act, 2008 and sections 3 (prohibition of advertisements containing indecent representation of women) and 4 (Prohibition of publication containing indecent representation of women) of the Indecent Representation of Women (Protection) Act, 1986. While seeking grant of pre-arrest bail, Chanderpal assured the court that his client was willing to cooperate with investigators and produce relevant documents as and when called and added that there was no chance of tampering with the evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/obscene-content-case-sherlyn-chopra-moves-bombay-hc-for-pre-arrest-bail-101613679824486.html
19-02-2021||Other||Faridkot Youth Congress president shot dead||A day after civic body election results, two unidentified men shot dead 35-year-old Youth Congress district president and zila parishad member, Gurlal Singh Pehalwan, near the Jubilee Chowk in Faridkot city on Thursday afternoon. Police had provided Gurlal a guard due to some threat perception for a couple of years, but the security cover was withdrawn last year.Police said the accused fired 13 shots at Gurlal and he sustained seven bullets, including two at back of his head and five on stomach and chest. The incident took place barely 200 metres from a police checkpoint. He was rushed to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot, where doctors declared him brought dead.Gurlal, who was a close aide of Faridkot MLA Kushaldeep Singh Dhillon, was appointed district Youth Congress president in 2020.A CCTV camera footage showed Gurlal picking some stuff from his car when two masked men opened fire at him from behind. Gurlal fell on the ground and the assailants fired more shots at him before fleeing the spot. Senior superintendent of police Swarndeep Singh said investigations are on and they have picked a couple of leads. “We are checking CCTV camera footage of the area to identify the accused. As per preliminary investigation, there were two shooters but there is possibility that their accomplices were around. A constable posted in Gurlal’s security was withdrawn as per procedure,” he added.A case was registered under various sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) including 302 (murder) and Arms Act against unidentified persons at Faridkot city police station. Congress MLA Kushaldeep Singh Dhillon condemned the crime, adding that he will work to ensure that the rule of law prevailed.‘Bishnoi’ claims responsibilityHours after the murder, a Facebook profile in the name of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi owned responsibility for the killing. “We don’t want to prove anything by posting this, but we don’t want police to bother innocents. I, Bishnoi and Goldy Brar, take responsibility of killing Gurlal Pehalwan in Faridkot. We had warrned Gurlal many times that he should mind his own business and do not work against us. But everyone can’t be made to understand the words and I don’t talk much, so, I had to take this step,” he wrote. HT couldn’t independently establish whether the account actually belongs to Bishnoi. Bishnoi linked the murder with killing of his aide Gurlal Brar in October 2020, who was the former state president of Students Organisation of Panjab University (SOPU). Brar was killed outside a mall in Industrial Area, Chandigarh. Superintendent of police Bhupinder Singh Sidhu said police is investigating all the angles and they will also look into the claim made by the gangster. “This could be an attempt to mislead the investigation, so we are checking everything,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/faridkot-youth-congress-president-shot-dead-101613679703546.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||Navy sailor murder case: Palghar cops rule out kidnap theory||The Palghar Police ruled out the kidnap theory in the death of Surajkumar Mithilesh Dubey, a 27-year-old leading seaman of the Indian Navy, who was found in Gholwad jungles with 90% burn injuries in early February, and later died. “We have found that Dubey had stayed at a lodge in Vellore, 60 kilometres from Chennai, and also found his name in the hotel register. He had checked out on February 1 when he was supposed to join INS Agrani in Coimbatore,” said a police officer who is part of the probing team.“In his declaration before death, Dubey had told us that he had been kidnapped from outside Chennai airport on January 30 and taken 1,500km away to Gholwad in Palghar where he was allegedly set on fire by three unidentified men. Now we are probing how he travelled from Vellore to Palghar. It is a challenge for our team to crack the case,” the officer added.Police are currently probing if Dubey had willingly came to Gholwad. While Dubey had claimed that he was kidnapped outside the airport, CCTV footage from the area does not show any such incident. The officer said that Dubey was seen roaming freely after landing in Chennai. “We are also examining Dubey’s DMAT account for share and stock transactions,” he said.Police earlier found that Dubey was in debt to the tune of ₹25 lakh and had invested heavily in shares. He had taken a personal loan of ₹8.43 lakh, borrowed ₹5.75 lakh from his colleague and had received ₹8.5 lakh from his would-be in-laws to invest in the stock market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navy-sailor-murder-case-palghar-cops-rule-out-kidnap-theory-101613679524629.html
19-02-2021||Other||Parts of Mumbai see drizzles, lightning and strong winds||Several parts of suburban Mumbai and its neighbouring areas witnessed light rainfall and strong winds on Thursday evening, as a trough intensified over western Maharashtra. Light to moderate showers were recorded in parts of Andheri, Malad and Dahisar. Strong winds were reported along the western suburbs. Neighbouring areas such as Vashi, Mansarovar and Kamothe in Navi Mumbai also witnessed moderate rainfall along with strong winds. Earlier this week, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted rainfall, accompanied by thunderstorm and lightning, in parts of interior Maharashtra from Wednesday, owing to a cyclonic circulation over north and central Maharashtra. “The cyclonic circulation has intensified and moved westward. It now lies over south central Maharashtra and its neighbourhood at 0.9km above mean sea level. This caused the spell of rainfall and winds in several parts of Mumbai and neighbouring areas,” said Shubhangi Bhute, scientist, IMD, adding that the weather will clear up on Friday. Meanwhile, temperatures in the city remained fairly high. The Santacruz station of IMD, which is indicative of the temperature of Mumbai and the suburbs, recorded a minimum temperature of 20.4 degrees Celsius, which was 2 degrees above normal. The Colaba station, which is representative of south Mumbai, recorded the minimum temperature of 21.5 degrees Celsius, which was a degree above normal. The maximum temperature at Santacruz was 32.7 degrees Celsius – 2 degrees above normal – and 30.8 degrees Celsius at Colaba, which was a degree above normal. The air quality dropped to the poor category from the satisfactory category early this week. An overall air quality index (AQI) of 208 was recorded on Thursday, up from Tuesday’s 98. AQI is a pollution measuring indicator and is calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in and around Mumbai. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. Of the 10 locations measured, Andheri and Malad had the worst air quality with an AQI of 313 (very poor), followed by Colaba with an AQI of 297 (poor). “Mumbai’s air quality will be in the moderate category for the next two days owing to the polluted air coming from west India,” said a short-range forecast by SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/parts-of-mumbai-see-drizzles-lightning-and-strong-winds-101613679226524.html
19-02-2021||Other||Punjab dy oppn leader Manuke, her supporters booked for protesting on counting day||Jagraon police have booked Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Saravjit Kaur Manuke, her husband Sukhwinder Singh, 11 party workers and 40 unidentified supporters of the MLA, for staging a protest on the highway on Wednesday and disrupting the flow of traffic.Manuke, who is also the deputy leader of opposition in the Vidhan Sabha, had staged a protest on the national highway near Jagraon, with her supporters, alleging discrepancies in the counting of votes.The MLA and her supporters have been booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant, 283 (danger or obstruction in public way), and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. Besides, she and her supporters were booked under Section 8B of the National Highway Act. The case has been registered on the complaint of Jagraon city SHO Gaganpreet Singh. The SHO said he was deployed at DAV College, Jagraon, to ensure a peaceful counting process.Following their defeat in the municipal council elections, the AAP leader and her supporters had left the counting centre at DAV College and staged a protest on National Highway, near Pahalwan Dhaba, leading to inconvenience for commuters. Following this, the leader and her supporters had also carried out a march in Jagraon city area in violation of the guidelines laid down by deputy commissioner and health department in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. They had also violated Section 144 of the CRPC imposed in the area in wake of elections.AAP MLA Saravjit Kaur Manuke said, “Sadly, the government is using police to muzzle voices of dissent. There was a clear violation of the election code of conduct during the counting. When we raised an objection, we were booked. But the people of Punjab are watching this blatant lawlessness and will give Congress a befitting reply in the upcoming elections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-dy-oppn-leader-manuke-her-supporters-booked-for-protesting-on-counting-day-101613678744726.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena legislator seeks probe against MMRDA chief for breach of confidentiality||In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday, Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik demanded an inquiry against metropolitan commissioner RA Rajeev alleging breach of confidentiality in connection with the money laundering case linked to Rahul Nanda’s security services firm, TopsGrup Security Services Limited (TGSSL) and Sarnaik.Sarnaik alleged that the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) chief shared confidential information with the media after recording his statement with the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday. “A senior bureaucrat like RA Rajeev should not take a defensive stand but cooperate and provide the right information,” he wrote, adding, “Disclosing confidential information to the media after interrogation is a breach of confidentiality.” When contacted, Rajeev did not wish to comment on it. Rajeev was summoned by ED on Tuesday, following which he interacted with media. While responding to a question regarding MMRDA reportedly having given a clean chit to TopsGrup and Sarnaik, he said, “Clean chit has not been given.”On Monday, MMRDA, in a statement, had also said that the case pertains to a period between 2014 and 2017 when UPS Madan was the metropolitan commissioner. “As the metropolitan commissioner for that period has retired, the current commissioner, RA Rajeev, will be visiting the ED office on MMRDA’s behalf, though the case pertains to his predecessor’s tenure,” the statement read.Sarnaik pointed to this statement in his letter and said it was wrong to say this as the case pertains to the period of 2014-2017 and 2017-2020. “RA Rajeev has been the commissioner between 2018 and 2020, so he could also have been at fault,” Sarnaik said. He also questioned if MMRDA had undertaken an internal inquiry on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-legislator-seeks-probe-against-mmrda-chief-for-breach-of-confidentiality-101613678624394.html
19-02-2021||Delhi||Can’t bar kids from e-classes over fees, Delhi govt warns schools||Schools could not deny students access to online classes over the non-payment of fees, the Delhi government said on Thursday, reiterating rules it had put in place owing to restrictions due to the Covid-19 pandemic, after it received reports from some parents that institutions had threatened to expel their children for not submitting payment.A state government official on Thursday said, “No school can prevent students from attending online classes if their parents were not able to submit the fees, owing to financial hardships brought about by the pandemic.”The official also said schools could only charge parents the “development fee” and “annual fee” components for a pro-rated basis for 2020, with payments to be calculated from the day in-person classes resumed for the student concerned.Read more: ‘Students retain more information during online lessons’Weeks after in-person classes were shut due to the nationwide lockdown, which was implemented to curb the spread of Covid-19, Delhi’s directorate of education (DoE) had in April, and later in August, issued orders warning private schools not to charge parents any component other than the tuition fees during the period of the curbs.The DoE had also directed schools not to deny access to online education to students unable to pay school fees due to the financial crisis caused by the the lockdown.The DoE’s orders were challenged in the Delhi high court by several private school trusts and associations, and these matters are still sub judice.However, as schools started reopening for students of classes 10 and 12 from January 18 and for those in classes 9 and 11 from February 5, some parents alleged that school authorities were forcing them to clear dues across payment components.Read more: Delhi school events: KPS, Vikaspuri, honoured with prestigious awardThe father of a class 9 and a class 11 student at a private school in Dwarka received a message from the school, warning that his childrens’ names will be struck off the school rolls if the pending fees were not paid by February 22.“I lost my job during the lockdown and could not pay the tuition fees last year for several months. Now the school has given me a bill of ₹1.35 lakh, adding complete annual charges and development fees. I can’t afford to pay this,” said the man, who asked not to be named.Several parents of students in earlier classes, which have not resumed in-person lessons, also complained of similar action.The father of a class 2 student and a class 8 student at a private school in Nirankari Colony alleged that despite him paying fees till August, the school did not allow his children to appear in the ongoing exams.“I told the school that I lost my job during the lockdown, and the fees submission was delayed. They first removed my children’s names from online classes and barred them from exams despite government orders.”The Delhi government official said private schools could only charge tuition fees from students whose offline classes have not resumed yet. “As per DoE orders, only tuition fees can be charged from such students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cant-bar-kids-from-e-classes-over-fees-delhi-govt-warns-schools-101613677002248.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt-Governor battle is all set to intensify further||The bitter tussle between Governor BS Koshyari and Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government seems to be turning into a political battle. Following Koshyari’s letter to the state legislature secretariat, directing it to hold the election to the post of Assembly speaker, CM Uddhav Thackeray, in his response, is likely to remind the governor that he has not cleared the recommendations to the legislative Council.The ruling parties feel the governor’s letter was uncalled for, while Opposition leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said the governor has every right to direct the government to hold elections and even decide the date. “The cabinet will decide when to hold the election and accordingly the governor will be informed. He has reminded us that one post is vacant. We also want to remind him that the spots of 12 legislators are vacant in the upper house. Filling up these seats is also constitutionally important. We wish the announcement or the procedure to fill these vacant seats will be done before the [Budget] session. In the next cabinet, when the date of the speaker election is decided, a decision on what to reply to the governor will be taken,” said parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab.Twelve members of the legislative Council are nominated by the Governor on the recommendations of the state. The recommendations were sent to Raj Bhavan in November, but Koshyari has not taken any decision. This has become a point of friction between Raj Bhavan and the MVA government. Things worsened following Thackeray’s decision last week to deny government aircraft to Koshyari to fly to Uttarakhand.“This is perhaps happening for the first time that the governor has directed the government to hold the election of the speaker. We have forwarded the letter to the state government,” said Narhari Zirwal, deputy speaker, state Assembly. Zirwal is an NCP legislator. Governor Koshyari had sent his letter to legislature secretariat. “Any important position that is vacant should be filled without delay. The position of Assembly speaker cannot be left vacant for a long time. The MVA government also wants to fill it and discussion among senior leaders of the three parties is going on. We want both the things to happen, elections as well as appointment of 12 members in the legislative council. The budget session is starting from March 1 and they (nominees to the 12 posts) should have the right to participate and raise issues related to the field they are representing,” said deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.According to the officials from the law and judiciary department, the decision over the date of the election has been taken and a proposal has been sent to Raj Bhavan for approval. “It is a formal approval as the governor works on the advice of the council of ministers. This is happening for the first time that the government has written a letter for the election, though he has not specified the timeline,” he said. The post is vacant after Nana Patole resigned from the post on February 4 and was later appointed as Maharashtra Congress chief. The election to the post of speaker is held by secret ballot leading to the possibility of cross voting from the treasury and opposition benches. Though the three ruling parties enjoy majority with their own strength and support from the smaller parties and independents, the fall in the number registered during the confidence motion, may prove embarrassing for the government. The MVA had won the confidence motion by 169 votes on November 30 in 2019. “ Have the ruling parties lost trust in their members,” asked Fadnavis. “The final decision will be taken in the next Business Advisory Committee to be held on February 25 and will depend upon the intensity of the Covid situation. Though the government has proposed the session to be held for four weeks, it is likely to be curtailed to two weeks. The budget will be presented on March 8,” said an official from the state legislature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-governor-battle-is-all-set-to-intensify-further-101613677964469.html
19-02-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Old Delhi’s bistro-style hang-out||In Paris, you have your cappuccino in front of Notre-Dame. In Delhi, it has recently become possible to enjoy a cappuccino — and not just sweet milky chai — in front of the Jama Masjid.Actually, it’s a side view of the Jama—which offers a very different perspective of the Walled City’s signature monument than the stereotyped appearances encountered in books and movies.Read more: Delhiwale: Vasudev’s worldEbony café opened some days ago and is Old Delhi’s only bistro-style hang out. It’s in the heart of the historic district, and close to its ethos in many ways, and yet far from it. No pretensions here for the glorification of the area’s heritage, like in other local eateries. No black-and-white photos of vintage Chawri Bazar street scenes (which is just a few steps away). The menu doesn’t have paya or nihari, or kachori or jalebi. Instead, it has varieties of pastas, burgers, pizzas and waffles (and even vegan shake). True, some hyperlocalised forms of burgers and pizzas are available in other parts of the Walled City too (the international chain outlets are on the other side, in Daryaganj) but there is no other place around looking as effortlessly modern as this one.Read more: Delhiwale: The sound of musicInside, the place is as uncomfortably cramped as any market alley, but it is the little terrace-like space outside the door, covered by an elegant awning, that gives the café its distinctiveness. It is the kind of shading one would spot in the sidewalk cafes of European cities. The terrace has two tables, and by sitting here one feels as close to the café world of Vienna or Madrid as is possible. You might wonder about the point of spending time in a place so remote from the area’s character, but this uniqueness is refreshing. This evening the sun has set, the little lamps under the awning are aglow and the pigeons are flying about the Jama Masjid dome. A few steps away a bunch of labourers are gathered about huge parcels, some are sitting atop those packages smoking beedis. The terrace is completely exposed to this street life and yet is sheltered, snuggled within a Lakshman Rekha of potted plants. You feel outside and inside simultaneously.Read more: Delhiwale: Paradise in the midst of rosesOne may sit with a novel for hours—so assures the owner, Old Delhi dweller Mohammed Saddam Khan, “as long as there aren’t people waiting for seats.”Soon the great mosque starts streaming out the evening call to the maghrib prayer. Paris merges with Purani Dilli.Tucked in Pai Walan street, close to Jama Masjid’s gate no. 3, the café opens daily from 3pm to midnight. The cappuccino, at ₹90, is as good as it gets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-old-delhi-s-bistro-style-hangout-101613675154304.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||Sealing of buildings back in Mumbai amid Maharashtra Covid-19 surge||Buildings in Mumbai that house five or more Covid-19 patients will be sealed, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), reacting to the steady spike in infections across the city and Maharashtra over the past few weeks with a string of measures that brought an uneasy lockdown déjà vu. Mumbaiites who are high-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients could face up to six months imprisonment, or a fine of at least ₹200, or even both, if they break their home quarantine, the civic body also ruled.Maharashtra had reported its first case in March 2020, which was followed by strict shutdowns and curbs that were being lifted in a staggered manner only over the past few months. The local train services for all resumed only this month. On Thursday, the civic body decided it will file first information reports (FIR) against homequarantine violators and then send them to mandatory institutional quarantine, under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.According to officials, one such FIR was filed against a resident of Chandivli by the BMC with the Powai police, under sections 188 and 269 of the IPC. A building in Mahim was sealed after five patients were detected there.Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 5,427 cases, first spike in excess of 5,000 in 76 days (since December 4), and 38 deaths, taking the tally to 2,081,520 and toll to 51,669. Mumbai on Thursday recorded 736 new cases and three deaths due to the infection. The total has now gone up to 316,487, and the toll is 11,432. There are 4,782 active cases in the city. Mumbai had on Wednesday recorded 721 new Covid-19 cases, the highest since January 6 (795 new cases).The latest directives were given by municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Thursday.State health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday tested positive for Covid-19. He was admitted to Fortis Hospital in Mulund, officials said. “I have tested positive for coronavirus. Though I am doing fine and following the advice of the doctors... With all your blessings, I will defeat Corona and will be at your services soon. Those who have come in contact in the last few days should take all the precautions and get tested...,” Tope tweeted.This was during a review meeting held via video conferencing with all assistant commissioners, deputy municipal commissioners and additional commissioners. The civic body is also reverting to earlier stringent containment measures. If five or more patients are detected in a building, the BMC will now seal the entire building as a containment zone. All high-risk contacts of patients will be hand-stamped, and BMC Covid-19 war room officials will telephone home-quarantined patients five to six times a day to check if they are at home. Among other measures, BMC will trace at least 15 close contacts per patient, who will go through mandatory home or institutional quarantine; action will be taken against those found in playgrounds and parks without wearing masks; a gathering of more than 50 people at a time will not be allowed at religious places and at weddings. The Mumbai police are now empowered to fine those not wearing masks, in addition to clean-up marshalsChahal on Thursday confirmed that FIRs will be lodged against citizens who break home-quarantine rules. The municipal commissioner also issued a circular and said, “It has been observed that after the ‘Mission Begin Again’ [a staggered plan to lift curbs] was launched, many citizens are stepping out of their homes and roaming in public places without wearing masks, which is not only unsafe for them, but also for fellow citizens.”The circular reiterated that is compulsory to wear masks while using public transport, commuting in public places such as streets, footpaths, markets, shopping centres, malls, restaurants, gymnasiums, offices, clinics and hospital premises. It is compulsory to wear masks at wedding ceremonies, religious places of worship. The circular also rapped government officers, saying no one will be allowed to attend meetings or enter institutional premises without wearing a mask.BMC will now conduct regular inspections at marriage halls and wedding ceremonies. Surprise inspections will take place in at least five such places every day. If any persons are found to be violating rules according to the act, criminal action will be taken against the management of the premises, and organisers (parents, family members) of the wedding.There are presently 2,400 clean-up marshals in Mumbai, who will fine those not wearing masks and spitting in public places. This number will be doubled to 4,800 marshals. The target given to the marshals to take action against citizens has also been doubled from the current average of 12,500 citizens to 25,000 per day. Marshals will patrol the city at night as well, and 300 marshals will travel in local trains to fine those not wearing masks during their commute. Those not wearing masks will be punished under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, and fined Rs200.Every ward will now have at least one CCC1 and CCC2 centres for quarantine of high-risk contacts and asymptomatic patients. BMC will also map areas where a high number of cases are being detected, to maximise testing in these areas. So far, BMC has conducted 3,080,528 tests since March.Travelers from Brazil will also to be sent to mandatory institutional-quarantine facilities. So far, travellers from UK, Europe, Middle East and South Africa are sent to mandatory institutional quarantine facilities.On Tuesday, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar had warned the city of another lockdown if citizens did not follow Covid-19 rules.Meanwhile, an order issued by Yavatmal collector M Devender Singh stated that not more five people shall be gathered at a time in the district as well as in city areas. Not more than 50 people can attend all large gatherings for religious processions, festivals and any other purposes. The collector has banned all processions and rallies and also restricted the number of people to 20 for attending last rites of a deceased. It has restricted timings of shops and markets till 8pm at night and hotels and restaurants till 9.30pm. All schools and colleges will remain closed till February 28. Educational institutions can continue studies through online classes. “Those not using masks at public places will be fined ₹500 for the first time, ₹750 for second time offence and a fine of ₹1,000 and a criminal case for repeated offence will be registered after that, stated the order. All the restrictions will be enforced Friday midnight (February 19 midnight).In Akola, complete lockdown will be imposed between 8pm on Saturday and 6am on Monday morning. It means no one will be allowed to move freely anywhere in the district except medical services, wholesale milk and vegetable supplies, auto rickshaw for travellers coming through railways and bus services, highways and dhabas at highways etc.. The district collector Jitendra Papalkar has also decided to impose night curfew between 8pm and 6am, which means not more than five people can gather at a place. Not more than 50 people can attend wedding ceremonies, if violated they will be fined the management will have to pay ₹10,000 as penalty besides ₹200 will be fined against each person other than 50 people, states the order. The district collector has restricted timings of shops, markets, hotels, restaurants, theatres etc. till 8pm at night. All schools and colleges will remain closed till February 28. All the restrictions will be enforced from Thursday till further onwards.ABOUT THE FIROne such FIR against a woman for violating home-quarantine rules was filed by the L-ward on Thursday, with jurisdiction over areas such as Kurla. A senior civic officer said, “She was a high-risk contact of a patient as her neighbour had tested positive for Covid-19. When ward officers called to check if she was at home, she did not respond. So BMC staff visited her home and found she was not home, and that her house help takes her dog for a walk twice a day, daily. An FIR has been filed against her with the Powai police station.” The FIR was filed as per provisions of the Epidemic Diseases act 1897, under sections 188 and 269 of the Indian Penal code. While section 188 prescribes punishment with imprisonment up to a month, or a fine of ₹200, or both, section 269 prescribes imprisonment up to six months, or a fine, or both.BMC’s G/North ward, corresponding to areas of Dadar, Mahim, and Dharavi, on Thursday sealed one building in Mahim, after five patients, all belonging to one family, were detected. The building has seven floors, of which the second floor houses the residence of the patients. The third, fourth, and fifth floors are commercial floors, and the sixth and seventh are residential floors. The first floor is vacant.(with inputs from Faisal Malik)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sealing-of-buildings-back-in-mumbai-amid-maharashtra-covid-19-surge-101613677371923.html
19-02-2021||Delhi||5.5km of Metro Phase-4 line may traverse Ridge, documents show||A section of the Ridge, known as Delhi’s green lung, may be compromised for the construction of a section of the Delhi Metro’s Aerocity-Tughlakabad corridor under the Phase-4 expansion plan, shows permission requests and letter exchanged between the Metro corporation and the city’s forest department.Documents accessed by Hindustan Times show that the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has sought permission from the forest department to take up 50,875sqm of Ridge land for permanent and temporary use.Permission requests have also shown that at least 695 trees in the Ridge area will be affected by the Metro construction work.In a request sent to the forest department in 2019, DMRC said 5.55km of the proposed 23.62km corridor is in the Ridge, of which 20,083sqm was in Mahipalpur (Ridge area), 16,992 sqm near Indira Gandhi National Open University (morphological Ridge, a part of the Ridge that has ‘ridge-like features’ but is not part of the notified forests), 11,600sqm in Anandmayee Marg (Southern Ridge) and another 2,200sqm also in the Southern Ridge.Read more: Delhi Metro to go contactless as DMRC pushes for QR code, RuPay-based ticketingOf the total 50,875sqm of Ridge land for which DMRC has sought permission, 8,005sqm will be used to build permanent structures, while the remaining 42,870sqm will be used temporarily for construction work and will be returned to the forest department after work completion, the documents read.In another letter to the member secretary of the Ridge Management Board (RMB) in March 2020, the DMRC mentioned the total Ridge area required was 82,426sqm, of which 14,324sqm was to be kept permanently for entry/exits, ancillary buildings and shafts, etc, while the remaining 68,102sqm will be restored after project completion.Unlike constructions at a public place, entry into the Ridge requires the construction agency to seek approval not only from the city forest department but also from the RMB.Documents show that the forest department has also asked the DMRC to identify “an equivalent parcel of non-forest land, which can be earmarked for compensatory afforestation in lieu of diversion of forest land as per norms of Forest Conservation Act (1980)”.Read more: 'Metro man' E Sreedharan set to join Bharatiya Janata PartyIn an e-mail response to HT’s queries, DMRC said it has identified the land for compensatory plantation as directed by the forest department.Details of the Aerocity-Tughlakabad corridor show that at Mahipalpur, the alignment of the Metro corridor crosses through the southern Ridge for around 1,382 metres and through the morphological Ridge for 818 metres. At Kishangarh, the corridor will pass through 1,491 metres of the south-central Ridge and through 301 metres of the morphological Ridge.In a letter to the ridge board, the DMRC stated that the location of the station at Kishangarh was chosen to “serve commuters from Kishangarh, Shanti Kunj, Bhawani Kunj and Vasant Kunj sectors A and D”.The DMRC said they have “made all possible efforts to use only a minimum portion of the Ridge area”.“As a responsible organisation which has taken a number of measures to preserve the environment, DMRC is extremely conscious of its responsibilities,” DMRC said in their response.“However, it may be appreciated that the Ridge covers vast areas of south Delhi through which this alignment is planned and it would have been absolutely impossible to cater to the large population there without passing through the Ridge area. Also, only bare minimum land area in Ridge shall be used,” the DMRC said in its email.Read more: DMRC commissions 10 new escalatorsIt also confirmed that they are yet to receive the permissions they have asked for.Delhi L-G constituted the RMB in 1995 on the directions of the Supreme Court to protect the Ridge area from encroachment and non-forest activities. The apex court called for the protection of the Ridge as the “green lungs” of the city.Director of environmental NGO Toxics Links, Ravi Agarwal, who was also a former independent member of RMB, said, “Infrastructure in a growing city is only going to increase but how do you conserve and protect something like the Ridge, which is the only remaining green space for Delhi. There are always ways to divert alignments around the green belts, it has been done in the past. We had asked the Metro to go underground during the Airport Express Line construction and also told them to divert their alignment while their line was crossing Chattarpur.”Currently, a fully constituted RMB does not exist. It is yet to appoint two independent experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/55km-of-metro-phase-4-line-may-traverse-ridge-documents-show-101613675819487.html
19-02-2021||Other||Odisha: 16 held for stir against coal trucks emitting smoke||Sixteen tribal activists and villagers of Sundargarh district are in jail for the past 4 days for allegedly protesting against the expansion of a mines operated by state-owned Mahanadi Coalfields Limited that is allegedly causing massive pollution near their villages.On January 19 this year, around 5,000 people from 45 villages of Hemagir block of Sundargarh district started their peaceful protest against pollution from the trucks carrying coal from Kulda Open Cast Mine and Basundhara open cast mines to an unit of Jindal Steel and Power Limited in Chhatisgarh's Raigarh, 41 km away. The villagers, most of them Hill khadia, Bhuyan and Gond tribals, started a blockade to stop the trucks from Sundargarh travel to Chhatisgarh."It is impossible for most villagers in the area to not beathe the air laced with coal and flyash. The paddyfields are covered with a layer of coal dust," said a tribal villager requesting anonymity.A villager of Hemagir block said on February 14, police came and arrested Rajendra Naik, a tribal leader of Jana Shakti Vikash Parishad and 15 others on charges of murder, criminal intimidation among other charges. “Since January 19, around 200 people would gather at Taparia and block the way of the trucks headed for Chhattisgarh. Even at night, about 150 people continued the blockade. We had no other way as the trucks carrying coal leave behind a trail black dust on schools, hostels, houses as well as farmlands. Now police said if we do not stop agitating then many more would be arrested," the villager said.However, inspector of Hemagir police station, Ramakanta Sai said 16 persons were arrested after a truckdriver lodged a complaint that the activists tried to strangle him and beat him up. "The truckdriver was beaten up by the people who were opposing the transportaion of coal. In his complaint, the truckdriver alleged that there was an attempt to murder him. As per his complaint, we made the arrests," said Sai.Locals said the the ministry of environment and forest's expert appraisal committee recently had recommended environmental clearance for expanding the capacity of the Kulda opencast coal mine by 20%, despite popular opposition over the project’s impact on their health, agriculture and water bodies.The expansion would lead to increase of Kulda opencast mine's capacity from the current 14 million tonnes per annum to 19.60 MTPA. The clearance was recommended on condition that Mahanadi Coalfields Limited which is the owner of the mine, will plant 100,000 trees with broad leaves along the villages and 50,000 trees along the transportation route in two years to prevent air pollution. MCL, in its compliance reports, said that it had avoided transporting coal through any village.The agitating villagers however said MCL had lied in its compliance report. "Around 3,000 trucks pass through the 45 villages every day, leaving a trail of black dust. This month we had filed a complaint with the Odisha Human Rights Commission detailing the impacts of pollution from the coaldust after which the OHRC recommended that coal transporting vehicles should not be allowed to ply until the district administration reports on the action it has taken in the matter," said an activist.The Kulda mines was initially allowed to mine 10 MTPA. In 2018, it was allowed to scale up the mining to 14 MTPA. After the recommendation of the EAC of the Ministry of Environment and Forests the capacity was increased from 14 to 16.8 MTPA.Many of the activists on the ground said that they are scared of the police arrest, but would not stop the agitation. “We want a special corridor for coal transport so that our villages are spared of the coal dust. The coast dust has polluted out agricultural fields and water bodies," said an activist.However, Sundargarh sub-collector Abhimanyu Behera said he was aware of the pollution caused by the trucks and a new corridor would be built at a cost of ₹146 crore. "The construction of the corridor would soon start. But till the new road is made the villagers should not try to blcok the trucks. We have ordered MCL to transport the coal by covering with tarpaulins," said the sub-collector.Environmental activists said Odisha government's arrest of the 16 activists in Sundargarh was another example of stifling popular opposition. "Starting from Niyamgiri to Posco, the state government has not shied away from putting activists behind bars if they dare to oppose its industrialisation dreams. The government should release the activists and take steps in controlling the pollution due to coal transportation," said activist Prafulla Samantra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-16-held-for-stir-against-coal-trucks-emitting-smoke-101613674906853.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra crosses 5,000 Covid cases after 76 days, strict measures imposed||After a gap of 76 days, Maharashtra crossed 5,000-mark of Covid-19 cases and lockdown restrictions returned in Yavatmal, Akola and Amravati districts, which accounted for almost 20% of the state’s tally. On Thursday, the state recorded 5,427 new cases of Covid-19, taking the count to 2,081,520. The number of active cases is 40,858, following 2,543 reported recoveries in the last 24 hours. Thursday’s figures are the highest since December 4, when the state had reported 5,229 cases. The Covid death toll rose to 51,669, with 38 casualties reported on Thursday. Of these, 17 occurred in the last 48 hours and 10 in the last week. The remaining 11 deaths are from before last week, officials said. State health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas on Thursday directed all district collectors and municipal commissioners to strictly implement Covid protocol; limit the number of people at gatherings; increase testing; and ensure at least 20-30 contacts are traced for each Covid-positive patient. Vyas has also instructed that the number of reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests be increased by 20 times in areas with spikes in new cases and medical centres should alert local authorities if they come across suspected Covid-19 patients. Furthermore, areas like public toilets, bus depots and railway stations should be disinfected regularly. Following the spike in Covid-19 numbers, authorities in Yavatmal, Akola and Amravati have imposed either partial lockdown or strict restrictions such as night curfews in their jurisdictions. From midnight today, Yavatmal district will have night curfews and gatherings of more than five are not allowed. Amravati district will observe complete lockdown once a week, on Sunday. Akola administration has also decided to enforce lockdowns on Sundays and night curfew. Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar has ordered the district collectors of Yavatmal, Amravati and Akola districts to declare the most affected areas as containment zones. These are Amravati municipal corporation area and Achalpur tehsil in Amravati district; Yavatmal, Pusad and Pandharkwada municipal council in Yavatmal district; and Akot, Murtizapur tehsils and the area under Akola municipal corporation. “Detailed orders regarding permissible and non-permissible activities as well as all requisite precautionary measures in the said zones may be issued by you immediately,” said Kumar in his order. On Thursday, these three districts accounted for more than 1,000 cases, with 733 cases Amravati; 212 in Akola; and 131 in Yavatmal. State transport minister Anil Parab said chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has given powers to district authorities to take preventive measures in order to control the spread. “Covid-19 cases are rising in Akola, Amravati and Yavatmal. The chief minister has given all the powers to local authorities to bring the situation under control. They can also impose lockdown if required,” Parab told reporters on Thursday. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that the number of cases were rising because the general public was not taking the necessary precautions. “The Central government also removed restrictions related to theatres and others; and the state also allowed local train services and state transport bus services, which cannot remain suspended for a very long time. Consequently, cases started rising,” said Pawar on Thursday. “If you see Amravati, the number of daily positive patients has reached close to Mumbai’s figures. It means things are getting serious there and we will have to make strict decisions to contain the spread,” he added. The order issued by Yavatmal collector M Devender Singh states that not more than five people can gather at a time in the district as well as city areas. Large gatherings for religious, festivals and any other purposes have been restricted to not more than 50 people. The collector has also banned all processions and rallies. The limit for attending last rites of a deceased is 20. Timings of shops and markets has also been restricted till 8pm at night while hotels and restaurants are allowed to operate till 9.30pm. Schools and colleges will remain close till February 28 and continue studies through online classes. “Those not using masks at public places will be fined ₹500 for the first time, ₹750 for second time offence and a fine of ₹1,000 and a criminal case for repeated offence will be registered after that,” states the order. All the restrictions will be enforced till Friday midnight.In Akola, complete lockdown will be imposed between 8pm on Saturday to 6am on Monday. During this period, no one will be allowed to move freely in the district except for medical services, wholesale milk and vegetable supplies, auto rickshaw for travellers coming through railways and bus services, highways and dhabas at highways etc. District collector Jitendra Papalkar has also decided to impose night curfew between 8pm and 6am. Not more than 50 people can attend wedding ceremonies, and in case of violation, they will be fined and the management will have to pay ₹10,000 as penalty in addition to ₹200 against each person other than 50 people, states the order. The district collector has restricted timings of shops, markets, hotels, restaurants, theatres etc till 8pm. All schools and colleges will remain close till February 28. District administrations in Nagpur, Buldhana, Parbhani and Jalna have either restricted gatherings to less than five people or have started to strictly implement the government’s standard operating procedure (SOP). Meanwhile, the vaccination drive saw 48,006 people get inoculated on Thursday. Of them, 40,931 were given the first shot of the vaccine while 7,075 were administered the second shot. Since January 16, when the vaccination drive began, 830,345 have received the vaccine, with 591,758 healthcare workers (HCWs) having got the first shot and 23,732 HCWs having got both shots. So far, 214,855 frontline workers (FLWs) have received the first shot, according to the state health department. Maharashtra has around 800,000 HCWs and 580,000 FLWs registered on the centralised CoWIN app. Meanwhile, the state task force formed for clinical management of critical patients has also made several recommendations to the state. Dr Rahul Pandit, member of the state-appointed task force, said contact tracing should be increased to 18 to 20 people against each positive patient and those violating Covid-19 guidelines should be penalised. The task force also reviewed the protocols for clinical management of patients so that hospitals in the state are prepared in case of a surge in patients needing treatment in intensive care units (ICU). “We are in the process of preparing video capsules which would be available to anyone across the state for complete Covid management from asymptomatic patients to ICUs. The videos will have detailed information on how to approach a patient symptomatic or asymptomatic, their line of treatment and all the other details,” said Dr Pandit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-crosses-5-000-covid-cases-after-76-days-strict-measures-imposed-101613674784270.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination drive in Mumbai: 128% turnout, the highest so far||The city on Thursday saw 13,413 beneficiaries getting their Covid-19 vaccine shots with a 128% turnout against the target of 10,500 beneficiaries. Of those who got the shot, 3,316 beneficiaries were healthcare workers including 954 people who received their second dose of the vaccination, and 10,097 were frontline workers.This is the first time that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has seen such a high turnout for the vaccination drive. While frontline workers saw a 135% turnout, it was 111% for healthcare workers. After the vaccination, 13 people reported minor dizziness and were kept under observation for 30 minutes before being discharged.On Wednesday, 8,400 beneficiaries got their shots in Mumbai with a 115% turnout of frontline workers and 59% healthcare workers. So far, BMC has vaccinated a total of 145,808 beneficiaries with their first dose of the vaccine, and 1,630 with the second dose. Of them, 49,050 are frontline workers. Dr Mangala Gomare, BMC’s executive health officer, said, “Thursday was a milestone as we crossed the 10,000-beneficiaries mark in a single day. As long as the beneficiaries are registered on the CoWIN application as part of the first two phases of the drive, they can walk in to a vaccination centre even if they have not received a scheduled call from BMC war room or a message on CoWIN application.”Meanwhile, two more private hospitals started vaccination centres at their premises on Thursday. Saifee Hospital and Breach Candy Hospital are vaccinating their own healthcare staff. On Wednesday, four private hospitals had started vaccine centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-drive-in-mumbai-128-turnout-the-highest-so-far-101613674604268.html
19-02-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand to reopen colleges, coaching centres, cinema halls from March 1||The Jharkhand government on Thursday allowed schools to restart classes for eighth, ninth and eleventh grades. Besides, colleges, coaching centres, cinema halls, swimming pools, parks, sports events and training institutions shall also resume their services from March 1 with conditions. The state had already permitted classes for class 10 and class 12 from December 21, 2021.The decision was taken at the meeting of the state disaster management authority (SDMA), which was chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren. However, restrictions on processions will remain, officials said.The activities remained suspended since March 2020 due to Covid-19 pandemic-led lockdown. Cinema hall, coaching institute and swimming pool operators have been protesting over the delay in permission.Also read: ‘Won’t let Covid-19 get better of Mumbai’ - BMC updates norms to tackle pandemicCinema halls have been permitted to operate with 50 per cent seating capacity while gatherings for fairs and sporting events have been restricted to 1,000 people.Schools have been permitted to re-start classes for class-8, 9, and 11 from March 1 with certain Covid-19 precautions. Students would be allowed in the schools with written consents from their parents.Higher education institutions, colleges, polytechnic would be reopened under the prescribed guideline from the University Grant Commission (UGC).However, state Covid-19 guidelines, such as wearing masks and social distancing would be mandatory for all the operations.Jharkhand Coaching Association (JCA) welcomed the government decision. JCA secretary SD Mishra said, “We have been demanding reopening of the coaching institutes after the Centre permitted resuming operations with certain conditions in October last year.”Jharkhand Cine Exhibitor Association (JCEA) also expressed happiness. JCEA secretary Prashant Singh said, “Almost all the states in the country had allowed cinema halls to operate with 50 per cent capacity in October and November last year but it was pending in our state. We are happy to be given a new start.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-to-reopen-colleges-coaching-centres-cinema-halls-from-march-1-101613674361033.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||Domestic ait traffic sees month-on-month increase since October||While reeling from the impact of the lockdown, domestic air travel has recorded an upward trend since October, with a month-on-month increase in the number of passengers. According to the January traffic report released by civil aviation regulator Directorate of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Thursday, 7.7 million passengers flew last month to destinations across the country. During the lockdown, India’s domestic passenger traffic slipped to a seven-year low in 2020. After commercial passenger flights resumed operations with restricted capacity on local routes, traffic increased from 45% between June and September last year to 80% in October 2020. DGCA’s report shows the number of fliers has progressively increased from 5.2 million in October 2020, to 6.3 million in November 2020 and 7.3 million in December 2020. However, the impact of Covid-19 pandemic continues to be felt by domestic air travel. “Passengers carried by domestic airlines during January 2021were 7.7 million against 12.7 million during the corresponding period of previous year (January 2020), thereby registering annual growth of -39.60 per cent,” read DGCA’s report. According to DGCA, the load factor of IndiGo, SpiceJet, GoAir, Air India, Vistara and AirAsia India was between 70% and 64.9% in January. Indigo flew the maximum number of passengers (4.2 million) followed by full-service carrier Vistara (0.9 million). IndiGo also recorded the highest on-time performance (OTP) in January with an average 93.7% of its flights from four metro airports (Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad). The budget carrier’s OTP was followed by Vistara and Air Asia. CS Subbiah, former chief executive officer or Alliance Air, said, “Domestic traffic will not be able to go back to pre-Covid levels firstly, because domestic traffic also has an international component. Many passengers land into Delhi or Mumbai, and then travel towards their destinations taking domestic flights.” Subbiah said the international component in domestic air travel accounts for around 20%. “Currently we are operating maximum 100 flights under the government’s scheme, which is way below the original international flight numbers,” he said. “Not only Air India, but also foreign carriers who have tie-ups with domestic airlines are severely affected.” Subbiah said he didn’t anticipate the demand for air travel reaching pre-Covid levels until the latter half of this year. “It will only be around October when the vaccination drive would have reached around 40% and when international travel would have slowly resumed along with overall relaxed rules, that traffic might touch pre-Covid levels. However, yields will remain poor. They will start getting better only by 2022 summer,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/domestic-ait-traffic-sees-month-on-month-increase-since-october-101613674424598.html
19-02-2021||Other||Telangana: 3 held for murder of Advocate couple||The Telangana police on Thursday arrested three persons, who allegedly hacked to death an advocate couple – Gattu Vaman Rao (53) and his wife P V Nagamani (50) – in broad daylight in Peddapalli district on Wednesday afternoon.The arrested included: Kunta Srinu (44), whose name was mentioned by Vaman Rao minutes before he succumbed and his associates Shivandula Chiranjeevi (35) and Akkapaka Kumar (44).Ramagundam commissioner of police V Satyanarayana told reporters in the evening that six special taskforce teams were constituted soon after the murder, to launch a manhunt for the killers.“This morning, we got a specific information that Kunta Srinu and Chiranjeevi were travelling in their car at Vankidi Chandrapur area on the borders of Telangana and Maharashtra. Our taskforce teams intercepted them and took them into custody,” he said.At the same time, the third accused Kumar was arrested near Manthani. All the accused were produced before additional commissioner of police, Godavarikhani, the commissioner said.He said the police had booked a case against the accused under Section 302 (murder), 341 (wrongful restraining) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy). “We shall produce them before the court on Friday,” Satyanarayana said.The police commissioner said Vaman Rao and Nagamani were returning from Manthani to Hyderabad after attending a court case. Kumar had tracked the movement of the couple and informed Kunta Srinu and Chiranjeevi, who followed them in another vehicle.“As Vaman Rao and Nagamani reached Kalvacharla village of Ramagiri block at around 2.30 pm, Kunta Srinu and Chiranjeevi waylaid them and started attacking them indiscriminately. While Satish, driver of Vaman Rao’s vehicle, jumped out to save his life, the two accused brutally assaulted the couple with sickles used to cut coconuts and fled the spot in their vehicle. The coupled died while undergoing treatment in the government hospital at Peddapalli,” the commissioner said.He said both Vaman Rao and Kunta Srinu belonged to the same village Gunjapadugu. Since Vaman Rao was filing cases against Srinu’s alleged illegal activities in the courts, the latter developed grouse against the former. The rivalry reached a flashpoint over the construction of a temple in the village and that led to the murder, the police official said.Satyanarayana said Kunta Srinu had a criminal background. “In the past, he was associated with Singareni Karmika Samakhya, a Naxalite outfit but later surrendered to the police. He entered politics later,” he said, adding that investigation was still on.Soon after the arrest of Kunta Srinu, the TRS issued a statement expelling him from the party.In the morning, the Telangana high court took suo motu cognizance of the Wednesday’s murder of an advocate couple in broad day light on the main road in Peddapalli district and directed that the state government submit a comprehensive report on the incident by March 1.A division bench headed by chief justice Hima Kohli also served notices on director general of police M Mahender Reddy seeking to submit all the evidences gathered from the scene of offence to the court.The high court directed that the police obtain the details of passengers travelling in two buses which were passing by the scene of offence and make them witnesses. “Several videos are doing rounds in the social media and they, too, should be preserved as evidences,” the court said.Meanwhile, lawyers belonging to various courts in Hyderabad and other parts of Telangana boycotted their duties on Thursday and staged demonstrations demanding stringent action against the accused.Several advocates of the Nampally criminal courts complex were taken into custody by the police, when they tried to take out a rally up to Raj Bhavan demanding safety and security to the practising advocates. They were taken to Begumpet police station and let-off later.Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president N Uttam Kumar Reddy demanded that the state government hand over the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation, since the people had lost faith on the state police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/telangana-3-held-for-murder-of-advocate-couple-101613674281256.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Some colleges start practical classes, others unsure as Covid-19 cases rise||City colleges that were preparing for partial reopening are now unsure of doing so, following a rise in the number of reported cases of Covid-19. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is yet to announce Covid-19 protocol for colleges to reopen. Meanwhile, some colleges have reopened partially for final-year students. “Our students are worried about not understanding important practical concepts online, so with the consent of their parents, we have started allowing not more than 15-20 students to our laboratories on a single day, for practical sessions,” said Hemlata Bagla, principal of Kishinchand Chellaram College in Churchgate. “Exams will be conducted soon and our students were worried about not being prepared. We have also scheduled preliminary examination for students starting March 3 and only those who wish to appear for the exams offline will be encouraged to do so while the rest appear for the prelims online,” said Bagla. Other colleges are cautious about reopening in view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases. Raju Shinde, principal of St Xavier’s College in Dhobi Talao, said the Covid-19 figures raised doubts about reopening. There was confusion last week when the University of Mumbai (MU) first directed affiliated colleges to reopen on February 22 and then issued another circular that said colleges in Mumbai city and suburbs would remain closed until further direction from local civic authorities. “With the government going back and forth, we are left confused. Our students are waiting for their practical classes to begin,” said Kishore Peshori, principal, Smt MMK College of Commerce and Economics, in Bandra. Students said the uncertainty was adding to their anxiety. “At least give us a clear picture instead of announcing dates, only to withdraw it. Our practical classes have been deferred for too long,” said Akshata, a third-year student from Sathaye College in Goregaon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-some-colleges-start-practical-classes-others-unsure-as-covid-19-cases-rise-101613674185012.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||Some Mumbai schools call students sans nod from civic body||While the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is yet to announce the Covid-19 protocol for schools in the city to reopen for offline learning, many schools have started calling small groups of students, particularly those from higher classes, to attend classes on school premises. BMC has allowed schools under consulates and embassies in Mumbai to reopen since January 18, but it is yet to announce any dates for other city schools. Earlier this week, HT had reported that city schools and parents of student had taken to social media to request BMC to allow schools to open at least partially for the benefit of students who will give board exams this year. Over the past few days, schools have started calling in students in small groups. A school in Kandivli, for instance, gave parents of Class 9 students the option of taking their exams online or offline. A school in Chembur called students in groups of 10-20, across grades, to attend special doubt-solving lectures. “It has been 10 months since schools are operating online and children are really missing out on the personal element of teaching. We know there are a lot of risks associated with offline learning, but we are following all safety protocols and only calling the weak students as we fear they will fail if we do not teach them offline,” said a teacher from the school. Despite calls and messages, BMC officials did not respond.On February 1, HT had reported that schools and junior colleges were trying different initiatives to teach students of Class 10 and 12 since the board exams will be held in April-May. Some schools have conducted teaching sessions in public gardens while others have called students to community halls or playgrounds in schools. Rajesh Pandya, a teacher and the vice-president of the Teachers Democratic Front, said the state needs to address the issue of learning loss among students in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai. “Students from these areas are losing out on offline learning and they will not get enough time and training to prepare for their board exams. There needs to be some consideration for such students,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/some-mumbai-schools-call-students-sans-nod-from-civic-body-101613674064109.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra gets Bombay HC relief over cooperative society poll||In a relief to Maharashtra government which had extended the term of managing committees of cooperative societies as elections could not be held due to Covid-19 pandemic, the Bombay high court (HC) has dismissed a petition challenging the state government’s decision. The petition has sought appointment of administrators to oversee functioning of cooperative societies till elections can take place.The court held that as the government’s decision did not affect the statutory and legal rights of the petitioner, his prayers could not granted, and dismissed the petition. The division bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice VG Bisht, while hearing the petition filed by Arun Kulkarni, was informed by advocate Satish Talekar that the government’s June 2020 decision which was followed by an ordinance on July 10, 2020 permitting extension of tenure of managing committees of cooperative societies was constitutionally not valid and hence should be set aside. Talekar in earlier hearings had submitted that there were around 35,000 cooperative societies in the state which included cooperative sugar factories, cooperative ginning mills, district central cooperative banks and multipurpose cooperative credit societies. He said that as the term of the managing committees in most societies had ended in January 2020, elections were inevitable but the state through concerned departments extended the tenure of the lapsed committees. Talekar submitted that this extension and the second extension due to the pandemic in June 2020 were not as per the mandate of the Cooperative Societies Act, and the fact that the state had made an amendment to the Act through an ordinance to justify its extension order was ultra vires of the Constitution of India. Kulkarni, through his petition, sought appointment of administrators or committee of administrators to take care of the affairs of cooperatives which was mandated in the pre-amended Act till elections for the managing committees could be conducted. However, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, for the state, opposed the petition on the grounds that the writ petition was not maintainable as it was canvassing a public cause and as the petitioner had failed to show any personal loss suffered by him due to the extension or ordinance, the same could not be entertained. Kumbhakoni further submitted that the Aurangabad bench of the HC had earlier rejected a petition which had challenged the January 2020 extension and the petitioner had failed to inform the court of the same. After hearing the submissions, the court said, “There is abysmal failure on the part of the petitioner to exhibit existence of legal grievance which needs to be appreciated and allayed by invoking the jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.” The court dismissed the petition and said, “It is evident that petitioner has no legal peg for a justiciable claim to hang on. Therefore, he is not a ‘person aggrieved’ and has no locus standi to challenge the constitutional validity of impugned Ordinances and Order.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-gets-bombay-hc-relief-over-cooperative-society-poll-101613673824921.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||Diesel costs ₹87 for a litre, petrol at ₹96.32 in Mumbai||Fuel prices saw another hike with diesel price crossing ₹87 on Thursday. One litre of diesel was priced at ₹87.32 in Mumbai whereas one litre of petrol cost ₹96.32. Both the fuel prices are all-time high. Petrol price crossed ₹96 in the city on Wednesday and diesel was priced at ₹86.98 for one litre. Transporters said that due to the constant increase in diesel prices, small transport businesses are being impacted and many are shut. “Many small transport businesses across the country are impacted due to the continuous increase in diesel prices. Small transport operators deal on a daily basis, and thus the constant fuel increase in a major concern,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC). On Tuesday, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹95.75 in the city whereas diesel cost ₹86.72. On Monday, one litre of petrol was available for ₹95.46 and diesel ₹86.34.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/diesel-costs-87-for-a-litre-petrol-at-96-32-in-mumbai-101613673464778.html
19-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro: 3 new automated motor driving test tracks in three months||Three more automated motor driving test tracks – in Dwarka, Jharoda and Lado Sarai – are likely to be operational in Delhi in the next three months, said a senior government official on Thursday.“The automated tracks in Dwarka and Jharoda are ready and should be operational in another month. In less than three months, the one is Lado Sarai should also be functional. The fourth one in Hari Nagar will take some time,” said the senior official in the transport department, who did not wish to be identified.Another government official said, “Last month, the government floated a tender for constructing a building in Lado Sarai to shift the present transport office in Vasant Vihar there. It essentially means, even though the automated track in Lado Sarai should soon get functional for tests, applicants would still have to visit the Vasant Vihar centre for paperwork until the new building in Lado Sarai is ready. This centre would cater to applicants from south Delhi localities such as Munirka, Vasant Vihar, Vasant Kunj and RK Puram.”Read more: Delhi Metro to go contactless as DMRC pushes for QR code, RuPay-based ticketingDelhi currently has nine automated driving test tracks. The first one was launched at Sarai Kale Khan in February 2018. The next few came up at Mayur Vihar I, Surajmal Vihar, Shakur Basti and Burari.“Work on the four tracks in Dwarka, Jharoda, Lado Sarai and Hari Nagar were supposed to be completed by mid-2020 but got delayed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Now, even though things are normal, applications are less. But the numbers are likely to increase soon,” said the second official.Tests on automated tracks are much more stringent. Unlike conventional tests, in which drivers have to drive on a track amid traffic in the presence of a motor vehicle inspector, the automated tracks simulate tougher driving conditions.Read more: DMRC commissions 10 new escalatorsThe tests are monitored by sensor-based cameras, the video is live-streamed in a control room at the spot and evaluation is done by a computer software. The result is generated after taking into consideration instances of the total time taken, unscheduled stops, the number of times the applicant hit a kerb or goes off track. Any driver who scores below 70% has to reappear for the test after a certain time.“The process is much more accurate. In the centres that have so far converted to automated tracks, the percentage of people failing the driving tests has gone up from 15%-20% to roughly 45%-50%. The process has a few flaws, such as the cameras acting over-sensitive at times especially on evaluation of the reverse-S test and parallel parking. But such issues can be tackled by adjusting error margins,” said a motor licensing official, at one of the centres with automated tracks, who did not wish to be identified.For four-wheelers, the test involves parallel parking, and driving through up-gradient, forward-8, reverse-S and traffic junctions. For two-wheelers, it is a serpentine track and there is the focus on emergency braking skills.KK Kapila, chairperson of the International Road Federation (IRF), a global body working for better and safer roads, said: “Automated driving test tracks and the evaluation process is stringent, no doubt, but it is also scientific. It is capable of ensuring that only people with decent skills and knowledge get a licence to drive. Also, by reducing human intervention in the process, it reduces room for corruption and the tout culture in regional transport offices. This technology should be adopted by all states.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-new-automated-motor-driving-test-tracks-in-three-months-101613672204365.html
19-02-2021||Delhi||₹1cr cheques to families of two more front-line workers who died of Covid||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday provided financial assistance of ₹1 crore to the families of two more Covid front-line workers, who had died of the disease after contracting it in the line of duty. With this, the total number of families to have received the compensation is now 39.As part of another scheme being run by the Delhi government, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday provided financial assistance amounting to ₹3.18 crore to 488 construction workers in the city.Kejriwal on Thursday went to meet the families of Om Pal Singh, principal of the government boys’ senior secondary school Kalyanpuri, who had died of Covid-19 after having contracted it while working in one of the hunger relief centres. He then visited the family of Raj Kumar, a security guard at the Rajiv Gandhi hospital, who had also died of Covid-19.“The past one year has been tough on all of us. But during this one year, amid the pandemic, our Covid warriors fought the battle from the front for the people of Delhi. Today, I visited the families of late Om Pal Singh and Raj Kumar and handed over cheques of ₹1 crore each to their kin. The loss that these families have suffered is insurmountable, but I hope that this financial assistance will bring them some relief,” Kejriwal said.So far, the Delhi government has given the ₹1 crore compensation each to the families of 19 Delhi Police personnel, six Delhi fire service personnel, one each from the Indian Army, BSF and IB and 11 corona warriors (government schoolteachers, civil defence volunteers, security guards, doctors and so on).The Delhi government on Thursday expedited the process of disbursing claims to 488 construction workers, granting them ₹3.18 crore under various schemes. Sisodia, who is also the city’s labour minister, handed over cheques to construction workers present at an event organised at the Delhi Secretariat.“The labour department has streamlined the way funds are disbursed under the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. Disbursements and aid earlier used to get stuck, but the Delhi government has now expedited this entire process,” Sisodia said.“Delhi is one of the first states which proactively distributed ₹10,000 each as Covid relief benefits to all registered construction workers. Till date, more than 48,000 construction workers have received the amount,” he said.On Thursday, 181 beneficiaries received aid under the maternity scheme, 131 under the education scheme, 53 under the death and funeral scheme and 51 beneficiaries under the pension scheme.“Every construction worker of Delhi should have the confidence that my government stands with me in times of need. People of Delhi should have that level of trust in the government,” Sisodia said.Applicants under this scheme do not have to stand in long queues at government offices, he said. The applicant only needs to call 1076 and a person from the department will pay a home visit to finalise the documentation process. Once that is complete, the applicant will receive a message that their registration is completed.Kusum, the wife of a construction worker who received ₹30,000 under the maternal health scheme, said, “My husband is a carpenter. He has a problem with his leg. Upon hearing about this scheme, we visited the labour office to enquire about it. Within 10 days of filing our details, we received the amount. These funds will help us take care of our newborn daughter Divya. It will help us eat and sleep better,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-hands-over-1cr-cheques-to-families-of-two-more-front-line-workers-who-died-of-covid-101613672205338.html
19-02-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Record 24k get vaccinated in Delhi||Delhi saw a huge spike in the number of people getting their Covid-19 vaccines on , with over 24,000 shots — the highest so far since inoculations began — being administered on Thursday. This is an increase of over 10,000 doses over the average 13,837 doses that were being administered in Delhi each day over the last seven days during which vaccination was carried out.The increase in vaccination numbers comes as the government increased the number of vaccination centres from 265 to 302 on Thursday.The vaccination turnout on Thursday stood at 80.8%, with a total of 24,417 shots being given. Of these, 3,537 were second doses being administered to beneficiaries who had completed the 28 day period since receiving their first shot.Read more: Buildings to be sealed, marshals in trains: BMC's new Covid-19 norms for MumbaiSo far, at least 11,188 beneficiaries have received their second dose of the vaccine out of the 25,762 who are eligible. This means, only 43.4% of the eligible people have come back for their second shots. This is marginally better than the country’s average of about 40% receiving the second doses of the vaccine.“The second dose of the vaccine can be taken anytime between four to six weeks. So far, around 40% of the eligible people have received the vaccine, but more are likely to come forward soon. We are not worried about the second dose hesitancy as the health care workers are aware that both the doses are needed for the vaccine to be effective,” said NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul on Thursday.Read more: Israel researchers test drug to prevent severe Covid casesWhat is worrying is that when it comes to the total number of health care workers immunised, Delhi lags behind the rest of the country. So far, only 44.8% of the total health care workers, who have been registered on the CoWIN portal, have been administered a dose of the vaccine as on Thursday — two days before the government closes the immunisation drive for health care workers on February 10. Addressing the issue of vaccine hesitancy at a webinar, Dr Paul said, “The world is asking for vaccines; we have the vaccine and we have the list of priority people and it is not fair for them to be refusing it. It is our societal duty to get vaccinated once identified as a beneficiary not just for myself, or my family, but to break the chain of transmission and to protect everyone. There are very few adverse events and no deaths”“Health care personnel like you are among the first to receive the vaccine because your role is essential in fighting this pandemic. Getting yourself vaccinated now will help in protecting you and the patients you care for,” said a letter by the All India Government Nurses Federation addressed to all the nurses urging them to get immunised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/record-24k-get-vaccine-shots-in-capital-101613672203700.html
19-02-2021||Delhi||40 tear gas shells missing after R-Day violence, says police report||A quick audit by Delhi Police after the January 26 tractor rally, which subsequently descended into violence and saw protesters fighting pitched battles with security personnel, has found that at least 40 tear gas shells were stolen by rioters in north Delhi’s Burari.Farmers from Punjab and Haryana had proposed the tractor rally inside the national Capital on Republic Day to protest against the three farm laws passed by the Centre. it was during this rally that violence broke out when the protesting farmers deviated from the pre-approved routes between them and police; assaulted police when they were stopped from entering parts of Central and New Delhi areas. At least 394 police personnel and 10 farmers were injured in the violence.Police across the city have so far arrested 146 persons, mostly from parts of Punjab and Haryana. Of them, 34 are from Delhi.Read more: Farmers’ protest: Union minister Sanjeev Balyan chairs meet on Jat outreachPolice said they have registered a separate case of robbery and are probing the missing tear gas shells. A senior Delhi police officer, who did not wish to be named, said that all 40 tear gas shells had been traced back to Punjab and a police team has been sent to the state to recover them.“We even know the district in Punjab where the shells have been hidden. We are coordinating with the Punjab police. We have registered a case of robbery and will recover them at the earliest,” the officer added.A tear gas shell is used by the riot-control personnel of the police to control mobs who resort to rioting. Along with water cannon and canes, tear gas shells are usually the first line of defence adopted by law enforcement agencies to control unruly crowds.Read more: Farmers’ protest: India tries to dispel misgivings among British lawmakersAccording to a report filed by police, on the afternoon of January 26, a mob of about 1,000 persons had indulged in rioting near Burari ground and attacked police personnel, when they were stopped from moving towards the Red Fort. Police have said that most people, who later stormed the Red Fort premises — and ransacked offices inside the ASI protected structure, besides damaging the structure inside itself — were part of this Burari mob. The mob in Red Fort had also tried to snatch two guns and 20 bullets from two magazines from two constables there, but were unsuccessful.Though police did not comment on how the tear gas shells were actually stolen, the report filed just mentions that the shells had gone missing.Separately, the report also mentions that on January 26 afternoon, three trucks parked on the Burari flyover were also stolen by the mob. The trucks were, however, later recovered .As part of the probe into the robbery and rioting in Burari, police have so far arrested 14 people. Police have registered a case (FIR number 64) under sections of attempt to murder, rioting, robbery and criminal conspiracy against them.In the Burari case, all 14 arrested persons are Delhi residents.A second police officer said investigators are looking at footage from CCTVs and their own video recording to identify those behind the theft of the tear gas shells. On February 13, three men from west Delhi -- Sukhmeet Singh (35), Gundeep Singh (33) and Harvinder Singh (32)- -were arrested for rioting in Burari after their alleged act was caught on tape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/40-tear-gas-shells-missing-after-r-day-violence-says-police-report-101613672203109.html
19-02-2021||Delhi||Six held for selling ammo to criminals, 4.5k bullets seized||After a four-day operation, the Delhi Police arrested six men-- two of them MBA graduates -- and busted a gang that allegedly used to supply ammunitions to criminal gangs in Delhi and neighbouring states. Several bags containing about 4,500 live cartridges of different calibre were also recovered from the men.Police said of the arrested men, Deepanshu Mishra, 35, an MBA graduate in marketing, owned a gun house in Etawah, Uttar Pradesh while the second MBA graduate, Amit Rao, 33, ran a gun house in Ambala, Haryana. The cartridges were allegedly bought for ₹80 per piece from various manufacturers and were sold to criminal gangs for as much as ₹200-250 per bullet.Police identified the other arrested men as Ramesh Kumar, 46, who used to work for Rao; Ikram, 40, and his brother Akram, 42, both hailing from Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh and working as gun repair men in Panipat, Haryana; and Manoj Kumar Chauhan, 39, a security guard who used to deliver the ammunitions consignments for the gang.Police have also recovered two cars from the six men, which were allegedly used to make deliveries.Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Yadav said the first two arrests were made on February 14 from north Delhi’s Burari, after information was received that two suspects carrying illegal ammunitions were coming to the area. “Around 3.30pm, our team spotted Ramesh Kumar in a Hyundai i20 car and just five minutes later, Deepanshu Mishra also arrived there in a red Tata Manza car. Ramesh was spotted handing over a bag to Mishra. The police team searched the vehicles and both men were arrested. About 4,000 cartridges were recovered from the duo,” Yadav said.During further investigation, police came to know that there was an organised cartel behind the supply of bullets. “In order to arrest the other members of the gang, teams were sent to Jaipur in Rajasthan and the main supplier, Amit Rao, was arrested on Tuesday. Based on Rao’s interrogation and that of the other two arrested men, further searches were conducted in Haryana and brothers Ikram and Akram were arrested. Later, following another search, Manoj Kumar Chauhan was arrested,” the DCP said.Yadav said, the arrested men disclosed that they used to receive the cartridges from Ramesh Kumar and they would further supply them to various criminals in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.“The gun house owners bought cartridges from local manufacturers at a rate of ₹80 per bullet. Without making proper entries in their books, the owners further sold these bullets to criminal gangs through other members of the gang for as much as ₹200-250 per bullet. The profits were shared by all,” a second police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gang-that-supplied-bullets-to-criminals-busted-two-mba-grads-among-six-arrested-101613672145144.html
19-02-2021||Gurugram||Protesters take over railway tracks at Patli station; impact minimal, say police||Farmers protesting against the three central farm laws held a four-hour rail roko agitation on Thursday from noon to 4pm at Patli in Farrukhnagar, to pressurise the central government to repeal the laws.More than 100 protesters, including women, sat on the railway tracks and raised slogans against the government and the farm laws. Women recited poems for an hour to engage the gathering. A passenger train that was scheduled on the route, from Delhi to Rewari, on Thursday afternoon was also cancelled, said officials.The police had deployed around 150 personnel in the area to ensure that no damage is caused to the government property and no violence took place.Members of Gurugram Samyukta Kisan Morcha (GSKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions that is spearheading the protests, had blocked the railway tracks at Patli station. “We had reached the railway station by 11.30am, but the police did not let us enter the main tracks, following which three trains crossed the tracks. We managed to block the lines by 3.30pm and no trains crossed the stretch,” said Abhay Poonia, one of the members of GSKM.Another protester, Santok Singh, of Jharsa, said that they had blocked the yard of an inland container depot company in Patli. “We did not let the goods train carrying containers pass the stretch in the four hours and three of the trains were parked until 4pm. We did a silent protest and did not damage any of the property and cleaned the area before leaving at 4pm,” he said.The police, however, maintained that there was hardly any impact on railway services due to the protest.Hitesh Yadav, the assistant commissioner of police (Manesar), said that the agitation passed off without any untoward incident. Except for one goods train, all other trains crossed the stretch as per the schedule, said Yadav.“We had deployed 150 police personnel at the protest site and it was peaceful. No trains crossed between 12.30pm and 4pm and the train operations were smooth throughout the day. There is hardly any train stoppage on this station except for goods and passenger trains which are connected from Rewari and Delhi,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/protesters-take-over-railway-tracks-at-patli-station-impact-minimal-say-police-101613670705400.html
19-02-2021||Gurugram||Footfall remains low for first and second dose vaccinations||At least 69.4% of the targeted healthcare staff in the district took the second shot of the vaccine on Thursday, and over 56.3% of the front-line workers turned up for the first dose, according to the district health department data. Officials hinted at revising the vaccination drive strategy after consultation with the district administration, while awaiting roll-out of the third phase of vaccination.“The turnout for vaccination has been low in the district. Only 13,000 front-line workers of 18,000 have been inoculated till now. In case of healthcare workers, only 2371 of the 24,000 have taken the second jab,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.“It is likely that the department might have to revise its strategy or hold special vaccination sessions to improve the footfall, which will be discussed in the district level Covid-19 vaccine task force meeting on Friday,” said Yadav.On Thursday, at least 2,002 of the 2,881 targeted healthcare workers took the second jab, almost a month after taking the first shot of the vaccine. Both the vaccines — Covaxin and Covishield — comprise two doses, to be administered at an interval of 28 days. But according to apex drug regulator and experts, the second dose can be given anytime between four and six weeks.Among the vaccine beneficiaries, at least 581 health staff from public health facilities and 1,421 from private hospitals took the shot at 38 session sites. “Since the staff is aware of the fact that the second dose can be taken within a few weeks, they are taking the vaccination process easy,” said Yadav.Simultaneously, at least 900 front-line workers, which included employees from the police department, panchayati raj institutions, Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and National Security Guards were also targeted, but only 507 turned up for vaccination. Besides, 44 healthcare workers also took the first shot.The police department reported a poor footfall, with only 150 of the 400 targets turning up. Likewise, in panchayati raj institution, the coverage was restricted to 27 employees of the 200.For accelerating the vaccination drive across the country, a high-level meeting was chaired by PK Mishra, principal secretary to the Prime Minister, on Wednesday for opening the self-registration process for population aged 50 years and above. As per the statement issued by the union ministry of health and family welfare, Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) digital app’s version 2.0 with the provision of self-registration for vaccine beneficiary is ready and will be launched soon.“Till now, there has been no guideline from the state health department on the third phase of vaccination, but it is expected that the vaccination for the prioritised population might start by mid-March,” said Yadav.In Gurugram, the district administration, along with the health department, has initiated the process of collecting the data of citizens above 50 years of age by collating information through Family ID cards, electoral roll and details collected through surveys in the last one year for Covid-19 related activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/footfall-remains-low-for-first-and-second-dose-vaccinations-101613670704818.html
19-02-2021||Gurugram||U-turn ahead of Kherki Daula toll plaza compounds traffic issues||A U-turn ahead of the Kherki Daula toll plaza on the Manesar side is adding to the congestion at the toll plaza as a large number of vehicles going towards Gurugram have to wait for commuters from the other side to take the U-turn. Officials said that a sudden rush of traffic leads to congestion at this spot as hundreds of vehicles take the U-turn to avoid paying the toll, leaving those heading towards Delhi with no space to move forward.Officials of the Millennium City Expressway Private Limited (MCEPL), the concessionaire for the expressway, said that there are continuous hold-ups at the turn as a large number of vehicles take a right turn towards the service road. “The traffic police will have to find a solution to this sudden rush of vehicles. It causes heavy jams during peak hour,” an official said.Nasib Singh, sub-inspector, Gurugram traffic police, said that they have deployed adequate personnel at the U-turn but the traffic flow is very high, due to which congestion is unavoidable. “We will deploy more personnel during the peak hours but there is a need to improve the condition of the road surface as often, vehicles get stuck due to large potholes, causing jams,” he said.Vikas Mittal, senior manager, National Highways Authority of India, said that they are relaying the roads on the highway and issue of traffic jams at U-turn will be taken up with the authorities. “Several steps are being taken to improve the movement of vehicles, and also provide facilities to commuters,” said Mittal.NHAI officials, however, said that U-turn is beyond the Kherki Daula toll plaza and is not in their jurisdiction and they will take up this matter with NHAI, Jaipur.Vineet Malik, who works in an industrial unit in Manesar said that congestion has increased since the toll payment was made digital. “We hoped that digital payment would resolve the delays but several people stop the traffic as they refuse to pay double the penalty,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/uturn-ahead-of-kherki-daula-toll-plaza-compounds-traffic-issues-101613670704132.html
19-02-2021||Gurugram||Penalty collection up at Kherki Daula toll plaza, traffic woes continue||Following the implementation of the digital-only toll collection at the Kherki Daula toll plaza, the penalty collected from commuters not using FASTags has increased by four to five times on Tuesday and Wednesday, said officials.On an average, ₹2.5 lakh was collected in penalties every day, prior to the implementation of the digital-only payments from February 16. On February 16 and 17, penalties of ₹12.5 lakh and ₹11 lakh were collected, according to an official of the Millennium City Expressway Private Limited (MCEPL), the concessionaire.Commuters who do not have a FASTag have to pay double the toll amount for the violation.Toll operators said that the violators were the main cause of congestion as it takes longer to collect the cash penalty. In some instances, the quality of RFID tags issued are also not up to the mark, due to which handheld readers are required to collect the toll and allow access, they said. Around 2,000 to 2,500 tags are being read by handheld machines every day.The MCEPL official cited above said the penalty collection is expected to decrease in the next few days. “The compliance improved on Thursday and we witnessed fewer tiffs with toll collectors as compared to previous days,” the official said.A toll collector said that on Wednesday evening they had to close a toll lane for half an hour after a vehicle owner refused to pay the penalty and wanted to pay the toll amount through cash, refusing to purchase a FASTag.A survey conducted by MCEPL on Wednesday for one hour found that of 200 vehicles that crossed the plaza, almost half either had no tag or have minimum balance. “Of 206 vehicles that passed through a lane, 94 vehicles did not have the tag and 60 vehicles did not have minimum amount and this led to congestion,” the MCEPL official cited above said, adding that this led to congestion.Vikas Mittal, senior manager, National Highways Authority of India, Gurugram, said that all efforts are being made to reduce congestion and improving compliance at the toll plaza. “Additional traffic marshals have been deployed on both sides to manage traffic, availability of tags has been increased. As far as quality of tags is concerned, we have already written letters to the agency concerned to take corrective action,” he said.Meanwhile, to boost the penetration of SMARTags, the NHAI on Thursday decided to launch a Free FASTag campaign till March 1, waiving off the tag cost of ₹100 at over 770 toll plazas across the country. The authority said that the total penetration of FASTags has reached around 87%, an increase of 7% in two days, with over 100 toll plazas achieving around 90% penetration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/penalty-collection-up-at-kherki-daula-toll-plaza-traffic-woes-continue-101613670703563.html
19-02-2021||Gurugram||Woman dies after being hit by car driven by learner||A 26-year-old woman was killed after a novice car driver allegedly hit her in Farrukhnagar in Gurugram on Wednesday.Locals took the injured woman to a civil hospital in Sector 10 where she died while undergoing treatment on Wednesday evening, police said.The deceased, identified as Nisha Rani, was walking towards her house in Farrukhnagar’s Dhanawas village around 4pm when the incident took place. The homemaker was hit by the speeding vehicle — driven by one of her neighbours, identified as Somdut Prasad, who was learning to drive on the same stretch — from behind.The woman’s brother-in-law Sunil Kumar, who is one of the eyewitnesses in the case, said “the driver lost control over the wheels and hit her. “She suffered severe injuries all over her body and bled profusely from nose and ears. She died within a few minutes of reaching the hospital,” Kumar said.Farrukhnagar station house officer (SHO) Suresh Kumar said the 30-year-old suspect was arrested in two hours following the accident. “Prasad, a native of Sitapur in Uttar Pradesh, has been living in a rented accommodation in the village for the last two years. He works in a private company,” he said.A case under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (death by negligence) was registered at Farrukhnagar police station against Prasad.In another such accident, a man was killed after a bus ran over him near Bilaspur flyover on Tuesday. The deceased was returning from a job interview when the accident took place, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/woman-dies-after-being-hit-by-car-driven-by-learner-101613670643706.html
19-02-2021||Gurugram||MCG, Gurujal plan pilot urban forest based on Miyawaki method||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and the district administration’s Gurujal society are planning to develop an urban forest in the city using a technique developed by Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki, whose methods have been gaining popularity across India. Gurujal has shortlisted at least 10 available open spaces in the city where a pilot project — to test the feasibility of this proposal — will begin later this year, officials privy to the matter confirmed.The Miyawaki method is heavily dependent on enhancing soil quality by first digging up the earth, and then pouring in large amounts of compost and natural material such as rice husk, which help retain water. Saplings (or seeds) are then scattered close together, forcing plants to compete with one another for space and sunlight, resulting in a green cover that can be up to 30 times denser and 10 times taller than traditional plantations.The use of native vegetation — with emphasis on four to five dominant species — is a key feature of this method, that also requires a careful, pre-emptive analysis of local agro-climactic conditions.“We have surveyed about 10 locations where we can test this concept. The most suitable so far is a two-acre plot owned by the MCG in Sector 109. We had started plantation work there last year to develop a city forest, but the saplings did not survive. Now, the area is under consideration for this Miyawaki forest. We are in talks with a Bengaluru-based organisation that has done multiple projects using this method, and will be finalising timelines soon,” said Anjali Singh, community outreach coordinator, Gurujal.Officials said that the proposal is only in a preliminary stage, and that greater proof of concept is required before full-scale plantation work can begin. “The Miyawaki method is much more expensive than traditional plantation, and requires close monitoring and regular maintenance for the first three to four years. After that, the forest becomes self-sustaining. We will need to first do a small scale experiment if this can be done in Gurugram,” said Singh, adding that no specific plans or budgets have been detailed for the final project as yet.Miyawaki horticulture has been gaining popularity in India in recent years due to the tall, dense vegetation that it can be created in a relatively small amount of time. NGOs, as well as urban local bodies in Karnataka, Maharashtra, Telangana and Tamil Nadu, have all launched their own Miyawaki plantations in the last three to four years, though privately developed plantations — such as those on institutional campuses — have used this approach earlier.Vijay Dhasama, an eco-restoration practitioner who helmed the development of Gurugram’s Aravalli Biodiversity Park, likened the Miyawaki method to “gardening on steroids”. “This process can be very expensive, touching almost ₹12 lakh just for completing plantation work on a single acre of land, as per my own rough calculations. The plants need to be fed and monitored constantly. This sort of intensive horticulture would not be well suited for dry-deciduous forest ecosystems that are native to Gurugram. The term Miyawaki ‘forest’ is a misnomer. These are not natural forests,” he said.Dhasmana also said that it is too early to declare India’s Miyawaki forests — for which there is no official count — as a success story. “These plantations will be self-sustaining only if there are enough resources available for them to grow. Such resources, such as good soil and water, are constantly under threat in urban settings. There are also no long-term studies done, specifically in India, which show that the Miyawaki method provides any more ecological benefit than others. On the contrary, its popularity seems to be driven more by the perceived aesthetic value of tall plantations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-gurujal-plan-pilot-urban-forest-based-on-miyawaki-method-101613670642973.html
19-02-2021||Chandigarh||Municipal corporation elections: Mohali gives Congress a thumping victory||The Congress registered a landslide victory in the Mohali municipal corporation elections by winning 37 of the 50 seats.The Azad group-Aam Aadmi Party combine clinched 10 seats, while the remaining three were bagged by independents. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) drew a complete blank.In a major setback, former mayor and head of Azad group, Kulwant Singh, lost the elections to Congress candidate Amrik Singh Somal in ward number 42 by 267 votes.Congress’ mayoral candidate Amarjeet Singh Sidhu, the brother of Punjab cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, won the elections from ward number 10 by defeating Azad group candidate Paramjeet Singh Kahlon by 925 votes.Among other major losers in the elections were Youth Akali Dal (YAD) president Ramandeep Singh Bawa, YAD Mohali president Harmanpreet Singh Prince, his wife, Inderpreet Kaur, SAD Mohali urban president Kanwaljit Singh Ruby, SAD Mohali women wing president Kuldeep Kaur Kang and Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha executive member Sahibee Anand. As many as 260 candidates, including 110 women, contested the elections. With 50% seats reserved for them, at least 25 councillors in the 50-member House are women.The Congress contested the elections from all 50 wards, so did the Azad group in alliance with the AAP. The BJP fought for 46 seats, the SAD for 43 and the BSP for four seats. Besides, 67 independents were also in fray.The first elections of Mohali MC were held in 2015. The House was elected for five years and the term of the previous one ended on April 26 last year.In the 2015 elections, the SAD-BJP combine had won 23 seats, the Congress got 14, the Azad group led by Kulwant Singh had grabbed 10 seats and three were won by independent candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-hands-over-mc-reins-to-congress-101613647333985.html
19-02-2021||Mumbai||Why did PM Modi lie about China’s infiltration in Ladakh: Shiv Sena||While welcoming the disengagement of the Chinese and Indian troops in eastern Ladakh, the Shiv Sena questioned why Prime Minister Narendra Modi lied to the country on the issue of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops’ infiltration into Indian territory. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Thursday said that Chinese troops were about 20km inside the Indian border and killed 20 jawans in eastern Ladakh but the PM and other senior ministers of the Union government lied about Chinese infiltration when the Opposition questioned them.Also Read | In Pictures: Army shares pictures of PLA’s disengagement processAddressing the Rajya Sabha on February 11, defence minister Rajnath Singh said that India and China have agreed to disengage from the Pangong Tso area in eastern Ladakh and go back to status quo ante after a stand-off lasting nearly nine months. Singh said that according to the agreement, Chinese troops will pull back from Finger 4 area in the northern banks of Pangong Tso to beyond Finger 8.“Till two months ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was saying Chinese troops have not infiltrated the Indian border. The same PM is now saying that Chinese troops are retreating from our soil. Meaning, the Chinese did infiltrate and our Prime Minister was lying to the country,” the editorial said.The editorial further slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for celebrating the victory of the retreat. “We are happy that the Chinese troops are retreating. This is a victory of the diplomacy of the defence ministry, but why was the government lying about Chinese infiltration? It is now clear that all this while the Centre was fibbing about Chinese troops not entering our borders. The government itself has started celebration over this disengagement,” the editorial added.Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye dismissed the allegation made in the editorial and said, “Saamana and Shiv Sena have nothing productive to do besides criticising PM Modi. They should look issues that affect common man than play politics,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/why-did-pm-modi-lie-about-china-s-infiltration-in-ladakh-shiv-sena-101613634905241.html
