20-02-2021||Other||33-year-old Ludhiana woman duped of ₹20 lakh in matrimonial fraud||A 33-year-old city woman was duped of ₹20.37 lakh by a group of fraudsters, who contacted her through a fake profile on a matrimonial website.Assistant commissioner of police (Cyber Crime) Vaibhav Sehgal said the accused got in touch with the complainant on the matrimonial website through a profile named “Pradeep Anand”.The victim, a resident of Sant Fateh Singh Nagar, Dugri Road, complained that Anand introduced himself as a businessman living in Birmingham, UK. He expressed interest in marrying her and said he will visit India to meet her.On December 22, 2020, she received a call from an unknown number, with the caller informing her that Anand had been detained at the Delhi airport for carrying 200,000 British Pounds.The caller made her talk to Anand, who urged her to deposit ₹20.37 lakh in some bank accounts as fine, so that he could be allowed leave the airport. He promised to return the money on being released.Later, he stopped answering her phone calls. Realising she had fallen prey to a fraud, she filed a police complaint.ACP Sehgal said through the mobile phone numbers and bank accounts used to execute the fraud, they had identified nine people behind the crime as Hmar Khawbung Lalvenhimi of Janakpuri, West Delhi; Maya Dhan Chakma, Satte, Chhamiruddine Miya, his wife, Majina Bibi, Jatin and Mukesh, all residents of Noida; and Rajendra Dattaram Dhanawade and Rane Vasudev Harishchandra, residents of Maharashtra.They have been booked under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/33yearold-ludhiana-woman-duped-of-20-lakh-in-matrimonial-fraud-101613845453430.html
20-02-2021||Other||15-year-old Ludhiana boy held for raping 10-year-old girl||A 15-year-old boy has been apprehended for raping his 10-year-old neighbour in the common toilets of labour quarters at Uchhi Mangali village. The minor girl’s mother told the police that on Friday, she, along with her husband, was away at the market to buy vegetables, while their daughter was alone at home.On returning home, they could not find their daughter anywhere. Looking for her, she went to the common toilets and was shocked to see a boy raping her.She raised the alarm, which prompted the boy to flee the scene, following which she sounded the police.Inspector Davinder Sharma, station house officer (SHO), Focal Point police station, said they lodged an FIR immediately after receiving a complaint and apprehended the accused on Saturday. He is facing a case under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.The boy was produced before the Juvenile Justice Board on Saturday and sent to a juvenile home.Mother’s grit leads to arrest of minor daughter’s molesterLUDHIANA A mother’s arduous efforts to trace her 10-year-old daughter’s molester led to his arrest on Friday.The accused has been identified as Ravi Verma, 55, of Hari Kartar Colony.The woman, a resident of Basti Abdullapur, told the police that she worked at a factory near her house. On February 11, her daughter came to her factory to complain that a man, claiming to be a friend of her father, entered their house and molested her.The woman said the man was captured in the CCTV cameras installed near the house. Taking pictures from the footage, she and her husband went from street to street to find the accused and managed to trace him on Friday. The couple contacted the police and the accused was arrested.Sub-inspector Avneet Kaur, the investigating officer in the case, said Verma had been booked under Section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 8 (sexual assault) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act at the Model Town police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/15yearold-ludhiana-boy-held-for-raping-10-year-old-girl-101613845213340.html
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||More students allowed in Panjab University hostels||Panjab University (PU) has allowed final-year students of various courses, governed by different regulatory bodies, to return to hostels on campus from Monday.The students of Master of Dental Surgery (MDS), Master of Pharmacy (MPharm), nuclear medicine and medical physics courses were allowed after a panel’s recommendation was approved by PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar.In an official communique, PU said, “As per the requirements of various regulatory bodies such as the Atomic Energy Regulatory Board (AERB), the Dental Council of India and the Pharmacy Council of India (PCI), the students of final semesters of medical physics, nuclear medicine, MDS and MPharm, who were earlier staying in hostels, will be allowed to return from February 22, 2021.”Besides, PhD students who were enrolled/registered before the lockdown (March 23, 2020) will also be provided hostel accommodation.PU is reopening hostels in a phased manner and so far, research scholars and MPhil students have been allowed to return. No decision has been taken regarding accommodation for newly-enrolled PhD scholars and MPhil students.Guidelines for residentsAs per the varsity guidelines, eligible residents have to get a Covid-19 test done one week prior to joining the hostel and an undertaking will have to be submitted to the warden forwarded through the department head concerned stating that all standard operating procedures (SOPs) will be followed.Guest entry is not allowed till further orders. Meanwhile, PU is yet to take a decision on reopening of hostels for undergraduate and postgraduate students of other courses. The campus, too, remains closed for students for now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/more-students-allowed-in-panjab-university-hostels-101613844973439.html
20-02-2021||Other||Boy who beaten, tied up by his mother, rescued||New Delhi: An eight-year-old boy who was allegedly beaten by his mother and tied up when she left home was rescued from their home in west Delhi’s Hari Nagar, the Delhi Police said on Saturday. The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) said the woman is the boy’s stepmother, a claim that the police refuted.Urvija Goel, deputy commissioner of police (west), said they found injuries on the boy’s body. “There were marks on his face, abrasions on his back and injuries on his hands,” said Goel.Goel said the boy has been handed over to his father on the instructions of the Child Welfare Committee and an FIR under the Juvenile Justice Act was registered against his mother. According to the police, the boy’s mother suffers from mental illnesses.According to the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) — which said they “rescued” the boy and accused the police of ignoring complaints from neighbours about the alleged torture — the boy’s father lives in Mumbai and claimed that the child lived with his stepmother.Goel, however, said that the accused woman is the boy’s biological mother, and both lived at her maternal grandmother’s Hari Nagar home. She added that no complaint had been received in the past.Both agencies said they responded to calls from neighbours on Tuesday, after which they checked on the boy to find him being beaten by his mother.“He was not allowed to leave his house. His mother would tie him up when she stepped out. The boy was made to sleep on the floor and wasn’t offered proper meals,” read a statement issued by the DCW.The boy was produced before the CWC on Wednesday.“The CWC rebuked both parents and handed over the child to his father. The CWC did not direct the police to take any action, but we have registered a case under the JJ Act,” Goel said.The DCW demanded that the boy, on his request, be handed over to his grandparents, who live in a southern state.“This is a very shocking and scary case. A young boy was subjected to such brutality and torture. This incident has put humanity to shame. The commission went out of its jurisdiction to save the boy’s life,” DCW chief Swati Maliwal said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/boy-who-beaten-tied-up-by-his-mother-rescued-101613843893165.html
20-02-2021||Gurugram||MCG sets June 30 deadline for takeover of DLF 1-3||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has set a deadline of June 30 for DLF to complete all the remaining civic infrastructure works in DLF Phases 1-2-3 and hand over the three colonies to the civic body.A decision in this regard was taken during the second review meeting held between MCG and the private developer on February 10, for reviewing the progress of deficient development works being carried out in the areas. The proceedings of the meeting were approved on Friday and accessed by HT.In the previous meeting held last month, DLF had been directed to give the shortest possible deadline, for completing the remaining civic work, in the next meeting. As per the document, DLF had given a tentative timeline between July and December to complete the work.MCG officials, however, stated that the timeline submitted is “too long considering the fact that in the last meeting DLF Ltd had committed to complete the balance work (remaining civic deficiencies) by the end of June 2021.”Hence, the MCG decided to stick to the June 30 deadline.The takeover of the three colonies has been on paper since February 2016, when Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced that the MCG will take over the maintenance of the three colonies along with Sushant Lok-1 and Palam Vihar.“The handover of the three colonies has been a long-standing demand of residents of the three areas. By getting a definite timeline, residents can now look forward to the MCG taking over their respective colonies in just over four months and expect optimum civic services. Around 65% of the work by DLF has been completed. The MCG has, hence, given them four months to complete the remaining 35% of the work,” said RS Rathee, councillor of Ward 34, who had attended the meeting with the developer said.Officials of DLF declined to comment on the matter.In the previous meeting, a committee of MCG officials had been assigned the task of inspecting the repair works done by DLF in the previous meeting and subsequently, submit a report on the matter within 15 days.The MCG officials concerned said that they are yet to carry out the inspection. The committee has been given a week to carry out the inspection and file a report on the matter latest by February 26.“We have been waiting for the MCG takeover for the last five years. It is the first time that a timeline has been set for handing over the colony, which we are viewing as a positive development. We have seen MCG upgrade civic amenities in several other private colonies they have taken over in the past two years, and have been waiting for our turn,” said Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson, Qutub Enclave residents’ welfare association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-sets-june-30-deadline-for-takeover-of-dlf-13-101613843594814.html
20-02-2021||Gurugram||Three held for operating fake call centre in Udyog Vihar||The chief minister’s Flying Squad on late Friday night raided a fake call centre, which had been operating out of a building in Udyog Vihar Phase-2 for the past four months. Three persons were arrested, including the call centre owner. The police also recovered data of US citizens from their possession. The police said there were around 35 telecallers, who were found making calls when they raided the call centre. Inderjeet Yadav, deputy superintendent of police, crime investigation department (CID), said that on Friday night, they received a tip-off that a fake call centre is operational and that the owner was present at the spot. “When the team reached the building, a few of executives were seen walking down and having tea. We followed them and saw that the call centre was fully operational. When we asked the manager to explain the work, he got frightened and tried to mislead us,” he said. Yadav said the executives used to collect information, such as names, mobile numbers, e-mails and later sent them a voice mail. They trapped them after offering them a grant by the US government. “They used to ask victims to purchase Google cards, and then redeemed 100 to 500 dollars from their cards. Through this, they managed to dupe more than ₹50 lakh from over 600 people in the last four months,” he said. The Flying Squad has busted eight such call centres over the last six months and has also carried out a mapping of the areas from where illegal call centres have been found to be operating across the city. In the latest raid, the police seized two laptops, two pen drives, five mobile phones and hard disks from the call centre. A case under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using forged document as genuine) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 43, 66D and 75 of the IT Act was registered at Cyber Crime police station in the wee hours of Saturday. The police said suspects did not possess any valid OSP(Other Service Providers) licences from the Department of Telecommunications or any other agreement or MoU related to their work. Harish Budhiraja, inspector, chief minister’s Flying Squad, said that they had conducted a reconnaissance of the area and were sure of the operations of the fake call centre. “The executives used to make calls and inform the US citizens that the government was offering grant. They used to print a coloured forged cheque to show them the amount sanctioned and used to charge money from them. They used to target two kind of customers — first those who were keen on taking the grant and second who had a low credit score,” he said. Budhiraja said with the help of cyber police and local police station, a raid was carried out on the second floor of the building. “They had a script in front of them and were speaking in English in an American accent using their headphones. They were asking the customers to transfer the money to an account holder in US and later transfer it through a gift card,” he said. The police said the telecallers were explaining the victims that they were providing government grants like loans at zero percent interest. They used to offer them grants anywhere between $1,000 and $5,000 and duped them by deducting $100 to 500 dollars from their Google cards. The suspects were identified as Sarjeet Kumar (21) of Jhunjunu in Rajathan, who is the owner of the call centre, Kapil Dev (32) of Ahmedabad, and Bhudev Lohar (27) of Dungarpur in Rajasthan. The suspects, during questioning, revealed that they had duped more than 600 US citizens so far. The police said the suspects were produced before the local court on Saturday and were taken on a one-day police remand for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/three-held-for-operating-fake-call-centre-in-udyog-vihar-101613843594219.html
20-02-2021||Gurugram||Industry inputs to be sought for state policy||Officials said that the industrial policy of Haryana in coming years will be formulated after taking inputs and suggestions from representatives of industries located in the 10 largest industrial estates of the state. Sunil Sharma, chief coordinator, industry, Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC), following a meeting with industrial associations from Gurugram on Friday, said that three representatives each from these estates would be asked for their inputs with regard to future policies. The meeting was attended by Udyog Vihar Association of Gurugram, IMT Manesar Industrial Association, Industrial Development Association of Sector-37, besides associations from Faridabad, Rewari and Bawal.During a discussion to promote industrialisation in the state, Sharma stated that they will hold a one-day workshop in which industry representatives can submit their inputs on policy formation. He said that simplification of instalment payment of industrial plots in industrial estates developed by HSIIDC is also being considered. In this proposed scheme, a rebate would be given to allottees who make the entire payment in one go at the time of allotment and also to those who pay their instalments at regular intervals.Sharma also said that a survey will be conducted to know the present status of the industrial plots. Detailed information, including FAR of the plot of each industrial unit, height of the buildings, covered area, violations, etc, will be noted down along with a self undertaking from the entrepreneur concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/industry-inputs-to-be-sought-for-state-policy-101613843593636.html
20-02-2021||Gurugram||DTCP to strengthen enforcement against illegal colonies, building violations||The department of town and country planning(DTCP) in Gurugram and its counterparts in other districts have decided to further strengthen enforcement against illegal colonies, and constructions and violations in licensed colonies across the state. The department has also decided to prepare an online data base of actions taken against violators — such as issue of notices, recoveries made and compliances met — said DTCP officials. These directions were issued during a statewide review meeting of officials on Saturday.The data submitted in the meeting revealed that between November 2019 and January 31, 2021, the department carried out 55 demolition drives in Gurugram, while 21 such drives were carried out by enforcement officials in Rewari. The demolition drives carried out in Mahendergarh stood at 34, said officials. It was also submitted that in the period between 2015 and 2019, the department detected 840 acres of land under illegal colonisation, in which plots were carved out and constructions were carried out without permission. During the period between 2019 and 2020, the department detected 300 acres of land under illegal colonisation. Officials submitted that total area cleared of illegal colonies since 2015 is around 710 acres. As far as illegal constructions are concerned, the enforcement team detected 192 such violations in the last two years and took action against 162 such constructions, the data revealed. The department in Rewari detected 28 illegal colonies in this period and action was taken against 27 such colonies. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), Gurugram, said that during the review meeting, enforcement activities and other issues of the department were discussed internally. “Directions were issued that enforcement should be carried out vigorously across Haryana. Also, the department will strengthen digital repository of actions carried out for enforcement so that these can be tracked,” he said. Bhath also said that directions were issued to focus more on CM Window complaints and resolve those on a priority basis. DTCP officials also said that the department has created social media presence on Twitter and residents across the state can now approach easily them to register a complaint and get issues resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-to-strengthen-enforcement-against-illegal-colonies-building-violations-101613843593072.html
20-02-2021||Gurugram||Covid vaccination: Health dept identifies 9,155 duplicate entries of health staff on Co-Win platform||Over 9,155 duplicate entries of healthcare workers, registered as Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries on the Co-Win application, have been identified by the district and state health department. The beneficiary list is likely to be revised, according to officials, which will lead to an overall jump in the vaccine coverage from 65% at present to 87%.“The duplicity in names, along with identity cards or mobile numbers, was constantly being reported almost 15 days after the vaccine launch. In the district, at least 9,155 such duplicate entries have been traced at the district and state, which, if removed, will limit the registered beneficiary count to almost 28,000 from the current list of over 37,000 healthcare workers,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.The names can be deleted only by the state health department, according to Yadav. The list was not revised until Saturday evening. However, Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, confirmed that the list will be updated.In November last year, the data collection for healthcare workers started in the district. Almost 37,000 healthcare staff, the highest in any Haryana district, were registered on the Co-Win before the vaccine launch on January 16.Of these, at least 24,182 workers have already taken the first vaccine shot and 2,317 have been administered the second shot. On deleting the duplicate entries, the overall vaccination target for the health department will reduce to 27,845, increasing the coverage rate to almost 86.8%, from 65.3% at present.Also, Saturday was the last day of inoculation for health workers, with regard to the administration of the first dose of vaccines.Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said, “The first dose inoculation has been wrapped up, with 113 healthcare workers taking the vaccine jab on Saturday.”According to the health department data, as many as 3, 663 registered workers have opted against the vaccinations. According to Singh, some of the health staff in private facilities have also moved to different states. This includes students from private medical colleges who have moved to other cities after completing their courses.On Saturday, the department conducted a special drive for front-line workers, targeting only the police department. As many as 500 personnel were targeted and 509, including those who had not taken the vaccines during previous drives, turned up for the vaccination. The first dose drive for front-line workers is likely to end on March 2, according to Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid-vaccination-health-dept-identifies-9-155-duplicate-entries-of-health-staff-on-co-win-platform-101613843592550.html
20-02-2021||Other||Father-son duo murders grocer by smashing his head on road curb in Ludhiana||A grocer died after a man and his son assaulted him and smashed his head on the road curb on Dhandhra Road at Inder Nagar on Friday night. Police have launched a manhunt to nab the accused, Mohan Sahni, and his son, Abhishek Sahni, who fled the spot after the attack.The victim, Pashupati Jha, 45, lived in Inder Nagar where he also owned a grocery shop.“Sahni held a grudge against Jha due to an old rivalry. On Friday night, the two men had an altercation, when Jha summoned his son. Amid heated exchange of words, Saini and his son started assaulting Jha. As he fell on the road, they smashed his head against the road curb and fled the spot,” said inspector Jagdev Singh, station house officer (SHO), Sadar police station.The grocer was rushed to a hospital, where he succumbed to his head injuries. The inspector said the father-son duo had been booked for murder and will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fatherson-duo-murders-grocer-by-smashing-his-head-on-road-curb-in-ludhiana-101613843233205.html
20-02-2021||Delhi||5,534 new electric three-wheelers register for Switch Delhi campaign||As many as 5,534 new electric three-wheelers have been registered in Delhi after the Delhi government launched the “Switch Delhi” campaign around two weeks ago, the government said in a press statement issued on Saturday.“The second week of the campaign focused on outreach related to three wheelers and many users came forward sharing their positive experience. The Delhi government will soon initiate the process for registration of e-autorickshaws. By switching to e-autorickshaws, people will be able to save around ₹29,000 per year annually on fuel as compared to their CNG equivalents,” said Delhi’s transport minister Kailash Gahlot.The Switch Delhi campaign was launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal earlier this month. On the launch of the campaign, Kejriwal also said that his government will, in the next six months, change its policy to lease only electric cars as part of an effort to accelerate the adoption of electric cars in the Capital. The campaign is in lines with the government’s long-term plans to reduce air pollution in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/5534-new-electric-three-wheelers-register-for-switch-delhicampaign-101613842993643.html
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||Bird enclosures reopen at Mohali’s Chhatbir Zoo||Walk-in aviary and other bird enclosures in Chhatbir zoo, which were closed after bird flu outbreak in some parts of the region, will be reopened for public from Sunday. Strict biosecurity measures are being followed to protect the birds, workers and public from the disease. The zoo administration has made the decision on the basis of the surveillance report, opinion of the animal husbandry department, and the report of a state-level committee. During the closure, repair and maintenance works were completed to make them more attractive and safe for visitors. Chhatbir zoo officials had on January 5 closed the walk-in aviary amid bird flu fears after Himachal Pradesh became the fourth state to confirm an outbreak with 1,800 migratory birds, most of them bar-headed geese, being found dead in the Pong Dam Lake sanctuary and thousands of birds perishing in the poultry hub of Barwala in Haryana.The closure had come barely after a month when the zoo was reopened for public on December 10. It has been hit financially too, suffering losses of ₹5 crore since it earned revenues of an estimated ₹8 lakh a day before the lockdown.Authorities say it will take at least six months to recover from the lockdown losses .Chhatbir zoo, one of the largest in India, is spread over 505 acres of forest area in Mohali and is home to around 1,500 animal and avian species, including five adult tigers and three newborn cubs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bird-enclosures-reopen-at-mohali-s-chhatbir-zoo-101613842993239.html
20-02-2021||Dehradun||Mahakumbh: U'khand Police to monitor social media, share intel with other states||To ensure the security and safety of the devotees coming to attend the upcoming Haridwar Mahakumbh, the state police, in coordination with other neighbouring state police departments, would monitor social media and share intelligence on any anti-national activities during the mega-event, said police officials.The decision was taken during an inter-state coordination meeting between Uttarakhand Police and other state police departments along with Central agencies like the National Investigation Agency (NIA), the Intelligence Bureau (IB) and the Railway Protection Force.The states and Union territories that attended the meeting included Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Rajasthan, Punjab and Jammu & Kashmir.State director general of police Ashok Kumar, who chaired the meeting, said, "The motive of the meeting was to ensure coordination between the aforementioned departments and agencies to make the Mahakumbh a successful event.""During the meeting, several decisions were taken from the security point of view which included intelligence sharing between various agencies on any anti-national activities during the Mahakumbh, social media monitoring by every state and strict adherence to the Mahakumbh SOP for Covid-19," said Kumar.Also read: Military commanders discuss further disengagement in eastern LadakhInforming that the state police is going to use several new methods and techniques for crowd management in this Mahakumbh, Kumar said, "All the police departments of neighbouring states will help in managing the traffic on the roads leading to Haridwar by deploying cranes and ambulance."The state top cop also said that there would be a complete prohibition on VIP movement during the Shahi Snaans in the Mahakumbh. "If any VIP wants to attend the shahi snaans (royal baths) then he has to attend it like a normal devotee.""Apart from this, to enhance coordination, it has been decided that every officer from state and Central agencies would be appointed as a nodal officer in Mahakumbh coordination committee.He also informed that the state police would also form a separate Facebook page on Mahakumbh to share relevant details with the devotees. Apart from that, they can also know more about the mega event through the state police's Twitter handle.The development has come after reports emerged that the four-month event would be cut down to only about a month from April 2-April 30 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, as per the Hindu calendar, it used to commence from Makar Sakranti in January till April 30.About a week ago, the state government issued the SOP for the Covid-19 pandemic to be followed during the Mahakumbh mela.Under the SOP, the state government made it mandatory for all the devotees to carry an RT-PCR negative test report of Covid-19 with a 72 hours validity. It also asked all the devotees to get a medical report from a competent medical authority on the lines of Amaranth Yatra before coming to attend the mega-event in Haridwar. The mela authorities would strictly heck the aforementioned reports, and no devotee shall be allowed to attend the event without the reports.Similarly, the state government would also discourage devotees aged above 65 years, pregnant women and children less than 10 years from attending the event. To ensure the health and safety of the health and frontline workers to be deployed in the Mahakumbh, the state would deploy only the vaccinated ones.All complainants to get receiving in police stationsState DGP Ashok Kumar on Saturday said that to ensure that all the complainants coming to lodge their complaints are being heard by the police stations concerned, the complainants will get a receiving after their complaints are lodged."In a bid to work towards more public-centric policing, all complainants will be getting a receiving. This will be ensured by the personnel of the Women Help Desk of the police station concerned in the state," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/mahakumbh-u-khand-police-to-monitor-social-media-share-intel-with-other-states-101613841546849.html
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||No licence suspension on first speeding challan in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh traffic police will not recommend suspension of driving licence of those challaned for speeding for the first time.The change in policy has been effected by a recent amendment made in standard operating procedure for e-challan system by deputy inspector general Omvir Singh Bishnoi.Before the notification regarding the amended Motor Vehicle Act was issued in December 2019, the traffic police used to recommend suspension of licence even for the first offence, as per directions of the Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety in 2016. However, the amended MV Act states that driving licence will be suspended for the second or subsequent offence in case of speeding.Covers all challans issued after Dec 2019All traffic challans that were issued after the December 2019 notification will fall under this criterion. Over 30,000 speeding challans were issued in 2020 after the traffic police acquired three automatic number plate recognition systems. Drivers who were issued e-challans using these machines won’t have their licences suspended if it was their first offence and they haven’t paid the fine yet.Senior superintendent of police (traffic) Manisha Chaudhary said: “We will inform RLAs to revoke the suspension of licence for the first-time speeding offence since the date of notification of the Amended MV Act.”The traffic police only recommends licence suspension, which is executed by the Registering and Licensing Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-licence-suspension-on-first-speeding-challan-in-chandigarh-101613841673343.html
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cop takes lift from biker in Chandigarh, steals ₹1.5 lakh||A Punjab Armed Police constable has been arrested for stealing ₹1.5 lakh from a petrol pump employee’s bag after taking lift on his bike on February 15, Chandigarh Police said on Saturday. The accused has been identified as Lovepreet Singh, 28, from Gurdaspur, who has been on duty at the entrance of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha. He had got the job on compassionate grounds eight years ago, and has committed such crimes earlier too in order to fund his drug addiction, said police.Akashdeep of Mullanpur Garibdas, Mohali, told police that he works at a petrol pump in Sector 34 and was on his way to Panchkula to deposit the daily collections when a man in khaki uniform waved him down and asked for a lift near the Sector 7/19/26/27 roundabout. Akashdeep dropped him at the grain market in Sector 26, and on reaching Panchkula, he realised that ₹1.5 lakh were missing from his bag. Lovepreet was identified through CCTV footage, and arrested following a tip-off from near the secretariat building in Sector 1. Police have recovered ₹90,000 of the stolen amount, and will produce him in court on Sunday. He has been booked under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cop-takes-lift-from-biker-in-chandigarh-steals-1-5-lakh-101613841493007.html
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||66% health workers skip Covid vaccine in Chandigarh||While the Covid-19 vaccination drive for priority groups is entering the final stage, its pace has slackened further, with only 20% of the targeted beneficiaries turning up to get the shot this week.The five-week drive that began on January 16 to administer the first shot to health workers concluded on Saturday, leaving just four days of mop-up rounds starting from Monday. The coverage among health workers in the city stands at 34%, one of the lowest in the country. According to the data presented before the state steering committee on Friday, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, continues to lag behind with just 25% coverage so far.Even the region’s premier health institute, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, has been able to inoculate just 31% of its workers. Frontline workers associated with the Chandigarh health department have been the most forthcoming, as 46% of them have got the first dose.Meanwhile, frontline workers from police, municipal corporation and other departments have also shown reluctance to take the shot, with just 15.5% covered since the drive to inoculate them began on February 3.“The drive for the next group will begin in March, and it is unlikely the health workers will be provided with more chances (to get the free vaccine) after February 25. The same stands true for frontline workers from other departments, for whom the mop up rounds will end in the first week of March,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, UT health department.Dr Kang said with the number of Covid-19 cases seeing a spike in some parts of the country, it is important for the reluctant workers to come forward.“Sufficient immunity will be generated only after two months from the date of first dose, and thus it is important that we achieve maximum coverage. It will help us weaken the second wave of the pandemic. The onus lies on the workers,” she said.The administration this week had expanded the network to inoculate more people with the number of people getting the jab touching 1,101 on Saturday. The daily inoculation capacity also touched around 5,400, which was 500 when the drive began.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/66-health-workers-skip-covid-vaccine-in-chandigarh-101613841374076.html
20-02-2021||Delhi||Govt, states should come together to set up manufacturing hubs across India: Delhi CM Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal Saturday stressed the need for creating manufacturing hubs across the country, and said if it is pursued on war footing, India can leave China behind in the sector, a Delhi government statement said.Speaking virtually at the sixth Governing Council meeting of Niti Aayog, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he also said that attention was not paid to the manufacturing sector in the country over the last 70 years, enabling China to capture local markets, he said."We saw how China has been challenging us on the border, and on the other hand, it has captured our markets and Chinese products are replacing Indian products on a large scale. If we all work together, India can overtake China in manufacturing," he asserted in the meeting.Kejriwal suggested large-scale creation of manufacturing hubs across the country with facilities and tax benefits for production of cost-effective goods, the statement said."The Central and state governments should come together to build manufacturing hubs across the country, to provide facilities, and give tax breaks to MSMEs, manufacturers, and industrialists, for import substitutes and exports," he said."This will help them make products that are cheaper than those made in China and create jobs. This will also help us in leaving China behind in the field of manufacturing and the growth of India's GDP," he said.He also supported favouring small and medium industries in the country. The youths in the country have new ideas and plenty of energy and they should be provided facilities and capital to start businesses, Kejriwal said at the meeting. The Delhi Chief Minister stressed that it is necessary to "aggressively pursue" manufacturing for India's economic progress, creation of jobs, and GDP growth."In the last 70 years, our country has never given importance to the manufacturing sector, as a result of which people are leaving the manufacturing sector and are moving towards the trading and service sectors. Our country is lagging behind in the manufacturing sector," he said. In the last one year, Covid-19 pandemic "hugely" affected the manufacturing sector and many jobs were lost, he claimed."We need to aggressively promote start-ups. It will help us in creating a huge number of jobs in the country." Citing his IIT background, Kejriwal said back then a lot of people used to go outside the country after studying in IITs. "This trend has declined in the last 10-15 years, and our youths want to stay in India and start their own business. If the Central and state governments come together and provide facilities to our youth, we will have a huge contribution to the progress of the nation," he said.He expressed hope that all the stakeholders will take a resolve towards expanding the manufacturing sector in India, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-states-should-come-together-to-set-up-manufacturing-hubs-across-india-cm-101613840550842.html
20-02-2021||Patna||One nation, one rate: Nitish Kumar pushes for uniform power rates for all states||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has mooted the idea of “One Nation, One Rate” on electricity supplied to states by the Central government power plants.Speaking at the governing council meeting of the Niti Aayog on Saturday, Kumar said different rates were charged from states on power supplied from the Central government’s power plants. “We purchase very costly power, as a result of which, the state government has to give more subsidy to provide cheap power to consumers. There should be a uniform rate. It will be good if a uniform policy for the purchase of power is implemented,” he said.Bihar has been raising the demand for uniform power rates for a few years.Kumar said power consumption in the state had increased from 700 MW in 2006 to 5932 MW in June 2020. “The state is paying ₹5,000 crore as subsidy to the people.”Also read: Military commanders discuss further disengagement in eastern LadakhThe chief minister also proposed an increase in the credit deposit ratio. “Bihar’s credit-deposit ratio is 36.1 per cent against the national average of 76.5 per cent which is 100 per cent in some states. The state deposits ₹3.75 lakh crore in banks, which provide only ₹1.35 lakh crore as loans. The money deposited in banks from states like Bihar goes to the developed states,” he said and suggested the opening of banks in every panchayat.“We are ready to provide Panchayat Sarkar Bhavan for the opening of banks. If industries are to be promoted in the state, there is a need to look into these basic issues,” he said.Kumar said the state had made its policy to promote industrialisation. “Bihar is a landlocked state. In 2011 we had demanded that a facility of port must be provided in Odisha which will help us send products from Bihar. We have placed this proposal several times and this needs attention once again,” said Kumar.Hailing the decision of production of ethanol, he said this would provide an alternative source of energy and reduce dependence on petrol and diesel. The chief minister also welcomed the Centre’s decision to install prepaid metres.“Bihar has already started the project. It will help check misuse of power, which harms the environment,” he said.Kumar, once again, supported the three farm bills and said these laws were in the interest of farmers. “The Niti Aayog had earlier brought the proposal to amend the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act. In Bihar, it was abolished in 2006 and now the procurement has increased. Last year, the procurement of paddy was 20 lakh metric tonnes and till Friday, the procurement of paddy was 32.89 lakh metric tonnes this year,” the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/one-nation-one-rate-nitish-kumar-pushes-for-uniform-power-rates-for-all-states-101613839855240.html
20-02-2021||Other||Cyberabad police to get exclusive desk to resolve issues of transgenders||In a first of its kind initiative, the Cyberabad Police in Hyderabad will soon have an exclusive “transgender desk” to attend to the grievances of transgenders in the city, by taking them up with the government for resolving them.The move was announced by Cyberabad police commissioner V C Sajjannar during an interaction with about 150 representatives of the transgender community in the city in collaboration with noted social activist and Padma Shri awardee Sunitha Krishnan on Friday.The programme was organised to provide an opportunity for representatives of the transgender community to share their problems about the structural and societal violence they are subjected to every day of their lives.Speaking on the occasion, Sunitha Krishnan said the transgender community was not a homogenous group and consisted of varied sections. She regretted that marginalization by society has forced the community to beg or indulge in sex work.She also explained about the need for a comprehensive scheme or a policy by the government to support transgenders to enable them to be part of the mainstream in society.Simran, one of the representatives of the transgender community, said lack of education and accessibility to employment was forcing transgenders to beg on the streets and they were subjected to harassment on the streets.Other transgender representatives – Imtiyaz, Chandramukhi, Vyjyanti Mogli and Asifa highlighted various other problems faced by the community such as inability to find houses to rent, intimate partner violence and intra-community violence.Responding to various suggestions at the meeting, the Cyberabad police commissioner announced that an exclusive “Transgender Desk” would be created at the Cyberabad Commissionerate which will address the grievances of transgenders. He promised to take their issues to the government from time to time to find a solution.Sajjannar, however, warned the transgender community against involvement in any illegal activities or trouble the public by way of harassment. He also requested them to act within the framework of the law and reiterated that no form of violence would be tolerated.“If any transgender is involved in illegal activities, the police will take stringent action as per law,” he said and requested the public to Dial 100 or report on WhatsApp number 9490617444, if there is any issue regarding transgenders.Apart from the commissioner, several senior police officials including deputy commissioner of police Shamshabad N Prakash Reddy, Cyberabad traffic deputy commissioner of police S M Vijay Kumar and deputy commissioner of police (women and child safety) C Anasuya took part in the interaction with the transgenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyberabad-police-to-get-exclusive-desk-to-resolve-issues-of-transgenders-101613832630276.html
20-02-2021||Delhi||Tablighi Jamaat: Court tells police to release passports of 35 foreigners||A Delhi court Saturday directed the police to release the passports of 35 foreigners, who were acquitted in December last year in a case in which they were charge sheeted for attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation here, allegedly being negligent and disobeying the government guidelines issued in wake of Covid-19 pandemic.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Arun Kumar Garg said all the foreigners have already been acquitted by the court and the police has not filed any appeal/revision till date to the acquittal order.The court's directions came after the investigating officer submitted he had no objection in releasing the passports to the foreigners.Advocate Ashima Mandla, appearing for the foreigners, submitted that the Look out Circulars (LOCs) issued against the foreigners were closed in February.The court said in its similar order passed on the foreigners' applications, "...considering the facts that the accused have already been acquitted by the court vide judgement dated December 15, 2020, non-filing of any appeal/revision by the state against the judgement dated December 12, 2020 of this court till date and that the LOC(s) qua the applicant(s) have already been closed by the DCP pursuant to the directions of the Supreme Court of India, the application of the present applicant(s) is disposed off with the directions to release the original passport(s) of the applicant(s) to the applicant(s) or his/her (their) attorney against proper acknowledgement as per rules, after verification of his/her (their) identity."The applications, moved through Mandla and Mandakini Singh, sought release of the passports which were in the custody of the police. The pleas noted that the Supreme Court had on January 13 directed the government to facilitate the return of the acquitted foreigners to their respective countries.While acquitting the foreigners from 14 countries of all charges in December last year, the court had said the prosecution has failed to prove the presence of the accused at the Markaz premises during from March 12 to April 1.The court had further said in its order that as per the list of evacuees, none of the accused was having Covid­-19 symptoms and hence there was no question of any negligent act on their part, which to their knowledge or belief was likely to spread infection.“It is beyond comprehension of the court, as to how, Investigating Officer (IO) could have identified 952 foreign nationals out of 2,343 persons, who as per Station House Officer, were found flouting the guidelines, without any Test Identification Parade, but on the basis of the list provided by Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India,” it had said. PTI URD RDM RDM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tablighi-jamaat-court-tells-police-to-release-passports-of-35-foreigners-101613838080601.html
20-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi records high of over 27 degree Celsius; moderate fog likely on Sunday||The maximum temperature in Delhi was recorded at 27.3 degrees Celsius on Saturday, while the minimum temperature settled at 10.4 degrees Celsius, the Meteorological department here said.The city woke up to "dense to very dense fog", which is expected to fall between "moderate to dense" fog category on Sunday.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), a "very dense" fog is when the visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of a "dense" fog, the visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, "moderate" 201 and 500 metres, and "shallow" 501 and 1,000 metres.The maximum and minimum temperature on Sunday are expected to hover around 27 and 11 degrees Celsius, respectively.As per the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality service SAFAR, Delhi recorded the AQI of 266 in the "Poor" category.SAFAR has predicted the AQI to be around 249 on Sunday.An AQI between 201 and 300 is considered 'poor', 301-400 'very poor' and 401-500 'severe', while the AQI above 500 falls in the severe plus category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-high-of-over-27-degree-celsius-moderate-fog-likely-on-sunday-101613836985603.html
20-02-2021||City||Odisha leader of opposition writes to Andhra CM on bordering villages||Odisha's leader of Opposition and BJP leader Pradipta Naik on Saturday wrote to Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on holding panchayat polls in the three bordering villages of Odisha. In his letter, Naik said that the move was against the spirit of the Constitution and requested him to maintain the status quo in the bordering villages.Alleging illegal conduct of elections by Andhra Pradesh in the three villages of Kotia gram panchayat in Koraput district of Odisha, Naik alleged that the Vizianagaram district administration not only conducted elections in Kotia of Koraput but also tried to hold polls in some villages of Rayagada district.He also alleged that the Srikakulam administration tried to conduct polls in some villages of Ganjam and Gajapati districts and Vishakapatnam administration in some villages of Malkangiri.“This is not only against the spirit of the Constitution but also against the spirit of the federal structure of the country. The activities of Andhra Government are going against the spirit of the Supreme Court ruling in 1968 to maintain the status quo,” Naik wrote in the letter, adding that it was a grave constitutional crisis.Also read: Over 5,000 Covid-19 variants in India - Here are more transmissible ones"In the year 1942, in the joint survey of Odisha, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, seven villages of Kotia Gram Panchayat - Turia, Barabandha, Talakanti, Gumelpadara, Mathalamba, Suliamari, and Katraguda under Patangi block - were recorded as the revenue villages and revenue was collected accordingly by the government of Odisha. But as per the above notification of the Government of India, it is clear that these villages belong to Odisha. These villages were part of Kotia Gramapanchayat, Pottangi Block, Koraput District since independence. How can your government claim some villages of a panchayat as their land," he asked.Naik said the holding of panchayat polls in Odisha villages showed the expansionist mindset of Andhra Pradesh. "Please look into this. Andhra and Odisha have a very strong cultural relationship for thousands of years. We should carry forward our relationship not fighting for the lands," he said.In the first hearing on the contempt of court petition filed by Odisha in the Supreme Court on Friday, the Odisha government sought a four weeks’ adjournment to reply to the submissions of the Andhra Pradesh government. The Andhra Pradesh government in its affidavit before the SC said that three villages – Ganjaybadra, Pattuchennuru and Paguluchennuru – fall under Araku parliamentary constituency and Saluru Assembly constituency of Andhra Pradesh. Lok Sabha and Assembly elections have been conducted by Andhra Pradesh in the villages since 1952 while panchayat polls by the AP government were held in the villages in 2006 and 2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odisha-leader-of-opposition-writes-to-andhra-cm-on-bordering-villages-101613836101949.html
20-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Mayor demands police action after video shows BMC marshals being manhandled at Juhu beach||Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Saturday demanded police action against people who manhandled the marshals deployed by BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation to check for violation of Covid-19 norms. A grab of the video tweeted by news agency ANI showed people at Juhu beach manhandling the BMC marshals while they were on duty.“They are authorised to do this job. Police should look for such people and take action,” Pednekar said, as reported by ANI. On Friday, the Mayor had announced that the state government has deployed marshals to enforce wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing while in public places because of the surge in the number of cases.Also read | Maharashtra records 6,281 Covid-19 cases; highest spike in Mumbai since DecemberMaharashtra has been witnessing a spike in the number of Covid-19 infections and the government has implemented strict measures to curb the spread. Reassuring that the restrictive measures would continue, the Mayor said, “Ward officials with their teams will monitor Covid situation in their areas. Action will be taken against those not following SOPs. Buildings will be sealed if 5 or more persons found Covid positive. Asymptomatic patients will be admitted to quarantine centres.”On Saturday, the state reported 6,281 new Covid-19 cases and 40 deaths, the second consecutive day when the daily new infections crossed the 6,000 mark. With this, the tally reached 2,093,913 cases and 51,753 deaths. Maharashtra reported 6,112 Covid-19 cases on Friday.Meanwhile, the city of Mumbai reported 897 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths on Saturday, taking the overall tally to 3,18,207 cases and 11,440 deaths. As part of the efforts to reduce the spread of the virus, the BMC had sealed 1305 buildings in Mumbai, that has 71,838 households.The Union health ministry has advised that “the importance of adherence of Covid appropriate behaviour is strongly reiterated for breaking the chain of transmission of the virus and containment of spread of the disease,” after a surge in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mayor-demands-police-action-bmc-marshals-being-manhandled-at-juhu-beach-101613834813411.html
20-02-2021||City||'Nagaland government wrongly used funds belonging to employees': CAG report||The apex auditor, Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) has found that the Nagaland government has incorrectly used the funds belonging to its employees by failing to transfer ₹62.01 crore under the National Pension System (NPS) to the designated authority.State government employees appointed on or after January 1, 2010, are covered under the National Pension System which is a defined contributory pension scheme. Under the scheme, employees contribute 10 per cent of their basic pay along with dearness allowances and the state government is required to make a matching contribution.As per the CAG audit report on state finances for the year ended 31 March 2019, the state government collected ₹86.74 crore from employees as a contribution towards the NPS and contributed only ₹58.17 crore as its share towards the scheme. Therefore, failing to discharge its statutory liability as it could not contribute ₹28.57 crore as its matching share under the NPS.Also read: Maharashtra records 6,281 Covid-19 cases; highest spike in Mumbai since DecemberFurther, the report noted that against a total collected fund of ₹144.91 crore, the state government transferred ₹111.47 crore only to the designated authority, the National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL), failing to transfer ₹33.44 crore to the NSDL for further investment as per the provisions of the scheme.“Thus, there was a short transfer of ₹62.01 crore ( ₹33.44 crore not transferred and ₹28.57 crore short contribution) to the NSDL and the current liability stands deferred to future year(s),” the CAG report said.The audit further revealed that the state government has created interest liability on the amount not transferred to the NSDL, incorrectly used the funds that belong to its employees and created uncertainty in respect of benefits due to the employees, while affecting the avoidable financial liability of the government in future and thereby leading to a possible failure of the scheme itself.The CAG underlined that the state government should ensure that employees’ contributions are fully deducted, fully matched by the government’s contributions, and fully transferred to the designated authority/trustee bank on time to avoid interest liability.The CAG report was tabled in the state assembly on the last day of the budget session on February 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nagaland-government-wrongly-used-funds-belonging-to-employees-cag-report-101613833863135.html
20-02-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: “My favourite theatre guru asked me to sing in his class!”||While I was designing the structure of a workshop I was supposed to conduct, I realised that most of the things I was going to talk about or teach were taught to me by one teacher! I have attended workshops by Indian and foreign “theatrewallahs”, but the one that has stayed with me the longest was that by the late Pandit Satyadev Dubey. The first-ever workshop that I attended was by the late Chetan Datar. He was an excellent writer and director and was also responsible for the resurgence of the experimental theatre group – Awishkaar. I was probably the youngest in that workshop and was a part of it only because I was tagging along with my college seniors. It was a weeklong workshop and Chetan must have mentioned Dubeyji at least once every day. When I asked my seniors who this person was I was told that most of the actors and directors working in Pune or Mumbai have been trained by Dubeyji directly or indirectly. I was intrigued to know who this person that my first drama teacher was speaking so highly of is!I got that chance after two years. Dubeyji was slated to come to Pune to conduct a workshop in May 2005. He was going to teach again after many years and the moment I heard about this, I registered myself. All the participants were given a patch in Hindi written by Dubeyji himself. It was about how almost every young person in India wants to be an actor. Very briefly it also underlines what all is at stake for a person who is seriously thinking of becoming an actor. It’s pretty famous in theatre circles. We were asked to memorise that article. The technique to memorise it was given in the article itself and it was pretty simple. Read the article in front of a mirror at least two hundred times (“at least” being the key word here).As luck would have it, an entrance exam I was preparing for a year was scheduled on the first day of the workshop. In a different city! I had no choice but to miss the ever important first day. Honestly, I wouldn’t have missed it had it been my choice, but at that age most of your decisions are taken by your elders. Anyway, the next day I went to the workshop fully prepared that I might be thrown out and it could end up being my last day there. I had heard that Dubeyji was extremely strict and was capable of throwing the choicest of words at his students.I had gotten all the updates of the first day from a friend who was attending the workshop. It had helped that I had attended Chetan’s workshop earlier because most of the exercises were similar. I had indirectly been trained by Dubeyji.The next day I sat with all the students. There were about thirty of us. And then I saw him for the first time! With grey, long hair and clean-shaven wearing light blue jeans and plain black kurta, and bushy eyebrows over an extremely intense gaze. He looked at all of us with that gaze and it stopped at me. “Get up,” he said. I did as I was ordered. “You are new!” I nodded. “Why are you new?” Other participants sniggered a little. I started speaking, but just after I had uttered my first word, he gestured me to stop. I thought that was the cue where he will throw me out. He said, “Breathe before you talk! It helps to speak louder. Remember that, always. Before saying any dialogue, your first action should be to breathe. Always remember to breathe!” I just realised that I had gotten my first lesson! I took a deep breath and told him about my exam. He was looking directly in my eyes the whole time and I tried not to avert his gaze. After I was done he took a long pause and simply asked “Can you sing? I want to end our daily sessions with some music.” “I sing. But I don’t know if you will like it,” I replied honestly. Now everyone sniggered openly. Even he gave the faintest of smiles and to everyone’s surprise, especially mine, told me to sit down. I couldn’t believe my luck! I was finally going to be Dubeyji’s student!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-my-favourite-theatre-guru-asked-me-to-sing-in-his-class-101613831951812.html
20-02-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka releases guidelines for travellers from Maharashtra: All you need to know||The Karnataka government on Saturday released a set of guidelines with regard to people arriving in the state from Maharashtra. This comes in the backdrop of a sudden spike in Maharashtra’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) caseload. More than 6,000 cases (6,281 to be exact) of Covid-19 were reported in Maharashtra for second consecutive day on Saturday, according to state government's health bulletin. The worst-affected districts are Amravati, Pune and Nagpur.The new guidelines - majorly focusing on students - are also applicable for all other people that arrive from the western state to Karnataka. Earlier in the week, two Covid-19 clusters had emerged in Karnataka's capital Bengaluru which led to fears of emergence of another wave in the state. The state government then had only issued guidelines with respect to travellers coming in from Kerala. However, the guidelines have now been extended to include visitors from Maharashtra as well.Also Read| Maharashtra records 6,281 Covid-19 cases; highest spike in Mumbai since DecemberOne of the primary requirements under the guidelines issued by BS Yediyurappa-led Karnataka government is that people from Maharashtra will be required to produce a negative RT-PCR test report which is not older than 72 hours if they want to enter the state. Strict Covid-19 norms such as social distancing, wearing of masks, hand sanitising among others have to be ensured by colleges, hotels and other complexes.Here is a look at what measures will have to be undertaken by those coming into Karnataka from Maharashtra:1. If there are five or more coronavirus disease cases found in hostels - boarding or residential - and educational institutes, such places would be declared as containment zones by the local health authorities and special surveillance measures will be enforced. After seven days of notifying the area as a containment zone, RT-PCR tests will be done on students and staff members again.2. The state government said that it is very important to ensure strict enforcement of all Covid-related precautions such as social distancing, wearing face masks or coverings, usage of hand sanitizers among others in hostels and educational institutes. In case of any lapses, the heads of such institutes will be held responsible.3. All those arriving in the state through buses/flights/trains/personal transport will be compulsorily required to produce a negative RT-PCR test report which is not older than 72 hours. For those arriving by flights, the report needs to be checked by the airline staff. For bus travel, tickets will be provided upon production of the test report or it will be checked by bus conductor while boarding for those who booked tickets online. The TTEs will check the report for those travelling in trains. With regard to personal transport, random checking of the testing report will be done at toll gates or entry point, the circular stated.4. People arriving from Maharashtra will be asked to show the negative RT-PCR test report which is not older than 72 hours when they are checking into resorts, hostels, home stays etc. The owners of all such complexes should ensure that the reports are shown.5. For all hostels and colleges, students are not permitted to have any visitors/relatives without obtaining express permission from Covid nodal officers. The students are also required to compulsorily produce negative test reports not less than 72 hours each time they return from Maharashtra and till the overall situation improves. Those residing in hostels should avoid frequent travel to their native places unless there is a justifiable reason.6. The rule of producing a negative RT-PCR test report which is not older than 72 hours is also applied to all short term travellers from Maharashtra. This report will be valid for seven days and travellers are requested to self- monitor their health for fourteen days and seek immediate medical help and Covid tests in case of any respiratory symptoms.7. Employees from Maharashtra working in multinational companies (MNCs), resorts, hotels etc. in Karnataka should get the tests done at their own costs.8. All colleges and other residential facilities that are accommodating people from Maharashtra have to strengthen their Covid-19 surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-releases-guidelines-for-travellers-from-maharashtra-all-you-need-to-know-101613830293120.html
20-02-2021||Other||Wrestling arena killings: SIT recovers two more pistols from accused coach||The special investigation team (SIT) of Rohtak police has recovered two more pistols from the wrestling coach, Sukhvinder, who had allegedly gunned down six persons at Jat College’s wrestling arena on February 12. With this, the total number of weapons recovered from the accused has climbed to three. A SIT member, on the condition of anonymity, said that the remand period of the accused has been extended to five more days. “We have also arrested Sukhvinder’s friend, Manoj Kumar, who is a resident of Uttar Pradesh and had provided him the weapons,” the official said.He added that Manoj Kumar is currently undergoing treatment at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences and will be interrogated soon to extract more evidence against the main accused. The SIT member also revealed that the accused, Sukhvinder, is continuously changing his statements during interrogation.On Friday, the family members of the victims had demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the matter.Rohtak superintendent of police (SP) Rahul Sharma said he has written to the district and sessions court judge to move the case into a fast-track court. “We have sent the clothes worn by the accused during crime to a forensic lab to see if the blood on his clothes matches with that of the victims. We have started a speedy probe and will demand strict punishment for the accused,” the SP added.A SIT member had earlier revealed that Sukhvinder first killed coach Pradeep Malik and then proceeded to kill coaches Manoj Kumar, Satish Dalal, Manoj’s wife Sakshi and national-level wrestler Pooja. He allegedly killed the three coaches in one room and the two women in another and locked the gates. “After shooting five people dead, Sukhvinder brought Manoj and Sakshi’s three-year-old son, who was playing with his cousin on the ground floor, to the room where his mother and Pooja were killed and shot him in the head,” the official said. The child had succumbed to his injuries during treatment at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wrestling-arena-firing-sit-recovers-two-more-pistols-from-main-accused-101613830392639.html
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||No decision yet on visitors at Attari-Wagah retreat ceremony||Even as there has been no decision on allowing spectators at Attari-Wagah border’s joint check post (JCP), the border security force (BSF) resumed the Beating Retreat ceremony at the India-Bangladesh border after more than 10 months on Friday. The JCP, which comprises a gallery with a capacity to accommodate nearly 30,000 spectators to witness the flag lowering ceremony at the zero line of India and Pakistan border, was closed for the spectators in the first week of March 2020. “There has been no plan so far for allowing spectators at the retreat ceremony. Only 100 to 200 spectators witness the Beating Retreat ceremony on the India-Bangladesh border. However, the count of spectators at Attari touches up to 30,000. We will follow the ministry of home affairs and health department guidelines for allowing visitors,” said a senior BSF official. Another official posted at the JCP said, “Due to the restrictions, only flag-lowering ceremony is being performed every evening. The daily military drill on our side is also not taking place.” Pakistan had re-opened its gallery for the spectators in October 2020, said the official posted at the JCP. On the occasion of the Republic Day, a joint parade was held with the rangers at the border after around nine months. Students of various colleges had also organised a cultural programme at the JCP. Traders, vendors waiting with bated breath Due to the closure of the JCP, thousands of traders and small vendors have been hit hard and they demand early re-opening of the gallery. Jagdish Singh (56), who runs a dhaba at the Attari border for the last one decade, has been struggling to make ends meet. He said his dhaba is closed since April 2020. “Five workers at my dhaba now pull rickshaw. Our business was totally dependent on Attari visitors,” he said. Several restaurants, vendors selling patriotic accouterments near the border, hotel and taxi owners have also suffered a lot. Mandeep Singh, a cab driver in Amritsar, said, “More than 10,000 cab drivers have been hit and we are waiting for the spectators.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-decision-yet-on-visitors-at-attari-wagah-retreat-ceremony-101613829434742.html
20-02-2021||Gurugram||DTCP carries out demolition drive in Farruknagar||The enforcement team of department of town and country planning(DTCP) on Friday carried out a demolition drive in Farrukhnagar in which three colonies were demolished amid protests by residents. DTCP officials said that 20 acres of land was cleared of unauthorised structures, which were constructed without any permission. A large posse of Gurugram police also accompanied the enforcement team, said officials. RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that 10 under-construction houses and around 100 plinths and several boundary walls were demolished. “Offices of the dealers based there were also demolished. Long-term demolition drives are planned this month and next month against illegal colonies,” he said. Meanwhile, in a related development the enforcement team of Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) also carried out a major demolition drive against encroachments in HSVP markets in sectors 23 and 21. Sandeep Lot, junior engineer, HSVP, said that several shopkeepers had made extensions in their shops, others had covered the corridors and there were a lot of complaints from residents. “The enforcement team will take action against violators in HSVP markets in the coming weeks. We removed encroachments today and if these are repeated criminal action will be initiated,” he said. A team from Palam Vihar police station helped in the demolition drive, said HSVP officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-carries-out-demolition-drive-in-farruknagar-101613828171583.html
20-02-2021||Jaipur||Prices of premium petrol cross ₹100 in 19 districts of Rajasthan||The rise in petrol prices is taking a toll on consumers' pockets in Rajasthan with the price of premium petrol crossing ₹100 across 19 districts.These districts include Alwar, Sri Ganganagar, Bikaner, Hanumangarh, Sawai Madhopur, Banswara, Dungarpur, Sikar, Pali, Udaipur, Churu, Pratapgarh, Kota, Karauli, Rajsamand, Jhunjhunu, Jalore, Sirohi and Barmer.The highest rates of premium petrol amongst the above-mentioned district were recorded from Sri Ganganagar, where the price of a litre of petrol is at ₹103.59, followed Hanumangarh where it is selling for ₹102.95 per litre.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, in a social media post on Saturday, blamed the Central government for the rising prices of petrol.“Prices have been increasing continuously for the last 11 days. This is the result of the wrong economic policies of the Central government. Crude oil prices in the international market are currently half of that during the UPA regime but petrol-diesel prices have reached an all-time high,” he said.Also read: India, China hold 10th round of talks, focus on further disengagement in LadakhGehlot said that the central government has imposed excise duty of ₹32.90 on petrol and ₹31.80 per litre on diesel. He said during the UPA government in 2014, there was an excise duty of only ₹9.20 on petrol and just ₹3.46 on diesel. The Modi government should reduce excise duty in the interest of the public without any delay.“Due to Covid, the state's economy has been badly affected and the state's revenue has decreased. But to give relief to the common people, the state government reduced VAT by 2 per cent in the last month itself. Instead of giving any such relief, the Modi government is increasing the prices of petrol and diesel every day,” the CM said.He further said that some people are spreading the rumour that the Rajasthan government has imposed the highest tax on petrol, so the prices are high here. Tax on petrol in BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh is higher than in Rajasthan. Hence, the price of petrol in Jaipur is less than in Bhopal.“Rajasthan has the highest VAT and the state government should reduce it and give relive to common people. Madhya Pradesh is behind Rajasthan in terms of charging different type of duties. The CM is blaming the Center for the failure of the state government,” said Ramlal Sharma, chief spokesperson, Rajasthan BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/prices-of-premium-petrol-cross-rs-100-in-19-districts-of-rajasthan-101613826590504.html
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||Consult state in fixing Covid vaccine priorities: Punjab CM to Centre||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday urged the Centre to consult the state before fixing priorities for Covid-19 vaccination, as it is a matter involving the entire population. With the portal created by the Government of India for the registration of health care and frontline workers frozen, several such workers of the state willing for vaccination registration have been left behind, he said, calling upon the Centre to allow the entry of such workers to improve the status of vaccination drive. In his speech at the Niti Aayog meeting, the chief minister also requested the Centre to allow 100% use of available SDRF towards expenditure for Covid management, instead of the present ceiling of 50%. Further, in the event of the SDRF yearly budget being exceeded due to enhanced expenditure on Covid-related matters, the state may also be allowed to use previous years’ funds, he suggested. Captain Amarinder urged the Centre to provide immediate financial assistance of at least ₹300 crore to upgrade health infrastructure, equipment and other healthcare needs (medicines and consumables) in view of the pandemic. The chief minister requested the Centre to consider the Gurdaspur medical college project on priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/consult-state-in-fixing-covid-vaccine-priorities-punjab-cm-to-centre-101613823852069.html
20-02-2021||Pune||Premium petrol crosses ₹100/litre in Pune||PUNE For the first time in Pune, premium or branded petrol (petrol with higher octane value) has crossed the ₹100 per litre mark, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers.The price was recorded at ₹100.31 per litre, on Saturday.The rate of regular petrol has also increased by ₹0.37 and has climbed to ₹96.62 per litre in the city. The rate of diesel has also gone up by ₹0.38 and has reached ₹86.36 per litre.In Pune fuel, prices have been steadily increasing for the last 12 days. If the trend continues regular petrol will also cross the mark of ₹100 per litre by early next week, a worrying sign for transporters.“Premium petrol has crossed the mark of ₹100 per litre and regular petrol will also follow these rates it seems. Common people have to suffer because of this,” said Baba Shinde, a member of the transporter association.“In transport business we mostly use diesel. The diesel prices have also reached to record the highest level. Our business is not even sustainable now. We have written to the Central government. Otherwise, we will have to give the call of a strike,” he said.Vivek Velankar, RTI activist and president, Sajag Nagrik Manch, pointed out that the fuel prices for airplanes are far less than the prices at which commoners are purchasing the fuel.“Central government has negligible taxes and cess on the aviation industry fuel. As a result fuel of an airplanes is 40 per cent cheaper than the fuel of a truck. Why common man has to pay more? Why the taxes and cess for development are imposed on only common people? Are those who travel by planes, poorer than the common people and transporters?,”he said.Reacting to increasing fuel prices, Shiv Sena Member of Parliament Sanjay Raut took a dig at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government saying not just others, but party’s voters too are affected by higher rates.“If the BJP voters across the country are also affected by increasing fuel prices, at least government should consider reducing the taxes on it,” he said.Normal petrol price touches ₹99.11 per litre in ParbhaniMaharashtra’s Parbhani town in Marathwada region, meanwhile, has the highest prices of fuel in the state. Regular petrol has reached ₹99.11 per litre in Parbhani and the rate of power petrol is ₹102 per litre. The rate of diesel in Parbhani is ₹88.76 per litre, as per price notification of state-owned fuel retailers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/premium-petrol-crosses-rs-100-litre-in-pune-101613823731220.html
20-02-2021||Bhopal||Hoshangabad in Madhya Pradesh to be renamed as Narmadapuram, says CM Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has announced that Hoshangabad city in the state would be renamed as Narmadapuram and a proposal to that effect would be sent to the Centre.He made the announcement during the Narmada Jayanti programme held in Hoshangabad on Friday evening.While addressing a gathering on the banks of Narmada, Chouhan asked whether the government should change the name of Hoshangabad, to which the people present there replied in the affirmative."What should be the new name?" Chouhan asked, and the people replied, "Narmadapuram!"The chief minister then said, "We are now sending a proposal to the Centre to change the name of Hoshangabad as Narmadapuram."The state government will not allow "cement-concrete structures" to be built along the Narmada river, he said, adding that sewage treatment plants are also being constructed in the cities located on its banks.Meanwhile, BJP workers, led by protem Assembly Speaker Rameshwar Sharma, expressed happiness over Chouhan's announcement and burst firecrackers on Saturday morning.Sharma had earlier made the demand to change the name of Hoshangabad."This is a historic moment. Narmada is the lifeline of Madhya Pradesh. Hoshangabad was so far named after an attacker Hoshang Shah, but will be known after the lifeline Maa Narmada, which is a matter of happiness. I thank the CM for making this announcement by respecting the public sentiments," he said.State BJP president VD Sharma and several other leaders also thanked the chief minister for the decision.However, state Congress spokesman Bhupendra Gupta termed the announcement as the ruling BJP's ploy to divert the attention of people from important issues like inflation and rising prices of fuel."BJP only changed the names related to the Mughals, but not of those linked to the British rulers. Why the nameof Minto Hall (old Vidhan Sabha building) has not been changed? This is just to divert the attention. Instead, it should focus on development and give relief to people," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/hoshangabad-in-madhya-pradesh-to-be-renamed-as-narmadapuram-says-cm-chouhan-101613822623282.html
20-02-2021||Bhopal||NITI Aayog meet: MP CM talks about steps taken for agriculture sector||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the agricultural scenario of the state has been transformed through floriculture, horticulture and bee- farming, a government official said.Speaking during the virtual meeting of the NITI Aayog being chaired by Modi, Chouhan also said that alternatives would be made available to farmers in the state to enable them to sell their agriculture produce.He hailed the Union budget 2021-22 saying that it aims to make the country self-reliant, and added that Madhya Pradesh will also lay emphasis on self-reliance in its budget.Chouhan said that efforts would be made in the state budget to make optimum use of the allocations made in the Union budget, the official said.The budget session of Madhya Pradesh Assembly is scheduled to begin next week.During the meeting, Chouhan said that besides boosting the food grain production in MP, the state has made strides in floriculture, horticulture and bee-farming, which has transformed the agriculture sector in the state, the official said.The chief minister also told the PM that steps have been taken to procure the agriculture produce from farmers at the Minimum Support Price (MSP).He said he state is laying special emphasis on drinking water, housing facilities and promoting self-help groups, the official said.Chouhan also praised Modi for his efforts towards the country's development, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/niti-aayog-meet-mp-cm-talks-about-steps-taken-for-agriculture-sector-101613820732659.html
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM urges PM to redress farmers’ grievances urgently||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure the urgent resolution of the farm agitation “to the satisfaction of the protesting farmers by addressing all their grievances”. The chief minister, through his speech submitted for the virtual meeting of the Niti Aayog, reiterated his government’s stand that agriculture is a state subject and law-making on it should be left to the states in the true spirit of “cooperative federalism” in the Constitution. In this context, he pointed to the state amendments passed to the central legislation by the Punjab Vidhan Sabha in October 2020. Captain Amarinder could not attend the virtual meeting as he was indisposed. The chief minister said any reform that is sought to be introduced in a sector subsuming almost 60% of the country’s workforce must be done only through a process of extensive consultation with all stakeholders, of which Punjab is key, being at the forefront of ensuring food security. Citing fears among farmers of the state that the minimum support price-based procurement regime through Food Corporation of India (or agencies on its behalf), introduced as part of food security measures in the 1960s, may be discontinued in view of the Shanta Kumar Committee Report of 2015, the chief minister urged the Government if India to decisively dispel any such impression “to instil proper confidence in the farmers of the state”. The chief minister reiterated the state government’s demand for bonus of ₹100 per quintal of paddy procured as straw management compensation, which can be used for purchase or rental of new equipment, attaining skills for efficient use, and to reduce cost of operation and maintenance. He requested the GoI to provide ₹5 crore per MW financial support for biomass power projects and ₹3.5 crore per MW for biomass solar hybrid projects to the state as viability gap fund (VGF) to help alleviate the effects of paddy straw burning through ex-situ utilisation of paddy straw with good returns to farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-urges-pm-to-redress-farmers-grievances-urgently-101613818091457.html
20-02-2021||Pune||Lack of public sanitation irks NIBM residents||Hundreds of residents of NIBM, Bhairoba nullah, Mohammadwadi, Undri and Wanowrie are finding it difficult to find public toilets in the area. The area is home to over five lakh residents and is one of the most important business hubs of eastern Pune which sees a large number of visitors from different parts of the city. Due to lack of public toilets, people are seen utilising abandoned plots, NIBM reserve forest areas, secluded spots near residential societies, Bhairoba nullah open area as alternatives to toilets. NIBM area does not have a single public toilet facility for the citizens while Wanowrie has one near Bhairoba nullah and it is covered with a tin sheet and locked out for the general public.NIBM residents visiting marketplaces expressed their disappointment with the Pune Municipal Corporation of its failure in erecting public toilets. Sanjay Dabhade, a visitor, said, “We come here for work daily but whenever there is a need to use a toilet, we find it difficult as there is no facility in the area. We are forced to use open spaces and even the forest area. There is no option left for the citizens as PMC is least bothered or concerned about the people.”“The citizens are not hygienic at all,” notes writer Abrar H Rashid who is a resident of NIBM area . “Both - the Cantonment Board and the PMC - do not pay heed to the fact that urinals are a necessity of life. MG road has got only two urinals. East Street has none. The well-known NIBM has none. Neighbouring Salunkhe Vihar road has only one. How does the government expect India to be clean when the authorities themselves are not bothered about it?” he questioned.Social worker Danish Khan, a resident of Imperial Society in Mohammadwadi, said, “Neither NIBM nor Mohammadwadi area has public toilets. It is essential that the PMC sets up public toilets as citizens don’t have any such facility here. The reserve forest area plot near NIBM main gate and the entire surroundings, the spot opposite Voyage to the stars building along NIBM annexe connecting road, entire Mohammadwadi and parts of Salunke Vihar are without a public toilet. We need robust toilet blocks which are citizen and environment-friendly. The citizens want toilet facilities and the PMC must provide it to them as it is their right.” Additional commissioner Madhav Jagtap, said, “If there is no toilet in any area then it has to be proposed and where that has to be constructed will be decided by the ward office as citizens do have objections. Ward office of Wanowrie will be directed to open the locked public toilet.”Public sanitation systemAccording to the ease of index report published by the government of India in August 2018, Pune was adjudged as the most liveable city in the country, but the city suffered from like poor public sanitation system especially lack of public toilets.The city with a population of more than 44 lakh, currently has only one toilet for every 244 persons in the city. As per international standards it should be one per 50 for a city.According to the information provided by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials, there are about 1,332 public toilets within PMC limits with more than 18, 000 toilet seats for both men and women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lack-of-public-sanitation-irks-nibm-residents-101613817672151.html
20-02-2021||Other||Pune dist: Power supply to 36,000 defaulters disconnected in 17 days||Following non-payment of electricity bills the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has disconnected power supply to more than 36,139 defaulters in the Pune district. They have an outstanding amount of ₹819.55 crore.The defaulters include consumers from Pune city, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Pune rural areas. The action was taken against 13,650 residential consumers and 20,233 commercial consumers and 2,256 industrial consumers in the last 17 days.In Pune city, MSEDCL has disconnected power supply to 20,000 defaulters who have an outstanding amount of ₹42.37 crore.MSEDCL has initiated a drive against defaulters who haven’t paid bills for the last ten months.Sachin Talewar, chief engineer, MSEDCL, Pune circle, said, “Consumers are responding positively and paying the bills. In the last 17 days, consumers have paid a total Rs145.75 crore of outstanding amount in Pune circle.”“In total 97,413 consumers have paid outstanding bill amount. This includes 66,179 residential consumers, 28,005 commercial consumers and 3,229 industrial. They paid a total of ₹90.16 crore,” he said.The power utility body, meanwhile, has taken a decision to keep electricity billing centres open during weekends. So consumers can pay bills even on Saturday’s and Sunday’s.Action in Pune districtArea== Power disconnection of defaulters== Outstanding amountPune city== 19,388==Rs42.17 crorePimpri-Chinchwad== 9,885==Rs24.90 crorePune rural== 6,866==Rs22.48croreType of consumers== No of consumers ==Total outstandingResidential==8,49,900== ₹505.23 croreCommercial== 1, 38, 648== ₹211.70 croreIndustrial==20,138== ₹102.77 croreTotal ==10, 8,776==Rs819.71crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-dist-power-supply-to-36-000-defaulters-disconnected-in-17-days-101613817551664.html
20-02-2021||Other||Debt-ridden elderly farmer, son end life in Punjab’s Dasuya||A debt-ridden 70-year-old farmer and his 45-year-old son committed suicide by consuming poison in Dasuya sub division on Friday night. The incident came to light on Saturday when the septuagenarian’s other son, who lived nearby went to his father’s house to enquire about him. The elderly farmer’s son said that his father owned only one acre in the village. He said his father had taken loan from a co-operative society which he was unable to repay, and this kept him under stress. In the two suicide notes, the father and son mentioned the debt and blamed the Captain Amarinder Singh government for not waiving farmers’ loans despite promising to do so. They wrote that the Centre was ruining farmers and they were ending their lives in protest. “Farmers have spent the winter on Delhi borders, but the government is not listening. We see their plight on TV channels and read about them in newspapers. We are ending our lives in protest,” wrote the elderly farmer. On being informed, the police took the bodies to the civil hospital for post-mortem. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Munish Kumar confirmed recovering the notes and said that appropriate action would be taken after taking into account the statement of the family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/debtridden-elderly-farmer-son-end-life-in-punjab-s-dasuya-101613816591693.html
20-02-2021||Noida||Man returning home after marriage anniversary party killed in road accident||A 58-year-old man returning home after a party to celebrate his marriage anniversary was killed and three others in his speeding electric car were injured when the vehicle hit the boundary wall of a house in Noida's Sector 26 on Friday night.Sector 26 Residents Welfare Association president Govind Sharma said Sanjay Gupta, a resident of NRI Residency in Sector 45, had invited a few relatives for the party. “They attended the party and at night were on their way home [when the accident happened],” he said.Sanjeev Duggal, Sector 26's security convenor, said Gupta arrived for the party in another car. He added as they were leaving for home, Gupta’s nephew asked him to drive his electric car bought three days ago. "Gupta drove the car as three relatives accompanied him."Duggal said Gupta had driven the car for hardly 100 metres when it hit the wall. "The impact was so severe that the wall collapsed, and a car parked inside was also damaged. The driver reversed the car and it hit a Neem tree..."The house owner said he rushed out of his home when he heard a bang and informed the police.Gupta’s relatives following in another car rushed the four to a hospital where he was declared brought dead.Police said that the airbag near the driver’s seat opened but the impact was so high that Gupta died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-returning-home-after-marriage-anniversary-party-killed-in-road-accident-101613812270092.html
20-02-2021||Delhi||#ShwetaYourMicIsOn: DU students react to bloopers in online classes||Audio bloopers have become a common error in most virtual interactions, but how lethal can these be when in an online classroom, that too in Delhi University, can be witnessed in the recent trending #ShwetaYourMicIsOn. Herein, a girl named Shweta accidentally shared intimate details about her friend’s love life, during an online college class. The recording made way to social media, and the trend even caught singer Shweta Pandit by surprise, when the latter saw her name trending worldwide! Well, in a class that has multiple students and a single teacher figuring out how to mute one student from a bunch of faceless DPs, this is what happens and leaves everyone in splits, so much so that the incident becomes a social media sensation and even inspired meme machines to flood the internet! “There have been many instances in campus where students don’t realise that their mic is on, and the entire class gets to hear whatever they talk to other people at home or to someone on another call, says Tejas Malhotra, a student of Sri Aurobindo College, adding, “Many a times a student is recorded shouting at their family members to keep their voice down and in the process is accidentally heard yelling by the entire class. Now all this has in fact become common for us, but we still get a good laugh from time to time and this time it was due to #Shweta. Cooker ki seetiyan while providing background music while giving answers are quite often met with a funny jab from a co-student asking aaj khaane mein rajma ban rahe hain kya?” The viral audio cum video and memes on #Shweta’s oops moment have left almost all Shweta’s in colleges across the city feeling hassled and embarrassed. “I’ve a friend named Shweta, and she’s so upset since this incident has taken place because a lot of her classmates have called her up to check if she’s the one whose conversation has gone viral on social media,” says Aatika Choudhary, a student of Vivekananda College, adding, “I on my part can feel for her, but can’t help laugh about the whole thing because such audio bloopers have become common in online classes. Honestly, I don’t even know if this one is a fake video or a real one, but I can imagine how embarrassing it would be for the real Shweta. I just don’t know why her classmates didn’t call her a little early and stop this from becoming major! I hope she has someone to counsel her after the entire incident because such moments can have varied effects on people... like I for now check four times if my mic is on or off!” Youngsters are often quite conscious about their impression on others. So what happens in case of such an eventually? Does it have the potential to become a stressor? “I think so. But take it from a senior, these things happen on campus life. Try not to take it too seriously. Because we are on an online campus, and the most embarrassing thing is certainly a viral audio blooper. When we use to be in offline campus, such incidents and fights and rivalry between college boys kept happening as a part and parcel of college life. So today it seems big, but a few years down the lane, this could become a college memory for keepsakes,” smiles Mukul Malik, another student of Sri Aurobindo College.“Pehle Sonali ke naam ka audio bhi aise hi viral hua tha, I remember. Ho jaata hai, theek hai na.... No point feeling embarrassed about it because it was neither Sonali’s mistake nor is Shweta’s. They genuinely didn’t realise that their mic was on,” opines Manish Mourya, of Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College, sharing how it should be taken in one’s stride.He adds, “The best strategy to cope with such a thing is to ignore it. Of course becoming a meme doesn’t really help you to ignore and get on with life, but I think if the person can emotionally detach from the situation maybe they would be able to laugh along with others!” Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/shwetayourmicison-du-students-react-to-bloopers-in-online-classes-101613809033993.html
20-02-2021||Delhi||All Delhi High Court benches to resume physical hearing daily from March 15||Delhi High Court said on Saturday all its benches will resume hearing on a daily basis from March 15. All courts of joint registrars (judicial) shall continue to hold hearings as per the existing arrangement till March 12 and hold regular physical courts from March 15, it said in a circular.According to the curricular, the court may, in exceptional cases, permit any of the parties and (or) their counsel to join the proceedings through video conferencing, provided the requisite infrastructure is available.The court has urged advocates, litigants and other visitors to strictly adhere to the norms of social distancing and all other Covid-19 protocols, guidelines, and directions issued by the Centre, Delhi government and the court.The high court had on March 25 last year restricted its functioning as well as that of the district courts till April 14. It was subsequently extended from time to time till January 16 this year. The court then partially resumed physical hearings from September 2020, after holding only virtual courts for nearly six months as the Covid-19 pandemic struck the country.Earlier in January, the court said it had initiated steps for a hybrid system where a hearing can be joined through virtual as well as physical mode. Steps for setting up infrastructure for a hybrid system have already been initiated in Delhi High Court Chief Justice DN Patel’s courtroom and television screens have been installed to enable advocates opting for the new system to appear virtually, according to news agency PTI.As of Friday, there were over 6.37 lakh Covid-19 cases in the national capital and of them, 1,053 were active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/all-delhi-high-court-benches-to-resume-physical-hearing-daily-from-march-15-101613808271162.html
20-02-2021||Pune||Fire breaks out at Pune factory, 6 fire tenders rushed to spot||A fire broke out at a manufacturing factory in the Sanaswadi area of Maharashtra’s Pune district on Saturday, reported news agency ANI. No casualties have been reported so far.At least six fire tenders have been rushed to the spot and fire fighting operations are underway.The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertainedMore details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fire-breaks-out-at-manufacturing-factory-in-pune-6-fire-tenders-rushed-to-spot-101613805560725.html
20-02-2021||Mumbai||Petrol price reaches all-time high of ₹97 in Mumbai||The petrol price reached an all-time high of ₹97 in Mumbai on Saturday while diesel was selling at ₹88.06 in the country's financial capital. The fuel prices have been rising in the city for the last 12 days. Petrol was sold for ₹96 per litre on Wednesday and diesel ₹87 on Thursday.In 2018, the petrol price last crossed ₹90-mark and was sold at Rs.91.34 per litre.Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, the All-India Motor Transport Congress, called for an immediate reduction of diesel prices by bringing down central taxes. "The central government should issue an advisory to states to cut down Value Added Tax and bring uniformity in diesel prices across the country..." He said they have given a 14-day notice to the Centre for implementation of their demands from February 16. "If demands are not met, we will have no option else but to suspend road transport services across the country.”The petrol price touched ₹100 a litre in Rajasthan's Sri Ganganagar district and rose to record highs elsewhere on Wednesday. ₹100 per litre retail price was the first time the fuel was sold at rates in the three digits anywhere in the country.Taxes account for more than 60% of the pump prices of fuel. Part of these is central taxes and the other part is taxes levied by the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/petrol-price-reaches-all-time-high-of-rs-97-in-mumbai-101613804101665.html
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||Wanted for R-Day violence, gangster Lakha Sidhana calls rally at Punjab CM’s village||Wanted by Delhi Police for instigating violence during the farmers’ tractor rally at Red Fort on Republic Day, gangster-turned-social activist Lakhbir Singh, alias Lakha Sidhana, has called a rally in support of the farm agitation in Bathinda district’s Mehraj, the ancestral village of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, on February 23. In a Facebook video posted on Friday night, Sidhana urged people to gather in large numbers at the grain market in Mehraj, 35 km from the Bathinda district headquarters. He said farm union leaders should also stay united against the Centre to strengthen the fight against the three farm laws. Gangster hints at joining Mehraj rally on Tuesday A native of Sidhana village in Bathinda district, Lakha is on the run since January 26 and has hinted that he will join the rally on his home turf. Delhi Police had on February 14 announced a reward of ₹1 lakh for information on the whereabouts of Sidhana. Various teams of Delhi Police, along with the special cell, had conducted searches for the gangster across Punjab, Haryana and Delhi-NCR. Sidhana was last seen in Punjab when he had visited Moga on January 20 to garner support for the tractor rally on Republic Day. Bathinda range inspector general of police Jaskaran Singh said the district police have not received any communication about Sidhana. “I have learnt that a rally has been planned at Mehraj. It’s up to Delhi Police to arrest him, but the Bathinda police have hardly any role in it,” the IGP said. The 13-minute video appears to have been shot in a tent. Though there is no confirmation on when it was shot, Sidhana starts by congratulating supporters on ‘Maa Boli’ Day or International Mother Language Day that falls on February 21.Charged with murder, dabbled in politics Mehraj is a part of the Rampura Phul assembly segment from where Sidhana had unsuccessfully contested as a candidate of the People’s Party of Punjab (PPP) in 2012. The PPP was floated by state finance minister and Bathinda MLA Manpreet Singh Badal and later merged in the Congress. Sidhana was booked for murder, attempt to murder, loot and violation of the Arms Act. He was jailed several times between 2004 and 2017. During this duration, he also came in contact with politicians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wanted-for-r-day-violence-gangster-lakha-sidhana-calls-rally-at-punjab-cm-s-village-101613802790506.html
20-02-2021||Other||54-yr-old who left Silicon Valley for TN village looks to nurture local talent||Tenkasi, a village in southern Tamil Nadu on the Western Ghats known for the Courtallam waterfalls and its rolling fields, is also associated with coding, tech and business.Businessman Sridhar Vembu made an unusual move from Silicon Valley to Tenkasi in October 2019. He couldn’t have foreseen then that Covid-19 would make remote employees and migration of software engineers from the cities back to the villages the norm during the pandemic, but he did return with the vision of working from Tenkasi, and hiring and retaining local talent.In January, Vembu, 54 was awarded the Padma Shri, India’s fourth-highest civilian honour, in the trade and industry category. He is founder-CEO of Zoho Corporation, a cloud-based business software that provides online applications.The company says that its apps are used by more than 50 million people globally. Subsequently, in February, Vembu was appointed in an advisory role to the National Security Advisory Board (NSAB), led by National Security advisor Ajit Doval.Vembu spoke to HT on video from his village via one of his products- Zoho Meeting -- with birds constantly chirping in the background.“The peacocks here keep me up at night,” said Vembu, who runs a global business with offices across the world. “In fact, we had a meeting with our employees in the US, Brazil, Singapore and multiple locations in India just last night and it went flawlessly with fibre optic internet. The tools of remote working are getting better.”The company launched one during the pandemic -- Zoho Remotely. “The pandemic has accelerated remote working. We are going to open up more rural offices. The goal is to have smaller centres rather than have everyone come to Chennai.”Zoho has expanded its offices to 13 districts in Tamil Nadu, two in Kerala and one in Patna. It has about 9,000 employees around the world and 90% of that workforce is in rural centres in India. The Tenkasi office has 450 employees recruited within a 50 km radius.Often dressed in a traditional veshti, Vembu moves around on a cycle or his preferred electric auto, developed by a Coimbatore-based company, which cost ₹1.6 lakh.“It gives you freedom of mobility with minimal footprint,” says Vembu.An early riser, he walks to his farm and local tea shops in between his work and meetings. “ Ten minutes of traffic can get you tired. I cherish these open spaces and quietness the most working out of here,” he said.Vembu was born in Tamil Nadu’s Thanjavur district to a family of farmers and was the eldest of five siblings.“I studied in a Tamil medium school,” said Vembu who in 1989 graduated from the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras. With the help of a scholarship, he received an MS and PhD in electrical engineering from Princeton University, all the while knowing his future would be back in an Indian village.He worked as a wireless systems engineer at Qualcomm for two years and later founded AdventNet in 1996 with two of his brothers and friends. The company was later renamed Zoho.He says he should have come back home sooner. “I realised we were doing fancy mathematics to say something very simple. Spending time building business is far more valuable economically than fancy theories,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/54yrold-who-left-silicon-valley-for-tn-village-looks-to-nurture-local-talent-101613801067559.html
20-02-2021||Kolkata||Who is Pamela Goswami? BJP youth leader arrested with cocaine in Kolkata||Two leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) youth wing were arrested on Friday with 100 grams of cocaine from south Kolkata's upscale New Alipore area, police said. Among them were Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) leader Pamela Goswami and Prabir Kumar Dey. Another person Somnath Chatterjee, 26, was also held in connection with the seizure of about 90 grams of narcotic substance in Kolkata, reports said. Who is Pamela Goswami?Goswami is the state secretary of the BJYM, who actively posts updates on social media and shares pictures of party events being held across the state. She was along with her friend Dey in her car on Friday when both of them were nabbed, police said, adding that around 100 gm of cocaine "worth a few lakh of rupees" was found in her handbag and other parts of the car. The police claimed that the two had been purchasing drugs from a peddler in the New Alipore area and they had prior information about their visit on Friday following which they were intercepted at the spot. Women police personnel were also deployed to carry out the search and arrest."She was involved in drug trafficking for quite some time. Today, we got information that she, along with her supplier Prabir, was reaching the spot to hand over the drugs to the purchasers," a police officer told news agency PTI on Friday. A team of policemen in eight vehicles surrounded Goswami's car and apprehended her, the officer said. The BJP youth wing leader's security guard, who was inside the same vehicle, was also arrested, the officer added.Samik Bhattacharya, the BJP’s state spokesperson, however, said that Goswami may have been framed. “I have heard about it but we are yet to gather details. If she has really done something illegal, then the law will take its own course. But it could also be planted. The elections are near, and the model code of conduct is yet to be enforced. The police are now under the control of the chief minister. We also need to keep these in mind,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/who-is-pamela-goswami-bjp-youth-leader-arrested-with-cocaine-in-kolkata-101613800273452.html
20-02-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka cops put ink away as fingerprints go hi-tech||Even though Bengaluru is known as the technology capital of the country, police in the Silicon Valley of India was using the archaic method of using ink for taking fingerprints until two months ago. It is only in January this year that the state police launched a digital database of fingerprints and introduced software from Japan to record and compare fingerprints from a central database.More than 1,000 fingerprint scanners and proprietary software, costing approximately ₹1 lakh each, have been deployed at all police stations across the state. Inspector-General of Police, R Hitendra, who holds the additional charge of crime and technical services said this software will now enable the force to compare the fingerprints recovered from a crime scene without sending them to the police headquarters for manual verification.“In the earlier system, when a criminal is caught, his/her fingerprints were taken on a paper after applying ink on their fingers. This paper was then sent to the district headquarters following which the details are entered into a database,” Hitendra said.As the fingerprints were stored across each district headquarters, city police commissionerates or other nodal agencies, a police officer had to send them requests whenever they needed to compare a fingerprint.“In case the officials of a police station needed information on the set of fingerprints they found at a crime scene or from a person they arrested, they have to send the paper prints to one of these headquarters. These prints were matched with details in the database and a report was sent back. This was a time-consuming process,” the officer added.With the complete digitalisation of the database and the introduction of the new software, every police station now has access to fingerprint data.While explaining the latest process, the officer said that it is nowhere close to what is seen in pop culture. “Fingerprints are not verified by looking through a bunch of photos or graphs of the fingerprint patterns. To explain it in layman’s language, the patterns on each finger is given a number using a formula. The combination of the 10 digits for 10 fingers forms the unique id for each person,” he said. “Since a unique code is attached to each fingerprint, a criminal record of the person is attached to the data as well. Thus, a fingerprint and criminal background updated in any part of the state would be available to the police stations,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cops-put-ink-away-as-fingerprints-go-hitech-101613798680352.html
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||Winter isn’t done yet: Fresh spell of rain, snow in Himachal from Sunday||Snow and rain is forecast in Himachal Pradesh from Sunday. “A fresh feeble western disturbance is likely to affect the western Himalayan region from February 21. Another western disturbance in quick succession is to affect the region from February 22,” Shimla Meteorological Centre director Manmohan Singh said on Saturday. A yellow warning of thunderstorm, lightning and hailstorm at isolated places has been issued for the mid-hills from February 21 to 23 and lower hills on February 23. The higher reaches will get snow and rain from February 21 to 25, he said. Keylong, the administrative headquarters of Lahaul and Spiti district, was the coldest place in the state, recording a night temperature of -4.6 degrees Celsius. Kalpa in Kinnaur shivered at 1 degree Celsius. There was no significant change in the minimum and maximum temperatures in the region. “The minimum is 2 to 3 degrees above normal and maximum 3 to 4 degrees above normal,” Singh said. Manali recorded a low of 2.3 degrees, Kufri 4.2 and state capital Shimla 6.9 degrees. Dalhousie recorded a minimum of 5.9 degrees, Palampur 7.2 and Dharamshala 8.2 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/winter-isn-t-done-yet-fresh-spell-of-rain-snow-in-himachal-from-sunday-101613798530147.html
20-02-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka looks to allay hesitancy as vaccination numbers stay low||The Karnataka government on Friday said that it has written to the Centre, seeking approval to inoculate at least 1,000 influential people like religious leaders, film actors, sports personalities, jurists and eminent journalists to mitigate the poor response to the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Bengaluru.The state government hopes that the measures, if approved, would help allay fears around the vaccination drive and encourage more to come forward in a state that has so far achieved around 57% of its target.“We are roping in some social influencers and people who can motivate. I have written to the Union government to allow us to inoculate around 1,000 people who can be influencers from various walks of life. These include people such as religious pontiffs, sports personalities, film stars, eminent jurists and also influential journalists,” Dr K Sudhakar, state’s minister for health and family welfare and medical education, told Hindustan Times.“I hope we will receive a favourable response,” he added, without naming any of the public figures that are likely to be roped in for the plan.The vaccination situation is particularly alarming in the state capital where the (first dose) coverage for healthcare workers is 36% and frontline workers is 24%, government data revealed. In fact, the coverage is the lowest in the state and when compared to 63.5% in Delhi and 70% in Mumbai.Out of 354,527 people authorities set as target for vaccination in the first dose, Bengaluru has inoculated only 117,985 of them. A total of 8,052 people have so far received the second dose of vaccination in the city, the data mentioned.In comparison, Gadag, about 387 km from Bengaluru, has managed to cover 83% of its population.A total of 626,752 people have taken the first and second dose of vaccine across the state as against a target of 1,106,889 people.The measures come as part of the strategy to increase vaccination coverage across Karnataka and Bengaluru, where responses have so far been poor overall over fears of developing complications.The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), the city’s civic body which is in-charge of the drive, has made all efforts to convince workers and even threatened to end free treatment if those in the list continued to evade the inoculation drive, but to little effect. “BBMP is not proactively involved and will be meeting them tomorrow (Saturday). There are some districts that are performing very well and some districts are below 25-30%. The collective responsibility should be on the district administration,” Sudhakar said.While Bengaluru, the state’s growth engine, had gone into lockdown much before the other states, restrictions here were also lifted sooner than elsewhere. Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa, who had tested positive for the virus last year, had decided to lift the curbs to bring in revenues for the cash-starved state.“There are some reasons (for poor turnout) like apprehensions over the vaccine and misconceptions such as the beneficiaries cannot consume alcohol after vaccination. For many others, it is time constraints of not being available to take the dose among other reasons,” N Manjunath Prasad, the BBMP commissioner, said.He also said that there have been instructions that the government will not bear any Covid-19-related expenses for those who refuse to take the vaccine.Home to hundreds of large corporations, Bengaluru, like other large cities in the country, has encouraged companies to extend the work from home (WFH) policy to keep the crowd away from public space.However, politicians, irrespective of their parties, carried on with their large political rallies, weddings and other events, undeterred.Approximately 18 people developed serious complications after receiving the shot across the state, including at least three fatalities, according to government data.Ever since the first case was reported in Bengaluru on 8 March last year, there have been 403,236 cases so far, of which 394,583 have been cured.Bengaluru reported 209 cases on Friday out of the total 386 across the state. Four more people died in the city that accounts for 4,445 fatalities out of the total 12,287 across the state.Karnataka was one of the worst Covid-19 impacted states the whole of last year but later saw a drop in cases. But the fight against pandemic has been stymied in the vaccination drive over hesitancy and spread of false information, Sudhakar said. The state government has held meetings with district administrations to seek reasons for the low turnout and ways to overcome them, officials said.The state government has put in place measures to closely monitor people coming in from Kerala and Maharashtra among other places. Dr. R Ravindra from Bengaluru-based Suguna Hospital said technical glitches with the CoWIN app, launched by the government for the vaccination drive, has been a major reason behind inaccurate reports on coverage than reluctance. “This app (Covin) is not working properly. The names of a lot of people who took the first dose are not showing up as vaccinated and the (city) corporation has asked us not to administer the second dose to such people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-looks-to-allay-hesitancy-as-vaccination-numbers-stay-low-101613797664333.html
20-02-2021||Kolkata||2 BJP youth leaders caught with 100 grams of cocaine in Kolkata||BJP Yuva Morcha leaders Pamela Goswami and Prabir De have been arrested with 100 grams of cocaine from New Alipore in Kolkata, police said on Friday.Besides them, a person named Somnath Chatterjee (26) has also been arrested in connection with the seizure of about 90 grams of narcotic substance (suspected cocaine) in Kolkata."Acting on a tip-off, New Alipore police station conducted an operation wherein they spotted a car in front of Parameswari Bhawan of 92/93 NR Avenue, Block-B, New Alipore. On searching, approximately 90 grams of narcotic material (suspected cocaine) worth approximately ₹10 lakhs was found," the police said.A case has been registered in the matter under sections 21(b)/29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/2-bjp-youth-leaders-caught-with-100-grams-of-cocaine-in-kolkata-101613783210892.html
20-02-2021||Other||Will drop cases against anti-CAA protesters: TN CM||Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami on Friday announced that all cases against those who protested against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and violated Covid-19 lockdown restrictions would be withdrawn, continuing with his outreach efforts ahead of the upcoming assembly elections in the state.“A million cases filed during the lockdown period and 1500 cases filed during the anti-CAA protests will be withdrawn in public interest,” Palaniswami said. “Except for cases filed against specific serious offences, and for not allowing police personnel from discharging their duty, all other cases will be withdrawn.” A statement subsequently issued by the state government added that cases of violence or obtaining an e-pass fraudulently would continue to be investigated. Activists welcomed the state’s decision.During the anti-CAA protests, a case was filed against human rights activist and senior advocate of the Madras high court Sudha Ramalingam. “After students were attacked in Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University, we held a candlelight vigil. Police stationed there shook hands with me for keeping the protest peaceful,” she said.“Months later I came to know that an FIR was filed and I was accused No. 1. It goes on to show how the entire police machinery and criminal law is being abused by the state to silence people. The CM and the politicians know that there is really no case here and when taken to trial, it will end up in acquittals. That’s why in most cases there is no charge sheet filed. It will be kept pending. One fine day it will be dropped and that’s nearer to the elections. It’s time we take cognisance that these were cases foisted by abusing the process of law,” she added.The state’s ruling AIADMK, which is fighting the elections with its ally the Bharatiya Janata Party, supported the CAA that fast-tracks Indian citizenship for Hindus, Sikhs, Jains, Parsis, Christians and Buddhists from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanisation who entered India before December 31, 2014.The withdrawal of cases would also appear to be part of Palaniswami’s strategy to broadbase the AIADMK’s appeal, especially in the context of its alliance with the BJP.Palaniswami also announced on Friday that his government would consider withdrawing cases filed against people who protested against the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant (KNPP) that were lodged between 2011 and 2014.The charges range from petty offences for unlawful assembly to sedition.“By withdrawing these cases the government has recognised that peaceful protests is a democratic right,” said Henry Tiphange, executive director of People’s Watch, a human rights NGO. “We had included this in our human rights manifesto which we submitted to all political parties in January. We demand cases to be withdrawn against all other protestors too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-drop-cases-against-anti-caa-protesters-tncm-101613779143603.html
20-02-2021||Delhi||All transport services to go digital by April, trials underway: Gahlot||Transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Friday said the Delhi government is working on an “ambitious project” of shifting all its transport services in the Capital online from April this year. Once commissioned, the project, which aims to decongest all the 13 regional transport offices (RTOs) of the city, will allow people to get important documents including renewal of driving licenses (DLs) or transfer of vehicle ownership from the comfort of their homes.Gahlot said the transformation to “faceless services” (online services) will be carried out in two phases. Once implemented, only the applicants seeking a learner’s license or permanent DL or vehicle fitness certificate will have to physically visit the RTOs to undergo various tests.“Under the leadership of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, this is the biggest reform package from the transport department that we have planned this year. Under the first phase, 12 services will be made 100% online. Trials and testing of the software is currently underway and we are planning a soft launch next week. The second phase will include 58 services. Our aim is to shift all transport services online from April 1,” he said.The Delhi government offers a total of 70 transport services for which currently only online appointment booking facility is available. After taking an appointment online, an applicant has to visit the RTO to get the documentation completed.The services that will be made completely online in the first phase include renewal of DL, duplicate DL, change of address in DL, transfer of registration certificate (RC) for resale vehicles and so on. In the second phase, services such as permit transfer, NOC for other states and yearly authorisation will be made online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/all-transport-services-to-go-digital-by-april-trials-underway-gahlot-101613771098102.html
20-02-2021||Delhi||No curbs, but must exercise caution: HC to TV channels||Leaked information that can influence the investigation cannot be disseminated, the Delhi high court said on Friday, while also refusing to restrain TV channels from reporting on the case related to the purported protests “toolkit” for which Bengaluru-based environmental activist Disha Ravi has been arrested.While protecting journalists and news organisations from revealing their sources, the bench asked them to check the authenticity of the information and not to sensationalise the issue.The order said that “leaked investigation material” should not be circulated to prejudice the probe.Justice Prathiba M Singh also said that the Delhi police can hold press briefings on its investigation in accordance to the guidelines laid in an Office Memorandum of April 1, 2010 as long as the rights of 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi are not violated.Ravi, through her counsel Abhinav Sekhri, moved the Delhi high court on Thursday seeking to restrain the city police from leaking any information related to investigation in the toolkit matter.In her petition, Ravi said that police took away her mobile phone on February 13 and forced her to provide them with credentials of her private accounts. The police denied the charges on Thursday and also filed an affidavit in this regard.Ravi’s particular contention was about some channels revealing details of her WhatsApp chats. Her petition claimed that the “media houses have published one-sided defamatory, suggestive innuendos, and half truths about the petitioner”.The court admitted that “recent coverage by the media definitely shows that there is sensationalism”. It said “while police briefings and the happenings in court proceedings etc. can also be broadcast and disseminated, leaked investigation material ought not to be disseminated so as to prejudice the investigation.”However, it declined to entertain Ravi’s request that the content be taken down saying the removal of articles would be considered at a later stage.The court asked editors of the channels to exercise proper editorial control so that the investigation is not hampered in any manner.“If the charge-sheet is filed in the meantime and the same is made public, once the investigation reaches some conclusion, dissemination of the contents of the charge-sheet would not be interdicted in any manner,” the judge clarified.The court also asked Ravi to ensure that people related to her do not share information after the police.The Bengaluru-based climate activist, through her counsel, senior advocate Akhil Sibal, assured the court that neither Ravi or any other person directly associated with her intend to indulge in any kind of maligning of the police or the investigating authorities.Appearing for Network 18, counsel Mrinal Bharti sought time from the court to verify the broadcasts and go through the petition filed by Ravi.On behalf of India Today, advocate Hrishikesh Baruah, told the court that the only publication referred to in the petition is an online article that does not relate to India Today TV channels. He said that in any event, Ravi does not seem to be claiming that the WhatsApp messages are false or incorrect and cannot be attributed to her.Advocate Kunal Tandon, appearing for Times Now, told the court that the Right to Privacy would be restricted only by public interest which has to be “overwhelming”, according to Supreme Court’s judgment on privacy.Following submissions, the court posted the matter for further hearing on March 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-curbs-but-must-exercise-caution-hc-to-tv-channels-101613770862000.html
20-02-2021||Delhi||Road accident fatalities hit 30-year low in 2020||Fatalities due to road accident in the national capital dipped to a 30-year low last year, data released by Delhi traffic police data shows.Data released during the Delhi Police annual press conference on Friday showed that in 2020, 1,163 fatal accidents were reported in the city. This was nearly 19% less than the fatal accidents reported in 2019, which was 1,433. Special commissioner of police (traffic) Taj Hassan said that this reduction in the fatal accidents in the Capital was the lowest in 30 years.Though the police did not share data of last 30 years, statistics available on the Delhi police’s website shows that 1163 fatal accidents in 2020 was the lowest since 2000 at least.“The key strategy used by the traffic police to reduce road accidents was a combination of increased deployment of personnel on the roads, improvement of road engineering solutions and increasing road safety awareness campaigns,” said Hassan.Data shows that the city has been seeing a steadily declining trend of fatal accidents. In 2018, the number of accidents that lead to the deaths of those involved was 1,657, which was nearly 14% higher than 1433 in 2019The presentation made by the traffic department also showed that the number of traffic violations last year had also seen a jump compared to 2019.In 2020, 13,802,973 violations were reported, as compared to 10,580,249 in 2019. The amount collected in challans had also gone up from ₹94.07 crore in 2019 to ₹124.16 crore in 2020.Manish Agarwal, joint commissioner of police (traffic), said that the department has also been able to improve prosecutions even though the city dealt with a nationwide Covid-19 lockdown, which kept private vehicles off the roads for nearly four months. This, he said, was also because the traffic police relied a lot on camera-based prosecutions last year.“Currently, we have around three to four types of camera prosecutions—to detect speeding, red light jumping and stop line violations, and to check unauthorised parking,” said Agarwal.Traffic officials stressed that the department will continue to increase the use of technology throughout 2021. For instance, the Delhi traffic police are planning to implement Phase-II of the intelligent traffic monitoring system, which will increase the use of camera-based policing and therefore prosecutions, leading to a deterrence among drivers.“The department will be preparing a detailed project report (DPR) of ITMS for an integrated implementation of the technology. We are also planning to improve enforcement and regulation for better traffic management and also improve coordination with civic agencies and other stakeholders,” Hassan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/road-accident-fatalities-hit-30-year-low-in-2020-101613770584900.html
20-02-2021||Delhi||On back of incentive scheme, cops trace more missing kids||From August 6, the day Delhi Police announced that policemen and women would be rewarded with out-of-turn promotions for tracing missing children,the number of children reported to be lost until December 31 was 1,968. In the same period, the police traced 2,027 children, more than the number reported missing.It turns out that the police had found children reported to be lost as long as two years ago. Delhi Police said on Friday said that it was the first time in many decades that the number of recovered children was more than those reported missing.At his annual press conference, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava said that since August 6, police personnel across the Capital had been striving to trace missing children, citing one woman police officer as an example.“The success story of ASI {assistant sub-inspector} Seema Dhaka is proof that our personnel on the ground are working round-the-clock to ensure that a parent does not lose his/her child. Our officers are visiting states across the country to reunite children with their families,” said Shrivastava.Dhaka, who was a head constable, was promoted to the ASI’s post after tracing 76 children within three months last year. Two constables also received similar out-of-turn promotions for tracing more than 50 children.Police said that the number of recovered missing children was also high in 2020 compared to the previous year.In 2020, at least 4,297 children were reported missing and 4,052 were traced – a recovery rate of 94.29 % and an improvement of 32.65 percentage points compared to the previous year. In 2019, 5,412 children had been reported missing, of which 3,336 were traced- -a recovery rate of 61.64 %.On August 6, the police chief had issued an order that any constable or head constable who finds at least 50 missing children aged below 14 (of whom at least 15 children must be younger than eight years) in a year would be eligible for an out-of-turn promotion.The incentive is only valid for constables and head constables who are the junior-most in the police force.Officials had said the emphasis was on children below eight although more children above that age, especially those in their teens, are reported missing because teens often flee home on their own and refuse to return.In the normal course, constables become eligible for a promotion after five years in service and that too only if they clear a test. If a constable does not take the test, it takes around 10 years for promotion to the post of a head constable.Former IPS officer Amod Kanth, who runs Prayas --an NGO for children -- said that reuniting so many children with their families is a commendable work. “We should appreciate the Delhi police for this. One of the few campaigns the present commissioner has undertaken is giving out of turn promotion to officers tracing these lost children. It also speaks of the priority of the police.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/on-back-of-incentive-scheme-cops-trace-more-missing-kids-101613770228672.html
20-02-2021||Delhi||Amid protests and riots, Delhi Police puts faith in tech||In 2020, when the overall crime in Delhi dipped, the Delhi Police faced newer challenges in the form of mass protests and riots leading the force to deploy technology to deal with crimes that involved mobs instead of the conventional crime, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava said on Friday.Addressing the annual press conference, Shrivastava said technology was used extensively to investigate over 750 cases related to the northeast Delhi riots that led to the arrest of over 200 people.“Of them, 137 were identified through FRS (Facial Recognition System) when matched with criminal records and remaining 94 were through driving licence photographs,” the commissioner said.Communal violence broke out in north-east Delhi on February 24 after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.In January this year, farmers protesting against the three new farm laws clashed with the police and stormed the Red Fort during the tractor rally on Republic Day.Since these challenges involved protests leading to violence by unidentified mob, the Delhi Police brought in the face recognition technology -- an intervention that helped the police zero in on suspects who were allegedly part of the mob.Shrivastava said the police are using video analytics, face recognition systems, geo location, drone mapping and DNA finger printing to gather scientific evidence and conduct that is helping help them to conduct “free and fair” investigations.Referring to the investigation in the violence during tractor rally, Shrivastava said of the 2,700 video clips and pictures that the police have received from general public and hundreds of CCTV and mobile phone videos were analysed using video analytics and face recognition. The data gathered was then matched with driving licence database to identify suspects.“We are also using technology to help us with handwriting analysis, in tracking funding for anti-social activities and to retrieve deleted data from electronic devices,” he said.To demonstrate how the police were using the face recognition technology, police showed how a man who was wearing a yellow- blue jacket was identified by the software at multiple places during the north-east Delhi riots. The photo was then matched with the driving licence database to identify him.Shrivastava said FRS was being uploaded in the phones of beat constables so that they can scan the face of a suspect to check his criminal record.Former IPS officer Ashok Chand said scientific evidence is helpful as it cannot be disputed and is accepted in the court of law. “It is considered to be conclusive evidence in court and helps take an investigation to its logical end, and build a strong case,” Chand said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amid-protests-and-riots-police-put-faith-in-tech-101613769945881.html
20-02-2021||Delhi||Snatching cases up, most hot spots located in E Delhi||The Delhi Police at their annual press conference on Friday said they were working in accordance with a strategy to keep residents safe, even as two street crimes, snatching and robbery, rose in 2020 compared to the previous year, despite a two-month-long Covid lockdown, and curbs on movement and gatherings for a large chunk of the year.Nearly 22 people were victims of snatching every day, while at least five daily robberies took place in Delhi in 2020, a 27.11% and 0.36% increase respectively compared to 2019.Police data also showed that they solved three of every five snatching cases last year, a percentage point increase from 2019. Robbery solving percentage increased from 91.92% to 92.21%. The police also arrested 6,496 persons for snatchings, a 24% increase from 2019.SN Shrivastava, Delhi Police commissioner, attributed the increase of the two crime FIRs to an encouragement of registration of cases as they occurred. But he pointed out that the calls to the police control room (PCR) about these two crimes, like overall offences, had dipped last year. “We kept PCR calls as the benchmark of the crime scenario,” he said.The PCR calls for snatching saw a peak in August 2019 when 5,292 such calls were received. In comparison, 1,060 such PCR calls were received in March this year, the lowest through 2020. Similarly, robbery and dacoity calls to the PCR unit peaked in August 2019 at 1,848 such calls and dipped to 498 in April 2019.Sharing the example of Shahdara district, the police showed a map of how hotspots of snatching and robbery such as Shahdara, Farsh Bazar, Vivek Vihar, Anand Vihar and Jagatpuri were identified and barricades set up strategically at important roads which could lead to a getaway and motorcycle patrol teams were deployed to chase down suspects at those locations.The police were similarly identifying hotspots of crime against women. Bindapur, Dwarka South, Dwarka North, Sagarpur and New Usmanpur were the top five police stations in the list of such hotspots. Santosh Meena, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka), under whose jurisdiction four such police stations fall, said, “Such cases here are high because we register every complaint we receive,” said Meena.Vikram Singh, former DGP of Uttar Pradesh, said the police leadership needed to examine the profiles of the snatchers and robbers arrested. “The police need to find out if such criminals were first-timers, whether they took to these crimes due to loss of jobs or payment of EMIs. That can help them know about the kind of criminals striking in a year of lockdown,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/snatching-cases-up-most-hot-spots-located-in-e-delhi-101613769634626.html
20-02-2021||Delhi||A woman is raped every 5 hours, 10 mins in Delhi||While the overall number of crimes against women decreased in 2020 when compared to the previous year, the national capital still reported 1,699 rapes, 2,186 instances of molestation and 65 cases of sexual assault against children.The cases were fewer when compared to 2019, when 2,168 rapes, 2,921 instances of molestation and 109 cases under the POCSO Act (The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012) were registered.Delhi Police on Friday said this was the first time in several years that all types of crimes against women had reduced. To be sure, in 2020, owing to the Covid-19 lockdown in March, the movement of people had remained curtailed at least for four months, which could also be another reason for the reduction in numbers.The absolute numbers and per-day averages of several key crimes, however, remained high — highlighting Delhi’s dark underbelly.The city still experienced a rape every five hours, a murder every 19 hours, and a car theft every 15 minutes — though these averages were better than in 2019 (when the corresponding figures for rape, murder and auto theft were 4 hours, 17 hours, and 12 minutes). A snatching took place almost every hour in 2020, as compared to 17 in a day in 2019.Experts said while the overall reduction in crime against women is heartening, the figures for 2020 show that women continue to be under threat in Delhi and there should not be even a single case of a crime against women.On the rape cases, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava said less than 2% accused persons in the rape cases were strangers to victims. “The number of strangers involved has further reduced this year. In percentage terms, 1.77% of the accused were strangers as compared to 2.20% in 2019. As part of our strategy to tackle such crimes, we have identified hot spots (from where a high number of crimes against women are reported). Our teams work on such hot spots to reduce the numbers. Every complaint is monitored at the highest level,” he said.The analysis of rape cases also showed that in 318 of the 1,699 rape cases, the accused was “in a live-in relationship” with the victim or “had refused to marry ” the victim.Delhi Police attributed the reduction in cases to better policing and their strategies such as deploying women personnel as beat constables and getting police vans to patrol vulnerable stretches.Madhu Vij, a Delhi-based gender expert, said,”I am not contending that the authorities have done a lot of work, be it making a mobile app for reporting your location or getting residents’ welfare associations and citizen groups involved to create awareness, to make Delhi safe for women. But I would say a lot still needs to be done. The city is still unsafe, especially for younger women. I still worry if my daughter or daughter-in-law stays out after dark and that is not because I think women should stay home and not live their life. It is because we still need to feel safe and perceptions will only change once the reality changes. There should not even be a single case (of crime against women),” Vij said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/a-woman-is-raped-every-5-hours-10-mins-in-delhi-101613769257083.html
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||Lowering of guard behind Covid surge in Punjab||With Punjab being among the four states where coronavirus infections have seen a sudden surge in the past few days, the officials attribute it to lowering of guard by the people. As per the health department, focused sampling of teachers and students after reopening of schools has also added to the number of infections in the state.Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, Punjab’s nodal officer for Covid-19, said: “As people have lowered their guard against the virus and the use of masks has reduced drastically, the daily cases are increasing.”As per health department figures, even since focused testing of teachers was undertaken after schools were opened by the state government, more than 55 have turned out to be Covid positive in the past two weeks. The figures suggest that as many as 275 school students were also found infected in this period.In Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar, earlier known as Nawanshahr, 23 teachers and 189 students have been detected positive in this duration of testing, becoming the major reason behind the surge in the virus cases in the district, health officials said. With 495 positive cases so far, the district now has highest number of active cases in Punjab, followed by 368 in Ludhiana and 367 in SAS Nagar. As of Friday morning, the state’s active cases stood at 2,642.Notably, when Covid-19 struck the country, SBS Nagar had become one of the first hotspots. Later, however, the district led by example and maintained a significantly less caseload throughout the lockdown period. But once again, it is back in focus due to the sudden surge in infections. “Our cases in general sampling have not increased. Assessment shows that a sudden rise has come due to the detection of the virus in teachers which has further spread to the students and their family members,” said Dr Bhaskar. “We are also sending a few samples for genome testing to a Pune lab to check for the possibility of another virus strain,” said the nodal officer.The department analysis suggests that most of the students and teachers turning out infected with the virus are mostly asymptomatic.Meanwhile on changing school timings, education minister Vijay Inder Singla said parents firmly supported the decisions of Punjab government on reopening of schools.
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||Govt may de-reserve Bathinda mayoral post||The Punjab government is likely to de-reserve the post of mayor in the high-stake Bathinda municipal corporation. In July 2008, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD’s) Baljit Singh Bir Behman was elected as the first mayor of Bathinda as a general category candidate. But in the next civic body polls in 2015, the top office of the local body was reserved for a Scheduled Caste candidate. In March 2015, Akali leader Balwant Rai Nath was elected unopposed for the coveted post when SAD-BJP alliance was in majority. In the latest civic body elections, Congress successfully managed to penetrate the political bastion of the SAD after decades by winning 43 of the 50 seats. Veteran Congress leader Jagroop Singh Gill is being seen as the strongest claimant to head the civic body. Gill was asked to quit as the chairperson of the district planning board to contest municipal corporation elections. He successfully contested from Ward 48 and won the municipal polls for the record 7th time. Gill was polled 1,452 votes whereas his nearest rival Nirmal Singh of SAD got only 876 votes. Gill had also held the posts of the chairperson of the Bathinda Improvement Trust, vice-president and president of the local civic body and the president of the District Bar Association. Sources said the Congress leadership had handpicked Gill for the elections and he is likely to get rewarded with the mayoral post. Official sources said the state government is yet to issue a notification on the category of mayoral posts in all the municipal corporations will be reserved for women or SC candidates or not. 
20-02-2021||Delhi||Crime capital: Snatching rose in year of lockdown||Nearly 22 people were victims of snatching and at least five robberies took place every day in the national capital in 2020, as these two key street crimes that are considered benchmarks of law-and-order in a city registered a rise last year despite a two-month-long hard Covid-19 lockdown and restrictions on movement and assembly that lingered for several months.There were 7,965 snatching cases registered in 2020, a 27.11% rise from 2019, according to official police data released on Friday. Robberies, on the other hand, increased 0.36% with 1,963 cases.In all, 266,070 criminal cases of all kinds were registered through the year — a 15.87% reduction from 2019; the first time such a dip has been noticed in at least a decade. Experts said this was along expected lines given the Covid restrictions.The absolute numbers and per-day averages of several key crimes, however, remained high — highlighting Delhi’s dark underbelly.The city still experienced a rape every five hours, a murder every 19 hours, and a car theft every 15 minutes — though these averages were better than in 2019 (when the corresponding figures for rape, murder and auto theft were 4 hours, 17 hours, and 12 minutes). A snatching took place almost every hour in 2020, as compared to 17 in a day in 2019.Delhi Police chief SN Shrivastava said the police was trying to shift the focus of its crime analysis from cases filed to calls received by the police control room (PCR) — ostensibly to account for a possible gap between reporting and registration.“We kept PCR calls as the benchmark of the crime scenario. That shows a 38.19% decline in overall PCR calls [in 2020],” said Shrivastava. There were 24,746 PCR calls related to snatching last year, a 55.84% dip from the 56,037 such calls the year before that. PCR calls about robberies fell 37.01% from 18,210 to 11,471. “Once a person makes a PCR call, it is recorded in the system. One cannot hide the numbers,” Shrivastava said.Vikram Singh, former DGP of Uttar Pradesh, said that the crimes were expected to dip due to the lockdown. “If the police are pointing to decrease in PCR calls, that was bound to happen due to a decrease in interactions between the public and criminals on the street for several months. If there was lesser interface between them, PCR calls were bound to reduce,” said Vikram Singh.Of the 472 murders in the Capital in 2020, police data showed that personal enmity and disputes accounted for about 44%, and 21% were triggered by “sudden provocation” or “trivial issues”.“Fifty-three of these deaths happened in the north-east Delhi riots. If they hadn’t occurred, there would be over 100 fewer murders last year compared to 2019,” Shrivastava said.The comment underscored how 2020 was a year that saw several protest-related incidents in the city — be it the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act clashes at Jamia, the Shaheen Bagh sit-in, or the January riots in north-east Delhi in which 581 people were injured, according to data released on Friday, apart from the 53 dead.With vehicles parked for months, rather than on the roads, and borders closed during the Covid-19 lockdown, auto thefts were the lowest in five years — 24% down from 46,215 in 2019 to about 35,000 in 2020.There was also an overall reduction in crimes against women — rapes dipped from 2,168 to 1,699 and molestation from 2,921 to 2,186.Vikram Singh said that if anything was to be credited for the decrease in crimes, it were the prohibitory orders due to the pandemic. “The policing in Delhi had nothing to do with the reduction. It is just that the criminals also couldn’t leave their homes,” he said.The police said that cyber crimes rose during the lockdown period and reduced after the restrictions were lifted. In any case, 66 “mega frauds” mentioned by the police led to over 165,000 people being targeted. These 66 frauds also led to 213 arrests.Police said that the number of recovered missing children was also high in 2020 compared to the previous year, thanks to a scheme of offering out-of-turn promotions to police personnel who help recover a large number of missing children. In 2019, 61.64% of the 5,412 missing children were traced. In comparison, last year 94.29% of the 4,297 children gone missing were recovered.The police said that certain “violent crimes” such as extortion and kidnapping for ransom fell 33% and 27% respectively. “Violent crimes create scare and anxiety among residents,” Shrivastava said on the reduction of such crimes.“If street crimes such as snatchings and robberies are increasing they indicate that criminals are not in check. There can be many reasons behind that, the prime being the involvement of first timers whose surveillance is not easy to do. These crimes can be brought under control only when beat constables focus on intelligence gathering and are kept away from law and order duties,” said Ajai Raj Sharma, former Delhi Police chief.In an interview to Hindustan Times in December 2017, the previous Delhi Police chief, Amulya Patnaik, recognised snatching as one of the Capital’s biggest law-and-order concerns and proposed bringing in sterner laws and harsher sentences for the guilty.While overall registered crimes dipped in the city, the number of people arrested for the offences rose 15.43% to 125,000 in 2020. These included eight people booked under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) and 120 of those who carried rewards on their arrests. The data did not mention people booked for sedition, or under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, or UAPA.The police commissioner said the data trend showed that the police has “encouraged registration of cases as they occurred”, pointing to how online FIRs, which can be filed without police interaction, decreased nearly 30% in 2020 as compared to 2019. “But offline FIRs, where police are involved in the registration process, have increased nearly 27% over the last two years,” he said.Former Delhi Police commissioner Neeraj Kumar said, “Unlike the number of registered cases where there are chances of burking, calls made to the police control room (PCR) regarding crimes is a sure method and a reliable data to understand the crime trend. PCR calls are the clear indicator of crimes being under control. If there is a reduction in PCR calls, I should say it’s a happy situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/crime-capital-snatching-rose-in-year-of-lockdown-101613763156603.html
20-02-2021||Mumbai||Treat us as frontline staff, give us vaccine shots: Air India’s Mumbai staff||National carrier Air India’s Mumbai-based employees’ union has appealed to the management that they, as frontline workers, should be inoculated against Sars-CoV-2 – the virus that causes Covid-19, on a priority basis. “The employees of Air India have been on the frontlines since the beginning of the pandemic. Employees at every level have put their service to the nation before their own lives and worked tirelessly for the Vande Bharat Mission. In this context, we request that the employees of Air India be given the vaccination on a priority basis. This will ensure that Air Indians can continue serving the nation,” stated a February 19 letter to the chairman from the Air India Employees Union (AIEU). In December, AIEU had also written to civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri requesting a meeting and seeking an extension of the medical scheme, leave encashment and provident fund benefits in the event of privatisation of Air India. Due to the privatisation process, the union had urged the aviation ministry to ensure that the present medical benefits are extended, arrears to the employees are paid, the two provident fund trusts and the leave encashment scheme are continued.In January last year, the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) initiated the privatisation of Air India. However, the process was delayed due to the pandemic and December 14, 2020, was fixed as the deadline for bidders to submit expressions of interest. Air India had a total of 14,032 employees, including 9,426 permanent and contractual workers, as of November 1, 2019, as per the preliminary information memorandum (PIM) issued on January 20 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/treat-us-as-frontline-staff-give-us-vaccine-shots-air-india-s-mumbai-staff-101613763060995.html
20-02-2021||Other||Active Covid-19 cases on rise, next 15 days crucial for Mumbai||Due to the sudden spike in the new Covid-19 cases, active cases in the state have increased by almost 29% in the past one week. Civic officials said the next 15 days will be crucial for the city.In Mumbai, Covid-19 cases have increased by 37%. On February 12, the city had recorded 599 cases, which increased to 823 on Friday.“We are expecting that cases will increase further in the next 15 days. So, the next two weeks will be crucial to ascertain the spike in Covid-19 cases in the city,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.As per data from the state government, on February 12, Maharashtra had 31,479 active cases, which surged to 43,701 on Thursday.Active cases indicate patients who are currently ongoing treatment.“The list of active patients include those who started their treatment prior to February 12, along with the newly added patients who got diagnosed that date,” said state surveillance officer Dr Pradip Awate.The gradual relaxation in lockdown restrictions, citizens violating safety norms and the possible mutation of Sars-CoV-2 – the virus that causes Covid-19 – are cited as contributing factors to the rise in the cases in Maharashtra.“With the flattening of the pandemic curve, citizens started putting down their safety guards. People have been participating in wedding ceremonies and birthday celebrations without wearing masks. In fact, the safety rules of maintaining social distance are being violated, which has been contributing to the rise in Covid-19 cases,” said Dr Awate.Preliminary genome sequencing has found two mutated variants of Sars-CoV-2 which is spreading “aggressively” in districts such as Amravati and Yavatmal, said officials.“The epidemiological characteristics of the new mutated variation of Covid-19 have a faster infection rate. Thus, we are witnessing more infection rate in Amravati and Yavatmal, which have the highest positivity rate in the state,” said Dr Subhash Salunke, technical adviser to the Maharashtra government on the Covid-19 outbreak.Medical experts said the state might be facing a second wave of the pandemic, as was seen in Europe after the initial phase of the downward slope in the curve.“Just like Europe and the UK (United Kingdom), there is a possibility that a second wave may also start in India if new cases don’t come under control and citizens don’t act more responsibly,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, who is a part of the state’s Covid-19 task force.Due to the rising fear among the public, the state and civic officials are facing resistance from citizens during contact tracing and while conducting tests.“Many patients from the same families are getting infected. But when we try to get the contact number and address of their close contacts, they refuse to cooperate. In many cases, the infected patients give false addresses which turn into an obstruction for contact tracing,” said Dr Suresh Asole, district health officer (DHO), Akola.All the district officers have now been instructed by the state health department to bring stringent rules to implement the safety rules as per the guidelines of the central government.“We’ll depute marshals at public places to fine citizens without masks. Also, we will run inspections at wedding ceremonies to control the gathering of the public,” said Amravati DHO Dr Dilip Ranmale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/active-covid-19-cases-on-rise-next-15-days-crucial-for-mumbai-101613762941020.html
20-02-2021||Other||365 samples, including 90 from Mumbai, sent for genome sequencing||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has sent 90 swab samples of Covid-19 patients to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, for genome sequencing on Tuesday. Additionally, three districts —Amravati, Yavatmal and Akola — which have the highest positivity rates in the state, have sent 275 samples to the institute on Fridays. While Amravati and Yavatmal sent 100 samples each, Akola sent 75 samples. The samples were sent after preliminary examination had revealed that four samples from Amravati showed a mutation (E484Q), while another four from Yavatmal showed a second mutation (N440K) of Sars-CoV-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19. To ascertain the virological characteristics of the two mutated strains, the four districts have sent a total of 365 samples of infected patients to NIV. At a time when the state’s overall positivity rate stands at 13.4%, Amravati, Yavatmal and Akola have recorded a positivity rate of around 50%, 47% and 25%, respectively. To look into the epidemiology of the virus among the newly infected patients, a few samples were also sent to BJ Medical College, Pune, for genome sequencing. The number of new Covid-19 cases has doubled in Mumbai in the past 10 days. “Though our positivity is still under 5% unlike many other districts, we didn’t want to take any chance. We therefore sent 90 samples for genome sequencing, and expect a report within 12 days,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. Genome sequencing is a technique that involves analysing the genetic code of an organism and is done with the help of powerful computers. “We have found a mutation in the virus, but we need to understand its epidemiological nature to gauge its implication in spreading the infection among the public,” said Dr Dilip Ranmale, district health officer (DHO), Amravati. In addition to having the highest positivity rate, Akola, Amravati and Yavatmal are also reporting a large number of people from the same families contracting the infection. “People across the state have put their guards down and are not maintaining safety norms. But how has then the positivity rate of only these districts gone up at such a whopping rate? We believe that one of the reasons behind this is the new mutated virus, which just like the UK variant, is transmitting faster,” said Ranmale. The swab samples are being sent in three categories—mildly, severely symptomatic and asymptomatic. “We have sent 25 samples in each of three categories for analysis,” said Dr Suresh Asole, DHO, Akola. Doctors said that if NIV finds out anything alarming about the mutated variants, the government should seal the boundaries of the districts to stop the further spread of the virus. Amravati is already going into a partial lockdown after 6pm till Monday. “If the cases keep rising with the new variant of the virus, then it will be essential to impose local lockdown in those areas,” said Dr Lancelot Pinto, an epidemiologist. Meanwhile, the three swab samples that were sent from Satara for genome sequencing have not shown any mutation. Dr Aniruddha Athalye, DHO, Satara, said, “We had sent the samples 10-12 days ago, but didn’t find any variant.” Medical experts said there is nothing to worry as virus mutation is a regular phenomenon. Also, the same two mutated strains of the virus have been observed all across the country. “These two mutations are not new. So we aren’t observing any drastic changes until the detailed analysis at NIV finds something unique. Hopefully, the report will be available in the next eight days,” said Dr Subhash Salunke, technical adviser to the Maharashtra government on the Covid-19 outbreak. “But yes, the new mutated virus is spreading aggressively. However, it is not severe as it hasn’t pushed up the mortality yet.” DHOs, in addition to virus mutation, have also blamed the careless attitude of citizens as one of the contributing factors for the rise in cases. “People went for functions such as weddings and birthday celebrations without wearing masks. Now, the collector has instructed us to impose heavy fines on those found without masks. We will also inspect wedding functions to keep a check on the crowd,” said Dr Asole. Dr Pradip Awate, state surveillance officer, also said the recently held gram panchayat elections played a role in spreading the virus. The state health department in a press release on Friday announced that so far, no new strain similar to Britain, South Africa and Brazil have been discovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/365-samples-including-90-from-mumbai-sent-for-genome-sequencing-101613762641066.html
20-02-2021||Other||Jayant Patil, Rajesh Tope take count of Covid-positive Maharashtra ministers to 24||Amid a marked resurgence of Covid-19 infections in Maharashtra in over a week, a number of the political leaders, including health minister Rajesh Tope, have been tested positive for the virus. “I have tested positive for Covid-19. Though I am doing fine, I’ll follow the advice of the doctors. With all your blessings, I will defeat Covid-19 and be at your services soon. Those who have come in contact with me in the past few days must take all the precautions and get tested, if they develop any symptoms,” Tope said in a tweet on Thursday night. The health minister is being treated at Fortis Hospital in Mulund under the supervision of Dr Rahul Pandit, who is also a member of state’s Covid-19 task force. Apart from Tope, water resources minister Jayant Patil, food and drugs administration minister Dr Rajendra Shingne and minister of state for water resources Bachchu Kadu are currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19. Besides, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parliamentarian Raksha Khadse and former minister and senior Nationalist Congress Party leader Eknath Khadse also tested positive for coronavirus. Eknath Khadse was found positive for the second time after he was infected with the virus in the last week of December. State Congress president Nana Patole has undergone a Covid-19 test after he developed flu-like symptoms. His test report is awaited, officials said. On February 5, home minister Anil Deshmukh was tested positive for Covid-19. Around 24 ministers from the ministerial council of the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government were infected in the past 11 months. On Friday, the state saw a further rise in the daily cases, as it clocked 6,112 patients, the highest single-day count, since November 27 (after 84 days), when 6,185 cases were recorded. This has led to concern among the state authorities and the government indicated that lockdown restrictions could return if there’s a constant rise in the cases. The spurt in daily infections is being seen since February 10, when over 3,000 cases were recorded. To control the spread, many districts, including Mumbai, imposed restrictions. Yavatmal district has imposed curfew from Friday midnight, prohibiting the gathering of more than five people, among many other strict restrictions. The authorities of Amravati district decided to impose a complete lockdown on Sundays. Similarly, Akola also decided to impose a lockdown on Sundays and night curfew from Thursday onwards. “These measures will be taken in targeted areas where the virulence of the virus is more. Hence, some more districts may follow them as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed the local bodies to take all the necessary steps to contain the spread. They have been asked to focus on the enforcement of standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the state to ease the lockdown restrictions in a gradual manner,” said a senior official, privy to the development. Meanwhile, legislative Council chairman Ramraje Naik Nimbalkar wrote to the state government, requesting that the legislators be immunised, in the backdrop of the Budget session of the legislature starting from March 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jayant-patil-rajesh-tope-take-count-of-covid-positive-maharashtra-ministers-to-24-101613762280683.html
20-02-2021||Mumbai||‘Start Covid-19 vaccination phase 3 before second wave hits Mumbai’||With the sudden spike in new Covid-19 cases, health officials and city doctors have begun emphasising on the need to start a mass immunisation programme for those above 50 years, at the earliest. Individuals aged above 50 years with underlying health conditions are most vulnerable to contracting Covid-19. In Mumbai alone, more than 80% of the total 11,430 deaths (till February 18) were from this age category. In a meeting held on Thursday with civic officials, a suggestion to speed up the third phase of the vaccination process was put forward by the state Covid-19 taskforce. “With the rise in cases, a suggestion was made to begin the third phase of vaccination so that those above the age of 50 can start getting inoculated as they are the most vulnerable group in the population,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, a consultant physician with Bombay Hospital, who was part of the meeting. After the first dose of the vaccine, it generally takes around two weeks for the development of antibodies needed to fight against Sars-CoV-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19. Doctors said the faster the elderly group gets vaccinated, the sooner the spread of the virus can be contained. “If we can immunise the vulnerable group at the earliest, we can control the spread of infection if we are heading toward a second wave of the pandemic, like in Europe,” Bhansali added. Citing a report released recently by the Oxford University, which produced the Covishield vaccine, Dr Lancelot Pinto, an epidemiologist, said, “It has been seen in the study that the first shot is enough to give protection [after antibodies are developed] against the Covid-19 virus for almost three months. The second dose, which acts as a booster, may further strengthen the immunity for more days.” A similar appeal to vaccinate those above 50 years was recently put forth by ward officers. A ward officer from M-West ward, which covers Chembur and Tilak Nagar, with the highest Covid-19 growth rate, also requested the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to initiate the third phase of the mass immunisation programme. “We have been told that the direction to start the third phase has to be initiated by the Central government. Without its approval, the civic body cannot start the third phase,” said Prithviraj Chauhan, assistant commissioner, M-West ward. Civic officials, however, said the third phase is expected to begin from the first week of March, where over 3 million probable people in the city will be immunised. “Though we haven’t been given clear instructions, the third phase is likely to start along with the ongoing first and second phases, in the first week of March. This will be beneficial for those in the vulnerable group,” said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, G-North ward, which covers Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim. Starting the third phase will be an uphill task for the civic body as only 35% of the total 400,000 registered healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers have been inoculated so far. Additionally, due to the ongoing technical glitch in the centralised CoWIN mobile application, private hospitals are also facing problems in the immunisation process for their in-house HCWs. “It is expected that the civic body will allow private hospitals to vaccinate the public in the third phase. But before doing so, the Central government needs to fix the app or it will further lead to chaos,” said a senior official from a private hospital who has been vaccinating HCWs since Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/start-covid-19-vaccination-phase-3-before-second-wave-hits-mumbai-101613761680688.html
20-02-2021||City||Congress’ poll eve promise of ‘dating destinations' in Vadodara invites BJP's wrath||Congress' poll promise for local municipal corporation election in Gujarat's Vadodara has run into controversy. The party stated it would set up “dating destinations with coffee shops for youth, students, couples and corporates”, and also open up English medium schools, if voted to power in the local municipal corporation in Gujarat’s Vadodara.The BJP has called it “trappings of an Italian culture”, claiming that it has “offended the sensibilities of the sanskari nagari (Vadodara is called a sanskari nagari).”When asked about the ‘Iconic Vadodara’ manifesto promise, Vadodara Congress president Prashant Patel told Hindustan Times, “The BJP has a problem since they can’t think out of the box. They speak of swadeshi but welcome Walmart with open arms.”Also read: Mumbai, Nagpur, Amravati - New restrictions as Covid-19 surge continues“What is wrong if the Vadodara Municipal Corporation provides affordable coffee shops to youngsters, couples and even corporates who can’t afford the expensive cafes, where one cup of coffee is sold for not less than ₹100?” Patel asked.He wondered why should youngsters from weaker sections of society be left out just because they couldn’t afford to go to a branded coffee shop. This facility would be for them. “Then there are joint families in Gujarat, where a husband and wife can’t discuss their issues and aspirations openly. Here, they will have a space to spend some moments together,” Patel said, explaining the purpose.He said the Congress party was promising a modern life with affordable amenities, and this was why it had promised to set up English medium schools and a full-fledged hospital run by the municipal corporation. “BJP has ruled Vadodara since 1995, they couldn’t even think of these things,” he asserted.The BJP, which has not released any manifesto for the city, called it a desperate attempt by Congress to lure the young voters “by hook or by crook.” The party has also issued a press release, stating, “Youngsters, as well as corporates of the 'sanskari nagari' Vadodara, are furious by this. They can’t come out of Italian culture.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-poll-eve-promise-of-dating-destinations-in-vadodara-invites-bjp-s-wrath-101613761395135.html
20-02-2021||Mumbai||Fee hike in Maharashtra schools: Regulation doesn’t help, say parents||Over the past 10 months of the Covid pandemic, parents of children studying in private schools have filed numerous complaints – online and offline – over indiscriminate hiking of fees, with the most recent one on February 16 at Azad Maidan, seeking government Action. However, according to parents and educationists, the major bone of contention is the state’s Fee Regulation Act, which grants enormous powers to private schools to fix fees, leaving hardly any scope for the state to intervene. The Act In 2018, then Bharatiya Janata Party-led state government brought in an amendment to the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2011, that allowed schools to hike fees by up to 15% once every two years. It also allowed schools to declare fees for the next five-10 years when a child gets admission in Class 1, thus undermining the role of parents and the Parent Teacher Association (PTA) in fee-related decisions. The Act was called out for its pro-privatisation and pro-management stance and its passage was followed by protests from parents across the state. While the resistance faded away as the government turned a blind eye, the concerns raised then have now become major hurdles in addressing fee-related disputes in schools. Tough timesA few days after schools in the state were closed owing to Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown in March, classes moved online. With many parents losing jobs, facing salary cuts and financial pressure, requests to grant concessions on fee payments started pouring in. The state released a government resolution (GR) on May 8, 2020, stating schools should stay all fee hikes for the new academic year (2020-2021) and must allow parents to pay fees in instalments. The GR was, however, stayed by the Bombay high court on June 26, in response to a petition by several organisations of private school owners. Petitioners argued the government cannot regulate fees of private schools as per the current rules. Consequently, while several private schools in the state hiked fees, notwithstanding requests from parents, many others continue to charge Activity fees, laboratory fees and miscellaneous expenses, which, parents say, need to be scrapped as children continue to learn from home. Several schools have used provisions under the Act to pressurise parents into paying huge amounts. Non-payment of dues and delayed payments has led to schools removing children from online groups, calling parents incessantly and at times, forcibly asking them to move to another school. Anubha Sahai, president of the Indiawide Parents’ Association, said the state education department has not solved even one complaint with respect to private schools in the entire pandemic period. “We have submitted a list of more than 80 schools, but there is no Action. Every time we try to meet officials and ministers, we are told about the pending court cases. The root of the problem is the fee Act which is anti-parent in its very essence. We demand an amendment to it soon,” said Sahai. The other sideWhile the current fee Act gives the government very little powers to intervene in fee-related matters of private schools, parents allege the government is turning a blind eye to even the few provisions that exist in the Act. For instance, the Act mandates the Divisional Fee Regulation Committee (DFRC) to handle fee-related disputes. Since the previous committee was dissolved in 2019, the government has failed to make a new one operational. “Similarly, the Act allows the government to audit the accounts of private schools and mandates them to upload the balance sheets on the website. The government has neither done audits nor uploaded a single document in all these years,” said Prasad Tulaskar, a parent from Dadar. Tulaskar is still awaiting Action in a complaint he made against a Dadar school in 2016. SC Kedia, secretary of the Unaided Schools Forum, which is one of the petitioners in the ongoing case in HC, said a majority of schools have stuck to rules with respect to fees during the pandemic. “There might be a small per cent of private schools who do not follow norms, but there is a mechanism to Act against such schools. Parents can complain against such schools and the government can Act if violations are found,” he added. Jayant Jain, president of the Forum for Fairness in Education that organized the protest on Wednesday, said, “The government is not serious about the issues of parents. While schools make enormous profits, parents are left in the lurch. Schools are removing students from classes which is a clear violation of their Right to Education, despite which the government is not Acting against them.” Despite several calls and messages, state education minister Varsha Gaikwad remained unavailable for a comment. Officials at the education department denied commenting on the issue stating that “the matter is subjudice”. Sunita Goenka, chairperson of Goenka and Associates Educational Trust, which runs several schools in the city, said with delays in fee payments, schools also faced several challenges during the pandemic. “Even though our schools did not hike fees, many parents did not pay during all these months. We also have to pay for a lot of costs, including maintenance and salaries of staff, and ensure that students continue to learn irrespective of their fee payment status. It is only recently that fees have started trickling in,” she added. Francis Joseph, a city-based educationist and the co-founder of SLN Global Network, said, “We must learn a lot from other countries when it comes to fee fixation. In several Middle-East countries when a school is permitted to break ground, they need to submit a financial plan which aligns to the expenses and revenue, which finally determines the fee they can begin with. We will also need a transparent and corruption-free mechanism which allows both the schools and parents to choose what’s best for them and their children. No one stakeholder should pressure the other based on assumptions and perception.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-fee-regulation-remains-a-tough-act-to-follow-for-parents-101613761500770.html
20-02-2021||Delhi||IKEA's malls arm plans first India site on outskirts of Delhi||IKEA plans to open its first shopping centre in India after the furniture giant's shopping centres business - one of the world's largest - said it had bought a 48,000-square-metre plot in the city of Noida on the outskirts of Delhi.IKEA, which opened its first store in India in 2018 in Hyderabad followed by one in Mumbai in 2020, said it would develop the new site into a mall anchored by an IKEA store.Ingka Centres, which has 45 IKEA store-anchored malls across Europe, Russia and China and plans to enter the United States in 2021, said it planned to invest nearly 55 billion rupees ($759 million) in the Noida project.It will announce more detailed plans for the project in the near future, it said in an emailed statement.Ingka Centres plans to enter around 45 large cities across its existing markets and the United States in coming years.It said in October visitors had returned quickly to its malls after the lifting of Covid-19 related restrictions that had forced stores and malls to close.Ingka Centres is owned by Ingka Group which also owns most IKEA stores worldwide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ikeas-malls-arm-plans-first-india-site-on-outskirts-of-delhi-101613761321927.html
20-02-2021||City||65-year-old gets 20-year rigorous imprisonment for raping minor||By Prashant RanjanA court on Friday convicted a 65-year-old man for raping a seven-year-old girl in 2019 and sentenced him to 20 years of rigorous imprisonment.The court also imposed a fine of ₹20,000 on the convict, identified as Hiraman Yadav alias Rangbaj who hails from Gopalpur village in Bihar.The judgment was passed by a special POCSO (prevention of children against sexual offences) court, said Saroj Kumari, special public prosecutor for POCSO cases.Kumari said the incident took place on July 6, 2019, in a village when the girl’s mother had gone to her sister's house to check on an ailing relative. Finding the girl alone, a minor boy took the victim to a lonely house, where Hiraman was present. Hiraman raped the girl while the boy made a video of the act and threatened to make the clip viral if she disclosed it to anyone.Later, the girl’s mother lodged a case at the women’s police station.The special public prosecutor said the court also ordered the government to pay a compensation of ₹3 lakh to the victim.The minor boy is being tried by the juvenile justice board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/65yearold-gets-20-year-rigorous-imprisonment-for-raping-minor-101613761119504.html
20-02-2021||Mumbai||IMD predicts light drizzle in parts of Mumbai on Saturday||Parts of the city reported light rainfall for the second consecutive day on Friday. Places such as Chembur, Dadar and Vile Parle recorded rainfall in the evening owing to a cyclonic circulation over south Central Maharashtra and its neighbourhood and a feeble trough in the low-level easterlies which ran from north Kerala coast to south of Gujarat.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted a light drizzle for Saturday.Following the light showers on Thursday, IMD’s Santacruz observatory reported trace rain until 8.30am on Friday. Colaba station did not record any rain.The rainfall, however, did not bring any respite from high temperatures as minimum temperatures remained above normal. Santacruz, representative of Mumbai and suburbs, reported a minimum temperature of 21.5 degrees Celsius, three degrees above normal. At Colaba, representative of south Mumbai, the minimum temperature was 22.4 degrees Celsius, which was two degrees above normal. Maximum temperatures also remained high with Santacruz recording 33.8 degrees Celsius and Colaba 32.3 degrees Celsius; both three degrees above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/imd-predicts-light-drizzle-in-parts-of-mumbai-on-saturday-101613760780490.html
20-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai traffic police issues e-challan to Vivek Oberoi||Mumbai traffic police on Friday issued an e-challan to actor Vivek Oberoi for flouting traffic rules on Valentine’s Day at Santacruz. According to the traffic police, Oberoi was caught on camera riding his two-wheeler without helmet.On February 14, a social activist had posted a tweet tagging the Mumbai Police to take action against the actor. After scrutinising CCTV footage from the area, traffic police issued an e-challan to Oberoi on Friday.Police officers said they investigated the case and found Oberoi riding a Harley Davidson without wearing helmet, hence they charged him for the violation.“We take action as soon as we catch someone flouting traffic rules on camera. Along with the e-challan, we send them a photo of the violation committed,” said a traffic police officer, adding, “In the case of Oberoi, we have done the same. We have sent him an e-challan along with a photo.”In 2020, traffic police had issued challans to 723,411 bikers for riding two-wheelers without helmet. Of these, only 48,281 challans were paid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-traffic-police-issues-e-challan-to-vivek-oberoi-101613760420257.html
20-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra tries to get vaccine for MLAs for budget session; Centre says no||Maharashtra government tapped the idea of the inoculating legislators ahead of the budget session to avoid RT-PCR testing every few days during the session. The Central government, however, has informed the legislature that since politicians have not been included in the prioritised categories, they cannot be inoculated out of turn.The state government, in its meeting held on Thursday, has made RT-PCR testing mandatory for all the legislators, employees and people attending budget session beginning March 1. The health department has also suggested the state legislature to hold the testing session at three-four days’ intervals to contain the infection. “In an earlier meeting, the idea had come forward. We enquired with the state government, which, in turn, asked for nod from the ministry of health and family welfare for such vaccination. The Union ministry informed that no such inoculation can be allowed as politicians have not been included in the prioritised groups of beneficiaries,” said an official from Vidhan Bhavan.Ramraje Nimbalkar, chairman of the legislative council, and Narhari Zirwal, deputy speaker of legislative Assembly, had insisted on inoculation. “Hundreds of people including legislators, employees, and officers attend the session. RT-PCR needs to be repeated every three days. We had demanded for inoculation of legislators as it would have facilitated holding the session,” Nimbalkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-tries-to-get-vaccine-for-mlas-for-budget-session-centre-says-no-101613760300343.html
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn puts power privatisation on hold||After rushing into power privatisation, the Chandigarh administration has now slammed brakes on the process to get more clarity on norms for the bidding process. The process has been put on hold, for now, said UT adviser Manoj Parida, adding that the administration would wait for the Centre’s final approval regarding the “company formation and share transfer process to be adopted”.The central government has insisted on a uniform bidding process to be followed in all the Union Territories where power privatisation process has already begun. Currently, the administrations of Chandigarh; Andaman and Nicobar; and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu are following different criterion.The decision comes at a time when the administration was in the final stages of handing over the electricity department to a private player. It had set February end as the deadline to complete the tendering process.The administration had first invited bids for privatisation on November 9, 2020. Of the 20 companies that bought the request for proposal, six — Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NESCL (NTPC), Adani Transmission Ltd, Tata Power and Torrent Power — had submitted their bid documents earlier this month. After scrutiny, the administration was to announce the date for opening of bids and finalisation of the company.The hiccups so farThe decision to privatise the department was taken on May 12, 2020, after directions from the Centre. An empowered committee was constituted to oversee and implement the process. The administration had assured the Centre that the process would be completed by the end of 2020.But, the first setback came on December 1, when the Punjab and Haryana high court stayed the process on the plea of UT Powermen Union.After nudged by the Centre, the administration approached the Supreme Court on January 12, which stayed the high court order. A day after the SC relief, the administration immediately invited bids from interested firms.The privatisation move has been opposed by employees, who have questioned the move to hand over a profit-making and well-running department to a private player. Resident welfare associations have also criticised the move, fearing hike in power prices.In the recently held administrator’s advisory council meeting, too, former Member of Parliaments Pawan Kumar Bansal and Harmohan Dhawan had condemned the move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-puts-power-privatisation-on-hold-101613760000284.html
20-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cops arrest Agra resident in sextortion racket||DB Marg police on Friday arrested a 23-year-old man from Agra, Uttar Pradesh in connection with a sextortion racket. The gang has allegedly extorted money from a number of people across cities, the police said.The accused, Anupsingh Bhupendrasingh Badhoriya, has been arrested in connection with the first information report (FIR) filed based on a Grant Road resident’s complaint last month. The complainant had, in December last year, received a friend request from a woman on a social media site. The complainant accepted the request and the two started chatting. After a while, the woman allegedly insisted on exchanging contact numbers and made a video call to him. When the complainant picked up the call, the woman undressed and made the complainant take off clothes. Few minutes later, the complainant received a recording of the video call from the woman’s number. She then allegedly threatened to send the video clip to the complainant’s relatives and friends if he failed to pay ₹21,000, said the police.He sent ₹5,000 to the woman, asked her to give him some time to arrange the rest and then approached DB Marg police. Police officers analysed call details of the caller and found that the money was first transferred to an e-wallet account and from there to some bank accounts. “One of these accounts belonged to Bhadoriya, who was subsequently arrested. Bhadoriya works as an agent for opening new bank accounts in Agra and was managing many bank accounts. He was involved in diverting extortion money from one account to another. His bank accounts had large number of suspicious transactions. He is a member of the sextortion racket,” said inspector Raja Bidkar of DB Marg police station. Police have secured his custody from the court on Friday and are interrogating him for more details on other members of the racket, Bidkar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-cops-arrest-agra-resident-in-sextortion-racket-101613759880151.html
20-02-2021||City||Odisha teacher arrested for marrying four women without any divorce||An Art teacher in Odisha's Cuttack district was arrested on Friday on charges of marrying four women in the last 10 years.Police officials in Cuttack said that Krushna Chandra Nayak, an art teacher at Gopinathpur High School of Salepur area, had married a woman in 2001. Later he married another woman in 2008 without divorcing the first one.Cuttack deputy commissioner of police Prateek Singh said during the Covid-19 lockdown last year, Nayak married one more woman. He was with his fourth wife when the police arrested him.Nayak's first wife alleged that after marriage, he used to demand money from her family on the pretext of pursuing his studies and other needs. "My husband started living separately on the pretext of pursuing higher education. He never looked after me and tortured me. In 2004, I finally lodged a complaint against him at Purighat and Mahila Police stations. However, I withdraw the case after his family members assured they'll look after me," Nayak's first wife said in her complaint. In 2008, he married for the second time.Also read: Mumbai, Nagpur, Amravati - New restrictions as Covid-19 surge continuesNayak's third wife who had married him in 2016 said he would visit home occasionally. "In March 2020, I informed my family about his strange behaviour when I came across his photo with another woman on his mobile phone,” she said.Nayak's misdeeds came to light after his first and third wife lodged complaints with the Mahila police station in Cuttack. Based on the complaint, the police registered a case against Nayak under Sections 493A, 323, 294, 494, 500, 34 of the Indian Penal Code and 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, and arrested him.Last month, the video of a man in Chhatisgarh had gone viral of him marrying two women at a time even though his first wife was living with him at his ancestral home. The viral video of Chandu Maurya marrying two women at a time had sparked a debate as it flouted the Hindu Marriage Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odisha-teacher-arrested-for-marrying-four-women-without-any-divorce-101613759718980.html
20-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra crosses 6,000 new Covid cases after 83 days||Maharashtra on Friday saw an 83-day high in new Covid cases, as it crossed the 6,000 mark, with 6,112 cases. Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 823 new Covid cases, the highest in 77 days. Despite the surge, the health department and experts on the state-appointed panel are not calling it another wave, and are confident of containing it with measures, higher testing and wider tracking. The state’s Covid death toll rose to 51,713 with 44 fatalities reported on Friday. Mumbai reported five deaths, taking the city’s Covid toll to 11,437. Mumbai has added 4,408 fresh cases in the past seven days. Its surrounding cities – Thane, Navi Mumbai and Kalyan-Dombivli – have added 800, 663 and 748 new cases, respectively, in the same period. The rise in the city and Mumbai Metropolitan Region is being attributed to opening of local trains for general public since the beginning of February. The cases in Amravati, Nagpur, Yavatmal, and Pune continued to remain high. Amravati added 623 new cases — the third highest in the state on Friday, after Nagpur which clocked 630 fresh cases. Amravati’s rural areas reported 132 new cases. Pune city reported 535 new cases, while its rural area saw 211 new cases. Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 259 new cases. Yavatmal added 258 fresh cases. The health department on Friday issued a statement saying no foreign strain of the virus causing Covid-19 has been found in Amravati and Yavatmal districts of the state so far. The statement was issued after news reports and speculations suggested a mutant strain similar to one found in the United Kingdom, South Africa and Brazil was found in the state. Following the spike in cases, the state health department and local administrations have swung into damage control mode. In the districts where the cases have shown a surge, local administrations have decided to introduce stringent restrictions. Schools and colleges in Wardha district of Maharashtra have been ordered to remain closed until further notice, district collector Prerna Deshbhratar said. Weekend lockdown, excluding emergency services, will begin at Amravati and Akola from 8pm on Saturday and will go on till 7am on Monday. This is to check crowding at market places during weekends. Yavatmal district has already imposed a 10-day lockdown since Friday. Schools for students of Classed 5 to 9, colleges, and coaching classes in the district will remain shut till February 28, district officials said. Experts said the situation is still under control. A senior bureaucrat said the measures are largely similar to those being followed by administration for the early part of the pandemic. “Since CM’s review [on February 16], the districts have been asked to become more vigilant. There is nothing beyond the three Ts — tracking, testing and treatment. The districts have been told to impose restrictions depending on the severity. The mutation of the virus in some parts of the district has led to a faster spread. Micro containment zones should be marked to keep the spread in that pocket,” the official said, requesting anonymity. State health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said that district collectors and municipal commissioners are already directed to track at least 20-30 contacts within the first 48 hours of identifying the index case. Vyas, in a letter to district administrations on Wednesday, said the number of tests per day for Covid needs to be at least 20 times the new cases coming in that district or municipal corporation. All symptomatic cases necessarily need to be tested on RT-PCR and use of Rapid Antigen Test be kept minimum to the extent possible. “There is a definite increase in the number of new cases over the past one week and we need to be alert, as at present the number in absolute terms seems small but the nature of infection is such that if appropriate containment measures are not taken immediately, the cases are likely to rise exponentially,” Vyas said. The state’s statement said, “Four samples each from Amravati, Yavatmal and Satara have been tested at BJ Medical College in Pune. According to test reports, no change has been found in the genetic sequence of the virus in the samples taken from these districts.” Twelve samples from Pune have also been tested in this medical college and no change in genetic sequence has been found in them either, it added. “Further investigations are underway and some more samples from Akola, Amravati and Yavatmal districts have been sent to the National Institute of Virology and National Institute of Cell Science, Pune for genetic testing. A detailed report in this regard is expected by next week,” the health department said. Dr TP Lahane, director of Medical Education and Research, said although the cases are on the rise in Mumbai and in districts such Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal etc., it cannot be called a second wave. “In any epidemic, there are troughs and crests. There was a decline earlier, now it is increasing, but it is not a second wave,” he told reporters. Dr Shashank Joshi said, “We want to prevent another wave; this is not second wave. There will be a small peak which can be prevented. Micro-containment will help. The lockdown that is imposed [in the districts] will also help.” He added people should avoid traveling unless necessary, while masking is absolutely mandatory. He further said the people need to remain more vigilant for the next 15 days. Meanwhile, on Friday 14,880 beneficiaries got inoculated across 413 centres in the state. The health department attributed the low numbers to public holiday. Of the ones inoculated, 12,032, including 7,661 frontline workers, got their first shot, while 2,848 healthcare workers got their second dose. So far, 854,985 beneficiaries have been inoculated. A health department official said, “We are confident that the turnout will pick up. Those who think that vaccination is not of any help should reconsider. Even though there were isolated cases of some doctors getting infected after the first dose, the vaccine is important to build herd immunity. With vaccine shots, nearly 80% will remain protected against the virus. Those who might get infected after taking the vaccine, too, will only have mild symptoms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-crosses-6-000-new-covid-cases-after-83-days-101613759820570.html
20-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai crime branch busts card cloning racket, arrests four||Mumbai Police’s crime branch arrested four people including a hotel manager for allegedly duping several people to the tune of around ₹20 lakh by cloning their debit and credit cards. The accused withdrew money using the cloned cards from distant places in Pune and Satara districts, so as to avoid being traced.The arrested accused are Mohammad Faiz Choudhary, 27; Yashwant Gupta, 23; Azaruddin Ansari, 23; and Ishtiaq Jamal Khan, 22 — all residents of Goregaon and Jogeshwari. Police said the gang was operating from more than six months.Police officers have received details of 20 victims so far and are trying to retrieve more information from the laptop of an accused.Activities of the gang came to light when an official of a nationalised bank approached unit 9 of the crime branch in Bandra complaining about several customers being duped by online fraudsters, though they had not shared their card details with anyone.The complainant also informed that all the victims had visited the same hotel at Powai, said a police officer.Crime branch unit 9 then inquired with the hotel owner and learnt that he had removed Yashwant Gupta alias Sonu, manager, a few days ago after learning that Gupta skimmed customers’ debit and credit cards using a device, said inspector Nandkumar Gopale.“We laid a trap near the hotel and managed to nab Gupta on February 17. During interrogation, Gupta said he had instructed waiters to bring customer’s credit and debit cards to him and he discreetly swapped the cards on a skimmer device” added Gopale. He further said that he used to personally visit the customer concerned at their tables and used to see the customer enter the PIN and memorised the same, said the officer. Gupta then sold the card data to Chaudhary for ₹500 for a card. Chaudhary would then make the cards and hand them to Ansari and Khan who would travel to different places in Satara and Pune to withdraw money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-crime-branch-busts-card-cloning-racket-arrests-four-101613759760155.html
20-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai BJP leader held in illegal immigrant case: Congress, NCP seek probe||The Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) have demanded a probe after police arrested Rubel Jonu Shaikh, president of north Mumbai minority cell of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), for living illegally in the country for years. Shaikh is allegedly a Bangladeshi immigrant living in Malad illegally for around 10 years. Malvani police recently arrested 24-year old Shaikh in a crackdown on illegal immigrants and booked him under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, Passport (Entry into India) Act and Foreigners Act. The police investigation revealed that he was a Bangladesh national who has been living in Mumbai illegally since 2011. The investigation also revealed that the accused had prepared fake identity cards such as PAN and Aadhaar cards with the help of forged documents.Shaikh is the chairman of minority cell of the party’s north Mumbai youth wing, according to the police report. NCP spokesperson Mahesh Tapase wrote a letter to state home minister Anil Deshmukh seeking an investigation into the Bangladesh connection. “I am surprised that BJP leaders, who are always on the forefront for action against people speaking against them, terming them anti-nationals, are silent on this issue,” he said.Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “On one hand, the BJP is bringing Citizenship Amendment Act for the action against illegal residents, on the other, its own office-bearers are proved to be Bangladeshis. The party should clarify if they have made some special provision in the Act for their own people. Is this some type of jihad in the party?”BJP leader and legislator Ashish Shelar hit back at the Congress and raised question over the nationality of the Congress leaders. “None of our party workers or office-bearers belongs to Bangladesh. Police are free to take action against any such person if they have sufficient evidence. Sawant’s allegations are baseless and levelled for the sake of publicity. We would not ask him which country his party president belongs to,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bjp-leader-held-in-illegal-immigrant-case-congress-ncp-seek-probe-101613759640182.html
20-02-2021||Delhi||Dense February fog leaves weather experts surprised||Delhi over the last one week has witnessed a “never seen before” weather phenomenon for this time of the year. The temperatures have remained higher than normal, but the morning and evening hours have witnessed dense fog.IMD categorises fog into four categories based on visibility-shallow (visibility up to 500 metres), moderate (up to 200m), dense (up to 50m) and very dense (zero visibility).India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said that Delhi has been witnessing dense fog since Monday, when visibility had fallen to less than 50 metres for some hours. Delhi, however, was not alone to be covered in this thick layer of fog. According to MeT officials, this fog cover has persisted during morning and evening hours above the entire Delhi-Haryana-Punjab region since February 11.Scientists said that such dense fog over this region in the latter part of February was “never seen before”. IMD recordings show that till February 19, Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport had already witnessed dense fog conditions for 13 hours, as against the average of 12 hours that is usually witnessed for the entire month.Data also shows that in December last year, Delhi had experienced only one hour of very dense fog when visibility had hit zero.In February, very dense fog has already been recorded for 3-4 hours. On Friday too, visibility at the Palam weather station fell below 50 metres. Other parts of the city also witnessed moderate fog.RK Jenamani, senior scientist at the National Weather Forecasting Centre, said that such a long spell of dense fog has not been witnessed at such a large region at this time of the year ever before.“This pattern of fog over Delhi and neighbouring states is unusual and has never been seen before. We have recorded dense fog over Delhi in February before, but that is only for two or three days, and that too in the first week of February. This time, the fog spell has occurred even when the night time temperature was 2-3 degrees above normal and that is unique,” said Jenamani.He added that this weather phenomenon has also led to the visibility falling to zero in parts of Punjab as early as 7-8pm.Weather recordings show that Delhi has been experiencing higher than normal maximum and minimum temperatures this month. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that except for four days, Delhi this February has recorded temperatures 3-4 degrees above normal.“The maximum and the minimum temperatures have seen a spike this time and this is primarily because of clear skies and the absence of an active western disturbance over the plains for a prolonged period. Because there is no cloud cover, sunlight is hitting the ground with no interruptions,” Srivastava said.On Friday, the maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, was 26.8 degrees Celsius, two degrees below the season’s normal. The minimum temperature was 9.9 degrees Celsius.He also said that high pollution in Delhi is also contributing to low visibility.“The low wind speed is not letting the pollution particles disperse and that coupled with the fog is also hampering visibility,” Srivastava said.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that on Friday, the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi was 311, in the ‘very poor’ zone.Scientists also explained that the last active western disturbance over Delhi was on February 4, and such a prolonged absence, can also be a reason behind foggy mornings and evenings. Another reason behind high temperatures and fog conditions is low wind speed and easterly winds coming into Delhi from Madhya Pradesh.Easterly winds tend to be high in moisture content, and this has kept the levels of humidity high in Delhi. High moisture and low wind speed are basically the perfect combination for fog formation.IMD forecast also showed that February this year is expected to break records of higher than usual temperatures and could also be the month when most number of dense fog days are recorded.“There are no western disturbances forecasted, which means that foggy mornings and higher temperatures are expected to continue,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/never-before-seen-fog-phenomenon-in-delhi-leaves-met-experts-surprised-101613756759528.html
20-02-2021||Delhi||Govt forms seven-member expert group to draw up long-term pollution action plan||The Delhi government is working on a comprehensive long-term action plan to tackle dust pollution, for which a seven-member expert committee has been formed, environment minister Gopal Rai said on Friday.Rai said an action plan will also be prepared to deal with the problem of rising pollution in Delhi.In a statement issued on Friday, Rai said, “The department will also hold a round table conference of experts on March 4 to plan its-anti pollution campaign during the lean period of March to September.”He further said, “The seven-member committee, including members from IIT-Delhi, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), will submit its action plan report to the government on controlling dust pollution, based on which a long term plan will be prepared by the government.”In view of the deteriorating air quality in the city, the public works department (PWD) and the city’s municipalities have been directed to hasten the water sprinkling on roads. The green war room, set up to receive complaints against various agencies, is also being strengthened so that action could be taken against the erring officials, Rai said.“An action plan will be prepared, after discussing the suggestions received at the round table conference with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal,” the environment minister said.He said officials have informed him that the smog tower being constructed in Connaught Place with a cost of ₹20 crore will be completed by June.A team has also been formed to monitor the work on the tower so that timelines for its completion are strictly followed, Rai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-forms-seven-member-expert-group-to-draw-up-long-term-pollution-action-plan-101613756758887.html
20-02-2021||Other||Makeshift structure comes up near site of razed Chandni Chowk temple||Nearly one-and-a-half months after the Hanuman temple in Chandni Chowk was demolished for the redevelopment project, a new temporary structure has come up on the central verge near the old site. The makeshift structure, locals claim, was constructed on Thursday night, though it is not known who built it.Till late Friday evening, there was no clarity from various government departments whether there was any permission for construction of the temple structure or not.The structure has been built on the 1.5-km-long stretch between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid, which has been made a vehicle-free zone.The old temple, which was located on the pavement of the carriageway towards Red Fort, was demolished by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation on the directions of the Delhi High Court on January 3. The action led to protest by various right-wing groups and triggered a blame game between the Aam Aadmi Party government and the Bharatiya Janata party-ruled North corporation.On Friday, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and Mayor of North corporation Jai Prakash, along with other senior party leaders, visited the makeshift temple to offer prayers.In January, leaders of the BJP met Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal to request allotment of land near the old site for the reconstruction of the temple. When asked if the land has been allotted for the construction of the temple, Jai Prakash said, “The temple has been constructed by the devotees of the Lord Hanuman. I’m not aware about the permission given to construct it. But the temple will only add to the beauty of the area and the redevelopment project. The structure has come up on the central verge, where other facilities are also located.”Gupta said, “When I got to know about the new temple at the site, I went there to offer prayers. The old temple shouldn’t have been demolished in the first place; it was a mistake. Religious sentiments of lakhs of people living in the area and in the city were hurt when the 100-year-old temple was demolished. The new structure will not obstruct traffic and pedestrian movement; it will only add to the beauty of the area.”Senior AAP leader Durgesh Pathak said he will visit the new temple on Saturday. Pathak tweeted, “Local residents of Chandni Chowk have constructed the old Hanuman temple. I’ll visit the temple tomorrow and offer prayers.”Throughout Friday, devotees queued up before the temple to offer prayers.Officials of the Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC), the nodal agency for the redevelopment of the Chandni Chowk project, didn’t respond to HT’s query whether permission to construct the new structure was given or not.A senior police officer who did not want to be named said on Friday morning PWD officials informed the police the makeshift religious structure. “The structure is not at the same place where an old temple was demolished. The requisite police action is being taken. We have informed all agencies concerned. A formal complaint is yet to be received. We will take the legal action after a complaint is received,” the officer said.When contacted, the Delhi government in a statement said, “We are examining the issue”.The area falls in the jurisdiction of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation. A senior North corporation official said, “As per our information, no permission has been given for the construction of the structure. We are examining the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/temporary-hanuman-temple-comes-up-in-chandni-chowk-101613756699519.html
20-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi may bring back Covid checks for domestic flyers||The Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA) will convene a meeting on Monday to decide whether it was necessary to put in checks and safeguards — such as mandatory negative RT-PCR test reports — for people arriving from states where Covid-19 cases are spiking, said senior government officials on Friday.The meeting comes in the backdrop of Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday asserting during an event that the Capital is out of the “danger zone”.“The DDMA is meeting on Monday for review of Covid-19 situation in other states and union territories, especially those in which the number of cases are rising again,” confirmed Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev.Another senior official in the executive committee of the DDMA, who did not wish to be identified, said: “On Monday, the authority will also decide whether, at this stage, it is necessary to impose conditions such as mandatory RT-PCR test results – that are valid for 72 hours – for people arriving from the states where cases are rising again.”The DDMA is chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is the authority’s vice-chairperson.In Delhi, the daily test positivity rate has remained less than 1% for more than two months now. On Friday, government records showed, Delhi recorded 158 new Covid-19 cases and a positivity rate of 0.26% with 60,836 tests — of which 39,931 were RT-PCR tests, that are believed to be more accurate — being conducted. So far, 637,603 cases of Covid-19 have been recorded in Delhi of which 625,653 people have recovered and 10,897 have died.“I feel now that all the three waves of Covid-19 have hit the city and it will die down eventually. Now it is no more a pandemic but an endemic… I hope we won’t see 8600 cases in a day. I feel we are out of the danger zone but we still need to take proper precautions, masks and social distancing needs to be maintained,” said Satyendar Jain on Friday at an event to felicitate health workers at Lok Nayak hospital – the city government’s biggest Covid-19 facility.At its peak, Delhi recorded 8,593 new Covid-19 cases on November 11 – the highest for a single day in the city.HT on Friday published a report that showed how Maharashtra, Punjab, Haryana and Jammu & Kashmir have witnessed their seven-day averages of daily Covid-19 cases rise by between 20% and 69% , which highlights the potential risk of a surge in cases amid fears of mutant strains gaining ground, and laxity in adhering to protocols due to Covid fatigue being reported across the country. In Kerala, the first wave continues unabated.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases department in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: “Cases are going up in several other states. With that, Delhi should immediately scale up surveillance and tests. The state should have anyway gone slow on some relaxations, especially those concerning closed spaces, such as movie halls and banquets. So, Delhi cannot scale down tests at any cost. Imposing conditions such as RT-PCR test for people arriving from other states, especially those where cases are rising again, should also help.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddma-meeting-on-monday-on-deciding-covid-protocols-for-travellers-from-other-states-101613756698891.html
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab tax evasion racket: HC dismisses bail pleas of 3 excise officials, 2 others||The Punjab and Haryana high court has dismissed bail plea of five persons, including three excise and taxation department officials, in a multi-crore tax evasion case of Punjab.The high court bench of justice Jaishree Thakur, while dismissing the pleas, observed that no doubt the personal liberty of the petitioners is at stake, but in the instant case the custodial interrogation would be required to unearth the nexus between the them and the intermediaries. “In the case in hand, there has to be a deviation from normal rule of bail rather than jail, since the allegations and prima facie investigation revealed that there was evasion of tax at a large-scale and officials were being paid bribes on a monthly basis,” the bench observed adding that the investigation is at a very nascent stage and petitioners are also persons of influence and would be in a position to scuttle a proper investigation. The bail pleas were of ETOs, Ved Parkash Jakhar, Piara Singh and Tarlok Chand and two others Harmeet Singh and Yadwinder Singh. The FIR in question was registered on August 21, 2020 by vigilance bureau in which 12 officials of the excise and taxation department and four private persons were booked. Allegations were that in connivance with private transporters, these officials caused huge losses to the state exchequer. Tax evasion was committed through transporting goods of various traders into and out of Punjab paying less or no tax at all. The senior deputy advocate general, Gaurav Garg Dhuriwala had told court that there is sufficient evidence available with the state to prosecute them including mobile phone conversations between them among other evidence. Bail pleas of other accused are still pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tax-evasion-racket-hc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-3-excise-officials-2-others-101613754958495.html
20-02-2021||Lucknow||Dalit girl had turned him down. He wanted to avenge insult: Cops on Unnao case||Two persons including a minor have been caught by the police for the murder of two teenage girls found in a field in Uttar Pradesh’s Unnao district, a senior police officer said on Friday evening. A third girl, the oldest of the three, is in critical condition in a Kanpur hospital.The prime accused, Vinay Kumar, 21, wanted to rape one of three girls who had turned him down earlier. He offered her water laced with a pesticide in the hope that she would fall unconscious. But the other two also drank from the same bottle. Vinay Kumar panicked when all three fell unconscious and fled with his accomplice, Lucknow Range inspector general Laxmi Singh told reporters in state capital Lucknow.Vinay's family owns a field next to the one owned by one of the girl’s fathers. During the lockdown, Vinay regularly visited the field, so did the girls, to collect fodder. He came closer to one of them and met her frequently. Vinay wanted to develop physical intimacy with the girl but she rejected his overtures regularly, said the police.“Vinay told the police he had asked for her phone number, proposed to her but she always refused. He was angry with her and sought revenge for his insult,” said Singh.Also read: Toolkit case - Greta Thunberg extends support to jailed activist Disha Ravi"On the fateful, day he reached the fields with his friend. He offered the girls some chips. Then the girl he eyed asked for water. He gave her water that was laced with pesticides. Soon, the two other girls also drank from the bottle, he told the police," said Singh.As the girls complained of vertigo and fell unconscious, Vinay and his friend panicked. They dragged them to their field and ran away.With the help of villagers, the police learnt about Vinay’s presence in his field at the time the girls were there. The Special Operation Group team picked him up with three others from Pathakpur village. The brothers of the girls were also detained for questioning.One of the brothers remained a key suspect as he was unable to account for his four-hour-long absence from the village. Both the brothers were released on Thursday night and Friday noon respectively.Vinay broke down when his location was also found at the field during the time of the commission of the crime and as per some eyewitness account of people who had seen them fleeing the field in a state of panic.While Vinay is 21 years old, the minor is 15, according to the police. Both accused have been held on charges under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The police have also slapped Section 201 against the accused for disappearance of evidence on a complaint of a victim’s father, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/unnao-case-police-say-boy-sought-vengeance-as-girl-rejected-physical-intimacy-101613752170984.html
20-02-2021||Pune||“Use mask to beat Covid as Shivaji Maharaj used sword to defeat enemies”||PUNE: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray appealed to citizens to take inspiration from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and use mask as a shield to fight against Covid-19 pandemic. The chief minister and his deputy, Ajit Pawar, attended the birth anniversary celebrations of Shivaji Maharaj at the Shivneri fort on Friday morning. Against the background of Covid-19 pandemic, the event was attended by few people as per the virus safety protocol. Thackeray said, “Shivaji Maharaj used a sword and shield while facing the enemies. He defeated the enemies. Now our enemy is the Covid-19 pandemic. We need to use the face mask as the shield to overcome the novel coronavirus.” Pawar said, “The Maharashtra government has taken a decision to protect and conserve forts. As finance minister, I would ensure that there would be no shortage of funds for projects related to conservation of the Shivneri fort.” The deputy chief minister said that as cases of Covid-19 are rising again, citizens need to strictly follow the government guidelines and use masks, maintain social distancing and wash hands repeatedly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/use-mask-to-beat-covid-as-shivaji-maharaj-used-sword-to-defeat-enemies-101613751357722.html
20-02-2021||Pune||Unseasonal rains, hailstorm damage grape, onion, mango crops in Maharashtra||PUNE: Unseasonal rains and hailstorms that hit many parts of the state on Thursday evening damaged rabi crops like grape, onion, mango and sorghum (jowar). Cloudy weather was seen at some places in the state on Friday. Dada Bhuse, Maharashtra agriculture minister, said, “I visited some areas in Nashik district where onion, grape and pomegranate crops were damaged. Only after survey by the department will the exact estimation of damage be known.” Bhuse said, “I have instructed the agricultural department to carry out “panchnamas” (inspection reports) of damaged crops and submit a report to be placed before the cabinet and seek compensation for farmers.” Many districts like Pune, Nashik, Satara, Kolhapur, Solapur and some parts of Konkan saw unseasonal rains on Thursday. Shankar Bhamre, a farmer from Nashik district, said, “My grape vineyard ready for plucking was damaged by the unexpected hailstorm.” Vilas Jagtap, who has farmland in Alephata area, said, “Our standing crops were damaged by unseasonal rains. Last year also our crops were destroyed by heavy rains.” Sanjay Chavan from Nashik district said, “I lost my onion crop to heavy rains.” Suresh Patil from Maval said, “The hailstorm has affected the flowering season of the mango crop.” s||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/unseasonal-rains-hailstorm-damage-grape-onion-mango-crops-in-maharashtra-101613748897363.html
20-02-2021||Chandigarh||Wheat procurement: Centre has allowed us to pay farmers directly or through arhtiyas, says Punjab minister||For the upcoming wheat procurement, expected to begin from April 1 in Punjab, the Centre has allowed the state government to make disbursal of crop payments to farmers either directly or through the arhtiyas (commission agents). As mandated by the Centre, state’s food and civil supplies department has already implemented public finance management system (PFMS) two years ago and have made payments of two each rabi and kharif crops through the system. “The central ministry (food and public distribution) had earlier asked the Punjab government to make mandatory direct payment to farmers through the PFMS system and has given a deadline to implement it in the upcoming rabi (wheat) procurement, but there are farmers who are reluctant to adopt this system,” said state’s food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. He added that at a meeting with home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday in Delhi, the issue was discussed and state the government was allowed to make it optional on the pattern of Haryana. Shah’s meeting with Ashu took place after Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh took up the matter with the latter. The issue cropped up as the Centre wants the states, particularly Punjab and Haryana, where foodgrains are procured in huge quantities, to restrict the role of arhtiyas. “For that, we have to amend our agricultural produce marketing committee (APMC) act so as to negate the role of arhtiyas. However, on state’s request, the home minister has agreed that in case farmers give the consent for getting payment through arhtiyas, there is no problem,” said Ashu, hoping that an official order is also expected in the coming week. The state government has started the process for wheat procurement and sought ₹24,400 crore as cash credit limit (CCL) from the Centre. As per the state agriculture department’s estimate of a bumper crop, the state food department is making preparations to procure 132 lakh tonnes grain through the state’s five procurement agencies and the Food Corporation of India (FCI). 
20-02-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Special court summons Amit Shah in defamation case||A special court designated for lawmakers in West Bengal has summoned Union home minister Amit Shah to appear before it either personally or through a lawyer on Monday in connection with a defamation suit filed by Trinamool Congress Parliament member Abhishek Banerjee.“The special court...has summoned Shah to either appear in person or through a pleader at 10 am on February 22,” said Sanjay Basu, Banerjee’s lawyer.In August 2018, Shah allegedly made defamatory comments against Banerjee while addressing the Yuva Swabhiman Samavesh rally of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Kolkata.Also Read | Amit Shah to chair meeting of CMs of southern states in Tirupati“Shah made allegations of corruption against Banerjee. He had alleged that Banerjee was involved in syndicate corruption and had siphoned off money which was sent by the Centre,” Basu said.A criminal complaint case was filed on August 28, 2018, under Section 500 of the Indian Penal Code (defamation). The court took cognisance on the same day. The summon was issued on Friday.“We will do whatever it takes legally. Banerjee can move the court to file a defamation case, but his own party leader accused in cattle smuggling case is hiding. He may move the court of law but in the citizen’s court, they will lose,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, BJP’s state vice president.Banerjee has also sent legal notices or filed defamation suits against other BJP leaders such as Union minister Babul Supriyo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-special-court-summons-amit-shah-in-defamation-case-101613737910984.html
20-02-2021||Mumbai||Two nurses booked for criminal negligence for Maharashtra hospital fire||Two nurses have been booked for criminal negligence in connection with the fire at a ward in Maharashtra’s Bhandara District Hospital that left 10 infants dead on January 9. “The responsibility has been fixed... The investigation is in progress,” said director-general of police Hemant Nagrale.The ward had 17 infants admitted to it when the fire broke out. Seven of them were rescued. The two nurses and a paediatrician were earlier terminated for negligence following an inquiry. A civil surgeon, the medical officer on duty, and another nurse were suspended. An additional civil surgeon was transferred.Also Read | Bhandara fire: Guv to give ₹2 lakh each to kin of deceased infantsThe inquiry report said the two nurses were supposed to be at nursing stations but were out for paperwork at the time of the fire.Home minister Anil Deshmukh said, “The two nurses have been booked for culpable homicide and the further investigation is being done by the deputy superintendent of police.”The report said the ward caught fire due to either voltage fluctuation or internal insulation wear out in the control panel of the baby warmers. It cited a forensic report and added three infants died of the shock due to burns while seven others of suffocation. The report said inflammable material including plastic, cotton beds aggravated the fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-nurses-booked-for-criminal-negligence-for-maharashtra-hospital-fire-101613713307900.html
