21-02-2021||Pune||Metro work hits roadblock on Old Mumbai-Pune highway due to absence of road width||The Pune Metro work has hit a roadblock on the stretch of Old Pune Mumbai highway in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limit from Khadki railway gate to the All-Saints high school junction. The work has been stuck due to a lack of road width. The PMC has highlighted serious traffic problems if Pune Metro moves ahead with constructing pillars at the centre of the highway. On the other hand, Metro officials are trying to find a solution to resolve the problem. On January 23, 2017, MahaMetro began construction work on the Pune Metro stretch of PCMC to Swargate. The route is 16.6 kilometres (km) long starting at Dr Ambedkar chowk near the PCMC main building. This metro route is elevated until Range Hill and then descends gradually, reaching ground level near the College of Agriculture. The stretch has 11.5 km of elevated work with nine stations. There are five underground stations, and the total stretch of underground metro rail is 5.1 km. It includes Shivajinagar bus stand, Civil court, Phadke houd, Mandai and Swargate stations. In the month of January 2021, the Maharashtra Metro Railway Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) completed a six-kilometre stretch between PCMC and Phugewadi of Pune Metro and successfully conducted a trial run last month which is the priority stretch of the Pune Metro project. But it is not operational for the public because of incomplete Metro stations on the six km stretch. The work on the stretch from PCMC to Harris bridge was smoothly underway before the issue of road width arose. The problem exists within PMC limits from railway gate No. 20 (Khadki) to 800 m towards All Saints high school junction due to lack of road width. The civic body wants 42-metre road width in this stretch to solve traffic problems and implement the Bus Rapid Transport (BRTS) system on this road from Harris bridge to Patil estate area (Shivajinagar). If the metro constructs a pillar at the centre of the road, the proposed BRTS is not possible on this road. Besides that, highways become narrow and could cause huge traffic problems as there is no alternate route to divert traffic on this highway. Road width menace The Old Pune Mumbai road is a critical arterial road which connects Pune with Pimpri Chinchwad. Rapid urbanisation and industrialisation in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad have overburdened this road especially within Pune limits wherein the road width varies between 18m to 21m from Bopodi chowk to Range Hill chowk. The width of the road within Pimpri- Chinchwad limits is 61m and adequate to cater to all modes of traffic. However, the width within PMC limits is not sufficient to cater to traffic especially in the second half of the day when heavy commercial and multi-axle traffic access the road. The PMC has widened the road to 42m as per Development Plan (DP) sanctioned by the state government from Wakdewadi to Range Hill and the widening has been achieved in stretches for the section from railway gate No. 20, Khadki to Harris Bridge (Bopodi chowk) which is 700 m. The intermediate stretch in Khadki Cantonment area which varies in widths from 20m to 21m is within the ambit of various defence units and the PMC has initiated the land acquisition process through the office of collector, Pune. However, the financial constraint in the acquisition is inhibiting to PMC and hence, the transfer of Equal Value Land (EVL) has been initiated by the Defence Estate Office, Pune area. On the 800-metre stretch where there is only 21m of road width on the Old Mumbai-Pune highway, as per sanctioned project plan, the Maha-Metro will have to construct around 25 pillars on the alignment from Khadki railway gate to All Saints high school junction. Resolution in the works? According to PMC road officials, “A joint meeting was convened by Maha Metro and chaired by the divisional commissioner, Pune division (DC) and PMC municipal commissioner (MC) along with officials from the road department in February 2021 wherein the hindrances in the execution of metro work was discussed due to the non-transfer of defence land by MoD. Based on this meeting, the divisional commissioner, Pune division and municipal commissioner along with officials from road department of PMC visited the Khadki station area on February 12, 2021, wherein the Maha Metro had arranged a presentation to explain the new proposed alignment in the 800m stretch from railway gate No.20, Khadki up to within the defence area on the Pune side.” Dr Kunal Khemnar, the additional municipal commissioner of PMC said, “The discussion is going to resolve the problem at a higher level. Due to the lack of road width, traffic problems may arise in this stretch after constructing metro pillars. Therefore, widening a road in this stretch will be one of the solutions.” Dr Jayashree Katare, the resident district collector said, “Mahametro has demanded land to widen the road of old Mumbai-Pune highway. It belongs to defence, however, the process has not been initiated yet.” Jawahar Salunkhe, senior deputy general manager (civil) said, “On this stretch, Metro has proposed around 40 pillars. It was mentioned in the original Pune Metro plan. However, due to the lack of road width, the discussion is going on to re-align pillars in this stretch.” Who will pay? According to officials, the cost of land acquisition will be around ₹100 crore to widen the stretch of 800 metres. Now, the question has arisen: who is going to pay the amount? The civic body wants MahaMetro to pay the amount due to lack of funds in their coffer. On the other hand, MahaMetro is anticipating that PMC should have to pay land acquisition costs as they will benefit more after road widening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/metro-work-hits-roadblock-on-old-mumbai-pune-highway-due-to-absence-of-road-width-101613932099712.html
21-02-2021||Pune||Man gets 30 years rigorous imprisonment for sexual assault of minor daughter||A fast track court in Pune sentenced a 37-year-old man to 30 years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) and ₹15,000 fine for sexual assault of his daughter in 2019. The judgement was passed by judge KK Jahagirdar with AS Bahme as the public prosecutor and SH Shaikh as the defence lawyer. The defence and the accused had argued that this was a false case lodged by his wife and daughter. However, based on the medical records produced in court, the judgement reads, “It is true that this is not the first offence of the accused. As per the record, the accused has committed rape on the girl for two years. There are frequent episodes of rape committed by the accused. Not only that, to save from the clutches of the accused, the girl was taken to Mumbai even after her miscarriage and the accused committed rape again.” A case under Sections 376, 376(2), 323, 506(1) of IPC and Sections 4, 8, and 12 of Protection of children from sexual offence (POCSO) Act, 2012 was registered at Kondhwa police station in 2019. The man used to stop the girl from going to school after everyone else in the house had left and then sexually assaulted her, according to her complaint. He had threatened to throw her mother and her out of the house if she discussed it with anyone. However, the girl opened up to her mother in October 2019 and the man beat both of them up when the girl’s mother confronted him, according to the complaint. The man was awarded 30 years RI for sexual assault under IPC along with RI for other sections invoked against him. However, all RIs will run concurrently. The fine amount will be given to the survivor failing which, he will undergo two more years of RI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-gets-30-years-rigorous-imprisonment-for-sexual-assault-of-minor-daughter-101613932098580.html
21-02-2021||Pune||Two arrested for suicide abetment||Two people were arrested by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for driving a 28-year-old man to suicide, as per a suicide note he left, according to local police. The man was found at around 6:30pm on Friday at a shed in Wakad, according to the police. The two arrested were identified as Vishal Popat Adhav and Tejas Vijay Shinde, both residents of Wakad. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Himmat Chainaram Solanki (34), a resident of Kaspate Vasti in Wakad. The 28-year-old had borrowed the two-wheeler vehicle that belonged to Adhav without informing him. Adhav had gone to the police with a complaint that the now-deceased man had stolen his vehicle. However, the 28-year-old claimed that he used it to get to work and had no intention to steal it. The resultant argument led to a physical fight between the two men. The deceased wrote in his suicide note that the fight was a cause of shame for him and had led to his decision, according to the complainant. A case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-for-suicide-abetment-101613932099208.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Four members of a gang arrested for house break-in||Mumbai Police’s crime branch arrested four members of a gang after they allegedly stole 400-gram gold ornaments valued ₹18 lakh from the residence of a government employee in Goregaon (East) on February 17. The police said they have recovered 270 grams of golds and ₹7,000 from the arrested accused. Based on the complaint lodged by Sanjay Belnekar with Vanrai police, officials of crime branch unit 12 started investigation. The police checked CCTVs installed in the vicinity and identified the culprit. Following this, assistant police inspector Atul Ahvad learnt from his informants that the identified people went to sell gold ornaments in Parbat Nagar, Dahisar. Police then laid a trap and arrested them. The accused were then handed over to Vanrai police station for further investigation. The arrested accused are Ayappa Subramanyam Shettiyar alias Shetty, 46; Murgan Sokan Shetty, 44; Nasim Hasan Shaikh, 21; and Jiyarul Babar Shaikh alias Pintu, 38. Shettiyar and Shetty have committed more than 20 house-break-ins in the city and outside in the past few years. The gang is known for Shettiyar who is expert at breaking open safety doors while Shetty would conduct recce of buildings that did not have CCTVs, said deputy commissioner of police Akbar Pathan of the crime branch. Shaikh and Pintu have cases registered against them in Borivali, Juhu and Nashik police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-four-members-of-a-gang-arrested-for-house-breakin-101613932098085.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Woman stripped, tied to tree, filmed in jungle near Mumbai; 4 booked||Four people have been booked for allegedly abducting a 26-year-old Vasai woman and taking her to a jungle in Bhiwandi on February 19 evening where she was stripped, assaulted and tied to a tree by four persons. The accused allegedly also shaved off half her hair, recorded the act and threatened to post the video on social media sites. The woman lodged a complaint with Nizampura police in Bhiwandi, who transferred the case to Waliv police.The woman in her complaint said she was offered sugarcane juice, which was laced with sedatives, near Chinchoti Naka and then taken to the jungle, said senior inspector Vilas Chowgule, Waliv police station. The abductor then left her without clothes at the place from where she was abducted. The woman managed to reach her home in Vasai and complained to Nizampur police station. She has identified three accused including a woman, while the fourth accused is yet to be identified. “We have registered a case under sections 328 (causing hurt by poison), 354 (molestation), 342 (wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code and also under Information Technology Act 2000 against the four accused. The case has been transferred to us and we are investigating further,” Chowgule said. The police are investigating why the victim was abducted. “We will question her when she is in the right frame of mind as she is under mental trauma due to the incident,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/woman-stripped-tied-to-tree-filmed-in-jungle-near-mumbai-4-booked-101613931918089.html
21-02-2021||Noida||Govt school broken into, midday meal utensils stolen||Noida: Some unidentified persons broke into a government school in Chhajarsi in Noida on Saturday and stole mid-day meal utensils and technical gadgets from there.The incident came to light on Saturday morning after the staff found the locks of the school broken.“Unidentified people broke into the school premises and decamped with school property,” said the school principal.The stolen items included aluminium utensils, buckets, steel cutlery, ceiling fans in classrooms, uniform sets, plastic chairs, microphone, amplifier chargers and a few school records.Based on the school principal’s complaint, a case was registered at the Phase 3 police station for burglary (Indian Penal Code Section 380) against the unidentified burglars.Police said the value of stolen goods — government property — was not much.“We are scanning CCTV footage of nearby areas to identify the suspects. Most of the stolen property was related to the mid-day meal programme. The perpetrators had broken the main gate locks to enter the school premises,” said Jitendra Kumar Dikshit, station house officer (SHO), Phase 3 police station.We will also investigate the role of school staffers who might have provided inside information to the burglars, said the police. A probe is underway, and the suspects will be nabbed soon, the SHO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/govt-school-broken-into-midday-meal-utensils-stolen-101613931857492.html
21-02-2021||Noida||Discom begins chemical earthing of transformers in Noida||NOIDA: To ensure uninterrupted power supply during summer, the Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL), the power distribution company, has started chemical earthing of nearly 24,000 transformers in Noida. Virendra Nath Singh, PVVNL’s divisional chief engineer, said that after the chemical earthing of transformers, not only their shunting capacity will increase, but it will also help identify power faults. “Due to less shunting capacity of simple earthing, the transformers get blown up during peak demand in summer. The chemical earthing will ensure longevity to the transformers. Besides, chances of tripping are also reduced with this wiring,” he said. Singh also said that PVVNL distributes power to the consumers of different categories in the city through over 24,000 transformers, including 3,000 in urban areas. “The average cost of chemical earthing varies from ₹1,400 to ₹2,500, depending upon the capacity of the transformers. Till date, chemical earthing has been done to nearly 1,000 transformers. By the end of March this year, all the transformers in Noida will have chemical earthing,” he said. The official said that the discom has also begun overhauling the old infrastructure. “The headquarters have released ₹20 crore for upgradation work, including replacement of 17,500 poles, 990 air circuit breakers between transformers and low transmission power lines, and 11 kilowatt vacuum circuit breakers,” he said. The discom is also replacing 100 kilometers of 11kv wires, 80km of insulated conductor wires and 200 pillar boxes. “Also, the proposal for conversion of overhead supply wires into underground cables has also been sent to the headquarters for approval. After approval, there will be no overhead wires in urban areas of Noida,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/discom-begins-chemical-earthing-of-transformers-in-noida-101613931797436.html
21-02-2021||Noida||Noida residents await LPG subsidy for nine months||Almost all cooking gas consumers in Gautam Buddh Nagar had not received their subsidy for the last nine months, according to the district supply officer.An official at the Union ministry of petroleum and natural gas, which deposits the subsidy of the liquified petroleum gas (LPG) beneficiaries in their bank accounts, said they were aware of the issue and attributed it to a fund crunch. Gautam Buddh Nagar supply officer (DSO) Chaman Sharma said, “The Centre transfers the subsidy under the direct benefit transfer scheme. I got to know that LPG consumers have not got the amount in their accounts since May 2020.”The DSO pegged the number of LPG consumers in the district at 1 million. “Out of them, over 250,000 are not entitled to the subsidy as their annual taxable income is above ₹10 lakh,” he said.The subsidy is transferred under the central government’s direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme. According to officials, over ₹21,000 crore in subsidy was pending till date across the country.Akhil Kumar, an auto-rickshaw driver in Noida, said that he has not received his gas subsidy in his account after May last year. “We live near Labour Chowk. Over 200 LPG consumers in my area have been running pillar to post for the subsidy amount. When we ask the gas agency owner and supply department officials, they say that the matter of subsidy credit is decided by the Centre,” he said. Ragini Singh, an accountant in a private firm, said that the government stopped the subsidy without any prior information. “The annual income of our family is less than ₹5 lakh. Over 500 female consumers of Nithari area have written letters to one and all in ministry of petroleum, to release the subsidy to give us respite from unwanted financial burden, but nothing tangible has been done so far,” she said. Rachna Yadav, the owner of a gas agency in Noida, said, “When consumers make queries, we don’t have any reply for them.”Ministry officials were not forthcoming with an explanation for the issue although a joint secretary-level officer said that the government planned to lay more focus on the central government’s flagship Ujjwala scheme, which envisages providing LPG connection to every rural household. Added to this is the cut in the budget for LPG subsidy from over ₹40,000 crore in this fiscal to around ₹13,000 crore in the coming fiscal in April and the increase in coverage for the flagship scheme.“Till the government makes any decision on it, the components of gas subsidy has been stopped. I hope that before the end of the present fiscal 2020-21, the government will take a final call on it. Speculations are high that in the coming fiscal 2021-22, the government will use the subsidy amount for the beneficiaries of Ujjwala scheme,” the officer, who wished to remain unnamed, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-residents-await-lpg-subsidy-for-nine-months-101613931740352.html
21-02-2021||Noida||Noida appeals to its residents for support in Swachh survey-2021||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Sunday appealed to residents, social groups and all stakeholders for support in the upcoming Swachh survey 2021, which seeks feedback from them to rank a city.Residents need to answer eight questions online on www.swachhsurvekshan2021.org.“The citizens’ feedback about this survey accounts at least 30% of the total marks. Therefore, their feedback submitted online will make a huge difference. We are appealing to citizens to visit the website and give their suggestions. We are also interacting with residents via our events such as plogging, under which we clean one locality every week,” said SC Mishra, senior manager of the Noida authority.The questions that need to be answered are whether you are aware of the rank of your city, how many marks and what rank would one give to their city, are you being asked to segregate your waste, are you aware of public toilets and awareness about apps to file complaints about sanitation, among others.Noida was ranked 25th in the Swachh Survekshan 2020 in the 10 lakh population cities category across the country. In Uttar Pradesh, Noida was ranked as the cleanest city. However, the authority has taken a pledge to perform better and secure a place in the top five clean cities of the country, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-appeals-to-its-residents-for-support-in-swachh-survey2021-101613931739456.html
21-02-2021||Noida||Covid effect: Noida’s 35th annual flower show goes virtual||Noida: The city’s 35th Vasant Utsav went virtual this year as the annual flower festival kickstarted on Sunday with judges and participants interacting online due to the Covid-19 pandemic. With petunia -- a species of flowering plant native to South America with over 20 species -- as this year’s theme flower, 62 participants including corporates, residential societies, individuals, and schools, would compete under seven categories till Thursday, said the Floriculture Society of Noida, organisers of the event. The annual fest with thousands of visitors thronging Noida stadium in February and enjoying their day had witnessed 73 participants last year, with a number of activities and competitions. This year, however, in the wake of the Covid-19 threat, the organisers said that they couldn’t take the risk compromising on the visitors’ health and thus decided to do away with stalls.“The annual flower show is a much awaited festival and it’s really painful to hold the event online with 19 judges and 62 participants interacting via WhatsApp. But we had to take the decision to ensure everyone’s safety as the annual fest always saw a very impressive footfall,” said Manju Grover, general secretary of the floriculture society.Grover said that the participants will be sending videos and pictures of their gardens or planters to the judges, based on which the winners will be selected. Also, unlike last year, this year’s participants are only from Noida and Greater Noida.The competition categories this year include -- Roadside garden, large garden (50 square metres or more), balcony garden, corporate garden, medium garden (25 to 50 sq metres), residential society parks and clubs, school and preschool garden, and terrace garden, among others.“We have given special emphasis to the roadside gardens which primarily are the gardens or plantations outside the residential societies. We are promoting them as they are directly linked to the swachhta mission, as it encourages residential societies to keep their peripheries or areas outside their boundaries clean and decorated,” said Grover.Officials of the floriculture society also said that while the event is not physical, the 600-member floriculture society is mulling to hold a one-day annual plant bazaar at the government nursery in Sector 8 on March 6.“The nursery will see the members and others displaying their best planters for the purpose of trade or barter. We are still working on this plan,” added Grover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid-effect-noida-s-35th-annual-flower-show-goes-virtual-101613931738658.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Congress to discuss strategy for local elections||Newly appointed parliamentary board of the Maharashtra Congress will deliberate on the strategy for the forthcoming municipal corporation, district council elections and the stand to be taken on the rising fuel prices and farm laws during its meeting on Tuesday in Mumbai. The party recently announced 32-member parliamentary board consisting all major leaders from the state while appointing Nana Patole as its new state head. The first meeting of the board will take place in Mumbai on Tuesday. According to party leaders, the board will discuss its strategy for the elections slated to be announced soon for five municipal corporations, two district councils and 98 nagar panchayats. The board meeting will be attended by party’s state in-charge HK Patil, legislative leader Balasaheb Thorat, former chief ministers Ashok Chavan, Sushilkumar Shinde, Prithviraj Chavan, state ministers among others. “The elections are important for the party to widen its base and acquire power at local level. The alliance with other two ruling parties — the Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) — for these elections will also be discussed, besides giving party leaders at local level a roadmap for the polls. The parliamentary board meeting will be followed by meetings with local leaders and office-bearers from respective local bodies from February 24 to 26. Leaders from Thane, Navi Mumbai, Vasai-Virar, Kolhapur, Aurangabad will discuss election strategy and the issues faced at the local level,” a party leader said. The Congress is also expected to announce statewide protest against the Central government over rising fuel prices and farm laws. “The parliamentary board may also discuss the stand to be taken in Maharashtra against the implementation of the contentious farm laws passed by the parliament. The central leadership of the Congress has insisted upon separate laws in Maharashtra to negate the central laws. Congress ministers in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government are expected to push for the same,” said the leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-congress-to-discuss-strategy-for-local-elections-101613931738085.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||South African woman held with ₹9-crore heroin in Mumbai visited multiple countries: NCB||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has learnt that the South African woman, who was arrested with heroin worth ₹9 crore at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) last week, had earlier visited multiple countries including Brazil, Malaysia, Mozambique and in South America which indicate that she may have been professionally-trained to undertake drug delivery jobs.The arrested accused, Khanyisile Promise Khalishwayo, 30, was produced before the court on Sunday after her one-day remand ended and was sent to judicial custody. Khalishwayo allegedly needed money as she was a single mother. After checking her call data records, NCB found several mobile numbers in her contact details who live in Mumbai and Kolkata. The agency suspects that they could be involved in an international drug cartel which allegedly deals in heroin, said NCB officers.After scanning her travel details, it was found that earlier she travelled to many countries in South America and southeast Asia. South American drug cartel mostly uses poor women and it appears that she is part of the same syndicate, added an NCB officer.Based on a tip-off, NCB arrested her on Thursday after she arrived at CSMIA from Johannesburg via Doha. Khalishwayo was carrying a grey trolley bag, which has a cavity. Officers found two packets of heroin concealed in the cavity and one packet in the bag. The total weight of the three packets was 2.960 kg. NCB officers claimed they also recovered 10,000 South African rand from her possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/south-african-woman-held-with-9-crore-heroin-in-mumbai-visited-multiple-countries-ncb-101613931558010.html
21-02-2021||Noida||Nine phone snatchers nabbed, 40 stolen phones recovered||Noida: Nine suspects, who alleged snatched mobile phones and sold them, were nabbed by the Noida police on Saturday, in two separate cases. At least 40 mobile phones were recovered from them, the police said.Officers said six of the suspects were arrested by the Phase 3 police while three were nabbed by the Sector 24 police.Of the six nabbed by the Phase 3 police, one is a shopkeeper who allegedly used to purchase the stolen phones from the suspects.“The gang had been active for the past three-four months. They targeted passersby in desolate areas and those in industrial areas like Sector 63. They sold the stolen phones to a shopkeeper who would then resell them. Sometimes they also sold the phones directly to customers at cheap prices,” said Jitendra Dikshit, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.Police recovered 28 phones from the suspects, who were nabbed following a tip-off from an informant. A search is on for accomplices of the snatchers as well. Two motorcycles, ₹2,000 and knives were also seized from them.The shopkeeper was identified as Jwala Kumar, who owns a small business in Noida’s Garhi Chaukhandi. He was nabbed based on information allegedly revealed by the suspects, said the police.In the second case, the three pickpockets nabbed by the Sector 24 police stole phones while travelling in public vehicles.“They pose as passengers in metro, buses and other public transport means. They stole phones from other travellers,” said Prabhat Dikshit, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.He said the gang has allegedly been active for the past three years and there are several other people working with them.Police officials said that they all have extensive criminal histories. They were nabbed following a tip off from an informant. The police recovered 11 stolen phones from them. Officers said they are working to identify other cases in which the suspects might have been involved.The suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/nine-phone-snatchers-nabbed-40-stolen-phones-recovered-101613931497374.html
21-02-2021||Noida||Four members of Sunder Bhati gang booked for threatening victim to withdraw case||Noida: Greater Noida police have registered a case against four members of the Sunder Bhati gang for allegedly threatening the family of a deceased village head to withdraw a case against them. Harendra and his gunner Bhoodev Sharma (46) were shot dead at a wedding on February 8, 2015 in Niyana village in Greater Noida by armed assailants.Harendra’s widow Bevan Nagar has filed a case alleging Bhati gang members are threatening her brother-in-law Ravindra Nagar, who is a complainant and witness to this case, to turn hostile. Harendra Nagar alias Harendra Pradhan was the village head of Dadopur in Dankaur. An FIR was registered on directions of the district and sessions court, Surajpur, at the Kasna police station on Friday. In the complaint, Bevan alleged that her husband was killed by Bhati gang members as he was a witness in a case in which Bhati was accused in 2019.“My brother-in-law Ravindra registered a murder case against the Bhati gang members in 2015 after my husband’s death. The Bhati gang members are mounting pressure on Ravindra to turn hostile and change his statement,” she said.Bevan claimed that on February 9, 2021, she was going home in a car when some suspects chased her in an SUV and forced her to stop. “The armed criminals abused me verbally and threatened dire consequences if the case is not withdrawn,” she said. The complainant also alleged that the suspects have threatened her that they will implicate her in fake cases and withdraw her official gunner.Vivek Trivedi, station house officer, Kasna police station, said a case has been registered against four persons - Ravi Bhati, Sahdev Bhati, Manoj Nagar and Naveen Bhati - under Section 147 (rioting), Section 342 (wrongful consignment), Section 307 (attempt to murder), Section 504 (intentional insult), and Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. “Some of the suspects are in jail. We will investigate the matter and take suitable action,” he said.Police sources said that Sunder Bhati is presently lodged in Sonbhadra district jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-members-of-sunder-bhati-gang-booked-for-threatening-victim-to-withdraw-case-101613931437450.html
21-02-2021||Noida||Foggy February: Experts explore reasons behind ‘unusual’ weather phenomenon||Noida: The national Capital region, as well as parts of western Uttar Pradesh, has been seeing an unusually dense cover of fog in the morning and evening hours this month, leaving commuters stuck and weather analysts perplexed. Scientists said they are still exploring reasons behind this phenomenon which is not a common occurrence for this time of the year. The analysts stated that while the wind speed this month had been calm and the impact of western disturbances low – a weather system that causes rains or snowing in the Himalayan states and subsequent rains or thundery development over the NCR – the month also saw more polluted days as compared to the same month last year, which some believe could be a plausible reason or a contributing factor.“Never has such dense fog been seen over larger areas simultaneously for longer duration daily – upto nine-10 days – after February 10 in any winter season, even in Delhi or any airport at this belt, including Amritsar and Lahore. We get dense fog in February but for a few days of the first week only, when the winter season has some features favouring it. This time, however, this spell has occurred when the night temperatures were two-three degrees Celsius above normal, which is something unique,” says RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD).Fog cover is considered shallow when visibility is upto 500 metre, moderate when it is up to 200 metre, dense when visibility is up to 50 metre, and very-dense when visibility is below 50 metre.The IMD said that this “unusual phenomenon” that had affected regions around Delhi to Lahore, has so far in February seen 23 hours or five mornings of fog dense enough to affect flight operations at IGI airport, against 28 hours (seven mornings) in December 2020 and 43 hours (ten days) in January this year.Interestingly, the average dense-very dense fog frequency for the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) for February is usually around 12 hours (three mornings). The phenomenon had also been seen at other airports including at Lucknow and Amritsar, says RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre, IMD.Stating that air pollution could be one of the contributing factors but not the entire cause, the weather scientist believes that moisture, low winds and near average minimum temperature are the reasons behind the foggy month.“Absence of an active western disturbance in the northern plain areas leads to an anticyclone or a high pressure belt, leading to calm winds or light winds in the areas at lower levels, which form the top criteria fulfilled for dense fog to stay longer over this region,” added Jenamani. For Monday, the Met department had forecasted dense to very-dense fog over Haryana, Punjab, Delhi and north-west UP. “Dense fog over isolated pockets is very likely in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and north-west Uttar Pradesh on the morning hours of February 22,” stated the IMD’s bulletin.According to data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Noida in February 2021 saw 16 days of ‘very poor’ air quality and one day of ‘severe’ air quality so far, against only five days of ‘very poor’ air quality in February 2020. Jenamani further said that more intensive study is required to understand the phenomenon in a better way.“More analysis is needed to get all the answers around such unusual occurrences. There are already studies done for the period of 2015 to 2021 on fog at IGI, but by looking at the current condition, the study needs to be expanded to other areas as well. So we can in future understand and prepare to tackle the situation that hinders commuting,” said Jenamani.According to weather analysts, commuters taking to the Eastern Peripheral Expressway, Yamuna Expressway and the Taj Expressway must avoid the early hour drives on these stretches as thick fog is most likely to slow them down by cutting the visibility.“Either avoid or take caution while taking the expressways up to at least 9am for the next few days as foggy conditions may go on for a few days. The phenomenon may go on and off as winds speeds are likely to vary,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.Motorists said the heavy fog conditions are proving to be a hindrance to their commuting plans.“It took me over five hours to reach Karnal via the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPR), which usually takes not more than three hours. Due to the farmers’ agitation, I chose to avoid the Singhu border and instead opted for the EPR via Ghaziabad to go to Shimla. However, as soon as I hit the EPR at Duhai around 5.30am, the fog was so dense that I couldn’t drive at more than 10-20 kmph for the entire stretch upto Rai,” said Anil Bhasin, a resident of Gulmohar Park in Delhi, who was commuting to Shimla on Saturday morning.AIR QUALITY IMPROVESMeanwhile, with varying wind speeds, the average air quality was recorded in the “poor” category across Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida.Pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 were also present in the air of the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the CPCB.According to the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.The average 24-hour AQI at 4pm on Sunday was 260 in Ghaziabad, 300 in Greater Noida, 251 in Noida, according to CPCBThe CPCB states that an AQI in the “very poor” category may cause respiratory illness to people on prolonged exposure, while “poor” may cause breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure.On Saturday it was 336 in Ghaziabad, 324 in Greater Noida, 269 in Noida, 248 in Faridabad and 258 in Gurgaon.The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all monitoring stations there. Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Noida have four such stations while Greater Noida and Faridabad have two stations each, according to the app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/foggy-february-experts-explore-reasons-behind-unusual-weather-phenomenon-101613931437938.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Youth body sets up Thane’s first community fridge at Wagle Estate||Thane’s first community fridge was set up at Wagle Estate by Bal Mitra Mandal, a youth organisation. The youngsters stocked the fridge with biscuits, fruits and mineral water. They are also taking efforts to spread the word and get more people to voluntarily come forward and fill the fridge. Around 40 people turn up at the fridge daily looking for food.“Under the current circumstances, there are many who are in need of food. We have seen an increased crowd during lunch hour and even between 8pm to 9pm at the fridge. If a similar number of people turn up to ensure the fridge remains stocked up with food, it would be of great help to those in need. Through word of mouth we have reached out to those in slum pockets and other areas near Wagle Estate so that whoever is in need of food can come forward and make use of this community fridge,” said Sameer Sawant, president, Bal Mitra Mandal.Shanti bai, a 65-year-old resident of Shree Nagar, Wagle Estate, said, “I stay alone and cannot afford any help. Due to the Covid situation, my son lost his job and has now gone to a different city in search of a job. I don’t have the strength to cook every day and sometimes end up short of money by month end. This community fridge is a boon for me, even a fruit a day will do for me nowadays.”Bal Mitra Mandal is also reaching out to caterers and restaurants to give excess food to the fridge instead of disposing of it, said members of Bal Mitra Mandal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/youth-body-sets-up-thane-s-first-community-fridge-at-wagle-estate-101613931378784.html
21-02-2021||Noida||Work on Bhangel elevated road to resume on Monday||NOIDA: The work on 5.5km elevated road project over the Dadri-Surajpur-Chhalera (DSC) road is likely to resume on Monday, officials of Noida authority said on Monday. The work was halted on February 19 after two workers had suffered minor injuries due to the collapse of a steel rebar frame of a pillar of the elevated road near Sector 49.Following the incident, the Noida authority imposed ₹10 lakh fine on the UP State Bridge Corporation (UPSBC) which is constructing the project. The authority’s chief executive officer has also sought explanation from officials looking after the project, said the officials. However, the authority may resume the work as it has taken measures for the safety of the labourers and other staff members.“The authority has directed the agency to take all required safety measures while carrying out the work at the construction site. It has also directed the labourers to use all safety gears so that such incident is not repeated. If all goes well, then the work may be started at the site on Monday,” said Mukesh Vaish, project engineer of the Noida authority.Recently, the deadline of the ₹467 crore project was revised to December this year. The earlier deadline of completion was 2022-end. About 36% work on the project has been completed, the officials said. “Steel frame put up above the pillar fell off suddenly injuring two labourers, who were working on another pillar. They had sustained minor injuries. They had forgot to wear their helmets. However, we have made it clear to the labourers not to repeat this mistake,” said an official of UPSBC, requesting anonymity.The elevated road project aims to facilitate commuting between Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad. It starts from Sector 39/43 crossing and end at Sector 82 T-point. Once developed, the stretch will decongest major traffic in Noida’s Barola, Bhangel, and sectors 49, 45, 47 and 46, among other areas. On March 3 last year, the authority had roped in UPSBC for constructing the elevated road. The piling work had started on June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/work-on-bhangel-elevated-road-to-resume-on-monday-101613931377499.html
21-02-2021||Chandigarh||Vijay Hazare Trophy: Chandigarh stun Haryana in opening tie||Chandigarh began their Vijay Hazare Trophy Elite Group campaign on a winning note, beating Haryana by three wickets in a thrilling tie in Kolkata on Sunday after captain Manan Vohra scored an impressive 117 runs to lay the foundation for a successful chase.Needing nine off the last over, Ankit Kaushik chased the scare in the first three balls. He hit a match-winning 66-ball knock of 78 runs and remained unbeaten. Chandigarh have earned four points with this victory.Upon winning the toss, Chandigarh chose to field. Led by opener Himanshu Rana’s century (102 runs) and useful innings each from Rahul Tewatia (73 runs) and Arun Chaprana (50 runs), Haryana scored 299 runs for the loss of nine wickets in 50 overs. For Chandigarh, medium-pacer Jagjit Sandhu scalped four wickets.In reply, Chandigarh team coached by former Indian pacer VRV Singh, chased the target losing seven wickets in 49.3 overs. Manan scored a 120-ball knock of 117 runs; Shivam Bhambri played notably well with a 46-ball knock of 48 runs. But it was Ankit, who impressively sealed the fate in Chandigarh’s favour in the last over finish with his brilliant innings.Scores in briefHaryana: 299 for 9 in 50 overs (Himanshu Rana 102, Rahul Tewatia 73, Arun Chaprana 50, Jagjit Sandhu 3 for 36, Gurinder Singh 2 for 50) lost to Chandigarh: 300 for 7 in 50 overs 49.3 overs (Manan Vohra 117, Ankit Kaushik 78 not out, Shivam Bhambri 48, SP Kumar 2 for 34, Rahul Tewatia 2 for 66, Arun Chaprana 2 for 66) by three wickets||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vijay-hazare-trophy-chandigarh-stun-haryana-in-opening-tie-101613931263421.html
21-02-2021||Chandigarh||Subhash Chawla takes over as Chandigarh Congress chief||Subhash Chawla took over as the new president of the Chandigarh Congress at a function held at Congress Bhawan in Sector 35 here on Sunday.Chawla, who was appointed the new president of the Chandigarh Territorial Congress Committee (CTC) on February 9, replaced Pradeep Chhabra, who held the post for around six years.Eying the MC elections due later this year, Chawla, a two-time mayor himself, asked the party workers to dedicate themselves towards winning on the line with the Punjab MC elections.“People who will work hard for the party will get the party’s support for the MC elections regardless of their seniority level,” Chawla said.Former Uttarakhand chief minister and in-charge of Punjab and Chandigarh Congress, Harish Rawat, former Union minister and AICC treasurer Pawan Bansal, Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, Chandigarh councillors and outgoing Chandigarh Congress president Pardeep Chhabra were present on the occasion.‘Take everyone along’Pawan Bansal while advising Chawla said, “Now you have the responsibility to win the upcoming MC elections and for this, you have to take everyone along.”In his address, Rawat said the performance of Congress in Punjab municipal elections should be repeated in Chandigarh as well. He asked Chawla to appoint the office-bearers of the local body in the next 15 days of the district and block levels within 25 days, and strengthen the party at the booth-level in the next two months.In his address, Sidhu said the success achieved by the Congress in the Punjab civic body elections would be repeated in Chandigarh. Chhabra said that with blessings of the party leadership, he had been strengthening the party for six years and would continue to fight for its benefit.A section of the party workers were, however, peeved when the Facebook live feed of the ceremony went silent while Chhabra was addressing the gathering. Chawla’s appointment has not gone down well with a section of Congress workers and there are concerns of internal party fissures coming out in the open, sources within the party said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/subhash-chawla-takes-over-as-chandigarh-congress-chief-101613931258172.html
21-02-2021||Noida||Jewar airport: Service lane parallel to Yamuna E-way likely to be ready by March-end, says Yeida||GREATER NOIDA: A 24-kilometre service lane running parallel to the Yamuna Expressway is likely to be ready by March-end, officials said on Sunday.This comes as the “Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) is about to resolve issues with some farmers”, which delayed the construction work of the crucial link.“We have resolved all issues to procure the required land to build the road. We hope to finish the work in a month’s time so that commuters can travel from Greater Noida to Jewar smoothly,” said YEIDA chief executive officer (CEO) Arun Vir Singh.“This road will also help people having residential properties and industrial plots in Sector 18, 20 and other areas located along the Yamuna Expressway. They can travel within Yamuna’s urban areas without any hassle,” Singh added.The service lane is of utmost importance because it will provide an additional connectivity, till the Noida International Greenfield Airport at Jewar, where the work is likely to begin by mid-2021. The work on the Noida International Greenfield Airport will start by mid-2021, and operations are scheduled to begin by the end of 2023-24.The 4-kilometre stretch, in parts at multiple locations, of the 24-kilometre service lane could not be finished because some farmers had refused to give their land. They have now given their land, according to the officials.In view of the expected traffic pressure, the YEIDA aims to provide multiple connectivity routes ahead of the operations at the airport.“After the completion of the road project, thousands of commuters travelling between Greater Noida and Jewar won’t have to use the Yamuna Expressway or pay the toll tax. Commuters can easily avoid the Yamuna Expressway, while going to the Noida International Greenfield Airport at Jewar,” according to a YEIDA official.This road was not built near Galgotias University near Dankaur and at some other places amid issues with land-owning farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/jewar-airport-service-lane-parallel-to-yamuna-e-way-likely-to-be-ready-by-march-end-says-yeida-101613930957366.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||20% of MMR’s coastline highly susceptible to flooding: Study||A stretch of 50.75km along the coast of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) is highly susceptible to flooding because of unsustainable development, finds a recent study on coastal vulnerability by a group of researchers from a cohort of institutes.Unsustainable development along with changes in land use and land cover, combined with the destruction of mangroves, wetlands and water bodies between 1976 and 2015, have made the low-lying topography of MMR highly susceptible to sea level-induced flooding and coastal erosion, find researchers.The study “Improving outcomes for socioeconomic variables with coastal vulnerability index under significant sea-level rise: an approach from Mumbai coasts” was published in the global peer-reviewed journal Springer Nature on February 5.A group of three researchers – Malay Kumar Pramanik from Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi and fellow from the Asian Institute of Technology, Thailand; Poli Dash from Deshapran College of Teachers Education, Medinipur, West Bengal, and Dimple Behal from the School of Planning and Architecture, Bhopal – studied the coastline from Mira Bhayander to Alibag. They studied a total of 274.1km, of which 50.75km (almost 20%) was considered to be very-highly vulnerable, based on 12 geological, physical and socio-economic variables. Another 60.91km had moderate vulnerability and 55.83km of the shoreline surveyed had very-low vulnerability.Researchers found that the coastline in the eastern suburbs, including Kurla, Deonar, Shivaji Nagar, Trombay Koliwada and the western section of the Thane creek, was very susceptible to flooding. While areas like Borivli and Andheri fell under the low vulnerability scenario, other zones such as Gorai, Uttan, Uran, and Alibaug fell under the moderate to high vulnerability scenario.“We identified that unsustainable urbanisation, unplanned development, and huge land conversion, combined with the destruction of mangroves, reclamation of waterways with construction debris, inadequate drainage, overflow, and absence of natural protectors over the past four to five decades has made the region highly vulnerable to flooding,” said Pramanik, lead author of the study.The researchers involved in this study suggested that higher development activity combined with an increasing population per square kilometre was leading to coastal erosion, while activities such as tourism and fishing are contributing to an adverse influence along the coastal belt, especially along south Mumbai and the eastern suburbs.The study has warned that under the direct impact of the increase in sea surface temperatures due to global warming, the rise in sea level is expected to cause coastal floods annually. The findings are along the lines of a previous international study by an American scientific research organisation, Climate Central, in October 2019, which found that large portions of the city’s suburbs and south Mumbai may be underwater by 2050 if emissions are not kept in check.“While there is a need for sustainable development and alternate livelihood strategies, natural areas and ecosystems that have been degraded under developmental pressures need to be conserved and restored,” said Pramanik, adding that the research findings will help formulate policies to mitigate the impacts of coastal flooding along Mumbai. Dr Roxy Mathew Koll, senior scientist, Indian Institute of Tropical Management, Pune, who was not part of the study, said, “We need policies and action plans at the local level, based on conditions, geography, population, etc. Action plans should integrate flood forecasting with tidal information so we can have early warning systems. When making plans, we also need to think of both artificial protections as well as natural defences. Mangroves are a low-cost protection measure – they break the flow of floods, absorb their impacts. We should also be trying measures like bio-drainage, networks of canals that act as drainage during floods and can retain rainwater during dry periods.”P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner (projects), Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said, “We aim to develop a Sponge City Master Plan wherein chronic flood spots need to be addressed first. A consultant will be appointed to study and suggest flood control measures including holding ponds. Separately, we are also in talks to appoint a Japanese consultant to build underground holding ponds. Some of the flood control measures include water absorbent concrete, honeycomb water storage structures below roads and footpaths, water storage structures in each big development, building porous structures wherever possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/20-of-mmr-s-coastline-highly-susceptible-to-flooding-study-101613930899115.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Savitri becomes first leopard at Mumbai’s SGNP to be radio-collared||In a first, a female leopard was radio-collared and released back into the wild at the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) on Saturday.Savitri, named after the social reformer and educationist Savitribai Phule, became the first leopard to be radio-collared at SGNP. The two-year-long project to radio-collar leopards was initiated in 2018 when the park authorities signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Wildlife Conservation Society – India (WCS). The project is aimed at tracking and understanding the animal’s movement.G Mallikarjuna, director, SGNP, said, “We are hoping that Savitri will help us understand leopards better. Under this project, a total of five leopards will be radio-collared and tracked.”The collars work by sending signals via satellite, which researchers can then use to investigate where the animal is and what it is doing.The key goals of this project are to obtain knowledge on how humans and leopards interact with each other, and how each adapts to the presence of the other. The collars will help gather information on how leopards move across major roads such as Ghodbandar Road and understand their use of space and time in the SGNP landscape. This data will then help provide management recommendations concerning the way these big cats move in the landscape and conflict mitigation based on the results of the study.Dr Vidya Athreya, WCS, said, “In 2008, when we radio-collared leopards in rural India, it changed the narrative of how big cats behave. It helped us understand that they are more shy than they are aggressive. This project at SGNP will give us yet another level of insight as in Mumbai, a high density of people live in such proximity to big cats. It will also help us track their pathway and understand how they cross busy roads such as the Ghodbunder Road. This will then help us manage them better to bring down mortality.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/savitri-becomes-first-leopard-at-mumbai-s-sgnp-to-be-radiocollared-101613930358122.html
21-02-2021||Chandigarh||Physical convocation at Punjab Engineering College on March 15||Punjab Engineering College (PEC) will hold the annual convocation physically for graduating students of undergraduate and postgraduate courses on March 15. However, their parents won’t be in attendance. In a survey conducted by the college, around 80% graduating students agreed to have the convocation in March, without their parents in attendance.Last year, PEC had conducted a survey to assess if students wanted to have the ceremony physically or virtually. Most students had opted for a physical convocation.PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi, said, “We have started preparations and committees have already been set up.”Live telecast for parentsHowever, the ceremony will be telecast live, so that parents can watch their wards receiving their degrees in real time. Sanjeev Kumar, dean of academic affairs and Arun Kumar Singh, associate dean of students affairs, are in charge of organising the annual convocation. The ceremony could not be held last year amid the pandemic.The annual convocation at Panjab University was also not held last year and the varsity is yet to take a final call .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/physical-convocation-at-punjab-engineering-college-on-march-15-101613930119826.html
21-02-2021||Other||Consumer forums should take steps to expedite adjudication||Delays in the justice system inflict so much pain and misery on the victim that the oft quoted legal maxim ‘justice delayed is justice denied’ seems an understatement. Delays in the justice system actually serve to punish the victim, instead of the perpetrator. One can see this irony in the two recent orders of the apex consumer court. In both the cases, the complainants did not get the relief that they sought during their lifetime.Both cases pertain to repudiation of insurance claims. These were not high value claims, yet the insurance companies thought it fit to file appeals against the orders of the consumer courts at the district and the state levels, thereby dragging on the case. Inordinate delays in hearing the cases, particularly before the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission , only made matters worse and made a mockery of the time limit of 90 days prescribed under the consumer protection law for resolution of disputes. . Following the theft of a tractor in September 2008 and rejection of his claim by the insurer, Sri Lal Meena filed a complaint before the District Consumer Forum in 2009 . However, it was only in 2012 that the District Forum gave its verdict –that the insurer should pay ₹3,30,000 towards the loss of the tractor and ₹5000 towards litigation costs within two months. Insurer is liable to pay 9 per cent interest on delayed payment, the court saidInstead of complying with the order, the insurance company filed an appeal. The Rajasthan State Consumer Commission dismissed it- but after three years - in 2015. That was not the end of the matter. The insurer-United India Insurance Company- filed a revision petition against it (RP No 2674of 2015) before the National Commission. On February 12, 2020, when the case came up for hearing, the Commission was informed that the consumer had died the previous year. The Commission therefore asked the insurance company to file an application for substitution of the complainant with his legal heirs within four weeks.The commission however found that even after one year, When the case was taken up, the insurer had not complied with this order and was seeking more time. Exasperated, the commission said it was ‘just, equitable and conscionable to summarily dismiss the case’ and also impose a penalty of ₹1 lakh on the insurer. While ₹50,000 should be paid to the legal heirs in addition to the amount specified by the District Forum, ₹50,000 should be deposited in the Legal Aid Account of the District Forum, the commission said.The second case pertaining to the theft of a motor cycle was more or less similar. Here too, the District Forum allowed the complaint through its order in December 2012 and the State Commission, Rajasthan, dismissed the appeal of the insurance company in March 2013. But Munna Singh’s happiness was short lived. The insurer-Shriram General Insurance Company - filed a revision petition (RP No 2115 of 2013) before the National Commission in May 2013 and there it got stuck!On July 1, 2020- when the case came up for hearing, the Commission was informed that the complainant was dead. The Commission noted in its order of February 16 that the insurance company had not filed an application, as directed, to replace the complainant with his legal heirs. Even the representative of the insurer was not present. So it dismissed the case for non-prosecution and imposed a penalty of ₹1 lakh.Cases such as these should act as a wake up call and force the government as well as the consumer courts to take all necessary steps to expedite the process of adjudication. While imposition of steep punitive damages will discourage meritless appeals, timely appointment of adjudicating members to the apex consumer court by the central government (and to the consumer courts at the state and the district level by state governments ) will go a long way in preventing delays. The consumer courts also need to stop giving adjournments at the behest of lawyers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/consumer-forums-should-take-steps-to-expedite-adjudication-101613930120312.html
21-02-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala’s Christian cemetery gets a fresh lease of life||The Commonwealth War Graves Commission (CWGC) has started the restoration and maintenance process of 66 graves of World War 1 (1914-1918) soldiers, who were buried at the British-era Christian cemetery in Ambala Cantonment. As per rough estimates, nearly two lakh graves spread across 20.84 acres of land were in ruins, most broken or taken over by wild grass. The maintenance work began last week after a team led by CWGC Indian subcontinent manager Amit Bansal visited the site. Staff members Tajender and Ranjeet Ram said, “Through GPS coordinates, list of names and plot-wise layout of the land, we were able to locate the graves. As per the process, if a stone of a grave is broken, a report is sent to the head office in the United Kingdom and a particular type of marble is transported.” The development comes after the British Deputy High Commission, Chandigarh, through district administration gave the possession and maintenance to Father Patras Mundu and C Anthony of the Ambala Cemetery Committee last month. Father Anthony said, “We’ve started the cleaning work and repaired the boundary wall. Our priority was to get the war graves repaired. It was a difficult task as the graves were spread at all corners of the land and it will take some time.”Paddy Willis, a resident of Guilford town in England, whose grandfather stationed with the British Army was buried here in 1934, said he was distressed to see the condition of cemetery on his first-ever visit in 2017.“I was the first person in my family to visit my grandfather’s grave with the help of locals, but was saddened to observe the condition of graves. The restoration of war graves and cleaning of the land is a welcome step indeed. The jar of the topsoil from his grave on my desk is a constant reminder of my connection with this corner of the world,” Paddy said in an e-mail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambalas-christian-cemetery-gets-a-fresh-lease-of-life-101613930058177.html
21-02-2021||Chandigarh||Fuel rates at all-time high in Mohali, dealers fume||With fuel prices at a record high in Mohali district due to daily hike, filling station owners have been hit hard. What’s adding to their woes is the fact that both petrol and diesel remain dearest in Mohali across the tricity.While petrol was available for ₹92.36 per litre in Mohali on Sunday, it cost ₹88.34 in Panchkula and ₹87.16 in Chandigarh. Even diesel, which was priced ₹83.43 in Mohali, was available for ₹81.36 in Panchkula and ₹80.67 in Chandigarh.Ashwinder Singh Mongia, president, Mohali District Petroleum Dealers Association, said: “Due to disparity in fuel rates in the tricity, we have lost about 70% of our business. All the dealers in Mohali whose pumps are located on the border with Chandigarh are the worst sufferers. When the authorities can bring parity in liquor rates, then why not in fuel rates?” What makes fuel so expensive in Mohali is the high rate of taxation in Punjab. The effective value added tax (VAT), including cess, on petrol in Mohali is 31.17%, while in Panchkula, it is 26.25%. In Chandigarh, VAT is 22.45% and there is no additional cess. On diesel, VAT in the three districts is 19.49% , 17.23% and 14.03%, respectively. Such high rates have hit the sales in Mohali drastically. According to figures available with the dealers association, diesel sales have dropped by 70% from 10,000 litres per pump per day in August 2017 to 3,000 in January this year. “As fuel is available at cheaper rates just a couple of kilometres from our petrol pumps, why would anyone come to us?” said Mongia. “Even in Delhi NCR, there is a fuel rate differential of just 25 paisa, despite the area being heavily populated and comprising Delhi, Haryana and UP.” Last year, a businessman who owned three petrol pumps in Mohali committed suicide, citing huge losses being suffered due to the substantial difference in fuel rates. In a letter to the Punjab governor, he also stated that non-revision of VAT in Chandigarh had robbed him of 80% of his business as his pumps were situated on the border.The dealers are also resentful of Chandigarh pumps putting up boards and hoardings advertising the cheaper rates. They claim the boards are illegal, and question as to why the UT administration has not acted against them. Meanwhile, a senior officer in the excise and taxation department of Punjab expressed helplessness over the issue. “Since Mohali is part of Punjab, we cannot have different rates from the rest of the state. Efforts were made to bring parity with Chandigarh, but proved futile,” he said, on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fuel-rates-at-all-time-high-in-mohali-dealers-fume-101613929942673.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||WR orders probe after Ahmedabad-Mumbai Tejas Express skips Andheri halt||The Western Railway (WR) has launched an inquiry after its premium Tejas Express train operating between Ahmedabad and Mumbai, skipped a scheduled halt at Andheri on Sunday.After it skipped the halt at Andheri railway station, passengers approached the railway authorities, following which an unscheduled halt was made and 42 passengers deboarded the train at Dadar railway station.“The Ahmedabad-Mumbai Tejas Express moved past Andheri without halting as scheduled. The Indian Rail Catering Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) brought the matter immediately to the notice of higher officials and an unscheduled halt was promptly arranged at Dadar. The matter is being looked into and inquired by the railways,” read a statement from WR. Passengers took to social media to register their complaints. “@PiyushGoyal Hello please look into today’s incident of Tejas Express from Ahmedabad to Mumbai did not stop at the pre announced Andheri station but between Andheri and Vile Parle. Obviously Driver forgot to stop the train at Andheri. Please take strict actions.” tweeted @DDhebar.The Indian Railways premium train, Tejas Express, resumed operations between Mumbai and Ahmedabad from February 14. The train is operated by IRCTC four days a week. It operates at its full capacity halts at Andheri, Borivali, Vapi, Surat, Bharuch, Vadodara, Nadiad railway stations between Mumbai Central and Ahmedabad railway stations. Earlier, IRCTC had resumed the Tejas Express between Mumbai and Ahmedabad on October 17, 2020, but later suspended services on November 24 due to low occupancy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wr-orders-probe-after-ahmedabad-mumbai-tejas-express-skips-andheri-halt-101613929938536.html
21-02-2021||Chandigarh||No water tariff hike rollback in Chandigarh for now||There will be no immediate rollback in the water tariff hike in Chandigarh. The administration is all set to ask the municipal corporation to reconsider the General House resolution, seeking withdrawal of the tariff hike notification.In September last year, the UT administration had notified a hike between 50% and 200%, depending upon the category of user and water consumption level. After facing public outcry and criticism from the opposition, the MC General House passed a resolution in October, asking the administration to withdraw the notification and stick to the existing rates till the pandemic lasts. The resolution was then send to the administration for its approval.“The administration is not rejecting the resolution, but will only ask the MC to reconsider it,” said a senior UT official, who did not wish to be named.Notably, after his election, mayor Ravikant Sharma had listed the rollback in water tariff as one of his priorities. BJP city chief Arun Sood also held several rounds of meetings with the administration on the issue.Meanwhile, residents have been getting inflated water bills since December last year. Resident welfare associations, trade unions and social organisations even took out a rally opposing the hike earlier this year.‘Need of the hour for fund-starved MC’ The administration’s decision is in the wake of the MC financial crisis and the need for it to generate its own funds, said the UT official.“The hike was very much needed, as for nearly a decade there was no revision. The city has one of the lowest water tariffs,” said an MC official, requesting anonymity.In fact, the resolution was accompanied by the MC commissioner’s note, which laid emphasis on the need and urgency of the hike.The rates were last revised in 2011. The proposal for further hike was first mooted in 2014. Another attempt was made in 2018, but the General House rejected it while seeking additional water supply for the city first.An audit department report had also asked the MC to revise the rates, since its annual losses from water supply had crossed ₹135 crore per annum from ₹41 crore in 2011. The report also observed: “As the annual recurring expenses are increasing by 10-15% every year, losses will further increase in the future, putting a huge pressure on the MC’s coffers.”The MC collects ₹90 crore per annum as water charges, but expenditure incurred to maintain the supply to its 1.8 lakh consumers is ₹225 crore, said the official. Struggling to even pay salaries to its employees because of a severe financial crunch, the civic body expects to earn an additional ₹60 crore from the hike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-water-tariff-hike-rollback-in-chandigarh-for-now-101613929878632.html
21-02-2021||Gurugram||Industries in authorised colonies complain about lack of civic infrastructure||For over 5,000 industries located in unauthorised colonies in different parts of the city, the lack of infrastructure and basic civic amenities, such as roads, water supply and sewage, is posing a major challenge. Industries located in Daulatabad, Khandsa, Kadipur, Behrampur, Basai and other industrial areas are also waiting to be regularised — a promise that was made two years ago but remains unfulfilled till date. The recent slowdown caused by Covid-19 pandemic has further hit the industry hard, and despite initiatives by the government to promote local industries, small-time manufacturers are facing a tough time, said city-based industry owners. Lack of civic amenitiesA visit to these industrial areas by HT reveal the squalid conditions in which these industries are operating — roads are non-existent; industries are dependant on private tankers for water supply, and there is no functional sanitation system in place. The industrial associations allege that reason for the mushrooming of such unauthorised industrial areas is that government agencies have given little thought to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). Local unit owners say that most of them do not have the capacity to buy large plots developed by Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) and Haryana Sahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP). As such, most of them have settled for plots ranging between 100 to 200 square yard plots in unauthorised areas. There are presently approximately 4,000 to 5,000 such units operating in the Gurugram district alone. Industrial associations also say that small and medium enterprises based in these areas provide employment to at least 75,000 to 80,000 workers and supply ancillary parts to auto companies, which are, in turn, original equipment suppliers to auto giants, such as Hero, Honda and Maruti, among others. “These industrial areas have been in existence for at least two decades but there is no proper water supply, roads, sewage and other basic amenities. In Daulatabad industrial area, there are 1,500 units employing thousands of workers. We pay crores in taxes, but in terms of facilities, we are deprived,” said major (retd) KC Sandal, a unit owner. Lack of authorisationIndustrialists located in these areas also complain that with the tag of being located in illegal colonies, it is difficult for them to raise loans. Banks and other financial institutions are also averse to dealing with them. “ Despite supplying parts and services to original equipment manufacturers and feeding engineering goods exporters, we are treated as fringe industries. It is difficult to avail bank loans and other government promotion schemes” said Sanjiv Bansal, a unit owner in Basai, who also alleged that while the government is concerned about large industries, MSMEs are often neglected. The unit owners also say that despite paying millions in taxes, the government and politicians ars not bothered about small units because they don’t have captive voting power. “A survey was started few years back to regularise these industrial areas but it remains stuck till date,” said Bansal. Demands by industriesIn order to provide industries in these unauthorised areas basic infrastructure, the Gurugram Industrial Association (GIA) has now approached the state government to consider these units on the lines of Deendayal Upadhyay scheme for plotted areas. “It has been learnt that Haryana government has recently launched a web portal for unauthorised residential colonies to provide them with basic infrastructure. Such a scheme should also be implemented for unauthorised industrial areas so that they too can get basic infrastructure,” said JN Mangla, president, GIA, adding that they have written a letter to Haryana CM in this matter on Thursday.The GIA also demanded that government should forego charges, as external and internal development charges and change of land use and other fees, in order to give a boost to MSMEs in these areas. Deepak Maini, general secretary, Federation of Indian Industry, Gurugram Chapter, said that all units located in these areas pay property tax and also have valid GST numbers. “These units also generate lot of revenue and it’s the duty of the government to provide basic amenities and create an enabling environment,” said Maini. Sudhir Singla, MLA, Gurugram, when asked about the matter, said that he has already submitted the demands raised by these industrial associations to the chief minister for pre-budget consultation. “I will pursue this matter with the government as the industrial units are demanding only basic amenities. They generate jobs and pay taxes and must be supported,” he said. Rakesh Daultabad, MLA Badshahpur, in whose area some of these areas fall, said that he was aware about the issues being faced by industry in these areas. “I will work with local agencies and government to ensure that basic amenities are created,” he said.Amit Arya, media advisor to chief minister said that genuine demands of the industrial units would be considered and problems being faced by them with regards to basic infrastructure will be resolved. “The issues raised by industry associations with regards to basic amenities will be resolved soon,” said Arya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/industries-in-authorised-colonies-complain-about-lack-of-civic-infrastructure-101613929819160.html
21-02-2021||Gurugram||Clothing company employee booked for abetment to suicide||An employee of clothing company was booked on Saturday for allegedly abetting the suicide of a 45-year-old man, his junior colleague in the same company, near Hero Honda Chowk on Friday morning. While the suspect worked as the in-charge of the manufacturing department, the junior was the quality controller in the same department. The wife of the man who died alleged that he was upset after he being fired by the in-charge for not supporting him in making money through contractors. He left home on Friday early for morning walk and hanged to death from a tree. The police said the couple and their children lived in a rented accommodation in the Khandsa area for the last 32 years and belonged to Pithoragarh in Uttrakhand. The husband worked with the clothing company and woman is a house wife. On Friday, when the man returned from work, he looked upset. He informed his wife that he has been fired and that he is very disturbed. “He told me that the in-charge, who is also a contractor, was selling the garments at higher prices under different labels. When my husband objected to this practice, he threatened to frame him under false charges and fired him,” said the wife. The victim’s wife said she tried to console him but he was disturbed and didn’t sleep well on Friday night. He woke up at 5am and left for morning walk. When he did not return until 8pm, the family members started searching for him. The police said the family received a call around 8am, informing her that husband has hanged himself with a tree near Hero Honda flyover. The family reached the spot and identified the body of the victim. The body was handed over to the family members and a case under section 306 (abetment to suicide ) was registered at Sector 37 police station on Saturday. Shailender Singh, station house officer(SHO) of Sector 37 police station, said that they have registered the case against the in-charge and are conducting investigation. “We have recorded the statements of the family members, but are yet to record the statement of the staff working in the company,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/clothing-company-employee-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide-101613929818517.html
21-02-2021||Gurugram||Sadar Bazar to become free from vehicular traffic for a week||Sadar Bazar — the oldest market in the city — will be completely free of vehicular traffic between February 26 and March 4, as a part of a one-week trial by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), which will take a call on making this a permanent feature based on the response. Established in the 1930s, Sadar Bazar remains heavily congested, with over 20,000 people visiting the market on a weekend. It has around 1,500 shops and 400 street vendors.Earlier this month, the civic body had announced that a one-week trial of making Sadar Bazar free from vehicular traffic will be executed. However, they had not given any definite timeline for it and had kept the tentative date as February 22-29.Another key decision taken by the MCG is to incorporate e-rickshaws into the trial.“At least 10 e-rickshaws have been authorised by the MCG to ferry visitors to different corners of the market. Depending on the distance, the fares will vary between ₹5-10,” said Jitender Kumar, joint commissioner, MCG.Besides making the market vehicle-free, the MCG will clear the streets of encroachments and set up dedicated vending zones for hawkers. Each hawker will be issued a unique ID card. Additionally, streetlights and benches will be installed. Further, green belts will be revived during the week-long trial. “All the arrangements will be completed by coming Thursday night to ensure that the trial can commence from Friday onwards. We will also be conducting a meeting with concerned stakeholders to discuss and ensure that the remaining features and changes are implemented,” said Kumar.Kumar said that on Monday, he will be holding a meeting with representatives of Gurugram Police regarding the installation of barricades at all entry and exit points to ensure that vehicles can no longer operate in the 600-metre stretch of the market between Jama Masjid and the Head Post Office. Further, they will also be asking them to deploy a few police officials at these points as well.Kumar added that, on Monday, he will also be holding an internal meeting with various wings of the MCG, such as the enforcement wing, sanitation wing, and engineering wing for matters related to encroachment, cleanliness, and civil works.“Depending on the success of the trial, we will take a call on making the changes permanent. We will incorporate suggestions and recommendations of all stakeholders, shopkeepers, as well as Gurugram residents before executing any permanent feature,” said Kumar.As per MCG officials, privy to the matter, the week-long trial is expected to cost around ₹15 lakh.During the trial, however, commercial vehicles carrying goods to shops and various warehouses in the market will be able to access the market, during its closing hours, between 11pm and 6am. Further, with a few pockets of residential houses, MCG officials also said that a car sticker system will be introduced to ensure a limited number of vehicles can access the streets of the market. However, the main street will continue to remain pedestrian-friendly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/sadar-bazar-to-become-free-from-vehicular-traffic-for-a-week-101613929817345.html
21-02-2021||Gurugram||GMDA proposes slew of measures to boost groundwater recharge, experts sceptical||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), in a bid to increase the city’s groundwater recharge capacity by up to five times, has proposed a slew of measures including channelising creeks, and creating check dams as well as eight new ponds. The GMDA proposed these measures while responding to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on the preparation of an action plan to mitigate the effect of reduction in recharge capacity due to concretisation of the Badshahpur drain, which was sought after a petition was filed in the green court. As per the “report on abetment measures undertaken by GMDA to negate the adverse impact of concretisation of Badshahpur drain”, signed by Rajesh Bansal, superintendent engineer for infrastructure division of GMDA, a total of 19,620 metres of the drain has been concretised, with 5,770 metres left intact. A copy of the report was accessed by HT. The Badshahpur drain — downwards from Ghata village till the Najafgarh drain, passing along Badshahpur — was concretised around five years ago by the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP). In May 2019, the NGT had sought a report from the state pollution control board regarding the impact of the concretisation and boxing of drain on groundwater recharge, the flow of water in the drain and impact on urban sprawl. Responding to this, the pollution control board in October 2019 had informed the NGT that “concretisation reduces the groundwater recharge.” The NGT then directed that abatement measures are adopted to ensure that rainwater harvesting and groundwater recharge are not affected and flooding is avoided. The report states, “Creation of new pondage areas by constructing check dams across creeks, channelization of creeks, creation of recharge wells and construction of new drain from Vatika Chowk along SPR up to NH-48 to cater the additional run-off that is generated because of increase in the urbanization...” To arrest the flow of water towards Golf Course Road, the GMDA has planned to create check dams in the zones, where urbanisation is not possible, and provide recharge wells “to recharge the groundwater through natural and artificial recharging of the ground, rather than constructing large drainage channels and allowing the run-off to flow ultimately into Najafgarh drain and Yamuna river during rains.” The development authority aims to create eight ponds across 951 acres. The GMDA has also proposed the construction of 183 additional recharge wells to arrest the flow of stormwater and to reduce the run-off from the area. The report states that 100 recharge wells, along with ponds and creeks, will be made to recharge around 1,088,640 cubic metres in a year. Eighty-three more recharge wells along with drains will help in additional recharging of around 272,954 cubic metres per year. The officials will also work on reviving 26 ponds under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram. “Total proposed recharge in to ground as per the scheme is about five times the assessed reduction in the recharge capacity. No natural drain will be concretised, and drains will only be constructed in urbanised area to tap the run-off into the natural drains. The intent is to tap the run-off and increase the recharge by creation of check dams and to avoid the flooding in the area by channelisation of creeks,” the report states. Sudhir Rajpal, the chief executive officer of GMDA, who has recently taken over the charge, said, “We are working with all departments and still assessing the situation.” However, environmentalists have raised concerns about the plan proposed by the development authority. Vaishali Rana, a city-based environmentalist, on whose petition the NGT had asked the authorities concerned to prepare a plan, said, “The petition was about boxing and narrowing down of the Badshahpur drain, which has not been addressed in the report. The narrowing down of the drain has heavily led to the compromise of its carrying capacity and groundwater recharge capacity. The report talks about the creation of an alternate drain to increase carrying capacity of Badshahpur drain, which needs new land to be acquired and we do not know how many years that might take.” Rana further said that the report does not mention the Ghata Jheel, which is an existing pond of about 150 acres and an integral water body. “The report says that over 950 acres of land will be revived as ponds and lakes, but it does not mention anything about the Ghata Jheel which is an interlinking water body of the Badshahpur drain. There are encroachments to a great extent on the lake, but still, over 150 acres of land which is part of the Jheel, can be restored even now. This only shows how a deep study has not been done before preparing the report,” said Rana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-proposes-slew-of-measures-to-boost-groundwater-recharge-experts-sceptical-101613929758572.html
21-02-2021||Gurugram||Air quality remains poor||Air quality in the city remained in the poor category of the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) on Sunday, for the first time in a week, with a reading of 296 on the daily pollution bulletin. This is up from a reading of 256 (also poor) the day prior. As per official forecasts, pollution levels are expected to remain in the upper end of the poor to the lower end of the very poor AQI category for the next five days.The average level of ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 204 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Sunday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. At the official monitor in Sector 51, the PM 2.5 concentration stood at 350µg/m3. Both the readings were beyond the permissible limit of 60µg/m³.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional forecasting centre, said that pollution levels will continue to improve over the next week, with rising temperatures expected to lead to higher wind speeds and increasing the mixing height of pollutants — 0which refers to the vertical height at which suspended particles mix with the air.“The wind speed is expected to touch about 15 kilometres per hour, and increasing temperatures will cause upward movement of air and increase the ventilation index, which indicates the rate of dispersal,” said Shrivastava.As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the ventilation index is likely to increase from approximately 9000 m²/s on 22.02.2021 to 10,000 m²/s on 23.02.2021. A ventilation index of 6,000 m²/s or more is necessary for the effective dispersal of pollutants.While the IMD’s automatic weather station (AWS) for Gurugram did not record the minimum temperature on Sunday, the IMD’s AWS at the Palam observatory in Delhi recorded the day’s minimum temperature at 11.8 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature at 26 degrees Celsius.As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover around 29 and 14 degrees Celsius, respectively, over the next few days. Shallow to moderate episodes of fog will continue during the morning, despite being an atypical weather phenomenon for this time of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/air-quality-remains-poor-101613929759179.html
21-02-2021||Gurugram||Four dead on city roads in 24 hours||Four people died in separate accidents on the Delhi-Jaipur highway within 24 hours, with the police attributing the incidents to speeding and negligent driving by drivers. In the first incident, a Panchgaon resident was killed around 5.30pm on Saturday when a speeding tractor rammed the two-wheeler she was riding pillion on from behind near the industrial area. The victim, Nisha Yadav, was flung from the rear seat and run over by the tractor. She was taken to a private hospital in Gurugram, where she died on Saturday. The tractor driver fled the spot, leaving the vehicle behind.In the second incident, a truck rammed two bystanders at the Panchgaon crossing on the highway, killing one and severely injuring the other. The police said that the truck driver was speeding and lost control of the vehicle. The incident took place around 2.30pm on Saturday, around 24 kilometres from the city.According to the police, Sabbir and Akil Hussain of Roz Ka Meo in Nuh were waiting for public transport to return to Nuh when a speeding truck coming from KMP Expressway hit them. Sabbir died on the spot while Akil is undergoing treatment. The truck driver fled the spot but has been identified and booked, said police. In the third incident, a person died after falling off a tractor near the Farrukhnagar crossing around 7.30pm on Friday. The police said that Rajkumari Devi, a resident of Baliawas village in Farrukhnagar, and her son had hitched a ride on a tractor on their way back from Devi’s workplace, a hospital. Harsh Kumar, Devi’s son, said that the tractor driver was being driven rashly. “I told him that my mother is an old woman and asked him to slow down, but he did not listen. After a few metres away, he drove the tractor over a speed breaker and due to the impact, my mother fell off the tractor. When I jumped down the vehicle, the driver fled the spot, leaving us in the dark. I took help from a passerby and rushed my mother to a hospital,” he said. Devi was referred to the Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi, where she died on Saturday. In the fourth incident, a 19-year-old man from Alwar in Rajasthan died in an accident in Manesar on Friday night. A friend of the deceased, identified as Sandeep, said that the driver of the car they were travelling to Gurugram in was speeding and collided with another vehicle, injuring Sandeep. Jitender Kumar, the complainant, said they were travelling to Gurugram from Alwar. Sandeep was sitting on the co-driver’s seat of the Celerio car. “The driver was speeding and was driving rashly. We both asked him many times to control the speed as it was foggy and the route was not clear, but he accelerated and rammed a vehicle,” he said. Sandeep suffered severe injuries and was rushed to a private hospital in Manesar, where he was declared brought dead. The police registered four separate cases under sections 279 (rash driving), 304 A (Death by negligence) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code at Bilaspur, Farrukhnagar and Manesar police stations. KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that the drivers are yet to be arrested. “These accident spots have already been identified as black spots and we are looking for the reasons for these accidents. We have formed teams to check if the lights were not functional,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/four-dead-on-city-roads-in-24-hours-101613929758063.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Dongri police and Worli ANC seized drugs worth ₹13.20 crore||In two separate operations, Dongri police and the anti-narcotics cell (ANC) arrested three persons on Saturday and allegedly seized 25kg of mephedrone and 212gm of heroin, respectively, collectively worth ₹13.20 crore.According to Dongri police, they received information that a drug peddler, Isaq Iqbal Hussain Sayyad, supplied mephedrone in south Mumbai. They then laid a trap on Friday and arrested him in Dongri, and found 12gm of mephedrone with him. After questioning Sayyad, they learnt about another supplier named Abdul Shaikh from whom he allegedly bought the drugs to sell.On Saturday, Shaikh was arrested from a hotel in Vashi, and police allegedly recovered 56gm mephedrone from him. Shaikh had shifted to Hyderabad but visited Mumbai often to deal in drugs, said Prakash Linge, assistant inspector, Dongri police station.Shaikh then revealed the name of another supplier Deepak Bangera, a resident of Ghatkopar. Officers arrested Bangera, and during the search, they allegedly seized 25kg of mephedrone worth ₹12.50 crore and ₹5 lakh from his residence, stated a press release issued by Dongri police. Shaikh and Bangera were produced in court and are in police custody. In the second operation, the Worli unit of ANC on Saturday identified Arbaz Rafiq Shaikh, 26, a resident of Bandra (West) as a suspected drug dealer, based on a tip-off. Shaikh was waiting for someone outside Ayesha Hotel near Bandra bus depot when an ANC officer intercepted him.During the search, they found a small bag containing 212gm of heroin worth ₹63.60 lakh. Shaikh confessed that he had been supplying drugs for six months. He was arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and remanded in police custody till February 25, said Datta Nalawade, deputy commissioner of police (ANC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dongri-police-and-worli-anc-seized-drugs-worth-13-20-crore-101613929578006.html
21-02-2021||Kolkata||'Not scared of rats': Mamata Banerjee after CBI seeks to question nephew’s wife||“A tiger cub is not scared of fighting cats and rats… We have stood before guns,” West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee retorted at a public event on Sunday evening, hours after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) visited the south Kolkata residence of her nephew and Trinamool Congress (TMC) Lok Sabha member Abhishek Banerjee and served notice to his wife for questioning in connection with the coal smuggling case.“Muscle flexing or threats of jail sentence cannot scare us. We have stood before guns in the past. We won’t be scared of fighting rats. I will not surrender as long as I am alive. You cannot break our spine. A tiger cub is not scared of cats and rats,” Banerjee said at the cultural event in Kolkata on the occasion of International Mother Language Day.Abhishek Banerjee’s wife, Rujira, was not present at the Harish Mukherjee Road building, named Santiniketan, when the five-member CBI team arrived around 2 pm on Sunday. The couple tied the knot in 2012 and have two children, a boy and a girl.Abhishek Banerjee, too, retaliated by taking to Twitter and saying that he will not be "cowed down" while the TMC leadership alleged that the CBI is working under instructions from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) before the assembly polls to be held in March-April.Banerjee tweeted an image of the notice that CBI additional superintendent of police Umesh Kumar left at his residence.Also read: India, Maldives sign agreements for developing naval harbour, boosting defence"At 2pm today, the CBI served a notice in the name of my wife. We have full faith in the law of the land. However, if they think they can use these ploys to intimidate us, they are mistaken. We are not the ones who would ever be cowed down," he tweeted.The notice, served under section 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.PC), said a CBI team would come to his residence and question his wife at 3 pm. The case was registered on November 27 last year. CBI officials said they have plans to question Rujira Banerjee on Monday morning.“It is known that the BJP will try to scare us before the polls. We are not worried,” said TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy.The CBI team's visit raised the political heat when CM Banerjee spoke strongly at the event held on the occasion of International Mother Language Day which coincides with Bhasha Diwas, or language day, observed in Bangladesh on February 21 to honour Bengali, the state’s official language.Without naming the BJP, the chief minister said, “I speak with such pride because I speak in Bengali. The language gives me the courage. Today, on the 21st, let us throw a challenge for 21 (the year). I will be the goalkeeper. I will fight even if I am thrown in jail. We must win. Don’t try to hurt Bengal… Bengal will witness a new sunrise.”The chief minister criticised the Centre for not acting on the state’s request to rename West Bengal as ‘Bangla’ and alleged that her state is facing a stepmother-like treatment.“We are told that the word Bangla sounds similar to Bangladesh. How in that case Punjab should be renamed since there is a Punjab in Pakistan too… Our state is always shown in a bad light. There is always an effort to crush our spine,” said Banerjee.TMC leaders also upped the ante during the day.“If the CBI is so keen on cracking cases why doesn’t it arrest BJP leader Mukul Roy in the Narada case or Suvendu Adhikari in the Saradha chit fund case? Both are suspects,” said TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh who himself spent around two years in jail custody as a suspect in the Saradha case.On December 31, the CBI raided three residences of businessman and TMC’s youth front general secretary Vinay Mishra in connection with the coal smuggling case. Mishra is missing since then and has been declared an absconder by the agency.Abhishek Banerjee is the president of the TMC’s youth wing. On July 20, he appointed 15 general secretaries, including Mishra.It is alleged that illegally mined coal, worth several thousand crores of rupees, have been sold in the black market over several years by a racket operating in the western parts of West Bengal where the Eastern Coalfields Limited runs several mines. Another prime suspect, Anup Majhi, alias Lala, is also absconding.In early December, the CBI also raided the home and office of Ganesh Bagaria, a Kolkata-based chartered accountant.The agency has not made any official statement before the media till date.Ever since the probe started in September, the BJP has been alleging that the money from the sales was whitewashed through shell companies and siphoned into the funds of the ruling party. The BJP has also alleged that the main beneficiary is Abhishek Banerjee.“The CBI probe will unearth the involvement of more TMC leaders in different scams. The entire state knows that ruling party leaders are involved in the coal scam,” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/not-scared-of-rats-mamata-banerjee-after-cbi-seeks-to-question-nephew-s-wife-101613928685383.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai feels the heat as temperatures soar to 36.3° Celsius||The city recorded a hot Sunday as temperatures soared to 36.3 degrees Celsius, at par with the season’s highest maximum temperature. The Santacruz station of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), which is indicative of the city’s temperature, recorded a maximum temperature of 36.3 degrees Celsius, a good 5 degrees above normal. This was the same as recorded on February 2 when the city marked the highest maximum temperature of the winter season. The Colaba station recorded a maximum temperature of 34.6 degrees Celsius, 4.4 degrees above normal. Both stations recorded a steep rise in maximum temperatures from Saturday’s 34.7 degrees Celsius (Santacruz) and 33.3 degrees Celsius (Colaba). “Because of the lower-level easterly winds and the delayed setting of the sea breeze over Mumbai, the maximum temperature rose in the city. The trend is likely to continue for the next couple of days,” said Shubhangi Bhute, scientist, IMD Mumbai. Minimum temperatures also remained above normal. Santacruz recorded a minimum temperature of 21 degrees Celsius, which was 2.3 degrees above normal. At Colaba, the minimum temperature was 23 degrees Celsius, 3.5 degrees above normal. The rising temperature brought some respite to the air quality of the city as an overall air quality index (AQI) of 125 was recorded. The AQI is a pollution measuring indicator and is calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. “Mumbai’s air quality of is in the moderate category and will improve due to oceanic influence and will remain in the lower end of the moderate category for the next two days,” stated a short-range forecast by SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-feels-the-heat-as-temperatures-soar-to-36-3-celsius-101613929098831.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 spike: Mumbai police to fine citizens not wearing face masks||The Mumbai Police is now authorised to challan people not wearing face masks in the city. This was announced by polcie commissioner Param Bir Singh on Twitter."Dear Mumbaikars, @MumbaiPolice is now authorised to issue challans to offenders not wearing a mask too. Every time we fined you for not wearing a helmet or seatbelt it was alway to remind you the value of your life & safety. Same for masks. Please take care. You matter to us," Singh tweeted from his official handle.The step has been taken due to the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageOn Sunday, Mumbai recorded 921 cases, up from the previous high of 897 a day before. With the addition of the latest cases, the infection count in Mumbai has reached 3,19,128. The statewide tally stands at 2,100,884.Apart from Mumbai city, other townships in the Mumbai division also witnessed a surge in cases, including Thane, Navi Mumbai and Kalyan-Dombivli. There were 1,678 new cases in the division.Experts and government officials have credited the laxity shown by people of the state for the resurgence of Covid-19 in Maharashtra.Also Read | 'Should we impose another lockdown, I am asking you': Top quotes from ThackerayEarlier in the day, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced a fresh state of restrictions in view of the rising covid-19 cases. Starting Monday, all religious, social and cultural programmes will be banned for next few days. He also urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to implement staggered office timings.Thackeray also said that the state government will review the situation in the next eight days to decide whether a lockdown should be imposed. "Should we impose another lockdown, I am asking you. It will all depend on the people of Maharashtra," said Thackeray.Meanwhile, a week-long lockdown has already been imposed in Amravati which is among the worst-affected districts in Maharashtra. It will come in effect from Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-spike-mumbai-police-to-fine-citizens-not-wearing-face-masks-101613928507736.html
21-02-2021||Delhi||Farm laws are death warrant for farmers: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||AAP convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal met farmer leaders from Western UP on Sunday and demanded that the BJP-ruled central government withdraw the three farm laws, terming them "death warrant" for farmers.The meeting came ahead of a 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' that Kejriwal is scheduled to address on February 28 in Western UP's Meerut. The AAP has already announced that it is contesting the Assembly polls in UP in 2022 and this will be the first major appearance of Kejriwal in the poll-bound state.Over 40 farmer leaders from Western UP region that has been active in the farm laws protests at Delhi borders, specially Ghazipur border point with neighbouring UP, attended the meeting held at Delhi Assembly premises."These anti-farmer laws are death warrants to the farmers. With the implementation of these laws the crops will go to the hands of a few industrialists and the farmers of India will become labourers in their own land. "The central government should immediately withdraw all the three black laws and extend legal guarantee of MSP on all the 23 crops following the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission," the AAP chief said.The government should talk to the farmers. If the government does not listen to the farmers then who will, he questioned.No representative of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is leading the protest against farm laws at Delhi borders for nearly three months, was present in the meeting, sources said. The outfit has already declared its agitation as non-political one."Meerut Kisan mahapanchayat on February 28 will be joined by the farmers in large numbers. Discussion on the three farm laws will take place during that Mahapanchayat where immediate rollback of these laws brought by the BJP-ruled central government will be demanded by the farmers," Kejriwal said. The BJP is continuously saying that these laws will benefit the farmers but its leaders have yet not clarified how, he added.Talking to the media, farmer leader Rohit Jakhar of Rashtriya Jat Mahasangh said that while the UP government cut electricity and water supply at the Ghazipur protest site, Kejriwal's government supported farmers' protest by providing them water and toilets."Our support will go to those who will talk about our problems. The BJP government has hurt our self respect, we will give our reply through our votes," Jakhar said. He said Kejriwal gave respect to the farmer leaders just as Lord Krishna gave respect to his friend, Sudama, and asserted the agitation will continue till the Centre fulfills farmers demands.Another participant of the meeting, Chaudhary Yashpal Singh, said, "Arvind Kejriwal has assured us support."The meeting was also attended by Delhi Assembly Speaker Ram Niwas Goel, Cabinet ministers Kailash Gehlot and Rajendra Pal Gautam, Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh and MLA Dilip Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farm-laws-are-death-warrant-for-farmers-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-101613927464053.html
21-02-2021||Pune||WMTPA meets Sitharaman over GST’s “oppressive” terms||A total of 250 organizations of tax practitioners, traders, chartered accountants and concerned parties across the country have rallied against the oppressive terms, provisions, and complicated computer system in the Goods and Services Tax (GST) imposed by the Central government. Through the All-India Recommendation Committee, Western Maharashtra Tax Practitioners Association (WMTPA) is working to meet these demands. The delegation from Pune recently met union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and the union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur to discuss their demands in New Delhi.The delegation included the All-India Recommendation Committee chairman Narendra Sonawane, chief coordinator CA Swapnil Munot, WMTPA president Vilas Aherkar and former president Sharad Suryavanshi. During the meeting, the delegation conveyed their grievances to the finance minister. Along with Sitharaman and Anurag Thakur, the delegation met MPs Supriya Sule, Amol Kolhe, Navneet Rana, Ramcharan Bohra, Vinay Sahastrabuddhe, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and all political leaders and requested the Centre to focus on the issue.Narendra Sonawane said, “There was a very positive discussion with the finance minister. The delegation pointed out to them that the law is not a problem. Honest and small entrepreneurs must suffer a lot due to its implementation. Detailed information in this regard has been handed over to the finance ministry and Sitharaman has directed the concerned authorities to find out the errors present in the meeting and the delegation has pointed out a total of 76 errors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/wmtpa-meets-sitharaman-over-gst-s-oppressive-terms-101613927597227.html
21-02-2021||Pune||Mission Jhunj: 23-year old MIT student spearheads cleanliness at historical sites||A 23-year-old mechanical engineering student Malhar Pandey has made it a mission to keep old historic sites clean and bring them back to their old glory. Pandey, a history aficionado is a third-year student at MIT ADT university. He along with a group of friends have begun “Jhunj Mohim” under which they will undertake the mission to clean historical sites in and around Pune.“I am deeply interested in history, politics, and other aspects related to social sciences more than my technical studies. I love to write about our history, especially Maratha history, and wish to propagate it around the world,” said Pandey who is deeply influenced by the life of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, Lokmanya Tilak, Swami Vivekananda, and Veer Savarkar.“Mohim” means campaign in Marathi. Jhunj is an organisation that was started by my friends and myself when we were exploring historical sites in Pune. All of us are extremely enthusiastic about our history. We found that the condition of our historical sites is really poor, and we thought it is our duty to conserve these sites so that millions of Indians will come to know about our grand and glorious history,” said Pandey.Pandey along with his friends, Saurabh Jagtap, Sushrut Kinge, and Ruturaj Kale began these cleanliness drives. “The first mohim that we undertook was cleaning of Sati Ramabai Peshwa Samadhi in Theur, on January 26, 2020. At that time, nearly 20 people joined us. Unfortunately, due to Covid-19, we were not able to undertake any such mohim in the year 2020. With a reduction in Covid-19 cases, we have decided to undertake this mission of cleaning and restoring the samadhi ofNanasaheb Peshwa. We wrote a letter to Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol and he gave the permissions and readily offered the team of PMC to help us in this cause,” he added.The samadhi of Nanasaheb Peshwe had a special appeal for Pandey. “Nanasaheb Peshwa, a leader and Peshwa of Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj always regarded Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj as his role model. Under his leadership, the Marathas unfurled the saffron flag on the fort of Atak (presently in Pakistan). He is also the one who build many temples in and around Pune, seeing the disfigured samadhi of Nanasaheb Peshwa, we felt really bad and as torchbearers of this glorious history and citizens of Pune we took it upon ourselves to clean and restore it.”People from all age groups have joined the mission whose main goal is not just conservation of historical sites but in general to conserve the glorious history of ancestors. “Social media and specifically Twitter has played a massive role in promoting our organization,” he added.Now every Sunday, he and his friends go on cycle ride to unknown places around Pune, looking at part of history that is in despair and shortlisting their next cleanliness and restoration missions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mission-jhunj-23-year-old-mit-student-spearheads-cleanliness-at-historical-sites-101613927537281.html
21-02-2021||City||'Politics of appeasement carving Kerala': Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday raked up issues such as love jihad and Sabarimala temple row to attack the ruling CPI(M) and opposition Congress in Kerala. Adityanath said that both the parties were in a race to implement appeasement politics in the state.While inaugurating the ‘Vijay Yatra’ of state president K Surendran in north Kerala’s Kasaragod, ahead of the assembly elections, the UP CM said in 2009 when the Kerala High Court sought action against love jihad, the CPI(M) and the Congress were in a hurry to deny it. Today, many states, including Uttar Pradesh, have enacted a law against it, he added.“When the High Court ordered the police to investigate the love jihad issue in 2009, both these parties denied it and supported such elements. Appeasement politics was carving Kerala and the Bharatiya Janata Party will put an end to it,” he said.Adityanath said the CPI(M) was even planning to open a ‘Halal Bank’ in the state - he was mentioning the state government's support to open a Sharia-compliant banking institution in north Kerala.Also read: Pakistan unlikely to exit ‘grey list’ as FATF meets to decide its fate - Report“The High Court had said love jihad will turn Kerala into an Islamic republic. But the government was sleeping and encouraging these elements. Now many state governments have enacted a law to contain the scourge,” he said.He also criticised the Kerala government’s handling of the Sabarimala temple issue. “The government had hurt feelings of believers. I laud BJP workers who stood with devotees. While the state government was trying to destroy Sabarimala, in Uttar Pradesh we are building a temple that will be the sole property of the nation,” he said.Kerala witnessed unrest in 2018 when the government tried to implement the Supreme Court verdict on Sabarimala removing all restrictions on women of child-bearing age.The UP CM also took a dig at the state government over its Covid-19 pandemic control measures. “Kerala chief minister once laughed at UP citing its health infrastructure. Today, Kerala reports a high caseload and the world is laughing at it. The rise in cases here exposes the state government’s failure. In UP, we have a population of 24 crores and we managed the virus situation well,” he said.The Yatra is seen as the launch of the BJP’s election campaign in the southern state where it is in the third position. Union home minister Amit Shah will address the concluding session of the rally in Thiruvananthapuram on March 7. The party is planning to parade many national leaders, including Union ministers Nirmala Sitaraman and Smriti Irani, during the yatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/politics-of-appeasement-carving-kerala-yogi-adityanath-101613923365106.html
21-02-2021||Patna||Bihar set to table ₹2.15 lakh cr annual budget on Monday||Deputy chief minister Tar Kishore Prasad is all set to table the annual budget of around ₹2.15 lakh crore for fiscal 2021-22 in the state legislature on Monday for seeking its approval during the ongoing Budget session.Prasad, who also holds the finance portfolio, said that the impact of Covid-19-induced lockdown and subsequent fall in revenue collection had compelled the state government to restrain the budget outlay.“The state government was wishing to enhance the total outlay, but the overall situation did not support us,” said the deputy CM, while refusing to hint at the exact volume of the budget estimate.Officials of the finance department, however, told HT that the committed expenditure would be increased nominally as compared to the last fiscal in keeping with the rise in establishment cost. “However, plan head expenditure has been kept more or less unchanged owing to the deficit in tax collection,” said an officer.Also read: 'Second wave knocking on our door' - Maha CM on fresh Covid-19 surge in stateThe committed expenditure (which was earlier called non-plan head) is likely to be around ₹1.10 lakh crore, while scheme expenditure (previously categorised as plan head) will be ₹1.05 lakh crore. Last year, the state government had tabled the annual budget estimate of ₹2,11,761 crore, which included ₹1.059 lakh crore as committed expenditure and ₹1.057 lakh crore as scheme head expenditure.With the internal revenue collections and central devolutions dipping in this fiscal year owing to economic contraction caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, the fiscal deficit for 2020-2021 is set to go up and hover around the 4 per cent mark of the state gross domestic product (SGDP), said officials.Talking to media persons on Saturday, principal secretary, finance, S Siddharth had said that the fiscal deficit has been capped at around 4 per cent, which was well within the permissible borrowing limit of 5 per cent of the SDGP despite the adverse impact on the state finances due to the Covid-19 outbreak.The state government has already borrowed ₹26,000 crore till January this fiscal as against the target of ₹28,000 crore, owing to the dip in internal revenue and devolutions. There are projections that the internal revenue target of ₹39,900 crore would fall short by ₹9,000 to ₹10,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-set-to-table-rs-2-15-lakh-cr-annual-budget-on-monday-101613918832285.html
21-02-2021||Pune||U-16 championship series tennis: Pune’s Adkar takes double crown in Ahmedabad||PUNE Overcoming her nervousness of the initial rounds, Pune’s Asmi Adkar clinched a double crown at the under-16 championship series tennis tournament at the Altevol–Alexander Waske Tennis University, Ahmedabad.Adkar defeated Priyanka Rana 1-6, 6-2, 6-4 in the singles and then, partnering Avani Chitale in the doubles, overcame Priyanshi Chauhan and Aarushi Raval, 6-1, 6-0.For 13 year-old Asmi Adakar, it is not only about developing her physical strength, but focusing on improving her mental aspects and maintaining a balance between both.“I was nervous when I started the tournament as it was the first tournament after a year. I took time to get into a rhythm, but after that, the other rounds were easy,” said Adkar.In the following matches, Adkar delivered a flawless performance as first she defeated Avani Chitale 6-3, 6-2, followed by another straight sets victory 6-0, 6-0 against Akanksha Agnihotri 6-0, 6-0 in the quarter- finals.“I was back to playing my routine tennis, all the shots were coming good and confidence helped me while playing doubles as well,” added Adkar.In the semifinal, Adkar defeated Sakshi Thakkar 6-1, 6-2.“After going down in the first set, I told myself to focus on one point at a time and it helped me to close the match with winning the next two sets,” added Adkar, about her performance in the finals.Playing tennis since the age of seven, Adkar doesn’t mind playing singles and doubles in tandem.“You learn many things while playing doubles and it helps to improve your game control in singles as well,” added Adkar, who trains at Bounce Tennis Academy under the coach Kedar Shah.With her elder sister Vaishnavi Adkar also a tennis player, it helps her learn about the game.“Her experience helps me to understand how to handle crunch situations during matches,” added Adkar who will now focus on playing more higher-age category tournaments.Results: SinglesFirst round: bt Swara Katkar 6-7 (2-7), 6-0, 6-0Pre quarter-final: bt Avani Chitale 6-3, 6-2Quarterfinal: bt Akanksha Agnihotri 6-0, 6-0Semifinal: bt Sakshi Thakkar 6-1, 6-2Final: bt Priyanka Rana 1-6, 6-2, 6-4. Doubles (Partnering Avani Chitale)Pre quarter-final: bt Ishani Pandey and Naiara Bhatia 6-0, 6-0Quarterfinal: bt Sakshi Thakkar and Sayali Thakkar 3-6, 6-0, 10-8Semifinal: bt Swara Katkar and Jennika Jaison 6-1, 6-3Final: bt Priyanshi Chauhan and Aarushi Raval 6-1, 6-0||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/u16-championship-series-tennis-pune-s-adkar-takes-double-crown-in-ahmedabad-101613919016885.html
21-02-2021||Delhi||NDMC may grant legal status to makeshift temple at Chandni Chowk||New Delhi, Feb 21 (PTI) The BJP-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation will explore granting "legal status" to a prefabricated Hanuman temple that has come up at Chandni Chowk where a temple was demolished by authorities in January, NDMC Mayor Jai Prakash said Sunday, even as police initiated action in the matter."I have planned to call a high-level meeting tomorrow with officials to discuss possible ways by which legal status could be given to the structure," he said.He termed the matter "very sensitive", but said the structure anyway is on the median verge of the road.The Delhi government's Public Works Department (PWD) Saturday lodged a complaint with the police seeking action on setting up of the prefabricated, steel structure on the median verge of Chandni Chowk by unknown people.While no FIR has been registered so far in the case, a police officer said, "We have received the complaint and necessary legal action has been taken in the matter."He did not specify what "legal action" was taken by the police.The PWD complaint filed at the Kotwali Police Station stated that some unknown people kept the prefabricated structure at the median near Kucha Mahajani in Chandni Chowk on the night of February 18."This structure is basically an obstacle in the theme of the (Chandni Chowk beautification) project and placed without permission from project executing authorities. In this regard, it is requested to take necessary action at the earliest so that the project can be completed within timeline," the PWD complaint said.The makeshift structure has come up on the central verge of the main Chandni Chowk road, close to where an old Hanuman temple existed that was demolished in January following a court order, to pave way for the beautification work.Meanwhile, locals have started visiting the makeshift temple and offering prayer. The Lord Hanuman idol from the old temple has been kept there now, and a priest has also been deputed to officiate the worship.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the January demolition of the "ancient" Hanuman Mandir had hurt the sentiments of local residents and traders in the business district.The sudden reestablishment of the Hanuman Mandir at an undisputed site just few meters away from the original temple site has made people very happy, he said.During the past two days thousands of devotees along with BJP, Aam Aadmi Party and Congress leaders offered prayers here, he said."People are upset that the PWD has written to the Delhi Police objecting to the Mandir structure. People who saw AAP leaders performing a Havana at the Mandir were angered to see that the Delhi government has complained against the Mandir," Kapoor said.He has also written to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal protesting against the PWD's complaint and demanded it be withdrawnThe new temple site is "undisputed" and the Chief Minister should ask PWD minister Satyendra Jain, who also heads the Religious Committee, to review and approve the new Mandir, making it part of the beautification plan, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ndmc-may-grant-legal-status-to-makeshift-temple-at-chandni-chowk-101613918529026.html
21-02-2021||Delhi||AAP leader Gopal Rai confident of defeating BJP by 'historical majority' in MCD bypolls||Aam Aadmi Party leader Gopal Rai on Sunday said like in the Delhi assembly polls, the party will defeat the BJP by a "historical majority" in the upcoming municipal corporation by-elections. By-elections to five municipal wards will be held on February 28 and results will be declared on March 3.These by-elections are going to write the future of Delhi for the next five years, Rai, who is the Delhi convener of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), claimed during a Booth Karyakarta Sammelan at the Chauhan Bangar ward of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC).Rai said that this is not just the by-elections of five wards, but also the semi-final to "overthrow the corrupt 15-year rule of BJP in MCDs (municipal corporations of Delhi)".The Chauhan Bangar ward along with the Rohini C and Shalimar Bagh wards under the NDMC, and the Kalyanpuri and Trilokpuri wards under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), will go to polls on February 28.Mohammad Ishraq Khan is the AAP's candidate from Chauhan Bangar-41E in the Seelampur assembly constituency."The AAP will defeat the BJP in a historical majority in the MCD by-elections just the way we did in the Delhi assembly elections," Rai said. This election is not about the Congress but about defeating the BJP. The Congress will not do any good to the citizens of Delhi but only cut vote, the AAP leader said.The three municipal corporations of the national capital -- NDMC, EDMC and the South Delhi Municipal Corporation -- are BJP led.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-leader-gopal-rai-confident-of-victory-in-mcd-bypolls-101613916787358.html
21-02-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM requests Union govt for glacier research centre in state||In the aftermath of the disaster in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has requested the Centre to set up a glacier research centre to study the fall of glaciers in the Himalayas.Rawat raised the demand during the NITI Aayog meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with all the chief ministers on Saturday.According to the officials, privy to the development, "During the meeting, Rawat cited the recent Chamoli disaster, reportedly caused by a glacier burst and avalanche in the Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve, and said that Uttarakhand is suffering from various natural disaster including flash floods, avalanche or landslide each year. If a centre for the study of glaciers is established in the state, it will help in monitoring the disasters and find ways to avert them."Rawat's demand has come months after the Central government's department of science and technology (DST), under the Ministry of Science & Technology and Earth Sciences, decided to discontinue the project of Centre for Glaciology (CFG) in Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG) in Dehradun.Also read: Amid oppn chorus, petroleum minister explains why petrol, diesel prices are risingThe decision was communicated with the WIHG officials in a letter dated June 25, 2020, which was received by WIHG in July. Under the letter, the DST directed the CFG to be merged with the WIHG from July 1 and all its activities to be managed by the existing staff of the WIHG. It had also asked the WIHG to relieve all the staff involved in the project.The centre, inaugurated in 2009 during the UPA government in the WIHG which was appointed as its nodal agency, had aimed to carry a coordinated research initiative on Himalayan glaciology to understand the effects of climate on glaciers to develop strategies for climate change adaptability. The Centre was also assigned to carry programmes in setting up a specialised institute on glaciology named the India Institute of Glaciology in Mussoorie. The then government had planned a fund of about ₹500 crore to develop the institute of which about 23 crore was released.Now, after CM raised a demand for a similar centre, experts say that such a centre or institute is the "need of the hour considering the constant changes in the glaciers in the Himalayas."DP Dobhal, a retired scientist for glaciology in the WIHG, who was also the coordinator for the CFG project, said, "A dedicated centre for the study of glaciers is much needed with the changes happening in the glaciers in the Himalayas which are the lifelines of many major rivers flowing in our country."Informing that there are about 10,000 glaciers in Indian Himalayas in an area of about 37,000 sq-km, Dobhal said before the CM raising the demand on Saturday, "I and other scientists suggested him to do so in our meetings citing the disaster-prone state.""In the developmental works like hydel power projects in the Himalayan rivers, it becomes more vital to study the glaciers to know if it can lead to any disaster in future or even to make modifications in the project plan accordingly to avert any possible disaster," said Dobhal adding that the CM had requested a such a centre for the state but "if it's set up to study the glaciers for other glaciers in the Indian Himalayas then it will be significant."On the possibility of the Centre accepting the demand, he said, "With the recent disaster in Chamoli, we hope it will be accepted."However, few other experts feel that after the discontinuation of the CFG project, if a new centre is opened then the scientists will again have to work from scratch.One of the scientists working on glaciology in the WIHG, on condition of anonymity, said, "In the now discontinued CFG project, many researchers were being trained to carry detailed and dedicated studies on glaciers. But after the discontinuation move, all the hard work of their trainers and theirs went into vain as they were also relieved.""People don't understand that training researchers on glacial studies are not teaching ABCD to someone. It requires time and resources considering the vitality of the subject that too in the context of a mountain range like the Himalayas," he said, adding that "it is just ridiculous that after scrapping a running project, there is a demand for another one."Another prominent scientist, Dr BR Arora, former director of the WIHG who was attached with the CFG project from the beginning, said, "Discontinuing it, had surely slowed down the speed of the ongoing glacial researches as it was completely a scientific project to study the dynamics of glaciers which were not known yet."Arora said that once established, the CFG would have helped in answering many questions on the glaciers."We all say that the Himalayan glaciers are melting but nobody exactly knows why they are melting. Is it all because of only global warming or any other man-made factors also? Under the CFG project, we were studying all this. We had also studied the difference between North-facing glaciers and South-facing glaciers and the reason for their melting accordingly," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-cm-requests-union-govt-for-glacier-research-centre-in-state-101613916155444.html
21-02-2021||Other||Talwandi Sabo thermal plant liable to pay ₹85 lakh to farmers: NGT’s state panel||BATHINDAThe state monitoring panel of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has held Vedanta Group’s Talwandi Sabo Power Ltd (TSPL) liable to pay ₹85 lakh to farmers of Mansa district as compensation for loss to their crops caused by unscientific management of fly ash generated from the facility.Punjab panel head justice Jasbir Singh (retd) said on Sunday that following a report by experts, it was also recommended to the NGT to impose environment compensation on the private power generation project located at Mansa district’s Banawala village.As per the findings submitted on February 17 (HT has a copy), an NGT-constituted pollution monitoring committee, comprising state and central agencies, found that complaints of widespread damage to farmlands and the environment were true and issued a timeline for remedial and preventive steps.Singh said the recommendation of twin compensation was made after the joint committee heard the TSPL management.“The TSPL will submit its action plan to the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) within a month and the compliance of the same may be made within six months,” he added.On September 28, 2018, residents of Mansa’s Raipur village had approached the district authorities about ill-effects to their cultivable lands due to the mismanagement of silos of fly ash.Framers suspected that the radioactive and heavy metals in coal and fly ash have not only affected the soil but also caused air pollution due to emissions from the power plant.Fly ash on 965 acres of RaipurInvestigations made by Mansa district authorities on January 24, 2019, found fly ash lying on about 965 acres of Raipur.The Mansa subdivisional magistrate had assessed the compensation amounting to ₹84,99,574 ( ₹83,04,912 for damaging cotton crop on 528 acres and ₹1,94,662 for damaging 375 acres of paddy crop).Since the PCPB has no provision under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 to collect/impose environmental compensation, the villagers approached the NGT.Taking note of the seriousness of the issue, the tribunal on July 15 last year directed a joint committee, comprising the Central Pollution Control Board, PPCB, State-Level Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) and Mansa district magistrate, to furnish a factual and the action taken report.PPCB asked to carry out groundwater monitoringIn its report furnished last week, the NGT’s state panel has also asked the PPCB to carry out groundwater monitoring in a 10km radius of the ash dyke of the thermal plant within 15 days to ascertain the impact of leaching.“Data says there has been low utilisation of ash. The PPCB should issue necessary directions to the industry for utilisation of 100% of dry fly ash for various usages. Since water is used to keep wet huge stocks of ash, it requires detailed examination if leaching is impacting groundwater table in the area,” said justice Singh.The TSPL has been asked to develop a greenbelt of three rows of plants of broadleaf around its periphery within three months. It will undertake validation of online emission data captured by the online continuous emission monitoring system on a six-monthly basis and provide a report to the PPCB for further analysis.Also, a green buffer of appropriate width between the coal handling area and boundary wall of the industry towards the prominent wind direction will be provided with three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/talwandi-sabo-thermal-plant-liable-to-pay-rs-85-lakh-to-farmers-ngt-s-state-panel-101613915836600.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Another spike of 921 Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, tally close to 3.20 lakh||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases continue to rise in Maharashtra's capital Mumbai. On Sunday, the city recorded 921 cases, up from the previous high of 897 a day before.The city also reported six fatalities due to Covid-19, which pushed the statewide death toll to 11,446. The infection count in Mumbai reached 3,19,128 on Sunday.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray addressed the people of the state on Sunday evening where he compared the war against Covid-19 with the World War. He also said that mask is an "effective shield to protect ourselves from the virus".Speaking on the rising cases, he said that the state government will ascertain in next two weeks if it is a second wave of the infection.In the last two weeks of this month, the cases in Mumbai have spiked again. An analysis of the daily number of cases in Maharashtra government's dashboard over the last two weeks shows that the number has risen from 599 to 921. The number stood at 736 on February 18, 823 on February 19 and 897 yesterday, according to Maharashtra government's Covid-19 dashboard.The doubling rate of cases in the city has dropped to 371 days, down from 393 on Friday, 417 on Thursday, 445 on Tuesday, and 455 on Monday.The areas of concern are the Mumbai suburban areas where the weekly cases have risen by 19 per cent. In Nagpur, Amravati, Nashik, Akola and Yavatmal the weekly cases have increased by 33 per cent, 47 per cent, 23 per cent, 55 per cent and 48 per cent, respectively.The Centre too is concerned by the spike in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra and other states. It has advised these states to increase the proportion of RT-PCR tests and regularly monitor mutant strains besides refocusing on strict surveillance and stringent containment in selected districts.In a letter to the states, the government has also stressed that all negative rapid antigen test results should be mandatorily followed by RT-PCR test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/another-spike-of-921-covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-tally-close-to-3-20-lakh-101613915498028.html
21-02-2021||Other||Groom’s minor nephew dies in celebratory firing in Punjab’s Patti||TARN TARANCelebrations turned sour within hours after a groom’s minor nephew died and an elderly man was injured in the celebratory firing at the post-marriage function in Dubali village falling under the Patti sub-division, on Saturday night.Jashandeep Singh, 13, was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. The injured, Joginder Singh, 50, is undergoing treatment. Police have registered a case under Sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC against one Gurlal Singh of Narli village and the groom’s brother, Harwinder Singh.Police said Gurlal, who is a close relative of groom Yadwinder Singh, opened fire during a DJ party on Saturday night from a .12-bore rifle in an inebriated state. Yadwinder had recently returned from abroad.Patti Sadar station house officer (SHO) Harwinder Singh said, “While Gurlal opened fire, the party was organised by groom’s brother Harwinder Singh. Both the accused are absconding and our raids are on to nab them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/grooms-minor-nephew-dies-in-celebratory-firing-in-punjab-s-patti-101613915476589.html
21-02-2021||Other||Schools, colleges shut in Pune: Review to be taken on Feb 26; study circles, libraries to remain open||PUNE Considering the increasing number of Covid cases in Pune district, all schools, colleges and private coaching classes will be closed till February 28.This was declared on Sunday by Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao. Study circles and libraries will remain open for students appearing for competitive exams, as their exams are scheduled in the month of March. Rao was speaking at a press conference held after a review meeting held on Sunday at the Council Hall, by deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar. “One of the important decisions taken in the review meeting is that all schools and colleges will remain closed till February 28. On Friday, February 26, a review meeting will be taken by the guardian minister about the effect of this closure on students. Accordingly, what strategy needs to be taken further will be decided,” Rao said. For students preparing for competitive examinations, study circles and libraries will remain open in Pune district. The Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) state civil service preliminary examinations, which were delayed and postponed, have been now re-scheduled on March 14, 2021. “For the students preparing for competitive exams, as their schedule exams are coming, study circles will remain open with 60 per cent occupancy inside the library,” said Rao. The decision has come at a crucial time when colleges, schools and private universities were geared for offline lectures on campus. On January 4, initially, Class 8 to 12 students were allowed on campus. Then for universities and colleges, February 15 was announced by state technical and higher education minister Uday Samant, to start offline classes. Though there was not much response in the first week, most prominent colleges in Pune were planning to start in earnest from this week.“Education and safety of students are top priorities in these Covid times. Today’s decision taken by the government authorities is always welcome, as safety of students comes first. We already have our online technology in place for the last one year, so we would continue our online teaching, practicals and conducting exams. We have informed students in the afternoon through a bulk messaging system not to attend college till February 28. We have our preliminary examinations of Class 12 going on, but we have given online and offline options to students,” said Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal, Modern College of Arts, Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar. Sanjay Shendge, principal, Seth Dagaduram Katariya High School said, “As schools resumed last month, we were taking all the necessary safety precautions, but looking at the increasing number of Covid cases in the district, a right decision has been taken and we are again turning towards online teaching. All our teachers and students have been given instructions accordingly and Monday onwards, online classes will resume back.”As per the data shared by the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) education department, till now 700 schools of a total of 948 schools in its jurisdiction have reopened. This includes both private and government-run schools. “Since past few days, the Covid positivity rate of Pune city has increased to 10% from 4.5% a fortnight ago. In the light of this, we have decided to impose certain restrictions. The aim is to prevent the infection further,” said Rao after the meeting chaired by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday. During the meeting, Pawar asked Pune Municipal Corporation and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporations to increase Covid-19 testing and also focus on contact tracing. The minister also instructed resumption of Covid care centres in rural parts the district with a high prevalence of the disease. Over 847 new Covid-19 cases were recorded within 24 hours on Saturday, taking the active case count to over 9,217 and the progressive count stood at 3.99 lakh out of which 3.81 lakh have recovered and 8,076 were declared dead. The department also reported eight new deaths on Saturday. Pune city reported 430 new cases taking the progressive count to 203,782 and the death toll stood at 4,563 as five deaths were reported in the 24 hours preceding Saturday. PCMC reported 189 fresh cases, taking the progressive count to 99,596 and the death toll reached 1,323 with two deaths reported in the last 24 hours preceding Saturday. Similarly, Pune rural reported 228 new cases with the progressive count reaching 95,876 and the death toll reached 2,142 with one new death reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/schools-colleges-shut-in-pune-review-to-be-taken-on-feb-26-study-circles-libraries-to-remain-open-101613914338128.html
21-02-2021||Other||Kothrud, Bibwewadi current Covid hotspots; micro-containment zones to return: divisional commissioner||PUNE The year 2021 began on a positive note for residents of Pune, as the entire city was declared a no-containment zone by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) from Jan 1. However, as Covid-19 cases are now increasing, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao has announced return of micro-containment zones in areas identified as hotspots in the city.“We have identified hotspots in the district. In Pune city, Kothrud and Bibwewadi are the current hotspots for Covid-positive cases. Within the PCMC limits Chinchwad, Bhosari, Pimple Saudaga and Moshi are the hotspots. The administration will declare micro- containment zones in some parts of these hotspots. With the help of incident commanders, these micro- containment zones will be managed,” said Rao.Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar had issued an “unlock and containment zone order” on December 31, 2020. “There will be zero micro-containment zones in the city. If a rise in positive cases is reported from specific areas or housing societies, it will be declared a micro- containment zone,” he had said in that order. In the light of increasing positive cases in the city the process of identifying micro-containment zones has begun.In view of rising Covid cases, the civic and rural bodies are emphasising increasing testing and contact tracing. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh issued guidelines regarding this on Friday. “Any area where about five to 10 positive cases are reported will be declared a containment zone,” Deshmukh had specified in those guidelines.Number of containment zones in 2020June 2: 63June 16: 73June: 24: 74July 1: 109July 23: 87August 1: 75September 3: 74November 5: 13December 31: 00||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kothrud-bibwewadi-current-covid-hotspots-micro-containment-zones-to-return-divisional-commissioner-101613913436489.html
21-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 145 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths; active cases see slight jump||Delhi reported 145 new Covid-19 cases and two fatalities on Sunday, taking the city’s tally to 6,37,900 cases and 10,900 deaths, according to a bulletin released by Delhi government. Cumulative recovery rate stands at 98.12 per cent as the city reported 97 new recoveries taking the total recoveries to 6,25,929 patients. Active caseload in Delhi currently stands at 1,071 patients, which is 46 cases higher than the 1,025 reported on Saturday, the bulletin said.🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 21st February 2021🏥#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/Q5wtJJa9hKA total of 63,813 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the city, comprising 44,673 RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and 19,140 Rapid antigen tests, according to the bulletin. So far, 1,19,71,940 tests have been conducted in Delhi, with 6,30,102 tests done per million.Also read | India saw nearly 87,000 Covid-19 cases this week, second wave fear loomsWith 10,900 total deaths, case fatality rate in Delhi stands at 1.71 per cent. Also the cumulative positivity rate, considering the total tests done and total positive cases, stands at 5.33 per cent. The bulletin also showed that 467 patients are currently at home isolation and there are 631 containment zones in Delhi as of Sunday.According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, a total of 2,86,826 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered to beneficiaries in Delhi, as of 6pm on Saturday. So far 2,73,613 people have received the first dose of the vaccine and 13,213 people have received the second dose.India reported 14,264 new Covid-19 cases and 90 deaths, with the overall caseload reaching 10,991,651 cases and death toll at 156,302. Number of active cases stands at 145,634 cases, higher than the 143,127 cases reported on Saturday. So far, 1,10,85,173 beneficiaries have received Covid-19 vaccines in the country, according to data from the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-145-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-active-cases-see-slight-jump-101613910533776.html
21-02-2021||Dehradun||Chamoli disaster: 6 more bodies recovered; death toll reaches 68, 136 missing||The rescue and search agencies involved in the Chamoli tragedy in Uttarakhand found six more bodies at the disaster site till Sunday evening taking the death toll to 68 with 136 still missing.Among the six bodies, five were found on Saturday late night while one was found on Sunday morning.Swati Bhadauria, district magistrate Chamoli, said, "The five bodies were recovered near the barrage at NTPC's hydel power project in Tapovan while another was recovered from the project's 1.7 kilometre-long tunnel where the rescue workers are continuously working to clear the muck after 35 workers were reported trapped inside."She informed that out of the total bodies recovered, 34 have been identified while as many are yet to be identified.Bhadauria added, "Till now, a total of 14 bodies have been recovered from the tunnel which is in the focus of the rescue operation. The remaining bodies were recovered from various other places."Also read: 'Govts elected to ease burden of people' - Sonia Gandhi to PM on fuel price hikeShe also informed that "The rescue workers have been able to clear the muck up to a distance of about 162 metres in the Tapovan tunnel but are facing difficulty due to the continuous outflow of water from inside."Meanwhile, the rescue workers are also scanning the Alaknanda river downstream of the disaster site to search for bodies."About 70 personnel in 12 teams of the SDRF are searching bodies in the river from Raini village to Srinagar in Pauri Garhwal district alongside the river covering four districts of Chamoli, Rudraprayag, Tehri Garhwal and Pauri Garhwal. After recovering the bodies, their DNA samples are being collected for a DNA test with that of their family members to ascertain their identification," said Praveen Alok, SDRF spokesperson.Of the total 204 missing initially in the disaster, 139 are from NTPC’s Tapovan power plant and 53 from the Rishi Ganga project that was also damaged in the disaster caused by a rockslide and the formation of a glacial lake in the mountainous terrain. About 12 villagers living in the vicinity are also missing.The disaster also washed away the lone bridge located near the Rishi Ganga hydel power project, cutting off 12 villages namely Lata, Bhangyul, Raini Chak Subhai, Juvagwar, Jugju, Reni Chal Lata, Pang Muranda Gahar, Tolma, Bhalgaon, Pagrasu and Loung Segdi. About 465 families living in those villages have been impacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/chamoli-disaster-6-more-bodies-recovered-death-toll-reaches-68-136-missing-101613911147881.html
21-02-2021||Pune||Four of family jump into dam backwaters in Mulshi to save woman, all drown||PUNE Five members of a family drowned in the backwaters of a dam in Kolvan village in Mulshi, according to the local police.The incident took place on Sunday at around 10:30 am.The deceased have been identified as Pournima Ashok Mahanti (36), Shankar Dashrath Laygude (38), Arpita Mahanti (21), Ankita Mahanti (13) and Rajashree Laygude (10), according to the police.The couple is survived by three other daughters who were in their house which is close to the river bank.Pournima was washing clothes in the backwaters when she drowned. “One of the daughters saw the woman drown and three of her sisters jump after her and she told her father who later jumped in the water to save them,” according to the station house officer of Paud police station.“This was not the first marriage of either the woman or the man. Therefore, her legal name and that of two of her daughters is still related to her previous husband who died earlier,” said an official of Paud police station.The bodies were pulled out by the locals along with the police within a couple of hours of the incident and sent to Paud government hospital for post-mortem.The deaths were recorded at the Paud police station of Pune rural police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/four-of-family-jump-into-dam-backwaters-in-mulshi-to-save-woman-all-drown-101613909896343.html
21-02-2021||Other||PMC takes actions against 44 eateries for violation of Covid protocols||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has intensified its action against eateries and restaurants that are not adhering to Covid prevention protocols. PMC has appointed two inspection squads in each ward office, who are conducting surprise inspection visits and taking action against those not following standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the corporation for prevention of the spread of Covid-19.“In last three days (Feb 18, 19, 20) we have taken action against 44 eateries in the city for the violation of Covid prevention SOPs. Our squads found that the SOPs were not followed at those places. We have constituted two inspection squads under each ward office. So there are 30 squads which will keep vigilance,” said Vikram Kumar, municipal commissioner.Of the 44 eateries, some have been fined Rs5,000 for the violations. Some have been fined and sealed.PMC and city police have also intensified the action against not of wearing masks. The PMC and Pune police together have taken action against 4,682 people for not wearing masks in seven days between February 10 and February 18. The PMC has fined 184 in seven days and collected fines of ₹92,500. City police have taken action against 4,498 people and collected fines of ₹21,39,800.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-takes-actions-against-44-eateries-for-violation-of-covid-protocols-101613909116400.html
21-02-2021||Kolkata||'Wont' be cowed down,' says Abhishek Banerjee as CBI seeks to question wife||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Sunday visited the south Kolkata residence of Trinamool Congress (TMC) Lok Sabha member and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee to serve notice to his wife for questioning in connection with the coal smuggling case that is being probed by the agency.Banerjee’s wife, Rujira, was not present at the Harish Mukherjee Road building, named Santiniketan, when the five-member CBI team arrived around 2 pm. The couple tied the knot in 2012 and have two children, a boy and a girl.A huge police contingent was quickly deployed around the house which remains heavily guarded round the year.Also read: Puducherry govt crisis - 1 more Congress MLA resigns ahead of govt's floor testAt 2pm today, the CBI served a notice in the name of my wife. We have full faith in the law of the land. However, if they think they can use these ploys to intimidate us, they are mistaken. We are not the ones who would ever be cowed down. pic.twitter.com/U0YB6SC5b8Banerjee retaliated by taking to Twitter and saying that he will not be "cowed down" by such an event.Banerjee tweeted an image of the notice that CBI additional superintendent of police Umesh Kumar left at his residence."At 2pm today, the CBI served a notice in the name of my wife. We have full faith in the law of the land. However, if they think they can use these ploys to intimidate us, they are mistaken. We are not the ones who would ever be cowed down," Banerjee tweeted.The notice, served under section 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.PC), said a CBI team would come to his residence and question his wife at 3 pm. The case was registered on November 27 last year.“A CBI team did go Abhishek’s home but they could not serve any notice. The team went back. The officers said they would come again. It is known that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will try to scare us before the polls. We are not worried” said TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy.Since Assembly elections in Bengal will be held in March-April, the CBI team's visit raised the political heat.“This is part of a well-prepared script. The entire BJP leadership has targeted the chief minister and Abhishek Banerjee. If the CBI is so keen on cracking cases why doesn’t it arrest BJP leader Mukul Roy in the Narada case or Suvendu Adhikari in the Saradha chit fund case. Both are suspects,” said TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh.On December 31, the CBI raided three residences of businessman and TMC’s youth front general secretary Vinay Mishra in connection with the coal smuggling case. Mishra is missing since then and has been declared an absconder by the agency.It is alleged that illegally mined coal, worth several thousand crores of rupees, have been sold in the black market over several years by a racket operating in the western parts of West Bengal where the Eastern Coalfields Limited runs several mines. Another prime suspect, Anup Majhi, alias Lala, is also absconding.In early December, the CBI also raided the home and office of Ganesh Bagaria, a Kolkata-based chartered accountant.Ever since the probe started in September, the BJP has been alleging that the money from the sales was whitewashed through shell companies and siphoned into the funds of the ruling party. The BJP has also alleged that the main beneficiary is Abhishek Banerjee.Banerjee is the president of the TMC’s youth wing. On July 20, he appointed 15 general secretaries, including Mishra.“The CBI probe will unearth the involvement of more TMC leaders in different scams. The entire state knows that ruling party leaders are involved in the coal scam,” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/wont-be-cowed-down-says-abhishek-banerjee-as-cbi-seeks-to-question-wife-101613907490874.html
21-02-2021||Pune||Only hold important classes on campus||Colleges have reopened across the city from February 15 with students allowed to attend classes in batches. The college management have put in place safety precautions related to the coronavirus. With Maharashtra seeing a spike in Covid-19 cases since Wednesday (February 10), suggest steps that the state, local and college authorities should take to prevent and avoid campus outbreaks.Strictly follow safety precautions Now that college campuses have reopened for students after 11 months, the coronavirus cases are reported to be on a rise in the city. Hence, masks should be made mandatory for students, teachers and staff as a precautionary measure on the campus. Sanitiser should be available for students on the premises of the college. Some lectures can be taken online while practical and important lectures can be taken offline. As college offices will be seeing a rush as students submit exam forms and fees, steps should be taken to ensure that social distancing and other Covid safety measures are in place.Gauri MarneThermal checks of students must College authorities should arrange classes in batches, making mask, sanitiser and social distancing norms mandatory on premises. The temperature and oxygen level of students (thermal checking) should be checked. Arrangements should be made to ensure prompt medical assistance to those found with possible Covid symptoms.Parnavi DeviContinue with online classes The intention of reopening college campuses for students may not be a good idea as Maharashtra is witnessing a rise in Covid infections. Hence, the authorities should continue online classes till June 2021 to check the possible next wave of the virus. This practical implementation would have served better for students to avoid the possible risk of getting infected and cleared their academic year exams by June 2021. Plus, I feel if the government tries to implement new rules in haste, many students will find the new restrictions distracting when they are preparing for exams. Hope the government takes adequate steps to check the possible spread of virus.Rahul UpadhyeAvoid unnecessary gathering at campusesProper sanitation system should be in place at colleges and students should be asked to follow sanitising norms, besides strictly wearing mask and following following social distancing at the campus. Colleges should try to hold maximum lectures online, and allow offline only for practical and important lectures. Colleges should avoid holding public functions on the campus. Relaxation must be granted to students on 75% compulsory attendance policy. Students should not be allowed to spend time at the campus unnecessarily. We should accept the “new normal” caused by the Covid pandemic and follow safety measures.Omkar ShendeColleges should have offline classes twice a weekIt is okay to reopen college campuses provided Covid guidelines are followed strictly. However, the classes should be limited to practical and problem solving sessions. The colleges should reopen twice a week with reduced classroom hours to facilitate students to complete courses with minimum Covid risk.Ajay KateFollowing prevention norms should be top priorityThough students are excited to meet teachers and friends on campuses after a long time, authorities should take steps to ensure they follow the Covid prevention norms. Teachers should undergo Covid test as they will be meeting students. Tables and chairs should be arranged at classrooms as per social distancing norms. Equipment used by students for practicals must be regularly sanitised. As many private coaching institutes have resumed offline classes by following the Covid prevention norms, likewise colleges can also resume classroom teaching.Mandar RajputStudents should avoid casual approach on social distancingUnless students follow the precautionary measures seriously, the efforts of educational institutes will not be fruitful. Although vaccine is out still it is not given to the general public and our lax attitude in following the Covid safety norms could cause a surge in cases in the city. Student movement at campuses should be strictly monitored. They should not be allowed to hangout after lectures. Casual approach and disregard for advisories issued by the authorities could pose virus spread risk.Sayali ShindeAuthority should promote self-care at campusWe are carrying out thermal check of every student at the gate and keeping a record. The student strength at classrooms has been limited to 50 per cent. Students have to sanitise hands every time they enter classrooms. Equipment used by students are sanitised after every class. Wearing a mask or covering you face is mandatory for students and staff. Students, teachers and staff who fall ill are asked to stay home. Self-care is promoted on campus by the college authority. Least physical interaction is allowed on campus, especially during in group projects and library reading. Also, we are offering yoga and health classes to students. Nutan Kanegaonkar KulkarniColleges must follow precautionary measuresWhile we desperately want to attend college in person and carry out our education via physical classes, there are still a number of students from our batch who are sceptical given the rising case count in Maharashtra, which is currently the largest contributor to the overall count in the country. Hence, things are still on the edge about the Covid situation but I believe all this can be handled well if proper sanitation and social distancing measures are put in place.Saloni DhumneFollow norms strictlyAfter passing my SSC (Class 12) exams, I was excited to go to college but the Covid pandemic limited our classes to online. Things were slowly returning to normal before the sudden surge in cases became a cause of concern. We are supporting the college authorities and following Covid guidelines. If students follow the prevention norms then offline classes can be conducted in a secured environment.Rajeshwari MarneCarry one extra mask on campus should be made compulsoryStudents and college authorities need to work together to check the spread of Covid at campuses. Closing campuses again should not be considered, but safety norms should be implemented strictly. Keeping one extra mask should be made compulsory for students. Hanging out in groups should be avoided.Piyush DeshmukhAs told to Jigar Hindocha||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/only-hold-important-classes-on-campus-101613906656239.html
21-02-2021||Kolkata||'Won't be cowed down': Abhishek Banerjee on CBI summons to wife in coal theft case||Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday tweeted an image of the CBI notice summoning his wife in connection with the coal theft case and said they had faith in the judicial system and won't be 'cowed down'.At 2pm today, the CBI served a notice in the name of my wife. We have full faith in the law of the land. However, if they think they can use these ploys to intimidate us, they are mistaken. We are not the ones who would ever be cowed down. pic.twitter.com/U0YB6SC5b8"At 2pm today, the CBI served a notice in the name of my wife. We have full faith in the law of the land. However, if they think they can use these ploys to intimidate us, they are mistaken. We are not the ones who would ever be cowed down," he tweeted.Earlier in the day, a CBI team had reached Trinamool leader Abhishek Banerjee's house in Kolkata and served notice to Abhishek's wife Rujira Narula, asking her to join the probe.On Friday, the agency conducted searches at 13 locations in four districts — Purulia, Bankura, Paschim Bardhaman and Kolkata in connection with the case.The CBI had filed an FIR against the alleged kingpin of the racket Manjhi alias Lala in November last year. Manjhi is accused of being involved in the illegal mining and theft of coal from leasehold mines of ECL in Kunustoria and Kajora areas, people familiar with the development told news agency PTI.Assembly elections in the state are due in April-May. The BJP has launched a vigorous campaign to oust the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC that had secured consecutive wins in 2011 and 2016.Abhishek Banerjee, who is a Lok Sabha member, is an important face in the party and has been leading the Trinamool Congress' counter-attack in its election campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/wont-be-cowed-down-abhishek-banerjee-on-cbi-summons-to-wife-in-coal-theft-case-101613906024497.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Ahead of Mumbai civic polls, CM Thackeray inaugurates infra projects||In a boost to non-motorized transport, Mumbai's Western Express Highway (WEH) might soon get a cycle track, Mumbai's suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray said at an event on Sunday. Ahead of the 2022 Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday inaugurated many infrastructure works, including one arm of the Kalanagar junction towards the sea-link, the ground-breaking ceremony of the Sewri-Worli connector, cycle track at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) and a smart-parking facility at the commercial complex.The chief minister said, "When we had shifted to Kalanagar way back, people used to ask us why we are shifting to this marshy area. Today, it is as important an area as Colaba." He said, referring to his residence at Matoshree in Kalanagar. He further said, "It's not like we are working only for elites. I am very proud of inaugurating a cycle track today. When you think of cycles, you think of Mumbai's dabbawalas, who work hard through the day."Aaditya Thackeray, who was present at the event, said that the government will take up refurbishment of major arterial roads in the city like Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road, Santacruz Chembur Link Road, LBS Marg, WEH and Eastern Express Highway. "The main aim is to improve the footpaths. In fact, in the next five years, all footpaths and pedestrian crossings in the city will be improved. Like BKC, we will also have cycle tracks along WEH," he said. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has currently undertaken refurbishment works along WEH.On Sunday, Thackeray inaugurated one arm of the Kalanagar flyover towards the Bandra-Worli sea link. According to MMRDA, 80% of the works on the sea link to BKC and Dharavi-sea link part has also been completed. "The progress of the project was delayed owing to the pandemic. We were looking at completing the project a year ago itself," said RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA.Also Read: Classes in schools, colleges suspended, night restrictions return in PuneRajeev also said that the 4.5 km Sewri-Worli connector will prove to be a challenging project for MMRDA. In fact, guardian minister for Mumbai suburbs, Aaditya Thackeray said that the connector will be 3-9 levels above the ground at various points. "At one portion, it will also go above the Mumbai monorail," he said at the event. Thackeray also said that the corridor is being built as a connector to the city's ambitious project - the Mumbai Trans Harbour link - a 22km sea link connecting Mumbai and Navi Mumbai.Talking about the smart parking project, Rajeev said that close to 10,000 vehicles enter BKC every day. MMRDA will launch an application, which will enable citizens to pre-book their parking slots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ahead-of-mumbai-civic-polls-cm-thackeray-inaugurates-infra-projects-101613903026213.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||In 10 days, Mumbai's daily Covid-19 cases near Nov level; second wave fear looms||Maharashtra's capital Mumbai has been recording a spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases over the last few weeks. The spread of the disease, which was slowing down, has once again accelerated the city.In September last year, when Covid-19 was at its peak, Mumbai recorded nearly 2,000 cases daily towards the end of the month, according to Maharashtra government's Covid-19 dashboard. The trend continued for a few weeks, but then the daily caseload started dropping.By November, the city was recording over 1,000 cases daily and the number fell further in December, with the average daily cases hovering between 600-700, according to the state government's dashboard.Buoyed by the falling number of Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra government brought in some relaxations, allowing cinema halls to reopen from November 5. India's worst-hit state was on road to recovery.The trend continued till January, and the state government further opened the local trains in February.But in the last two weeks of this month, the cases have spiked again. An analysis of the daily number of cases in Maharashtra government's dashboard, the number of daily cases has risen from 599 to 897, the city's sharpest single-day spike since November 29 when the daily caseload stood at 940.On February 14, the daily Covid-19 cases in Mumbai were 645, by February 17, it had increased to 721. The number stood at 736 on February 18, 823 on February 19 and 897 yesterday, according to Maharashtra government's Covid-19 dashboard. Mumbai's Covid-19 tally now stands at 3,18,207.The doubling rate of cases in the city has dropped to 371 days, down from 393 on Friday, 417 on Thursday, 445 on Tuesday, and 455 on Monday. The growth rate of cases has now increased to 0.19%, up from 0.18% on Friday, 0.17% on Thursday, 0.16% on Tuesday and 0.15% on Monday.The areas of concern are the Mumbai suburban areas where the weekly cases have risen by 19 per cent. In Nagpur, Amravati, Nashik, Akola and Yavatmal the weekly cases have increased by 33 per cent, 47 per cent, 23 per cent, 55 per cent and 48 per cent, respectively, the ministry underscored.Maharashtra too is grappling with a spike in Covid-19 cases. On Friday, it reported 6,112 new cases, the highest daily addition in 84 days, taking the caseload to 20,87,632. The last time Maharashtra had reported over 6,112 cases was on November 27 last year (6,185 cases).Dr Sanjay Oak, who heads the coronavirus task force comprising senior specialist doctors, blamed the laxity shown by people. "People are not following Covid-appropriate behaviour. They need to restrain themselves," he said.Dr Oak, however, ruled out that it is the "second wave" of the coronavirus pandemic in Maharashtra.Maharashtra Government's Principal Secretary (Health) Pradeep Vyas also blamed people's "indiscipline and negligence" for the spike."There is laxity in following protocols. People are not adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour," he said."Authorities have to tell people that coronavirus is still around and the masses should not be lax and negligent," Vyas said.Between Monday and Friday, the state added 23,354 cases, much higher than the 15,149 cases that were added in the same duration the previous week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-10-days-mumbai-s-daily-covid-19-cases-near-nov-level-second-wave-fear-looms-101613900864923.html
21-02-2021||Bangalore||Panchamasali Lingayat seers give ultimatum to Yediyurappa govt over reservation||Thousands of members of the Panchamasali Lingayat community gathered in Karnataka’ Bengaluru on Sunday demanding reservations for the community and its inclusion under the Category 2A in the state quota, warning that if the BS Yediyurappa-led government fails to do so they will organise a massive protest march.“If Yediyurappa-led government doesn't respond by today, we will begin satyagraha and head towards the Vidhan Sabha,” J Mruthyunjaya Swami, one of the main members leading the protest, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The gathering amassed at Palace Grounds in Bengaluru after influential Panchamasali Lingayat seers led a week-long march from Kudalasangama in Bagalkote district, about 500km from Bengaluru, demanding that the Yediyurappa government take note of the reservation demands of the community. Several leaders from Congress and the BJP were also seen raising demands for the reservation for the community at the gathering.Yediyurappa has come under widespread criticism from various quarters, including his own party’s leaders as well as the opposition, who claim that the Karnataka chief minister has not given due consideration to the demands of the Panchamasali Lingayat community. The Panchamasali Lingayat community is one of the largest sub-sect within the Lingayat community.Karnataka minister Murugesh Nirani had said last week that the government should consider giving reservation to the Panchamasali Lingayats. “There is nothing wrong to include this community in the 2A category of the backward classes list and entitle them (15%) reservations in government jobs and education,” Nirani was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Yediyurappa along with state home and law minister Basavaraj Bommai said that they are listening to the inputs shared by fellow cabinet members as well as other lawmakers to address the issues raised by these communities while addressing the press on Thursday.“I have discussed it at the cabinet meeting, all the ministers have expressed their opinion, discussions are on regarding the way forward,” the chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The Yediyurappa-led government is also facing demands for reservation from the dominant Vokkaliga and Veerashaiva-Lingayat communities. It is also facing demands for reservation from the Kuruba community as well. The Karnataka government currently provides 15% reservation for communities who come under Scheduled Castes (SC), 3% reservation for Scheduled Tribes (ST) and 32% reservation for communities under the communities who come under the ambit of other backward classes (OBCs).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/panchamasali-lingayat-seers-give-ultimatum-to-yediyurappa-govt-over-reservation-101613900479934.html
21-02-2021||Bangalore||Yatnal sets Yediyurappa new timeframe for 2A reservation for Panchamasali||Basanagouda Ramanagouda Patil (Yatnal), the firebrand Bharatiya Janata Patil (BJP) legislator from Bijapur city (Vijayapura) on Sunday launched another offensive against the state government without naming chief minister B S Yediyurappa and demanded that Panchamasali community is included in the 2A category in the State OBC list by the end of the budget session."We have given memos. But this time we are here to take our reservation and not give another memo," Yatnal said in Bengaluru.The rally of Panchamasali community, a sect of the dominant Lingayats, are among several politically influential communities in the state including the Kuruba, Vokkaligas and Valmikis who have sought increase in existing reservations. Panchamasalis are categorised in 3B subdivision under the Backward Class (BC) category and are demanding inclusion in the 2A subdivision which offers 15% reservation in education and employment. Yediyurappa has referred the matter to the state backward classes commission and has assured to do all he can as he faces pressure from the sub-sect, who like others Lingayats, have firmly backed him and the BJP in Karnataka for at least the last two decades.Yatnal, a staunch critic of Yediyurappa, said that he will raise the issue on March 4 at the beginning of the budget session of the state legislature in Bengaluru. The Sunday demand seemed to have cut short the earlier three month time the community had proposed to give the government for affecting the change. Yatnal was speaking at a massive rally at the Palace Grounds, the culmination point for over 700 km long or march led by influential seers of the Panchamasali. The march started on 14 January from Kudalasangama in Bagalkot district and was attended by seers like Jaya Mruthyunjaya Swamy.Earlier, Yatnal was issued a notice by the BJP for repeated attacks on Yediyurappa and his family as well as talking about a change in leadership in the state."You cannot shut me up by issuing notices," Yatnal said, repeatedly referring to the Yediyurappa-led government as a "natak company". "If you think you can shut me up, you would be forced to vacate your chair," Yatnal said to loud roars from the thousands gathered at the rally. Thousands participated in the rally, holding flags and screaming "Jai Panchamasali", in what the seers described as "a show of strength".Also Read:Karnataka CM urges PM Modi to approve 6 canal modernisation project proposalsApart from prominent seers, senior BJP ministers like CC Patil and Murugesh Nirani and leaders from the Congress were also seen on the event stage. "We are doing all we can to get this 2A," said Nirani, Karnataka's minister for mines and geology.The rally also saw seers and leaders make a clear distinction between Lingayats and Panchamasali. Though there are at least 99 sub-sects under Lingayats, the distinctions made by speakers at the rally could add to Yediyurappa's challenges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/yatnal-sets-yediyurappa-new-timeframe-for-2a-reservation-for-panchamasali-101613900016963.html
21-02-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka Gandhi in UP's Prayagraj to meet boatmen 'harassed' local police||Congress party's general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday reached Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh to extend support to boatmen who were allegedly harassed by local police.Priyanka was seen interacting with the villagers and members of the fisherman community.Earlier, she had travelled in Sujit Nishad's boat after she took a holy dip at the Sangam, a confluence of the Ganga, Yamuna and Saraswati river, on Mauni Amavasya where she had performed puja. She had later posted a video where she was seen assisting Nishad in rowing the boat.Nishad had informed Priyanka about issues that boatmen belonging to the Nishad community were facing, including brutality against them by police whom he alleged had destroyed their boats. The boatman requested her assistance in raising their voices against the oppression to which she agreed, party sources said.Sujit had said that several boats belonging to the Nishad community, an OBC (other backward class) caste, were damaged by police and administrative officials.The Uttar Pradesh government banned the use of boats in sand mining across the state on 24 June 2019. Suddenly millions of Nishads became unemployed. So there is anger among the caste. Lakhs of Nishads depend on rivers for their livelihood in Uttar Pradesh.In 2013, the NGT prohibited the extraction of sand from rivers using machines, but mining companies continue to extract it with Pokeland machines and the government levies tax.There has been a dispute between the mining mafia and Nishads in and around Ghurpur for about 15 years. Nishads have been in conflict with the police over it.In the Banswar village near Ghurpur, on January 30, there was Raj Contract which has now been shut down. On February 4, some people complained that illegal mining was being done here. The police came, damaged 16 boats and 30 people were injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/priyanka-gandhi-in-up-s-prayagraj-to-meet-boatmen-harassed-local-police-101613898869279.html
21-02-2021||West||TMC catches on ‘pawri ho rahi hai’ meme, takes a dig at Bengal BJP||The Trinamool Congress took a dig at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday as it caught on the ‘pawri ho rahi hai’ meme that has taken social media by storm in the past week. The Mamata Banerjee-led TMC tweeted a picture of a public event where a BJP leader is addressing the audience of only one man while the rest of the seats lie vacant. The original video has Pakistani influencer and content creator Dananeer Mobeen vacationing in a hilly location and in her 15-second video, she can be heard saying, "Ye humari car hai aur yeh hum hai aur ye humari pawri ho rahi hai (this is our car, this is us, and this is our party)". The TMC shared its parody targeting the BJP over state assembly elections slated for later this year. “Yeh @BJP4Bengal hai. Yeh unki jansabha hai. Aur yahaan inki pawri ho rahi hai!” the TMC tweeted. Yeh @BJP4Bengal hai.Yeh unki jansabha hai.Aur yahaan inki pawri ho rahi hai!🤭😂 pic.twitter.com/2mCB2aTedxThe authenticity of the image shared could not be verified. Several celebrities and even the Uttar Pradesh police came up with their own “pawri ho rahi hai” versions, urging residents to complain against those partying till late in the neighbourhood. “Late night #PawriHoRahiHai aur aap disturb ho rahe toh call karein 112 (If there’s late night party happening around and you are getting disturbed, call 112),” the police in Uttar Pradesh had tweeted. Late night #PawriHoRahiHai aur aap disturb ho rahe toh call karein 112 pic.twitter.com/vc74SmtDmFThe BJP and TMC are at loggerheads and the tensions between them have become even more intense as the assembly polls draw closer. On Saturday, the ruling Trinamool Congress launched its slogan for the upcoming assembly elections — ‘Bangla Nijer Meyekei Chay’ (Bengal Wants Its Own Daughter). The BJP hit back on Sunday with its counter slogan 'Bangla Didir Theke Mukti Chay’ (Bengal Wants Relief From Didi) and released it with an animation music video.A tune from Communist Italy, sung to protest against atrocities, echoes once again in West Bengal as people stand up to the injustices of the ruling dispensation.Our ideologies may differ, but the language of protest always rings true.#BanglaDidirThekeMuktiChay #PishiJao pic.twitter.com/32KN4395h6As the TMC pushes its 'insider-outsider' narrative, the BJP leadership has built suspense over its chief ministerial candidate for the eastern state. Union home minister Amit Shah, however, recently said the BJP's CM candidate will not be an outsider.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/west-bengal-assembly-election/tmc-catches-on-pawri-ho-rahi-hai-meme-takes-a-dig-at-bengal-bjp-101613898684814.html
21-02-2021||Kolkata||PM Modi to inaugurate Kolkata Metro extension to Dakshineswar on Monday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the extension of Kolkata Metro's North-South Line from Noapara to Dakshineswar on Monday, an official said.The prime minister will flag off a train from Noapara to Dakshineswar from a programme in the Hooghly district, Kolkata Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said.The inauguration, scheduled on Monday afternoon, will help connect thousands of people in the 4.1 km stretch between Noapara and Dakshineswar, she said.Apart from regular passengers, devotees intending to visit Dakshineswar Kali temple will also be facilitated with a fast and pollution-free travel mode following the extension of the Metro Railway in its north-south axis.Passengers from Kavi Subhash station in the southern end will be able to travel to Dakshineswar in just over an hour, traversing 31.3 km, a Metro official said.The prime minister is also scheduled to hold a public meeting at Dunlop Maidan in Hooghly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-kolkata-metro-extension-to-dakshineswar-on-monday-101613899094421.html
21-02-2021||Jaipur||Robbery at petrol pump in Jaipur||Four masked men robbed a petrol pump worker at a filling station in Mansarovar area here, police said on Sunday.The incident took place after midnight on Saturday when the four unidentified people arrived at the petrol pump on two separate two-wheelers. One of them pointed gun at the petrol attendant and asked him to handover his money collection bag, police said.The entire incident was captured on a CCTV camera installed at the pump."A case has been registered on the complaint lodged by the petrol pump operator. The accused have fled away with ₹23,000. A search is on to nab them," Muhana Station House Officer (SHO) Lakhan Singh said.The accused are being tracked on the basis of CCTV footage, the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/robbery-at-petrol-pump-in-jaipur-101613898327228.html
21-02-2021||Patna||Man gets death sentence for raping, murdering 9-year-old girl in Bihar||Special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) court in Bihar’s Gopalganj sentenced 20-year-old Jaikishor Shah to death for raping and murdering a minor girl on Saturday. The court also directed the government to pay additional compensation to the victim’s mother.On August 25, a 9-year-old minor girl was raped and murdered in a village in Gopalganj’s Sidhwalia police station limits, around 130 kilometres from the state capital Patna. The village is close to Uttar Pradesh (UP) border.Gopalganj SP Anand Kumar said the minor’s body was found stuffed in a gunny bag in a steel box at Jaikishor Shah’s house, located in Bakhraur village, about 200 metres from the victim’s place. After committing the crime, the suspect fled the village but was arrested within 24 hours.During interrogation Shah confessed to raping and murdering the girl while she was visiting his house to play with his two year old son.The court of additional district and session judge-6 Balendra Shukla announced death sentence to the accused, convicting him under sections 302, 376 (A,B) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under section 4/6/8 and 10 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act for rape and murder.Special public prosecutor Daroga Singh said police submitted the charge-sheet within two months while the judgment came within 25 days of framing of charges against the culprit.Earlier on February 15, the POCSO court in Patna awarded death penalty to a private school principal Arvind Kumar alias Raj Singhania after holding him guilty of repeatedly raping an 11-year-old female student inside the institution premises. The victim had later become pregnant. Besides Singhania, the court also handed over rigorous life imprisonment to schoolteacher Abhishek Kumar (29) for conniving with Arvind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/man-gets-death-sentence-for-raping-murdering-9-year-old-girl-in-bihar-101613895869091.html
21-02-2021||Pune||50-year-old Pune man donates plasma 9 times after recovering from Covid||Ajay Munot (50), a marketing consultant, who had seen his mother donate blood many times, took a leaf out of her experience and donated plasma nine times after recovering from Covid.Munot tested positive for the virus on July 28, 2020.“Since childhood, I have seen my mother donate blood many times, so I followed in her footsteps and till now I have donated blood at least 40 times. So after recovering from Covid, I had heard about plasma donation and consulted my doctor for the same,” said Munot who donated plasma at Sahyadri Group of Hospitals for the ninth time on Saturday.A gap of 14 days is mandatory for any patient to donate plasma a second time.“I hope more people come forward to donate plasma,” added Munot.Dr Poornima Rao, senior consultant, Sahyadri speciality hospital, said, “Since the first time, we have noticed that antibody level in his body is good and so he could donate plasma so many times.”Dr Abhijit More, a member of the Jan Aarogya Manch and a health expert, said, “Such cases are rare. Many people have misconceptions and do not come forward to donate plasma. People like Munot will be an inspiration for many.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/50yearold-donates-plasma-9-times-after-recovering-from-covid-101613894537151.html
21-02-2021||Pune||Pune dist reports 847 new Covid cases, 8 deaths in 24 hours||The district Saturday reported 847 new cases in 24 hours, according to the state health department. This puts the district active cases count to over 9,217 and the progressive count at 3.99 lakh, out of which 3.81 lakh have recovered and 8,076 have been declared dead. The department also reported eight new deaths on Saturday. The city reported 430 new cases taking the progressive count to 203,782 and the death toll stood at 4,563 as five deaths were reported in 24 hours. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 189 new cases which took the progressive count to 99,596 and the death toll stood at 1,323 with two deaths reported on Saturday. Pune rural reported 228 new cases with the progressive count at 95,876 while the deaths toll stood at 2,142 as one new death was reported.The department reported that 2, 567 patients were discharged on Saturday taking the final count of such cases to over 19.92 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 95.16%. Also, 6,281 new cases in the state were reported taking the total to over 20.93 lakh. Besides, 40 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 52944. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.47%. Out of 1,56,52,742 laboratory samples 20,93,913 have been tested positive (13.38%) for Covid until February 20. currently, 2,28,060 people are in home quarantine and 1,610 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-reports-847-new-covid-cases-8-deaths-in-24-hours-101613894535657.html
21-02-2021||Other||District collector questions PMC’s mining royalty amount||PUNE The Pune district administration has raised questions on the mining royalty amount paid by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to the revenue department. Pune collector Rajesh Deshmukh wrote a letter to the PMC and demanded to pay mining royalty based on the development work in the city. As per law, those who dig three feet below the surface have to pay a royalty of ₹400 per 200 cubic feet to the revenue department. In the city premises, this tax is collected by the tahsildar under the Maharashtra Land Revenue Code 1965, 48(7). Deshmukh stated in the letter that there are development works being carried out by different governments, non-government bodies, and the local self-government in the city area. As per law, the government agency should add ₹400 per 200 cubic feet royalty to the contractor bill and deposit the funds to state government coffers. It has been found that the PMC has deposited a lesser royalty amount in comparison to the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in spite of having more land under its jurisdiction than the PCMC. Therefore, the PMC should have checked development works and taken an appropriate decision. The letter was issued by the district collector on February 17, 2021. In the month of January 2021, the district Collector sent a similar letter to the PMC. In this letter, the collector mentioned the amount paid by the PMC contractors. It was ₹15. 54 crores whereas PCMC contractors paid ₹13.06 crore until November 2020. Dr Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner said,” We will look into the matter and respond to the district administration.” Suresh Jagtap, additional municipal commissioner said, “On the background of Covid-19 pandemic, the development work was hampered. Therefore, the amount is less. Now, the PMC has floated various development works and the royalty amount will reflect that in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/district-collector-questions-pmc-s-mining-royalty-amount-101613894418055.html
21-02-2021||Other||Even as two projects lie unused PMC decides to fund 10 such proposals||PUNE Though Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has failed to maintain two amenity spaces developed under Pune Smart City’s placemaking initiative, the Bhavan (construction) department has proposed such concepts in ten different parts of the city and allocated a sum of ₹1 crore for the same.Placemaking is a multi-faceted approach to the planning, design and management of public spaces.Vikram Kumar, PMC commissioner, drafted the 2021-22 annual budget of the corporation of ₹7,650 crore. The commissioner has allocated ₹1 crore to develop amenity spaces under placemaking initiative in ten different parts of the city.Shivaji Lanke, superintendent engineer, Bhavan (construction) department, said, “Though the fund is allocated in budget-2021-22, we have to find amenity place to implement the concept. Therefore, ₹1 crore has been allocated.”The project will be implemented at Kothrud, Kharadi, Vishrantwadi, Bavdhan, Baner, Balewadi, Dhanori, Mundhwa, Sinhagad road and Warje Malwadi areasEarlier, PMC implemented some of the placemaking concepts in Wadgaonsheri and Bibwewadi areas with the theme of ecology and innovation. However, after its construction, it is lying unused as neither the Bhavan department (which developed it) nor the garden department is taking responsibility for maintaining the placemaking projects.In Wadgaon Sheri, the local corporation has demanded to convert placemaking into a hospital so that it can be used for a public purpose. While the Bibvewadi area, the place has been occupied by hawkers. The department had registered a complaint with the anti-encroachment department, but no action has been taken yet.“Due to lack of maintenance and Covid, two placemaking projects were lying idle. Now, we have floated a tender for maintenance of these two projects,” said Lanke.Civic activist, Kaka Kulkarni said, “It is wastage of public money. Instead of that, the corporation should use funds to improve health infrastructure amid the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/even-as-two-projects-lie-unused-pmc-decides-to-fund-10-such-proposals-101613894417227.html
21-02-2021||Other||Sena, NCP, Congress to fight municipal elections jointly||PUNE All the three political parties Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress will contest municipal elections jointly, said Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut.Raut was in a city on Saturday and visited the Sena office at Deccan.The municipal elections are likely to be held between December 2021 and January 2022.While interacting with media Raut said, “All the three parties will contest upcoming municipal elections together. The party which has more strength in every city will get maximum seats. In Pune, NCP is dominant so MVA would contest elections under the leadership of NCP in Pune.”Raut said, “We have a good relationship with opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis. I will be conducting his interview soon. Though we keep targeting the central government, it’s not a personal attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi or any individual. We oppose the policies proposed by them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sena-ncp-congress-to-fight-municipal-elections-jointly-101613894416407.html
21-02-2021||Pune||Mulshi dam water issue: Committee to submit report by April 2021||The committee which was formed to explore whether Mulshi dam can supply water to the Pune district, is likely to submit its report by April this year.Pune district has not been receiving water from Mulshi dam, although the dam is located within the district limits. The water is currently utilised to generate hydroelectricity for Mumbai city by Tata Power.It was a long pending demand to get water supply from Mulshi dam to Pune city and district for drinking and irrigation purposes.During the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rule in the state, the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had formed the committee headed by retired irrigation secretary Avinash Surve to study the issue and submit a report to the government.Surve said, “We conducted a study and held meetings with various stakeholders. We will submit the report by April 2021.”“There are various legal issues in drawing water from the Mulshi dam. Firstly, there should be an alternate arrangement for Mumbai city’s power generation. Secondly, we will require to sort out the agreement issue with the power company and there are some legal issues involved. We collected reports from the concerned agencies for the same,” he said.Recently, while inaugurating the Bhama Askhed dam water project, Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister and Pune guardian minister, had raised the issue of drawing water from Mulshi dam for use in Pune district.Pawar said, “During the BJP government rule in the state, a committee was formed to sort out the Mulshi water issue. I am following up with the committee and asking them to submit the report for the same.”Currently, Pune city is getting water from Khadakwasla, Panshet, Varasgaon, Panshet and Bhama Askhed dams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mulshi-dam-water-issue-committee-to-submit-report-by-april-2021-101613894415670.html
21-02-2021||Pune||Minimum temperature unlikely to drop below 11 degrees Celsius: IMD||After the city witnessed light rains in the last two days, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said that any further drop in minimum temperature is unlikely.The minimum temperature in the city will continue to be between 11 degrees Celsius and 14 degrees Celsius till the end of this month, said the weather department.Due to rainfall in the last two days and a cloudy afternoon on Saturday, the day temperature reported in the city was 28.5 degrees Celsius. It was 4.1 degree Celsius below normal, that is the expected day temperature was 32.6 degrees Celsius.The night temperature on Saturday was at 11.5 degrees Celsius which was one degree cooler than expected. The expected temperature was 12.5 degrees Celsius.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD Pune, said that there are two western disturbances in the northern part of the country.“However, there is also very strong easterly wind which is preventing any penetration of colder winds in Maharashtra. Hence the temperature is not likely to drop any further,” said Kashyapi.The weather department has forecast that day temperature in the city will be around 31 degrees Celsius till February 26. During the same time, the night temperature can drop as low as 11 degrees Celsius.Kashyapi also added that the weather in the state and Pune city will continue to remain dry in the coming days.“There were various weather systems present due to which the city and parts of the state experienced rainfall in the last few days. Now the weather is likely to remain dry till February 24,” added Kashyapi.The highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra on Saturday was 34.7 degree Celsius at Santacruz in Mumbai. While the lowest minimum temperature reported was at 8.8 degrees Celsius at Osmanabad.In the last two days, only traces of rainfall was reported in Pune city.The last known record for rainfall in February was at 29.5-millimetre rainfall in February of 1984 as per the IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/minimum-temperature-unlikely-to-drop-below-11-degrees-celsius-imd-101613894355699.html
21-02-2021||Pune||Two men killed in separate road accidents||Two men in their early 20s were killed in accidents within hours of each other in Pune city on Thursday and Friday. The one deceased in a hit-and-run case on Friday midnight was identified as Ajay Lokesh Gaikwad (24) who was riding on a motorbike, according to the police. A 24-year-old biker was killed in a hit-and-run incident at around 12:20am at the end of Mundhwa bridge. “He is a native of Varkute village in Indapur. His family was in Mohammadwadi area and they have collected the body after post-mortem. It was a hit-and-run case, and we are looking for security footage of the incident to identify what kind of vehicle it was,” said assistant police inspector S Gaikwad of Hadapsar police station is investigating the case. A case under Section 304(a) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Motor Vehicle Act (MVA) was registered at Hadapsar police station against the unidentified person. Hours before Gaikwad was killed, in another collision between a biker and a truck, a 22-year-old biker was killed. Ritesh Sanjay Mishra, (22), a resident of Warje Malwadi, Pune and a native of Allahabad in Uttar Pradesh lost his life. A case under Sections 304(a) and 279 of IPC and Sections 184 and 119/177 of MVA was registered at Sinhagad road police station. Police sub-inspector AB Kale of Sinhagad road police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-men-killed-in-separate-road-accidents-101613894296773.html
21-02-2021||Pune||Cops: Marne will not be spared, he is evading arrest||The Pune police issued a statement that Gajanan Marne (55), the man recently booked in multiple cases for participating in a rally for his release from Taloja Jail, is evading arrest in the case registered against him at Warje Malwadi police station. The city police also arrested six people in another case registered at Kothrud police station against Marne and around 150-200 others. “He will not be spared. That rally was a gross violation of the rules. We have only begun the arrests now and have seized 7 luxury cars today (Saturday),” said Amitabh Gupta, Commissioner of Police, Pune. The police statement about the case registered against him at Warje Malwadi police station claims that he is on the run from the police. “This is a totally illegal press note. The honourable Bombay High Court has also given clear directions in media trial cases that police are not supposed to rush to issue press notes unless the matter is serious like rape or murder. In this case, a media statement is not required at all. The seizure of property is not supposed to happen either. We are going to move HC against this statement. Plus, if someone is repeatedly filing false cases against me, why will I stay at home and invite arrest?” said Advocate Vijaisinh Thombare, representing Marne. The eight arrested men were identified as Mehbook Mortuja Mohammad Syyed (33) a resident of Hyderabad road in Solapur; Rajshekhar Yelappa Basge (26) a resident of Marunji, Hinjewadi; Jayvardhan Jaipal Birnale (24) a resident of Shivaji Chowk area in Hinjewadi; Lakshman Eknath Alhat (40) a resident of Pimpri; Sunil Dnyanoba Kamble (30) a resident of a resident of Donaje village in Haveli; Rahul Vitthal Dalvi (35) a resident of Jaibhavani nagar in Wadgaon Sheri; Dhananjay Subhash Humbir (31) a resident of Wagholi; and Kiran Vijay Majhire (30) a resident of Bhukum in Mulshi, according to a statement issued by Pournima Gailwad, Deputy commissioner of police, Zone-3, Pune police.The seized cars included Toyota Land Cruiser, Ford Endeavour, Toyota Fortuner, Tata Nexon, KIA Seltos, Mercedes, and BMW.According to the statement, nine others booked in a Warje Malwadi case along with Marne were identified as Pradeep Dattatray Kendre (36), Bapu Shrimant Bagal (34), Ananta Dnyanoba Kadam (37), Ganesh Namdev Hundare (39), Rupesh Krushnarao Marne (38), Sunil Namdev Bansode (40), Shrikant Sambhaji Pawar (34), and Sachin Appa Takawale (34), and Santosh Shelar. A case under Sections 353, 188, 268, 269, 143, 149 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 51(b) of Disaster Management Act, 2005; Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act; Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act, and Section 37(1)(3)with135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Warje Malwadi police station on the night of February 17 for the rally that was held on February 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cops-marne-will-not-be-spared-he-is-evading-arrest-101613894295671.html
21-02-2021||Pune||Pune police release sensitive information of DSK investors online||The Pune police have released sensitive data of DSK investors with the intention of awareness about registration in the list of beneficiaries on police record. The police have released a list of registered unsecured loan holders and fixed deposit investors who had given their money to the companies run by Pune-based realtor Deepak Sakharam Kulkarni (DSK), his wife Hemanthi Kulkarni, their relatives, and colleagues. The police have a list of around 35,000 investors while the released list includes information of around 4,500 investors, according to assistant commissioner of police Shivaji Pawar who is investigating the case. The EOW is headed by deputy commissioner of police Bhagyashri Navatake. The Pune police Twitter handle has tweeted the link to the list of people, who filled out these forms, on their Twitter handle. The list gives away information like phone number, account number, bank name, and IFSC along with the name of the account holder. The two lists include 334 people who had made their investments through unsecured loans to DSK and 4,487 people who had invested money through fixed deposits. “Cell phone numbers are points of communication and it is also where you get the OTP. A person who has access to these three pieces of information, a person can call the account holder and coax them into revealing information about their accounts. It is irresponsible of the police to do this,” said Rizwan Shaikh, a cybersecurity expert, and chief technology officer at Prestine InfoSolutions Pvt Ltd. The realtor is now in jail along with his wife, son, and multiple employees and relatives. These were the investors who were promised regular returns by the realtor and his wife. While the business worked for multiple years and it turned into a source of side-income for many, the returns stopped coming in 2018. Eventually, a case for cheating and sections of the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (in Financial Establishments) Act was registered at Shivajinagar police station and taken over by the Economic offence wing of Pune police. DSK and his wife were arrested from a hotel in Delhi in February 2019. Eventually, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) got involved and multiple FIRs and cases were registered against the realtor in various parts of the country. “People in those lists have already lost their money. They are desperate to get it back one or the other way. This information can be combined with other information and then used to target the people in those lists. They could argue as this is a public hearing, the data has to be public. But they could have masked the numbers. The data can be used for setting up phishing campaigns. The number of people on that list it huge. Somebody is bound to fall for the scam,” said Sudhir Shirsath, an independent cyber security expert.The police have a record of 35,000 such investors based on complaints received during the registration of the FIR against DSK. “The aim was to let the ones who have no registered yet to register and for those who have already registered to verify the information that has been recorded. But we will think about this angle and make necessary changes too,” said assistant commissioner of police Shivaji Pawar of EOW Pune police who is investigating the case.As per a Maharashtra government resolution passed in February 2019 for digitisation of information, the complainants were asked to submit information in another format.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-release-sensitive-information-of-dsk-investors-online-101613894235581.html
21-02-2021||Pune||Indian Army veteran seeking job duped of ₹8.4 lakh||An Indian Army veteran was duped of ₹8.4 lakh by callers who claimed to be offering a job to him. The call was made to him in the month of July when he started getting calls after he registered on a job portal, according to senior police inspector Mohan Shinde of Dighi police station. The 52-year-old who retired in July 2020 had uploaded his biodata on Naukri.com and had received a call from a woman who claimed to be working for times4job.com, according to his complaint. The woman first asked him to pay ₹1,00,000 in order to secure a job as a surveyor cartographer. Multiple people called him thereafter in relation to the offer and he made all the payments through PayTM, according to his complaint. The complaint in the matter was lodged by Shashank Shekhar Mandal, (52), a resident of Ganesh nagar in Bopkhel area of Pimpri-Chinchwad. He is a retired soldier from the Indian Army. “He was seeking another job and had signed up on the website. Once he shared the number, he started getting calls. This was one of those calls,” said senior PI Shinde. The complainant received a call on July 11, 2020, and paid a total of ₹8,43,750 through multiple transactions until August 1, 2020. The man received calls and spoke with three women and a man, according to his complaint. The cybercrime cell of Pimpri-Chinchwad police conducted an investigation and sent the case to the Dighi police station. A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Dighi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/indian-army-veteran-seeking-job-duped-of-rs-8-4-lakh-101613894236263.html
21-02-2021||Pune||National Mountain Bike Championship: Soman celebrates captaincy debut with two golds||Captaining the Maharashtra side for the first time, cyclist Pranita Soman clinched two gold medals on the second day of the 17th senior, junior and sub-junior National Mountain Bike Championship, Gadag, Karnataka on Saturday. The first gold medal came for Soman in the XCT (individual time trial ) race with the timing of 51 minutes 46.165 seconds. Silver and bronze medals went to Joysna Narzay, Karnataka (56 minutes and 39.302 seconds) and state girl Priyanka Karande (57 minutes 06.148 seconds) respectively. The second gold medal was the team gold as it came in the mixed relay (18.4km race distance) event which was introduced to the nationals for the first time. Soman along with teammates Priyanka Karande, Vitthal Bhosle and Bheem Rokaya completed the event in one hour, five minutes and 1.223 seconds. The second and third position went to Karnataka (One hour, six minutes and 43.096 seconds ) and Uttarakhand (One hour, 13 minutes and 6.689 seconds) A 20-year-old Soman from Sangamner district, Ahmednagar prefer to spend the offseason in Pune to master her skills in mountain biking. “I practice with Gautam Taode at the Arai tekdi (hill) and Pashan tekdi (hill). The session is generally of one or two months,” said Soman who will be taking part in one more event - XCO (Mass start race). In 2019, Soman won silver medals in XCT and XCO events in nationals held at Uttarakhand. “I wanted to change the colour of my medal to gold from silver that is what my focus was. I am happy to achieve two gold medals today and will try to continue the same performance in XCO (mass start race),” said Soman. While most athletes suffered due to the 2020 pandemic year, for Soman it was contrast as she practised hard on a stationary bicycle which has improved her strength. “I took the 2020 year in a positive way and devoted complete time for fitness and training. I was in regular touch with my coaches Mitten Thakker and Gautam Taode via online sessions,” added Soman. Captainship is the new responsibility “I need to manage which is not a hard task. Proper guidance to juniors helps them to improve their performance. Girls keep on asking me a few things which I tell them. I also share my experiences especially all those which I have got while participating in previous tournaments,” added Soman. Maharashtra was the runner up in the 2019 Nationals behind Karnataka. “Karnataka and Kerala are the most competitive states when it comes to cycling. Karnataka being host is practicing on this track since the last one month while we had two days of practice,” added Soman. Box: Pune cyclist won three medals Cyclists from the city have a reason to cheer as three cyclist from Pune won medals in respective categories in the ongoing 17th senior, junior and sub-junior National Mountain Bike Championship, Gadag, Karnataka In the youth boys’ category, Adeep Wagh won the gold medal in the individual time trial event (10km 4laps) with the timings of 31 minutes and 21.015 seconds. The silver and bronze medals went to Samaroan Jain, Karnataka (30min.26.282 seconds) Malav Dutta, Assam (31min. 25.851 sec) in youth boys. The other two medals came in the youth girls’ category, individual time trial event (10km 4laps). Pune girls Siddhi Shirke and Shravani Parit finished first and second on the podium. Shirke secured first place with a timing of 35 minutes 40.863 seconds while Parit finished with a timing of 38 minutes 25.227 seconds. The bronze medal went to Chaya Nagashetti, Karnataka (40 mins 18.372 seconds).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/national-mountain-bike-championship-soman-celebrates-captaincy-debut-with-two-golds-101613894175664.html
21-02-2021||Pune||Gutkha worth ₹19.5 lakh seized by Pune police||Two people were remanded to police custody by a local court on Saturday and gutkha worth ₹19,58,488 was seized by Pune police. A truck worth ₹10 lakh, which was carrying products was also seized by the police. The two arrested men were identified as Ganpatsingh Balwantsingh Rajput (50), a resident of Bibvewadi, Pune, and driver of the truck Revanath Kashinath Nimbalkar (25), a resident of Bhekrainagar in Hadapsar, according to the police. The two have been remanded to police custody until February 22. Tobacco and 11 related products of eight brands were found by police on a road near Bhairoba Nala in Lullanagar in Wanowrie, Pune. The truck was registered in Thane and was heading towards a godown in Katraj, said assistant police inspector Bholenath Ahivale of Wanowrie police station who is investigating the case. “The truck was heading towards the godown of Balaji transport located along in Gujarwadi phata in Katraj. The truck was loaded in Ahmedabad, Gujarat and brought here as it is allowed to be produced in that state. These people had masked these products with the help of utensils and other household products. Out of the 12 tonnes of total material in the truck, only two tonnes was gutkha,” said API Ahivale. A case under Sections 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, etc., with intent to commit an offence), 109 (offering bribe to a public servant), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), 279 (rash driving on public way), 276 (sale of drug as a different drug or preparation), 272 (adulteration of food or drink intended for sale), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gutkha-worth-rs-19-5-lakh-seized-by-pune-police-101613894176301.html
21-02-2021||Bangalore||Sunil Raoh: My next release has a lot of firsts in Kannada films||Actor Sunil Raoh has been a part of Kannada films ever since he was a child, and then transitioned to doing films as an adult as well. He might have slowed down on the number of films he took up in the past couple of years, but his comeback is all set to be a fantasy film, called Thurthu Nirgamana which means emergency exit in Kannada.“It’s been in the making for three years, including the whole of last year. It’s not a VFX heavy film, but there are some things that have not been seen in Kannada films before, so that way there are a few firsts we have tried. It took some time, and none of it is there just for the sake of it,” he says.The actor says they have been waiting for it to get a theatrical release, which got stuck due to the Covid 10 pandemic lockdown in 2020. Raoh says, “Just an exclusive OTT release doesn’t make sense, keeping in mind the visuals we have created. It may not be on a grand scale, but once you watch it on the big screen, you will know why we waited for a theatrical release. The visuals will be able to create an experience for the film goer. Everybody will come out saying it’s good they didn’t watch it on a mobile or tablet.”Having begun his career at the age of five, he further reveals that since he belongs to a family of musicians, the original plan was to just sing for his first film, Elu Suttina Kote. “It was by chance. I sang for a film, and was asked if I would do a role too, and I took to acting till about my high school days. Then once I got back to acting in the first year of college, I did television. In 2003, I made my debut as a leading actor in films. I got a couple of small supporting roles in other films, that’s when I decided I am ready for bigger roles. Thankfully, I got some really good offers, and they worked out well for me. In 2010, I thought I should take a break, and that I was capable of more. I needed to sit back and take a look at where my career was going. It expected it to be a small break, and it ended up being quite a big one. Till about 2017 I was completely away from acting,” confesses Raoh.He adds that it was indeed a case of waiting for the right films to come his way, and that happened after there was a change in the kind of films being explored. The actor explains, “There was a change happening in Bollywood. What happens in Indian films, is sure to trickle down to Kannada films. A lot more younger, experimental, independent filmmakers with newer thoughts and working styles came up. That’s what I was hoping for and thankfully, that happened. I started again with a web series, Loose Connection in 2017, and then this film. It’s lovely to come back.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/sunil-raoh-my-next-release-has-a-lot-of-firsts-in-kannada-films-101613893996452.html
21-02-2021||Pune||Classes in schools, colleges suspended, night restrictions return in Pune||In the light of increasing Covid cases in Pune district, some of the restrictions relaxed recently are being brought back including suspension of schools, colleges and private coaching in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad till February 28 when the situation will be reviewed again, said Pune divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao.Movement of people will also be restricted between 11pm and 6am when only essential activities like medical services, milk supply will be allowed. The hotels, restaurants and bars will not be allowed to operate beyond 11pm unlike the previously decided 1am deadline while micro-containment zones will be back in some parts of the city identified as Covid hotspots. Supply of vegetables and foodgrain has been exempted from restrictions. Implementation of new timings for hotels, restaurants and bars will be applicable from Monday.“Since past few days, the Covid positivity rate of Pune city has increased to 10% from 4.5% a fortnight ago. In the light of this, we have decided to impose certain restrictions,” said Rao after the meeting chaired by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.Pawar asked Pune Municipal Corporation and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporations to increase Covid-19 testing and also focus on contact tracing. The minister also instructed resumption of Covid care centres in rural parts the district with a high prevalence of the disease.Over 847 new Covid-19 cases were recorded within 24 hours on Saturday, taking the active case count to over 9,217 and the progressive count stood at 3.99 lakh out of which 3.81 lakh have recovered and 8,076 were declared dead. The department also reported eight new deaths on Saturday.Must Watch: Maharashtra: No permission for Rakesh Tikait’s rally amid rising Covid casesPune city reported 430 new cases taking the progressive count to 203,782 and the death toll stood at 4,563 as five deaths were reported in the 24 hours preceding Saturday. PCMC reported 189 fresh cases, taking the progressive count to 99,596 and the death toll reached 1,323 with two deaths reported in the last 24 hours preceding Saturday. Similarly, Pune rural reported 228 new cases with the progressive count reaching 95,876 and the death toll reached 2,142 with one new death reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/schools-colleges-suspended-night-movement-restrictions-return-in-pune-101613892964710.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Four Dubai returnees booked for flouting Covid-19 norms||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday filed a police complaint against four Dubai returnees who violated the government's guidelines and returned to their homes without completing the seven-day quarantine mandatory for international travelers.Mumbai Police in a statement said, "We have registered a case on BMC's complaint and booked four Dubai returnees under sections 188, 269 and 270 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code."BMC in a statement said, "After Sushil Sabnees, Jubeir Ghalte, Nikita Chander, and Swapan Chandradas returned from Dubai on February 10, BMC had arranged rooms for them at a hotel in Andheri, where according to the rules, they were kept in a seven-day institutional quarantine."BMC said that on the second day when some doctors went to check up on them, all the four Dubai returnees were found missing from the hotel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-four-dubai-returnees-booked-for-flouting-covid-19-norms-101613889964050.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Union minister Ramdas Athawale calls for caste-based census||Union minister Ramdas Athawale has called for a caste-based census in the country, but said his demand is not aimed at giving rise to casteism.Addressing tribals at Vikramgad in Maharashtra's Palghar district on Saturday, the minister of state for social justice and empowerment also demanded that Marathas be given reservation without disturbing quota for other castes and communities.The Supreme Court last year stayed the implementation of 2018 Maharashtra law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs, but made it clear that the status of those who have availed of the benefits will not be disturbed."The next census should also include data regarding various castes so that people know where they stand in the total population. This is not aimed at giving rise to casteism," the Republican Party of India (A) chief said.He further said his party will carry out an all India agitation at the headquarters of various states and districts on February 25 to demand five acres of land for those who do not have any source of income, to enable them to earn their livelihood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/union-minister-ramdas-athawale-calls-for-caste-based-census-101613887643989.html
21-02-2021||Delhi||Bring alive the magic of colours in your meal||We eat with our eyes first. Before the taste, looks make an impact. According to a research available on BioMed Central, a UK-based open access science publisher, ‘colour is the single most important product-intrinsic sensory cue when it comes to setting people’s expectations regarding the likely taste and flavour of food and drink’.Colourful food pumps up the mood and after what we have been through last, a pop of colour on our plate is something that doesn’t fail to delight. “Food presentation matters more than ever”, says Sahil Arora, executive chef, Shangri-La’s – Eros Hotel. “Colourful dishes instantly brighten up a meal. Adding a variety of colourful elements to a dish not only makes it more picturesque they also whets the appetite,” says Arora.Recently, colourful vegan burgers from the UK that went viral. Closer home, we saw colourful cauliflower by a Nasik farmer that broke the social media. “The world is bouncing back after months of lockdowns and gloomy forecasts. People are looking for reason to cheer and food is an indispensable component that can steer the feel-good hormones. Different colours evoke different emotions within us and bright and colourful dishes create a sense of joy. Even our good old Haldi Ka Dhoodh in its global avatar – turmeric latte, became a part of the western coffee connoisseur’s scene,” says Bhoopendra Singh, head chef, Whiz Café.There are several ingredients in home kitchens that can add colour and joy to food. “Colourful food and veggies are super healthy. Some common ingredients that naturally add colour to your plate are beetroot, crisp spinach, carrots, avocado, broccoli, orange/ orange peels, strawberries, bell peppers and zucchini. Boil vegetables also enhances the colour element. Spices such as turmeric and saffron also bring in colour. These ingredients are easily available, go well with a wide range of cuisines and add the playfulness to the dish,” says Aman Khanna, culinary experiences manager, The Connaught. “For a more diverse palette, you could use matcha tea for greens, paprika for a hot red, cocoa powder for a fancy brown and if you would want to go all out with experimentation, you could add activated charcoal to your dish for a black or ebony tinge,” says Singh.Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bring-alive-the-magic-on-colours-in-your-meal-101613889257494.html
21-02-2021||Patna||Nepali girl gang rape and murder case: 9 accused surrender, cop absconding||Nine people wanted in connection with gang rape and murder of a 12-year-old girl from Nepal in East Champaran district of Bihar surrendered before a local court on Saturday, however, the police officer accused of complicity in attempts to bury the case is still absconding, said police.Navin Chand Jha, superintendent of police (SP), East Champaran said all the accused have been sent to judicial custody after they surrendered in the court of sub divisional judicial magistrate (SDJM), Umesh Prasad, at Dhaka in Sikarahana sub division. "The charges against all the accused have been proven to be correct in the course of investigation. We will take further appropriate legal action," the SP said.The case was registered on February 2 after the minor girl, staying in a rented house at Kundwa Chainpur in Sikarahana subdivision in East Champaran district was reported to have been gang raped by four men on January 21and later murdered at her accommodation. The accused then allegedly connived with the then station house officer (SHO) Sanjeev Kumar to force the victim’s family to cremate her.Also Read:Patna’s more than 80% buildings are not earthquake resilient, warn expertsThe whole plot surfaced after an audio clip with the voice of the SHO went viral, prompting his suspension. "The charges against ex-SHO Sanjeev Kumar have been found to be true in our investigation. He has already been made an accused in the case and is evading arrest," said the SP.Accused Jai Prakash Sah, Hari Kishore Sah, Deepak Kumar Sah, Milan Sah, Ajay Sah, Ramesh Sah, Umesh Sah, Sunil Sah and Avnish Sah surrendered before the court on Saturday while the 10th accused Devendra Sah is still at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nepali-girl-gang-rape-and-murder-case-9-accused-surrender-cop-absconding-101613887896233.html
21-02-2021||Patna||Patna’s more than 80% buildings are not earthquake resilient, warn experts||More than 80% buildings in Patna are not earthquake resilient, experts said, and warned that they may not withstand a major tremor in future, causing huge loss of human lives and infrastructure.Bihar’s capital city is one of the most vulnerable to earthquakes as per the National Centre of Seismology (NCS), India Meteorological Department (IMD). Patna falls under Zone IV, classified as a severe zone by the NCS.With the latest one reported on February 15, the city receives aftershocks most times an earthquake shakes up Indo- Nepal border areas. On August 21, 1988, when a 6.9 magnitude quake hit Nepal near the Indian border, the entire north Bihar including Patna shook for 15 seconds and the tremors left behind cracks in thousands of buildings including the old secretariat in the capital.In 2015, an earthquake of 7.8 magnitude on Richter scale hit the capital in April, followed by another earthquake of 7.3 magnitude in May, though their epicentre was in Nepal. These quakes damaged many old structures in the city.Bihar Building Byelaws 2014 have guidelines for making new construction earthquake resilient, the state government decided to identify the vulnerabilities of old buildings and improve their strength with retrofitting.“But hardly a few state buildings have been covered under this programme,” Sunil Kumar Chaudhary, Bihar Engineering Service Association general secretary and former Bihar State Disaster Management Authority, official said.The plan was to first address issues with heavily populated important buildings like government offices, hospitals and schools, he added.“A large part of the state capital is yet to get this infrastructural makeover. Work in this direction has been moving at a snail’s pace,” he said. Even for new constructions people tend to ignore the guidelines. Buildings continue to come up in a haphazard manner, he added.“People fail to realize that the state is a seismically active zone and while eight districts fall under Zone V, which is a very severe seismic zone, altogether 24 districts including Patna come under Zone IV- the severe zone. Though it’s hard to say when and where the next earthquake will hit, scientists say big quakes are inevitable,” he said.The former BSDMA official said that since no major earthquake has been witnessed in the Himalayan area after the Nepal earthquake of 8.5 magnitude in 1934, when several districts including Munger, Sitamarhi, Madhubani and Darbhanga were decimated the next big earthquake in near future can’t be ruled out. “This long gap is the signal for another earthquake of similar magnitude in the coming years and if it happens, there will be huge loss of life and property,” he said.Atul Aditya Pandey, head of the geology department, Patna University, said, “The most unfortunate part is people tend to flout norms required for earthquake resilient constructions despite experiencing tremors. Visit the interiors of the colonies like Kankarbagh, Postal Park, Chandmari Road, Saidpur, Lohanipur in the city and you will find buildings have been constructed without leaving the minimum space,” he said.Also Read: One nation, one rate: Nitish Kumar pushes for uniform power rates for all statesBK Mishra, senior adviser (technical), Bihar State Disaster Management Authority, said the BSDMA has been working hard to improve things in the state. “It’s difficult to make all the existing buildings in the city earthquake resilient. Even then the BSDMA is providing technical support to various government departments to handle vulnerability assessment and retrofitting work. Four- day long training sessions for the engineers have been held in 36 districts of the state,” he said.Mishra added that construction workers have also been imparted training. “They are the most important component of the entire effort to make earthquake-resilient buildings and have been explained the method during seven- day long training sessions,” he said. Out of 534 blocks in the state, training sessions have been held in 500 blocks,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patnas-more-than-80-buildings-are-not-earthquake-resilient-warn-experts-101613885878778.html
21-02-2021||Delhi||Court rejects UP govt plea seeking withdrawal of Bahuguna's police assault case||A special court Saturday rejected a plea of the Uttar Pradesh government seeking withdrawal of prosecution against BJP MP Rita Bahuguna Joshi in connection with a case lodged against her for an assault on police personnel and causing damages to property during an agitation in 2015.Holding the matter as serious, the special MP/MLA court fixed March 6 for framing of charges against the accused persons.Besides Joshi, 17 other accused including state Congress leaders like Raj Babbar, Pradeep Jain, Ajai Rai, Nirmal Khatri, Rajesh Pati Tripathi and Madhu Sudan Mistri are also named in the charge sheet in the case.Special judge P K Rai said the matter was serious and could not be allowed to be withdrawn as no public interest would be achieved if the withdrawal is allowed.At the time of pronouncing the order, Joshi was present in the court.Sub Inspector Pyarelal had lodged an FIR with Hazratganj police on August 17, 2015 against the accused persons.Also read: Two Dalit girls die in UP’s Unnao, 1 critical: What we knowIt was alleged that while marching from Laxman Mela ground towards the legislative assembly, the police force was pelted with stones by the crowd, resulting in injuries to senior police and administrative officers.Earlier, moving an application, the state counsel had submitted that the Uttar Pradesh government decided in public interest not to proceed further with the prosecution of Joshi and others and the court should allow its plea to withdraw the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-rejects-up-govt-plea-seeking-withdrawal-of-bahuguna-s-police-assault-case-101613882367087.html
21-02-2021||Kolkata||‘Pamela Goswami’s father says she’s a drug addict’, Kolkata Police claim||The father of Pamela Goswami, the flamboyant youth wing leader of the BJP arrested for alleged possession of cocaine, had told Kolkata police she had become a drug addict under the influence of a friend whom he wanted to be kept "under watch", police sources said Saturday.Sources in the city police said Goswami and her friend Prabeer Kumar Dey, who was arrested with her on Friday, were living together for some time.Clad in a red saree, a bespectacled Goswami created a flutter at a city court where she was produced, trying to wriggle out of the grasp of police and screaming that Rakesh Singh, a close aide of BJP's West Bengal pointsman Kailash Vijayvargiya, "plotted" her arrest.Goswami, a former fashion model and small-time actress, was remanded in police custody till February 25.Also Read: Pamela Goswami accuses BJP colleague of conspiracyVery active on social media platforms where she had taken on celebrities like singer Rihanna over the farmers protest, Goswami was arrested with Dey and her personal security guard Somnath Chatterjee on Friday after 90 gm of cocaine was allegedly found in her handbag and concealed in the car she was travelling."I want a CID investigation. Rakesh Singh is close to Kailash Vijayvargiya. Arrest him. This is his conspiracy. I have all evidence," Goswami shouted, as a battery of journalists followed her into the courtroom.Claiming that Goswami had been "brainwashed" by Kolkata police and the ruling TMC, Singh said he was not in touch with her for over a year. He said he was ready to face investigation by any agency."If I am involved, they can call me or Kailash Vijayvargiya or Amit Shah. I think the police have brainwashed her. I am not in touch with Pamela for more than one-and-a half-years now," Singh told PTI."It's possible that the Kolkata police is following the Trinamool Congress's instructions. They are conspiring against me. These are baseless accusations and I am ready to face any challenge," he added.The TMC was quick to grab the opportunity to berate the BJP, its challenger in the assembly election sweepstake."Earlier, one of their leaders was arrested for involvement in child trafficking. Now another has been arrested in a drugs case. This proves what the BJP and its leaders are up to," TMC secretary-general and state minister Partha Chatterjee said.He was apparently referring to the CID questioning BJP Rajya Sabha MP Roopa Ganguly in connection with an alleged child trafficking case in Jalpaiguri in 2017 in which the party's women cell general secretary Juhi Chowdhuri was arrested.The CID had claimed to have unearthed a child trafficking racket where children were sold, some to foreigners, in illegal adoption deals."No gentleman is associated with a party like the BJP. Only criminals, drug addicts and peddlers are associated with a corrupt party like the BJP," Firhad Hakim, a minister in the Mamata Banerjee cabinet, said.Vijayvargiya, the BJP general secretary incharge of West Bengal, said he has faith in the judical system and law will take its own course."I do not know about this incident and hence will not like to comment. I have full trust in our legal system. If someone is found guilty, law will take its own course," he told PTI.Meanwhile, Kolkata police said they had been keeping a vigilant eye on both Goswami and her friend Prabeer following a complaint by her father in April last year.In his letter to the city police chief Kaushik Goswami had alleged that Prabeer had turned Pamela into a drug addict. He had claimed Prabeer did not keep the promise he made to divorce his wife and get married to Pamela, while requesting police to "keep a watch" on his activities."We were keeping an eye on both of them and gathered information about their involvement in drug trafficking. We are questioning them and trying to find out who all are involved with them and whether they have links to inter-state or international drug rackets," a police officer said speaking on condition of anonymity.Meanwhile, sources in the state BJP said Goswami was likely to be suspended from the party."Most likely the party will take some disciplinary action against her till she is proved innocent. This incident is damaging the party's reputation," a senior state BJP leader said.Goswami had joined the BJP in 2018 and was quite active as part of the Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM).In 2020, when Lok Sabha MP Saumitra Khan, a ruling TMC turncoat, was made West Bengal BJYM chief, she was appointed the state secretary and its observer for Hooghly district.She regularly attended the meetings of top BJP leaders and posted photographs on her Facebook page.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/pamela-goswami-s-fathers-says-she-s-a-drug-addict-kolkata-police-claim-101613880153084.html
21-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi-NCR local trains to resume from tomorrow. Complete list here||Local train services in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) will resume on Monday, February 22, after about 11 months. The trains were stopped following the nationwide lockdown owing to the coronavirus pandemic on March 24, 2020. Along with Delhi local trains, trains from and to neighbouring states will also resume which include trains from Delhi to Ghaziabad, Delhi to Palwal, Delhi to Panipat, among others. Local train services in Mumbai also restarted from February 1.The local trains which will run in Delhi-NCR will include 14 passenger trains, five electrical multiple units (EMUs), 10 mainline electrical multiple units (MEMUs) and six diesel multiple units (DMUs). These trains have been given the status of ‘express’ as they will be running amid the coronavirus pandemic. Passengers will be able to travel in the trains with unreserved tickets but they will have to pay the price of an express train. Passengers will also have to adhere to the Covid-19 guidelines like wearing masks and practising social distancing. Officials of the Northern Railway have said that they are making all the necessary arrangements to resume the operations keeping in mind the Covid-19 guidelines.Read more: Mumbai: Decision on local train timing restriction to be taken after Feb 20Here’s the complete list of Delhi-NCR local trains which will resume on February 22:1. Bareilly-Old Delhi Passenger (54075)2. Old Delhi-Bareilly Passenger (54076)3. Shakurbasti-Palwal EMU (64016)4. Ghaziabad-Shakurbasti EMU (64031)5. Palwal-Ghaziabad EMU (64053)6. Hazrat Nizamuddin-Kurukshetra EMU (64461)7. Kurukshetra-Hazrat Nizamuddin MEMU (64462)8. Old Delhi-Saharanpur MEMU (64557)9. Saharanpur-Old Delhi MEMU (64558)10. Old Delhi-Saharanpur DMU (74021)11. Saharanpur-Old Delhi DMU (74024)(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhincr-local-trains-to-resume-from-tomorrow-complete-list-here-101613879000032.html
21-02-2021||Jaipur||Pakistan asked to expedite return of Barmer man who fled home fearing infamy||The Indian high commission in Pakistan has asked Islamabad to expedite the return of 19-year- old Barmer man Gemara Ram Meghwal, who is believed to be in the custody of Sindh police after crossing the international border on November 5 last year with the intention to escape from his village. The HC also asked the Pakistani government to confirm where he was being held currently.Meghwal , a resident of Kumharo Ka Tiba of Sajjan Ka Paar village under Bijrad police station area bordering Pakistan in Rajasthan’s Barmer district, crossed the border while trying to escape from his village fearing infamy after he was caught secretly entering his girlfriend’s house.After his family lodged a missing complaint on November 16 with Bijrad police, he was traced in Pakistan after more than a month-long probe. Pakistani rangers confirmed to the Border Security Force (BSF) that the youth was taken into custody by the Sindh police after he crossed over.According to a BSF official, Pakistani authorities have indicated that a decision on returning the youth will be taken following the due process. The BSF official said that Pakistani authorities confirmed his detention after several meetings on January 5, a month after he crossed over.Must Watch: India-US joint military exercise ‘Yudh Abhyas’ in RajasthanThe Indian high commission’s latest contact with Islamabad on the issue came after Barmer MP and Union agricultural minister Kailash Choudhary spoke to officials in the commission following a request for intervention by Gemara Ram’s family members on Friday.“During the visit of the Chohtan block in Barmer, family members of Gemara Ram met me and requested for his release. I talked to the official of Indian high commission in Pakistan and asked them to take up the issue with Pakistani government and ensure the release of Gemara Ram. Following which the Indian high commission asked the Pakistan government to expedite the process for Gemara Ram’s release,” said Choudhary. “I am expecting that soon Gemara Ram will return to India,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/pakistan-asked-to-expedite-return-of-barmer-man-who-fled-home-fearing-infamy-101613878910036.html
21-02-2021||Delhi||Shazia Ilmi says BSP’s Akbar Ahmad insulted her for joining BJP, files FIR||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader Akbar Ahmad has been booked by the police after the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Shazia Ilmi accused the lawmaker of misbehaving with her at a private gathering earlier this month.The Delhi Police registered a case against Ahmad on Saturday under sections 506 (threatening) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code after Ilmi, the BJP’s Delhi unit vice president, complained.Ilmi said that the BSP lawmaker attempted to humiliate her while she was speaking to the ambassador of Chile, according to a report by news agency ANI. “Akbar Ahmad ‘Dumpy' was very much abusive and humiliating towards me at the gathering. He called me a traitor Muslim for joining the BJP,” Ilmi was quoted as saying by the news agency.She said that he barged into the conversation and despite people urging the BSP lawmaker to stop, he continued abusing her. “I am proud of my choices, no one has the right to question them. You can't 'BJP-shame' me,” Ilmi said.The incident happened on February 5 at a dinner party in southwest Delhi's Vasant Kunj area, police officials told news agency PTI. Deputy commissioner of police (Southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said that the case was registered against Ahmad on February 7. Singh said that the investigation into the case was underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/shazia-ilmi-says-bsp-s-akbar-ahmad-insulted-her-for-joining-bjp-files-fir-101613876051143.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray warns of lockdown as state reports over 6,000 Covid-19 cases for 2nd day||As Maharashtra reported 6,281 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray once again warned the state’s citizens of another lockdown if they failed to keep their behaviour in check and follow Covid-19 protocols.Maharashtra Covid-19 infection tally has now surged past 2,093,913. This is the second time since December last year that the western state has witnessed a spike of more than 6000 cases in a day. A total of 51,753 people have died in Maharashtra due to the coronavirus disease.Though the government hasn’t yet called it a ‘second wave’, it has directed local authorities to take all preventive measures, including lockdown restrictions, to contain the spread of the virus amid fear of new mutations.Weekend curfews have been imposed in several districts including Amravati and Akola from Saturday night, whereas in Yavatmal, a 10-day curfew has already been imposed from February 18 that restricts a gathering of five or more people. Schools and colleges in Wardha have been ordered to remain closed until further notice.Thackeray chaired a meeting with the health minister, divisional commissioners, district collectors, municipal commissioners and superintendents of police on the Covid-19 situation in the state on Saturday. Following the meeting, it was decided to put a cap on the number of people allowed to attend social gatherings such as weddings and functions, which have the potential to become super-spreader events.There would be a temporary hold on permissions for rallies, processions, protests; while guests in wedding ceremonies will be strictly limited to 50.“Even if there is laxity in people, the district administration should not let your guard down and enforce the norms strictly, he told the administration,” the chief minister said at the meeting. “It is up to the people to decide whether to follow the rules or go back to the lockdown again. So, more care should be taken in the future,” he added.Maharashtra has witnessed a sudden spike in cases over the past week and continues to worst affected in the country. According to a presentation given to Thackeray, five districts that need to be monitored closely include Amravati, Wardha, Akola, Yavatmal, and Buldhana. Amravati district has recorded a jump of 10.69% in new cases between February 8 and 14, followed by Wardha (4.62%), Akola (4.27%), Yavatmal (3.19%), and Buldhana (2.28%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-warns-of-lockdown-as-state-reports-over-6-000-covid-19-cases-for-2nd-day-101613874383330.html
21-02-2021||Kolkata||Bengal minister not target of blast, suspect sleuths; JMB under scanner||West Bengal’s deputy labour minister Jakir Hossain, who sustained bomb injuries along with 22 Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers at Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad district on Wednesday night, may not have been the actual target, suspect some senior officials probing the case. They suspect a larger terror plot by terror outfit Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh.A senior officer associated with the probe said on condition of anonymity that examination of the remains of the exploded bomb clearly indicates that it was a socket bomb of high quality. It was kept in a bag that was lying on the platform.“We have doubts if common criminals in Murshidabad have the expertise to make this kind of bomb. Some of us suspect the involvement of the banned Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) as its operatives are experts in making these,” the officer said.“We suspect that JMB operatives might have brought the bomb to the station for a big terror attack, possibly an explosion in a packed passenger train. They might have had plans to trigger an explosion inside the Teesta Torsa Express that the minister was about to board. These angles are being explored,” the officer added.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has entrusted three state agencies including the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) with the probe while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress have demanded a probe by Central agencies.Murshidabad, where Muslims comprise 66.28% of the population, the state’s highest, followed by 51.27 % in adjoining Malda district, shares border with Bangladesh.Local police and railway officials said before the Republic Day Central security agencies sounded an alert in reference to all stations in the Malda division of the Eastern Railway. Nimtita is one of these.Speaking on condition of anonymity, an officer of the state intelligence branch (IB) said, “Door frame type metal detectors were installed at Malda Town and Azimganj stations and additional forces are still posted at Farakka station. However, security is comparatively less at Jangipur, Dhulian Ganga and Nimtita stations.”“We suspect that taking advantage of this, the culprits brought the bomb to Nimtita,” said the IB officer mentioned earlier.Incidentally, on February 10, a Kolkata court of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) ordered a 29-year jail sentence for Kausar, founder of the JMB’s third unit in Bengal, for his role in the 2018 bomb blast in a rented house at Khagragarh in East Burdwan district. Two JMB operatives, who were making bombs in the rented house, were killed.Kausar, 31, who was arrested by the NIA from a guest house in Bengaluru in August 2018, is an accused in the 2018 Bodhgaya blast as well and he recruited several people. The Khagragarh blast exposed a network of Bangladeshi terrorists in the eastern state.The NIA and the Special Task Force (STF) of the state police have nabbed several JMB militants from Murshidabad district in recent years. The NIA has also nabbed several Al-Qaeda suspects from the district which shares a border with Bangladesh.A second IB officer said, “We think the culprits fled the platform when they saw the minister and his men entering the station. The bomb went off when one of the minister’s followers tried to remove the bag from his path. In the mobile phone video that surfaced, several men could be heard saying ‘there is a bag’ and then we saw the bomb going off.”On Saturday, officers of the Suti police station in Murshidabad recovered an abandoned gunny bag with more than 50 kg gunpowder near the electricity department office at Aurangabad.Local police officers said there are some firecracker factories in Suti that hoard gunpowder illegally. “After the Nimtita explosion several agencies and local police are conducting raids. It seems someone left the bag out of fear,” an officer from Suti police station said on condition of anonymity.Also Read: Ready to contest Bengal polls, says actor Yash Dasgupta days after joining BJPIn November last year, the NIA arrested Abdul Momin Mondal, 32, from Nazrana village in the Raninagar area of Murshidabad in connection with the probe into the Al Qaeda network in the state. In September last year, the NIA arrested 10 people from West Bengal and Kerala.“Investigation revealed that the accused Abdul Momin Mondal was working as a teacher in Raipur Darul Huda Islamia Madrasa in Murshidabad district and was found to be involved in a series of conspiratorial meetings convened by the members of the Al-Qaeda module. He was also trying to recruit new members for the group and was raising funds for furthering its terrorist activities,” the NIA said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-minister-not-target-of-blast-suspect-sleuths-jmb-under-scanner-101613874566067.html
21-02-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka Gandhi to meet boatman who accompanied her at Sangam||Congress party's general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will visit Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday to support boatmen who were allegedly harassed by local police.Priyanka had travelled in Sujit Nishad's boat after she took a holy dip at the Sangam, a confluence of the Ganga, Yamuna and mythical Sarswati river, on Mauni Amavasya where she had performed puja. She had later posted a video where she was seen assisting Nishad in rowing the boat.Nishad had informed Priyanka about issues that boatmen belonging to the Nishad community were facing, including brutality against them by police whom he alleged had destroyed their boats. The boatman requested her assistance in raising their voices against the oppression to which she agreed, party sources said.According to the program released by the party, Priyanka is scheduled to reach Prayagraj at 11 AM and will be visiting Banswaar village in the trans-Yamuna area of the district to meet members of fisherman community.Sujit said that several boats belonging to the Nishad community, an OBC (other backward class) caste, were damaged by police and administrative officials.The Uttar Pradesh government banned the use of boats in sand mining across the state on 24 June 2019. Suddenly millions of Nishads became unemployed. So there is anger among the caste. Lakhs of Nishads depend on rivers for their livelihood in Uttar Pradesh.In 2013, the NGT prohibited the extraction of sand from rivers using machines, but mining companies continue to extract it with Pokeland machines and the government levies tax.There has been a dispute between the mining mafia and Nishads in and around Ghurpur for about 15 years. Nishads have been in conflict with the police over it.In the Banswar village near Ghurpur, on January 30, there was Raj Contract which has now been shut down.On February 4, some people complained that illegal mining was being done here. Police came, damaged 16 boats and 30 people were injured. The police brought a number of dogs to create fear among the people including the Nishads.Nishads are angry about this. The BJP is upset about this. Sujit Nishad came here, but Nishads of the village drove him away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/priyanka-gandhi-to-meet-boatman-who-accompanied-her-at-sangam-101613873873837.html
21-02-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM urges PM Modi to approve 6 canal modernisation project proposals||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to approve 6 proposals worth ₹6,673 crores under modernisation of canals project.During the 6th meeting of the Governing Council of NITI Aayog chaired by PM Modi, Yediyurappa also urged him to declare Upper Bhadra Project and Upper Krishna Project as national projects.The Prime Minister was requested to set up a mechanism to fast track disposal of litigation in courts as infrastructure projects are hampered due to litigations and environmental protests, according to a release by the Karnataka Chief Minister's Office.The Chief Minister also sought financial support to take up initiatives under the National Educational Policy. The Union Government was also requested to provide ₹4,300 crores to create an optical fibre network to provide network connectivity to all government offices.The Prime Minister was briefed about the initiatives taken by the State for Industrial development such as New Industrial Policy 2020-2024, Affidavit-based clearance system, steps taken to promote exports, MoUs made with e-commerce players like Amazon and Flipkart to boost marketing of local products.Karnataka has been able to maintain one of the lowest unemployment rates in the country at 3.6 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-urges-pm-modi-to-approve-6-canal-modernisation-project-proposals-101613865449855.html
21-02-2021||Other||MSC Bank scam: Got clean chit despite probe by multiple agencies, says Ajit Pawar||Two days after getting a clean chit in the alleged ₹25,000 crore Maharashtra State Co-operative (MSC) Bank scam along with 75 others, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said he has been getting clean chits in allegations of corruption in the case despite being probed in the by multiple agencies in the past few years.He also pointed out MSC Bank is currently running profits worth over ₹300 crore and said he has never allowed any loss to any institution he has been associated with in the past. Work should be done in such a way that people should not lose their trust in you, said Pawar, while addressing an event at Baramati in Pune on Saturday.“First a probe by CID (criminal investigation department) was conducted when BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) was in power and we got a clean chit. ACB (anti-corruption bureau) also gave its clean chit after a probe. Meanwhile, the state cooperatives’ department had appointed a single-member committee to probe into the allegations but it found nothing. It was again alleged that we are the main conspirators and the department then appointed a retired judge for probe and by now you all would have known about its findings,” Pawar said in his address.On Thursday, retired principal district judge Panditrao Jadhav in his report submitted to the state cooperatives department found no evidence against Pawar and the other 75 accused. “The proceedings initiated under section 88 of the Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act, 1960, hereby fail and hence terminated. All delinquent deserves to be exonerated, and hence exonerated,” stated the report. The report will now be submitted to the state for further action.The bank board was dissolved by the then chief minister Prithviraj Chavan in 2011, following the directive of the Reserve Bank of India. The action was taken based on an inquiry report by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development which pointed to gross financial indiscipline while handing out loans, that left the bank with a negative net worth of ₹144 crore. The board of directors were replaced by two state-appointed administrators.Pawar said he could not visit MSC Bank despite becoming the deputy CM as a probe was initiated against him for being a trustee. “I have never allowed damage to any institutions I am associated with. I always work with an approach for their survival and have invested my own salary at times for the same. I believe people shouldn’t feel betrayed when they trust you,” he said.MSC Bank is the apex co-operative bank in the state that controls credit in the entire co-operative sector, and forms the backbone of the rural economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/msc-bank-scam-got-clean-chit-despite-probe-by-multiple-agencies-says-ajit-pawar-101613853133821.html
21-02-2021||Other||Domestic passenger count marks revival of India’s aviation sector: Hardeep Puri||Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday said that domestic air traffic was reaching the pre-Covid levels. According to Puri, 290,518 passengers travelled by 2,360 flights on Friday. Puri praised the aviation sector for playing a key role in transporting essential and medical supplies as part of efforts against the Covid-19 pandemic.The aviation minister tweeted, “2,90,518 passengers on 2,360 flights on 19 Feb is within touching distance of Pre-COVID numbers & marks revival of the domestic sector. From transporting essential & medical supplies, to movement of vaccines, civil aviation sector plays a key role in efforts against COVID19 (sic).”His tweet further revealed that a total of 581,306 passenger footfall and 4,723 flight movements were witnessed on Friday alone.In a consultative committee’s meeting of the ministry held on Thursday, Puri said domestic air traffic is increasing day-by-day and has now reached about three lakh passengers a day.The minister had also said that with domestic air traffic expected to increase further in the summer season, the government may remove the fare band, apart from lifting other restrictions.The aviation industry has been one of the severely affected sectors owing to the lockdown last year. Following the Covid-19 outbreak, India’s domestic passenger traffic slipped to a seven-year low in 2020 due to a complete halt in air travel for two months.Commercial passenger flights resumed operations from May 25 with restricted capacity on local routes (45% between June and September and 80% from December). Domestic air travel has recorded an upward trend since October with a month-on-month increase in the number of passengers taking to the Indian skies.According to the January traffic report released by civil aviation regulator Directorate of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Thursday, 7,734,000 passengers flew last month to destinations across the country. The number of fliers has progressively increased from 5,271,000 in October and 6,334,000 in November.However, as the international borders remain to be closed, the government has been operating special flights under their Vande Bharat Mission and air bubble agreements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/domestic-passenger-count-marks-revival-of-india-s-aviation-sector-hardeep-puri-101613852893728.html
21-02-2021||Other||Petrol price at all-time high of ₹97/l in Mumbai||The price of petrol in the city reached an all-time high of ₹97 per litre on Saturday, even as diesel was priced at ₹88.06. Fuel prices in the city have been on a constant rise from the past 12 days. A litre of petrol touched ₹96 on Wednesday, while diesel price crossed ₹87 per litre on Thursday in the city. Fuel prices increased across other metro cities too on Saturday. Earlier, the highest fuel prices in recent times were witnessed in 2018, when one litre of petrol had reached ₹91.34 per litre and that of diesel had crossed ₹80. Transporters have stated that if the central government does not pay heed to their demands, they will be forced to suspend road transport services, including the transport of essential commodities. “We demand immediate reduction of diesel prices by bringing down central taxes. We want the central government to issue an advisory to states to cut down the value added tax (VAT), bring uniformity of diesel prices across the country as well as its quarterly revision. A 14-day notice to the Centre for implementation was sent, which was received on February 16. If the demands are not met, we will have no option but to suspend road transport services across the country,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petrol-price-at-all-time-high-of-97-l-in-mumbai-101613851873782.html
21-02-2021||Other||Must compete with world, not other states: Maharashtra CM at Niti Aayog meeting||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday asked the Centre to prepare a policy to attract investments based on the administrative capabilities of the state and not on the concessions a state can provide. He said that the competition should be with the world and not among the states, if India wants to become ‘Atmanirbhar (self-reliant)’. Thackeray, who was speaking at the 6th Governing Council Meeting of Niti Aayog, also sought a policy from the Centre for staggering work hours, as the battle against Covid-19 has not ended. Thackeray said that the “mindset of the 10 to 6 job has to change”. Thackeray took up issues of seeking greater assistance from the Centre to develop fishing, tourism and ports in the Konkan region of the state. He said that development at the cost of nature and environment is not ideal. Stating that Konkan region has natural wealth of environment and that the forests and environment should not be destroyed in the name of development, Thackeray sought Centre’s assistance on development of fishing, tourism and ports in the region. “There are beaches so the tourism is growing. Jungles are chopped off to make way for wider roads. But in my view, development should happen by keeping environment in mind. If the state gets adequate help of the Centre in Sagarmala Project, then a series of ports will be developed. We need Centre’s clearance for four major fishing ports and 19 fish landing centres in the region,” he said. The CM said that the projects will develop the fishing industry in the region and help generate employment. Speaking at the meeting via video-conferencing, Thackeray said that the Centre should promote healthy competition over the efficiency of state administration. “Our competition should be with the world with regards to bringing in business and there shouldn’t be cutthroat competition between the states. Some states offer subsidised electricity or better deal on land prices. There is bargaining [by the industries] that a particular state is providing concessions and so what is your state offering,” Thackeray said in the meeting. He said that for the country to become ‘atmanirbhar’ the focus should be in job creation through investments. “There should definitely be competition between the states but it should not be monetary based on concessions but there should be healthy competition on the administrative ability and the facilities available. Only then will the states benefit. The Centre must formulate a policy on the criteria with regards to investments,” Thackeray said. CM also said that labourers of the country need to get adequate protection from the laws as they are instrumental in turning the wheels of the economy. He said that ‘Jai Kamgaar’ should be added to the slogan, ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’. Thackeray also said that the farmers who face crop damage and losses due to natural disasters also must be compensated. He said the crop insurance scheme should also losses due to unseasonal rain, apart from flooding. He further said that the Centre should keep a check on the profits earned by the insurance companies. The Centre must define the level of profit and loss of the insurance companies as they continue to earn profits while farmers do not get their due compensation, said CM. He also sought the Centre’s assistance to set up a research centre for various fields in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/must-compete-with-world-not-other-states-maharashtra-cm-at-niti-aayog-meeting-101613851333756.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports 897 new Covid-19 cases||The city continued its upward Covid-19 graph on Saturday as it reported 897 new Covid-19 infections, its sharpest single-day spike since November 29 (940 infections), taking its tally to 318,207. Mumbai also reported three Covid-19 deaths, taking the toll to 11,440, at a case fatality rate (CFR) of 3.5%. Amid the recent spike in cases, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has sealed 1,305 buildings and floors in the past fortnight, with 71,838 households in them. A total of 2,749 cases have been reported from these sealed places. Mumbai has 5,466 active infections and its recovery rate is 94%.Reacting to the recent spurt in cases, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Thursday directed the civic administration to adopt a slew of measures to curb the spread of the infection, including tightening containment-zone rules, quarantine norms and strictly imposing fines on those not wearing masks in public places. The doubling rate of cases in the city has dropped to 371 days, down from 393 on Friday, 417 on Thursday, 445 on Tuesday, and 455 on Monday. The growth rate of cases has now increased to 0.19%, up from 0.18% on Friday, 0.17% on Thursday, 0.16% on Tuesday and 0.15% on Monday.On Saturday, Mumbai conducted 18,400 Covid-19 tests, 3,117,294 in total since the beginning of the lockdown (March 2020).In a statement on Thursday, Chahal had said, “Although the spread of Covid-19 in Mumbai is under control, there has been a surge in the number of cases in the past few days. Hence, all BMC machineries need to be extra vigilant.”Chahal said that in comparison to June-July 2020, the spread of Covid-19 in the city is still under control. “As public life returns to normalcy, it becomes all the more important for citizens to follow all prevention norms. It is also pertinent to take stringent action against offenders to limit the spread of the virus.”As of February 18, BMC’s Covid-19 dashboard showed there were 321 sealed buildings in the city. A ward officer, requesting anonymity, said, “We are now reporting to the head office data on sealed floors as well, along with sealed buildings. Hence the number has drastically gone up in two days, from 321 to 1,305 containment buildings and floors.”Ward officers implementing the tightened containment measures submit daily reports of action taken in their respective wards to the municipal commissioner The highest number of sealed buildings and floors, 233, are in T-ward corresponding to the area of Mulund, followed by 125 each in the P-South ward of Goregaon and the N ward of Ghatkopar. The D ward of Malabar Hill has 110 sealed buildings and buildings with sealed floors, followed by 106 in R-Central ward in Borivli.Over the next few days, BMC will double the number of clean-up marshals patrolling the city’s streets from the present 2,400 to 4,800, who will fine people if they do not wear masks in public places. On Friday, 13,592 people were penalised for not wearing masks and BMC collected ₹27,18,440 in fines in a single day. Fines totalling ₹31,79,43,400 were collected between March 2020 and February 2021, from 1,571,679 people found without masks in public spaces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-897-new-covid-19-cases-101613850433946.html
21-02-2021||Other||The unforgettable legacy of Sahir Ludhianvi||It was inspired by Allama Iqbal’s tribute to Dagh Dehlvi ‘Is chaman mein honge paida bulbul-e-shiraz bhi, saikron sahir bhi honge, sahib-e-ejaz bhi’ that the legendry poet and lyricist, who was named Abdul Hayee by his feudal father, chose the pen name Sahir for himself. True to his pen name, Sahir, who was born on March 8, 1921, was a wizard of words. He was only eight years old when his mother was divorced and became his legal guardian. She enrolled him at Malwa Khalsa High School, Ludhiana, from where he matriculated in 1937. He joined Government College, Ludhiana, but left in 1941 without passing the bachelor of arts course he was pursuing. An anthology of his poems, Talkhiyan, was published in 1943 but his ambition was to become a film lyricist. So, off he went to Bombay. However, little notice was taken of his first film Azadi Ki Rah Pe (1948). In 1950, his college friend, Mohan Sehgal, advised him to meet SD Burman, who was looking for a writer who could pen a song for his new tune. Burman played the tune to Sahir, who on the spur of the moment, composed the evergreen song ‘Thandi hawayen lehra ke aayen’ for Noor Jahan (1951). It was, however, the film Baazi (1951) that made him famous. Pyaasa ranked one of 100 greatest films His association with Burman ended after Pyaasa (1957), which was adjudged by Time Magazine as one of the 100 greatest films of all times. Even former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru was touched by his lyrics. In a career spanning around 30 years, Sahir wrote 718 songs for 111 films. Sahir said, “I have always strived to bring song writing close to literary poetry and use it to provide political and social perspectives to people.” He believed film songs made poetry accessible even to illiterate film goers. He incorporated many of his poems and ghazals in films. Pyaasa and Kabhie Kabhie became blockbusters because of such poems. His songs explored social evils and the plight of women in man-dominated society. Despite constraints under which a film lyricist has to work, Sahir put across his progressive and secular philosophy. Versatile oeuvreSahir’s songs are an epitome of youthful romance and the beauty of nature. They convey a message of hope and optimism. Despite being an atheist, he wrote memorable bhajans and qawwalis. He had no training in music but his songs lend themselves to musical tunes. He also had a great deal of self-respect. Once a music director had remarked ‘Sahir sahib without Lata’s voice your songs will be ineffective.’ He took a pledge there and then that for two years he would not write songs for films where Lata Mangeshkar would be a playback singer. His films succeeded nonetheless and Sudha Malhotra became a popular singer. He raised the status of film lyricists to such an extent that song writers’ name started appearing on gramophone records. All India Radio was made to announce the name of the songwriter along with the names of singer and music director. Sahir made it a point to charge a rupee more than the fee of the music directorThough, Sahir passed away on October 25, 1980 his songs remain as popular as they were forty years ago. Exemplifying Sahir’s genius on crafting the musings on human mortality is his iconic song from the film Kabhie Kabhie: ‘Mai pal do pal ka shayar hoon, pal do pal meri kahani hai, pal do pal meri hasti hai, pal do pal meri jawani hai’. (The writer retired as professor of English at Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/the-unforgettable-legacy-of-sahir-ludhianvi-101613849414322.html
21-02-2021||Delhi||Only 50% covered, Delhi may continue jabs for health staff||Senior officials in the Delhi government said they are unlikely to close the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive for health care workers for now, with just over half of all registered beneficiaries in the category inoculated as on Saturday, underlining the hurdles that administrations face to overcome turnouts that have fallen short of the Centre’s expectations.“We cannot close the drive for health care professionals just yet because there is still a large proportion of beneficiaries who have not received a dose,” said a senior official from Delhi’s health department, adding that vaccine hesitancy was still rampant among several eligible beneficiaries in the Capital.As per the Centre’s guideline all states were to freeze the immunisation for healthcare workers by February 20 and allow for an additional five-day period for a “mop up” round to immunise as many as possible. The Delhi administration is now likely to vaccinate people past this mop-up period as well, as per senior state government officials.With no vaccination drive on Sunday, this effectively left just four days for around 120,000 health care professionals in Delhi who are yet to get the shot. “This is unlikely to be enough. The central government had issued an advisory and Delhi is likely to continue the drive because many beneficiaries are still left,” said a second official, on condition of anonymity.Delhi has been vaccinating over 24,000 people, health care and frontline workers, each day for the last three days, a rise that has coincided with an increase in the number of vaccination centres.However, for the extended drive, the number of centres where health care workers can get the shot is likely to be restricted. Currently, there are about 306 vaccination sites across the city where medical staff can get a dose of their Covishield or Covaxin if their name is registered on the government’s CoWIN portal. A decision on how many centres will carry on vaccinating health care workers will be taken next week.“For now, we are focussing on getting as many people come out and receive the vaccination during the five-day mop up drive,” said a senior district official.“All heads of departments in hospitals have been asked to call up people working under them. Nodal officers in vaccine centres have been asked to ensure that all health workers registered at their centres who are yet to take their first Covid-19 shot,” said a third senior government official who did not wish to be identified.Delhi is among the seven states and union territories where the vaccine coverage for healthcare workers is less than 50%. As per the health ministry’s provisional data, only 48.2% had been immunised till Saturday evening when the vaccination drive was to close. However, Delhi government’s final data shows that 131,854 healthcare workers received the shot till Saturday evening, accounting for 50.7% of nearly 240,000 registered beneficiaries.The immunisation for frontline workers, on the other hand, has so far seen better turnouts, with 153,037 having already received their first shot. This accounts for 43.7% of the registered frontline workers in the city, according to Delhi government data.The immunisation for frontline workers started on February 2 across the country and will come to an end on March 1, after which a five-day mop-up period will be in place for beneficiaries under the group.“The vaccination among frontline workers has been faster. The healthcare workers, especially doctors, have been following the vaccine development and approval process closely and hence have more apprehensions,” said the first government official.As for the second shot, only 43.6% of those who had received the first shot over 28 days ago in Delhi have received it. “This is because of the strong message among the healthcare workers that delaying the second shot will provide better immunity,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/only-50-covered-delhi-may-continue-jabs-for-health-staff-101613849156349.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Kausa, Mumbra see poor response to Covid vaccine||THANEThough Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has completed 96 per cent immunisation, areas like Kausa and Mumbra have hardly seen 30 per cent vaccination. Owing to the low response, the civic body plans to rope in religious and political leaders to create awareness about the immunisation drive and to urge more people to come forward and get vaccinated.“There are a few who are sceptical about getting vaccinated. We ensure every week some officer or a well-known personality gets vaccinated so that people are in loop about the immunisation process. There are some who have registered for the vaccination. However, they are still not convinced to get the shot. For this, we have a team who talks to them and creates awareness about the vaccine,” said Dr Vipin Sharma, commissioner, TMC.As part of their efforts to create more awareness about Covid, the civic officials have roped in religious and political leaders. “We plan to take similar approach for the immunisation drive as well. The religious and political leaders or well-known faces help connect with the locals. This encourages them to follow their leaders and will hopefully lead to an increased number of vaccinations,” added a senior health officer, TMC.From among those who have registered for the vaccination are Class 4 government employees, sanitation staff, ambulance drivers and ASHA workers.Dr Abdul Raut, general practitioner, Mumbra, said, “Many of them remain sceptical about the vaccination process due to the various messages on social media and rumours about the side effects also make them nervous about the process. Most of us local physicians have repeatedly assured our staff about the vaccine and said that many top officials, senior doctors and non-medical staff have also taken the vaccine.”The vaccination drive began on January 16. By February first week, Thane city witnessed more than 100 per cent immunisation with some centres going beyond the target set for the day. Gradually, the civic body also increased the number of vaccination centres to 12 and roped in private mid-level hospitals as well. From February 4, the second booster doze of vaccination also began in the city. Thane city has completed 102 per cent vaccination till now. This includes 25,970 frontline and health care workers. Cops increase vigilance in twin cities Strict vigilance against those not following social distancing and not wearing masks has been initiated by the police in Kalyan and Dombivli.Vivek Pansare, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone 3, said, “We have been taking action since the last three days in residential areas and departmental stores that are seen flouting Covid protocols. We have filed three different cases under the epidemic act, more than five are booked and we will continue surveillance and take stringent action if rules are not followed. It has come to our notice that housing societies host parties and allow residents to invite guests in large numbers. Moreover, many departmental stores are not following screening and temperature check guidelines given by the government.”(Inputs by Anamika Gharat)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kausa-mumbra-see-poor-response-to-covid-vaccine-101613849235372.html
21-02-2021||Other||Decks cleared for expansion of Karnal airport||A high-powered land purchase committee, headed by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal, has approved the expansion and renovation of Karnal airport. As per information, the existing airstrip of the Karnal airport will now be expanded from 3, 000 ft to 5, 000 ft.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said that expansion will enable small and medium aircraft to land at the airport, which can be utilised for parking, basing and light maintenance and repair operations. This will, especially be useful as it is close to the Indira Gandhi International airport, Delhi. He said the total proposed land for this project is 172 acres, 3 kanal and 16 marla. Out of this, 106 acres, 6 kanal and 14 marla belongs to the government of Haryana while the remaining is being acquired from 24 landowners and shareholders of Kalwheri village. The landowners have reportedly voluntarily agreed provide their land, measuring 38 acres and five marla, by uploading their consent on e-Bhoomi portal of Haryana government, after a virtual interaction with the chief minister.The deputy commissioner said that as per the policy, the rate offered for land acquirement near a road is ₹87.25 lakh per acre while an agriculture land that is at a distance of more than 2km from a road, fetches ₹82.25 lakh per acre as compensation. Also, as per Clause 3 of the Haryana Act 28 of 2017, the Haryana Consolidation of Project Land (Special Provisions) 2017, where the state government owns or it has purchased 70% or more of the total land required for a project in a particular area (in this case more than 80%), the state government will consolidate the total project land from nearby pockets of private land to ensure the viability of such project.The remaining landowners of 27 acres, 4 Kanal and 17 Marla either be provided compensation or land of equal valuation in the same revenue estate and in case of non-availability of such land in the same revenue estate, in a neighbouring revenue estate, he added. As per the project, no construction will be allowed within 20 kms radius of the airport as per the norms of Ministry of Civil Aviation and after the approval of this project by the high-powered land purchase committee on Friday, a detailed project report (DPR) will be prepared by the department of civil aviation.It is worth mentioning here that the proposed expansion of Karnal airstrip was caught in red-tape as most farmers from these villages were unwilling to offer their land for the project. They had been alleging lack of transparency in the acquisition policy and less compensation for their land. After the government increased the area of notified land from 28 acres to 280 acres in May 2018, the affected farmers had alleged foul play and sought clarifications on three issues -- the purpose for land acquisition, what would be the price and how many acres of land was actually required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/decks-cleared-for-expansion-of-karnal-airport-101613849233519.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Bhiwandi building collapse: 5 months on, families still living in hope||It has been more than five months since Shabbir Qureshi, 33, hugged his three-year-old-son Museb. Since the fateful day of September last year when the Jilani Building in which he was staying collapsed in Bhiwandi, Qureshi is leaving no stone unturned to look for his son, whose body was never found at the site.Like Qureshi, the family of 28-year-old Shabnam Mohammad Ali Shaikh, too has not received their daughter’s body.Qureshi said, “I have not heard about my son Museb since the day of the crash. I have asked every authority. However, none of them is able to give me any answer. His body was never found among the debris. I don’t know if he is alive or dead.”The building collapse killed 38 and injured 25.Qureshi added, “I, along with my two sons who survived, shifted to a nearby building, though not a day goes without wondering what happened to Museb. My wife and daughter also died in the crash. Their bodies were recovered but Museb is still missing.”Qureshi has produced all the valid documents of his son to police and also lodged a missing complaint at Narpoli police station.Qureshi, who runs a mutton shop in the locality, had raised an alarm when the building started shaking and helped others to escape.Senior police inspector of Narpoli police station, MB Shinde, said, “Although a complaint of the child missing was raised by the family, we could not trace him yet. The investigation was carried out from all the angles, but the boy was not found.”In another such case, the family of Shabnam, 28, who died in the incident, also did not receive her body.“There was an unclaimed body at the hospital which police said was my sister’s. But I denied as it did not match my sister’s physique and features. How can I go wrong about my sister,” said Nilofer Mohammand Ali Shaikh, 34.Shabnam and her mother Zulelkha Shaikh, 52, lived in the building. While the mother survived the incident, Shabnam was crushed under the debris.“A DNA test was done to check if the unclaimed body was of my sister. But the test did not give any proper result. Also the police asked us to take away the unclaimed body and do the final rites. I had to do it thinking about my mother. But even today, I believe my sister’s body was misplaced by the police,” added Nilofer.“We did the DNA test but the report was inconclusive. The family agreed to take the unclaimed body and the matter was closed. There was no misplacement of bodies as we check it before giving it away to the families,” added Shinde.Deputy Commandant of National Disaster Response Force, Ashish Kumar, who worked throughout the rescue operations said, “When we take up the rescue operations, we only pull out the bodies and give it to the police. It is their job to further identify the body. Hence, we cannot actually comment if the body was misplaced. Even though the family claims the boy was missing, we had searched and cleared the debris completely and no one was found.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhiwandi-building-collapse-5-months-on-families-still-living-in-hope-101613848993491.html
21-02-2021||Other||Facing environmental penalties, IOCL’s Panipat refinery launches plantation drive||Facing severe criticism and penalties from the National Green Tribunal (NGT) for activities leading to pollution, Indian Oil Corporation Ltd (IOCL)’s Panipat refinery has launched a plantation drive for environment restoration in nearby villages. The official spokesperson of the IOCL refinery said that they plan to plant over two lakh saplings on 700 acres near the refinery, under the environment sustainability initiative launched in association with the Haryana forest and wildlife department.Officials further claimed that IOCL has planted over 6.5 lakh trees in the area since the refinery was set up in 1998. “Now, the target is to plant over 2.02 lakh trees with ₹7.18 crore in the next few months,” the officials added.In 2018, the NGT had formed a joint committee to look into the complaints from residents of six nearby villages who had alleged that activities in the refinery were leading to severe air and water pollution which was impacting their health.The committee had found that the issues raised by the residents were true to some extent. A kutcha drain was to be the major factor behind pollution in the area and the refinery was discharging effluents into it, thus affecting the quality of water, the committee report stated.In May 2019, on the recommendations of the first assessment report of the joint committee, the NGT had directed the oil company to deposit ₹17.31 crore to the Central Pollution Control Board as interim compensation for restoration of the environment. Then again in July 2020, the Tribunal directed IOCL officials to deposit a sum of ₹25 crore as interim compensation for restoration of environment.The plantation drive is being seen as an effort by the refinery to counter the criticism against it. The refinery has also taken several other initiatives, including setting up of a waste water treatment plants and a 2G ethanol plant to convert tonnes of paddy waste into useful ethanol. Meanwhile, the NGT has formed a team to conduct health check-ups of all residents of the six nearby villages to find out the impact of the pollution on human health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/facing-environmental-penalties-iocl-s-panipat-refinery-launches-plantation-drive-101613848873462.html
21-02-2021||Chandigarh||When life got magnified under a lens||A little while ago, my niece got a new mobile phone, and she was over the moon about the multiple built-in cameras in the device. Well, the priorities have certainly changed over the last few years with smartphone companies jumping into the war of pixels and promising customers an in-depth pro-level photography experience.Surely, our lifelong friends Canon, Nikon and Sony must have felt cheated at having their area of expertise usurped from right under their noses, thanks to the technical revolution in mobile phones. “It broadens our photographing ability and captures more of the scene with the optical zoom!” exclaimed the devil’s advocate. Big words! For all I knew, one did not need a camera to see the world. It was as colourful to the eye as any camera could capture. Living under the unforgiving tyranny of the lens became difficult for a camera-shy person like me. I would shrink each time my movements came under the lens. Once she trained her weapon on me early in the morning and that really got my goat. I couldn’t quite comprehend, how my high-definition tatters would do any good to her photography! After all, she had no dearth of posers with everyone from the kids to the house helps ready to oblige her.A chip off the new blockThe latest addition to my niece’s modelling ramp was the by far the most surprising. My mother had become a chip off the new block! She would spend time laughing and giggling with her granddaughter. They also took to practising the best camera angle before a mirror. These partners in crime would often capture candid shots of me and remorselessly post them on the family group!I remember, in our times, the camera, would only come out on special occasions and only important events would be captured. We never stressed over how good we looked at parties. Rather, our preparations ahead of a get together included preparing a few couplets of poetry, interesting anecdotes, or a song if one could sing.Things have changed drastically, and I have had to become more conscious of my beauty than my brains as everyone is wielding a little camera in their pocket these days. I started fortifying myself with an extra dash of powder and rouse before a do, lest some paparazzi capture me with a dull countenance.The shutterbugs were getting wild and free , with everyone filling up their memory sticks with pictures and self-shot videos. We always had a friend or a relative who would insist on a video call. All aspects of life were getting magnified and larger than life.Filters become way of lifeOur plates of food looked more delectable in a filtered photograph. Most vacations had a single-point agenda: click beautiful pictures. Parties would not be complete without an elaborate photo session. My friends had learnt to pout and smile in that suitably tilted semicircle. Some people stretched it too far, when they got busy filming an accident, rather than helping around.My journey towards becoming camera savvy was a long one as I was yet to determine its usefulness in my life. I was the square peg in a round hole when it came to posing. Yet there were buddies who would drag me into the frame. But not any more. Social distancing put a brake on these things, and I was quite comfortable with it. The mask has been a saviour as it has helped me escape the limelight. With the world opening up, I am a little sceptical about facing those cameras again. I wonder if I could ask these camera companies to come up with a feature to automatically hide those who do not wish to be in the picture. A la Mr India!(The writer is a Chandigarh-based lawyer)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/when-life-got-magnified-under-a-lens-101613848754442.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Teaching quality, lack of job behind rise in vacant private engineering seats: Experts||As admissions to engineering colleges have been on the decline in the past five years, the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) called for a two-year ban on new engineering institutes from academic year 2020-21. However, the move seems to have done little to arrest the problem of vacant seats. Data by AICTE has shown that the total intake capacity of engineering institutes across India has reduced by more than 21% in the past five years. From 3 million engineering seats (undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma included) in 2015-16, the intake capacity has dropped to 2.4 million in the 2020-21 academic year. Figures shared by the Maharashtra common entrance test (CET) cell have shown that nearly 45% seats in first-year undergraduate engineering (BTech) courses were vacant across Maharashtra this time. While seats in government-aided and university-managed institutes still found takers, almost 98% of the total vacant seats are in private unaided engineering institutes in the state this year. Of the 55,444 seats gone vacant across engineering institutes this year, 54,667 seats have gone vacant in unaided engineering institutes. Similarly, the vacancy in MTech courses stands at 55.2% this year. “Just putting a ban on new private engineering institutes will not be enough. The need of the hour is to ensure employment for engineering graduates, which is still not happening. The government has come up with various skill-based training courses but there needs to be more focus on ensuring employment,” said a senior official from the state CET cell. As per the figures shared by the AICTE, over 605,000 engineering graduates in the 2019-20 year were placed through campus placement against the enrolment of over 1.4 million. “Less than 50% engineering graduates are being placed every year and this definitely makes a big impact on the demand for engineering courses altogether,” added the official. Admissions to most professional courses got delayed by a few months this academic year, especially with the Covid-19 imposed lockdown affecting routine functions. While admissions in Maharashtra colleges are over, several states are still struggling to fill up even 50% of undergraduate engineering seats, and therefore, continue to conduct admission rounds.While AICTE is yet to collate admission and seat vacancy data for all the states (many are still conducting institutional admission rounds to fill up vacant seats), reports have highlighted the plight of engineering colleges across the country. In December 2020, nearly 60% of engineering seats in West Bengal institutes were vacant after three rounds of admissions. Similarly, around 75% seats in engineering institutes at Tamil Nadu remained vacant after three admission rounds, while in Karnataka, colleges approached AICTE for an extension in the admission deadline to fill up over 50% vacant seats in the last week of December 2020. “In most of the states, the seat vacancy is higher in private engineering institutes, especially because of the high fees demanded and the low quality of education imparted,” said a senior official from AICTE. With the implementation of the two-year blanket ban on new engineering institutes, AICTE witnessed closure of almost 100 institutes, while 32 others applied for withdrawal of approval. A staggering 595 institutes around the country did not apply for continuation of approval for the 2020-21 academic year. “The hope is that slowly, this ban on new institutes will control the increasing intake capacity, while at the same time, introduction of new-age courses will attract more technically inclined students to opt for engineering courses. Only time can tell how this move changes the demand for engineering courses in the future,” said Anil Sahasrabuddhe, director, AICTE. While demand for the new-age courses are continuously growing and more and more institutes are showing interest in wanting to introduce these courses at their institutes as well, experts have highlighted how this move could be short-lived, especially for newly introduced courses like Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Data Science and Analytics due to the evolving technology in these fields. “Most of the new-age courses introduced by AICTE this year are application-based technology and with every passing year, these sectors evolve and new trends emerge in them. At present, these courses might be in the position to offer many jobs to graduating students, there’s no guarantee the trend will stay for very long,” said SS Mantha, former chairperson of AICTE.Though core courses such as civil and mechanical engineering have witnessed a drop in applications in the past few years due to the lack of job opportunities after graduation, Mantha said an undergraduate degree in core engineering is very important for the students. “The shelf value of new-age courses could be limited, while basic knowledge in core engineering sectors will take students a long way,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/teaching-quality-lack-of-job-behind-rise-in-vacant-private-engineering-seats-experts-101613848393624.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Rescue operations on to relocate crocodile from Navi Mumbai pond||After two days of a video going viral about spotting a crocodile in a pond behind Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation headquarters in Belapur, forest officials and an NGO have started rescue operations to rehabilitate the reptile to a safer place.On February 17, a video of the crocodile being spotted in the pond had gone viral. On Friday, Thane range forest officials and Wildlife Welfare Association (WWA) reached the spot to conduct the rescue operations of the reptile.Narendra Muthe, Thane Range Forest Officer, said, “We received complaints from people residing in the area and also from the disaster management cell of NMMC regarding the crocodile.. We have put up nets and also stationed volunteers at the spot. With the help of WWA, we would be rescuing the reptile and sending it to its natural habitat.”On Friday, WWA spotted the crocodile and put up nets on the outlet of the pond so that the reptile does not go to another pond adjacent to it. On Saturday, WWA was planning to put up a cage in the pond so as to get hold of the reptile and then release it to a place which the forest department suggests.“On Saturday afternoon, we spotted the crocodile and are looking for a location to put the cage with feed to attract the reptile. By evening, we could not locate the crocodile, hence we would return on Sunday with the cage. It will be a futile effort to keep the cage at a place where the crocodile is not there and hence we have to make sure of its presence before we place the cage,” Omkar Kolekar, from WWA said.Aditya Patil, President of WWA, said that it is suspected that the crocodile might have been displaced from the Juinagar creek. “In the past, a crocodile was spotted at Juinagar creek. We can’t be sure if it’s the same as it is not possible to identify the reptile individually. But we suspect that the same crocodile would have got displaced from there during high tide with the heavy current of water,” Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rescue-operations-on-to-relocate-crocodile-from-navi-mumbai-pond-101613848153574.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||There is undeclared Emergency in India: Sanjay Raut on Disha Ravi arrest||Reacting for the first time since the toolkit controversy broke, the Shiv Sena slammed the Centre over the arrest of 22-year-old activist Disha Ravi and said there is an “undeclared Emergency” in the country. Sena leader and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said the country is so weak today that the government thinks it is in danger of 22-year-old climate change activist. The Sena leader also said that Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) allies — the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Sena — will contest Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal polls together.Slamming the Union government, the Sena leader said, “When Emergency was declared by Indira Gandhi, she said so openly and the President signed it. Today there is Emergency but it is an undeclared one. I have seen the Union home minister’s statement supporting the action against the activist. He thinks that our country is in danger because of such activists who work in the field of environment; is our country so weak? There should be an open debate on this issue.” Raut, who was speaking to reporters in Pune, said deliberations within the MVA have begun to contest the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal elections in an alliance. He said that NCP, which has a greater presence in Pune region, will get lion’s share of the seats to contest in the polls. Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad civic bodies will go to polls in early 2022. He added that they will discuss with the Congress leadership to contest together.Both Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad civic bodies are currently controlled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Raut said that contesting in an alliance will bring a change of power in these cities. He said the discussions between the two parties have started. “Our discussions have started and it has been decided to contest in an alliance of Sena and NCP. We are discussing how to take the Congress along. It has been decided that whichever party has the greater presence in the area must lead the coalition in that election,” he said. “For instance, in Mumbai, Thane, Nashik, Kalyan-Dombivli, Sambhaji Nagar [Aurangabad], the Sena has a strong presence. In Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, NCP is stronger. We are in discussion as to how we can contest elections in these cities. NCP will have more seats. The idea to contest together will definitely bring a change of power,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/there-is-undeclared-emergency-in-india-sanjay-raut-on-disha-ravi-arrest-101613847973409.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees over 6,000 Covid-19 cases for second day in a row||Maharashtra on Saturday reported more than 6,000 new Covid-19 infections for a second day in a row, pushing the count to 2,093,913. The number of active cases stood at 48,439, following 2,567 recoveries in the past 24 hours.India’s worst-hit state’s death toll reached 51,753 after 40 more casualties were reported, of which 13 were in the past 48 hours and 12 were in the last week. The other 15 deaths were from the period before last week, officials said.With the steady, yet alarming spike in infections, the state government has directed local authorities to take all preventive measures to arrest the virus’ spread, which includes bringing back lockdown restrictions. However, the state government is yet to call it a ‘second wave”, saying that it is too early to reach such a conclusion.From Saturday night, weekend curfews have been imposed in districts such as Amravati and Akola, whereas in Yavatmal, a 10-day curfew has already been imposed from February 18, restricting a gathering of five or more people at a place. Schools and colleges in Wardha have been ordered to remain closed until further notice.On Saturday, 1,607 cases were recorded in these four districts, of which, Amravati (both city and district) reported the highest number — 1,055. Akola saw 348 cases, Wardha 112 and Yavatmal 92. It means over 25% of the day’s caseload was from these four districts, which are in Vidarbha region. The region has reported 41% (2,609) of Saturday’s cases.The rise in daily cases can be gauged from this statistic: In the first 10 days of this month(February 1 to 10), 25,854 cases were reported, but in the past ten days (February 11 to 20), a total of 44,305 cases have been reported, which is a rise of 58% (18,451 infections). A comparison with last month’s figures showed a rise in cases as well.As of February 20, a total of 70,159 cases have been reported in the state, while in January 63,770 infections were reported in the corresponding period, according to official figures.Dr Archana Patil, director, directorate of health services (DHS), said they were focusing on improving the existing health infrastructure to deal with any situation, considering the spurt in cases along with bringing restrictions, wherever required. “It would be early to use the term ‘second wave’ as the growth in cases is not exponential and limited to certain areas. We still have to wait for some time to assess and analyse the rise,” Dr Patil said.“Moreover, we are focusing on improving the health infrastructure to be prepared in case of further increase in cases. We are increasing the number of beds, oxygen supplies, ICU beds, medicine supplies etc. to deal with any situation. We are also in the process of increasing Covid Care Centres (CCC), Dedicated Covid Health Centers (DCHC) and Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH) for management of patients. CCC, DCHC and DCH were reduced as the number of cases had gone down too low,” she stressed.The state had decided to start CCC for all asymptomatic positive patients without comorbidity, DCHC for patients with mild symptoms and DCH for serious patients.Amid the rise in cases, the district administrations in Nagpur, Buldhana, Parbhani and Jalna have also either restricted gatherings to less than five people or have started to strictly implement the standing government standard operating procedure (SOP) that was meant to facilitate unlocking from Wednesday.A few more districts are likely to impose similar restrictions to contain the spread, the officials said. “The state is imposing these measures in targeted areas where the virulence of the virus is more and some more districts may follow them as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed the local bodies to take all the necessary steps to break the chain,” said a senior official, privy to the development.Meanwhile, Maharashtra covered 897,413 beneficiaries through its vaccination drive after 37,030 people were inoculated on Saturday. Of them, 24,534 were given the first shot of vaccine, while 12,416 were administered second shots, who have completed a mandatory gap of 28 days. Starting from January 16, the state has covered the first shots of 608,829 health workers (HCWs) and second shots of 40,241 HCWs. Similarly, it has completed the first shots of 248,343 frontline workers (FLWs) till date, according to a release issued by the state health department on Saturday.Maharashtra has around 800,000 HCWs and 580,000 FLWs registered on the centralised CoWIN app.The third phase of the drive is likely to be started next month, the officials said. “The decision for starting the third phase has to come from the Centre. We were informed that it would start from March. We were also asked to complete the first shot of healthcare workers by February 20 and frontline workers till February 28,” he said, wishing not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-over-6-000-covid-19-cases-for-second-day-in-a-row-101613847915067.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Sanpada school cancels offline classes as Navi Mumbai civic body steps in||A private school in Sanpada cancelled its offline classes on Saturday after the intervention of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC).Several parents of the known chain of schools in Sanpada had approached the school seeking withdrawal of its decision to start offline classes and examinations for Class 9 and 10. Parents claimed that it was not possible for the students to reach with no transport available along with other difficulties. While some of the parents reached out to the school via email, some tried meeting the principal on Saturday with no response from the administration, the parents claimed.Read more: Navi Mumbai civic body to take strict action, impose fines against those not following Covid norms“The pandemic is still there. Sending children to school is a risk. Moreover, there is no transportation provided. The parents are working, so how will children go to school?” a parent who did not wish to be named said.The offline classes for Class 10 started on February 16 and for Class 9 on February 17. The exams are scheduled in March.“Very few students who stay nearby attended the offline classes while the rest of them missed it. When the offline school was conducted, there was no online school, so the ones who did not attend missed the lectures,” the parent added.After various complaints, NMMC education department contacted the principal of the school and informed them that they are not allowed to conduct physical classes. After NMMC intervened on Saturday, the school sent a message to the parents stating that the physical classes have been cancelled, however there was still no clarity about the exams.“We have conveyed the message that the school cannot conduct classes or call the students to school as it is still not permitted. The principal has been asked to meet us on Monday, wherein we convey the same face to face,” deputy municipal commissioner, Yogesh Kaduskar, said.The principal remained unavailable for comment when contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sanpada-school-cancels-offline-classes-as-navi-mumbai-civic-body-steps-in-101613847733504.html
21-02-2021||Chandigarh||Why fusion of modern, alternative medicine is unfeasible||Doctors across the country have decried the concept of ‘mixopathy’, which refers to the integration of different systems of medicine such as ayurveda, homeopathy, unani, siddha, yoga and naturopathy with allopathy (modern system of medicine).The debate began when provisions under Section 50 of the National Medical Commission Act, 2020 mandated that educational modules for interface between the modern system of medicine, homeopathy and ayurveda be prepared through joint meetings of the Central Council of Indian Medicine, Central Council of Homeopathy and National Medical Commission. These provisions aim to promote pluralism in medical education.The National Education Policy, 2020, in its medical education component, lays emphasis on a holistic approach. The government think-tank NITI Aayog is perusing through a variety of reform ideas in the health sector, including aligning traditional and modern approaches for the ‘larger good’, for which the Aayog has formed four committees. These committees are in the areas of medical education, clinical practice, public health, medical research and administration.No common groundHowever, this concept of integrating different systems of medicine raises serious questions about its practicability as each medical system has its own unique method of diagnosis, reasoning for causation and protocols for treatment.The modern medicine system is an internationally recognised system of treatment whereas other systems have regional acceptance and dominance. Just as different regional languages cannot be integrated to make one language, it is similarly not possible to formulate one common system of treatment.Case in point: How can the anti-microbial concept of modern medicine system be integrated with the ‘tridosha theory’ of Ayurveda? Or the homeopathic concept, which says dilution increases the potency of a biologically active substance be reconciled with modern pharmacology? The homeopathic principles that substances retain memory on dilution has not stood the scrutiny of biology, chemistry, physics and related sciences. It would be difficult to explain the logic of the yogic concept of alternate nostril breathing (anulom vilom) to a student of modern anatomy and physiology because both nostrils have identical structures?More research neededFurthermore, it is not possible to treat one patient with different systems simultaneously. Scientists and clinicians are yet to study drug interactions between medicines from different systems inside the complex human machine, which may be undergoing different metabolic changes due to the stress of trauma, operative procedure or recovery from anaesthetic agents apart from the onslaught of infections and immune factors. All such issues need to be sorted out through scientific research, both in experimental laboratories as well as in clinical practice before any type of integration exercise is put into action, by independent expert groups. Or else, we shall be putting the proverbial cart before the horse.Unlike the modern system of medicine, the indigenous systems of therapy are not evidence-based. And hence, have no common grounds to meet and mix.Shortage of qualified doctors has often been cited as one reason for such integration. However, as nearly 80,000 MBBS doctors are now being trained by 642 medical colleges every year such an argument may not be valid anymore. Rather, there may be many unemployed MBBS doctors few years from now. There is no dearth of postgraduate doctors too, 36,192 doctor of medicine (MD) and master of surgery (MS) seats were available for the year 2020-21. Over 44,000 specialist doctors are also being prepared by medical colleges and 60 exclusive post graduate medical institutes every year.Better infrastructure needed in rural areasAnother argument made in favour of the integration is that doctors of the modern system of medicine are not keen on providing services in remote or underdeveloped areas. However, the non-availability of qualified doctors in rural areas can be attributed to non-availability of other essential services as well. Qualified doctors would love to serve the ailing masses in rural areas if infrastructure and social milieu to practice modern medicine is made available by the government.Policy makers must work on correcting the basic lacunae in infrastructure first, rather than making stop-gap arrangements to meet the demand and supply gap, if any, by either integrating different systems of treatment or by imparting modern surgical training to ayurveda graduates, as per the CCIM notification, (Amendment Rules 2016) dated November,19 2020. Let each system of treatment be developed in an individual manner by established scientific research methodology, to make it evidence-based and acceptable to those with scientific temperament. Mixopathy is unscientific, unrealistic, unreasonable, and an onslaught on the uniqueness of individual systems of treatment. Let diversity of different systems prevail and flourish.(Views expressed are personal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/why-fusion-of-modern-alternative-medicine-is-unfeasible-101613847675466.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police to get gangster Ravi Pujari’s custody on Monday||The Mumbai Police is set to get gangster Ravi Pujari’s custody on Monday after a special court in Karnataka sanctioned the same. Pujari has around 50 criminal cases filed against him in Mumbai of around 200 cases across India.Earlier, efforts by Mumbai Police’s crime branch to take the gangster’s custody failed due to various legal hurdles. Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh had, after taking over as commissioner last year, said that more efforts would be taken to take Pujari’s custody.Police sources said at the time of Pujari’s extradition, authorities in Senegal, from where the gangster was extradited, were informed by Karnataka Police only about their cases. Due to this, Pujari’s lawyer opposed his custody to the Mumbai Police.However, the same was cleared after the ministry of home affairs and ministry of external affairs intervened and represented their case before authorities in Senegal and sought permission for granting Pujari’s custody to Mumbai Police.Senegal authorities then permitted Mumbai Police to take the custody and the documents were accordingly submitted before the special court in Bengaluru, which passed an order on Saturday, said officers.Milind Bharambhe, joint commissioner of police (crime), said, “After compliance of all legal procedures, we approached a special Bengaluru court which granted Pujari’s custody to us. Mumbai Police will get his custody on Monday, following which he will be brought to Mumbai and produced in the court.”The anti-extortion cell (AEC) of the Mumbai Police will take Pujari’s custody in connection with an October 2016 firing case at a hotel in Vile Parle which was allegedly done on the instructions of Pujari for extortion. The police had arrested seven members of the Pujari gang in the case including the shooter while Pujari was shown as wanted accused in the case.Crime branch sources said a special team of officers would interrogate the gangster. Given the track record of the gangster, additional security arrangements are being made at the crime branch lock up, said a police officer.A crime branch officer said Pujari is wanted accused in 52 cases including murder, extortion and shootouts in Mumbai over the past 24 years.Pujari has been named in at least 200 cases across the country. He was arrested in Senegal in West Africa in January 2019, but he jumped bail and fled to South Africa where he was involved in drug trafficking and extortion racket.Sources in Indian Intelligence said he was hiding as Anthony Fernandes, a Burkina Faso passport holder, and was located in a remote village of South Africa.Based on a tip-off from the Indian external intelligence agency, Senegal police caught the gangster. He was then brought to India by a team of officers, including senior IPS officers from Karnataka, where he has 79 cases.After his arrest, Mumbai Police’s anti-extortion cell (AEC) compiled a dossier with details of 20 cases against him in Mumbai for his extradition. “The selected cases were mostly registered under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Act (MCOCA),” said an AEC official. “All case papers were written in Marathi and were translated in English, which took at least two months. Apart from the documents, we collected biometric proof, including DNA samples collected from his family,” the officer added.A senior crime branch officer said police in Karnataka, Kerala and Gujarat and other cities have also prepared similar dossiers which were submitted to the home ministry, from where these were sent to the authorities in Senegal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-to-get-gangster-ravi-pujari-s-custody-on-monday-101613847673680.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra BJP chief draws flak for claiming PM Modi made Kalam prez||Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Chandrakant Patil drew criticism from the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in Maharashtra after he said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi made Dr APJ Abdul Kalam the president of India. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said Modi was not in national level politics then while the Congress criticised Patil saying next that he would give credit to Modi for how the universe came into being. Raut criticised Patil and the BJP saying they wanted credit for everything that has happened in the country.Patil made the controversial claim while speaking to BJP’s Yuva Morcha held in Pune on Friday. He said that Modi never discriminated against Muslims and claimed that Modi made Kalam the president in 2002. Patil had said, “Narendra Modi has given a place to all Muslims. He had also made Abdul Kalam the president. He was not made the president because he was a Muslim, but because he was an accomplished scientist.”Dr Kalam was elected as the President of India in 2002 during Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s government, while Narendra Modi was the chief minister of Gujarat.Raut dismissed the claim and said it was a masterstroke by late Vajpayee. “This was a masterstroke by Atal Bihari Vajpayee; and Pramod Mahajan too was involved in it. All parties had supported the candidature of Dr Kalam. I only know that Modi was not in the national political scene then. My knowledge or information might be inadequate, but was he [Kalam] Vajpayee’s choice, which was backed by everybody. It is laughable that some people are taking credit for everything that has happened in the country,” Raut said.State Congress secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “Today, neither APJ Abdul Kalam nor Vajpayee are alive. Tomorrow Chandrakant Patil may even say that the universe came into being because of Modi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bjp-chief-draws-flak-for-claiming-pm-modi-made-kalam-prez-101613847313510.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body to take strict action, impose fines against those not following Covid norms||With increasing Covid cases, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has decided to implement penalties more stringently so as to make sure that everyone followed the norms.The NMMC chief, Abhijit Bangar, said, “It’s noticed that people have stopped taking the pandemic seriously. In the beginning of the pandemic, we were still unaware about the seriousness of the virus. But now, everyone knows about it. So, not following the norms is not acceptable.”In order to ensure that marriages are being conducted by following the norms, the civic body has decided to penalise not just the organiser but also the owner of the marriage or banquet hall if rules are flouted.“Penalising the organiser or the event manager of the marriage was the norm followed usually. Now, we have decided to penalise even the hall owner so that at least he makes sure that the event is organised keeping the safety measures in mind,” Bangar said.He added that the penalty would be charged anywhere between ₹20,000 and ₹50,000, depending on the norms flouted.Ever since the pandemic struck, the highest number of positive cases in a day was recorded on August 20 with 477 cases. The numbers had started coming down from November 9 with the cases going below 100. But this month, the cases started seeing a surge with the cases crossing the per day 100 mark on February 18 with 104 cases, which increased to 126 on February 19.“We have also formed teams at ward level with NMMC officials and police who would be penalising the people flouting norms more stringently,” Bangar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-body-to-take-strict-action-impose-fines-against-those-not-following-covid-norms-101613847133438.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 9 arrested for posing as cops, robbing ₹12 crore||Vile Parle police arrested nine people for allegedly robbing ₹12 crore from two persons at a five-star hotel in Vile Parle. The accused posed as police officers and under the pretext of a raid, “seized” the cash and escaped from the hotel.Manjunath Shinge, deputy commissioner of police, zone 8, confirmed the development but refused to divulge details as the accused are being interrogated and efforts are on to recover the stolen cash.A police officer said that victims had come from outside the city and were staying in the hotel in Vile Parle (East). The two were waiting for some other people who are in hawala transactions as wanted to send ₹12 crore to someone in Canada through hawala. On February 17, two people undertaking hawala transactions visited them. While the cash was being counted for hawala transactions, four people posing as police personnel barged into the room around 4pm, said the officer.“Under the pretext of a police raid, the four accused seized the cash. They told the four people in the room that the money in their possession has been obtained through illegal activities and hence was seized. After some discussions, the fake policemen agreed to a settlement against some monetary consideration,” said a senior police officer. The victims later learnt that they were imposters. Anand Ingale, 29, alerted local police about the incident. Ingle is a labour contractor and a social activist. The police registered an offence and multiple police teams swung into action. Enquiry revealed that the policemen had showed their (fake) identity cards while entering the hotel.“Based on the leads obtained from the enquiry with hotels staff and CCTV footage, police zeroed in on some suspects and on Friday arrested nine accused who reportedly admitted their involvement in the robbery,” said the police officer.Police booked all the nine people under sections 392 (robbery), 170 (personating public servant) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. A local court has remanded them in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-9-arrested-for-posing-as-cops-robbing-12-crore-101613847073499.html
21-02-2021||City||Gujarat transwoman painter fears for her life, alleges abuse for refusing to beg||A 21-year old transwoman, who is a Warli artist and works with slum-dwellers, was allegedly kidnapped, beaten and forced to strip in public by another group of transgenders on February 15 night in Rajkot, she claimed.The incident came to light on Thursday after the alleged assailants made a video of the incident and spread it across certain social media groups.“They mercilessly pulled my hair, kicked me in my private parts, called names. They first beat me up at home, in the autorickshaw when they were taking me and then near the hotel (on Gondal Road). They also shot a video of me stripping and as they thrashed me,” she said.She said she was beaten and abused as she didn't want to beg for money. “I didn’t want to beg for money. I have a talent and that is adequate to lead a proper life and so I kept away from the others. What happened was some members of their group (who had assaulted her) left them and joined my group of the LGBTQ community. Some are learning Warli art with me, while all of us work to help the slum-dwellers in the city as social work. As more transgenders, who didn’t want to beg on the streets, joined me, the others were angry and did this to me.”She wasn’t willing to talk till a Pune-based LGBTQ activist Damini Sinha asked her to. Sinha said, “She was too scared to lodge an FIR but also determined to move the police. If unchecked, such incidents would increase.”She did not approach the police as the group of assaulters took her to the police station.“See their guts and police connections. After doing all that to me, they took me to the police station. The cops there won’t listen to me. The only help and that time was a PCR van which dropped me home at 2 am,” the Warli painter said.Sinha said her assaulters had taken her to A-Division police station where they did not listen to her nor were willing to register a case, saying since she was kidnapped from her home in Malviya Nagar, the FIR would be lodged there.Also read: India, Maldives sign 5 deals, EAM hands over 1 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccinesDeputy Commissioner of Police, Manoharsinh Jadeja, said, “we are on election duty, check with the police station.” Police Inspector KN Bhukan of Malviya Nagar claimed, “This girl never came to our police station. It is not possible for us to refuse to take her complaint.”The victim said she would lodge a complaint on Saturday with the help of a woman activist, who is also a teacher in Rajkot and associated with NGO Samajik Ekta Jagruti Mission. “Now, I have her support to step out of home and lodge a complaint,” she added.On Saturday, before she could step out of her home to go to the police stations, a group of eunuchs knocked on her door early in the morning. “I was scared, I knew if I opened they might even kill me. I didn’t open the door and called the police,” she told Hindustan Times.A van from the Malaviya Nagar police came soon and took her and the eunuchs at her house to the police station to lodge her FIR in the incident.“At the police station, they created a huge scene and demanded that I should be thrown out of Rajkot. When the police tried to cool off the matter and were ready to take my FIR, the group of eunuchs stripped, staged demonstrations and shouted slogans against the police,” she recounted the incident. Local Gujarati media even recorded the incident live.The police recorded her statements about the entire incident right from February 15 night. However, being a tribal, she wanted to lodge the complaint under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.“Since I wanted to register the case under the atrocities act, I would need a caste certificate which I did not have at that time. I will have to go to my native village in Surendranagar district to get it,” she said. Once she gets the certificate, she would be able to lodge the complaint.“I have told the police that I fear for my life and these people may attack me again anytime and so will need security. They told me once the FIR is lodged, they will provide me with security. Till then, if I need help, they promised they are there,” the Warli painter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gujarat-transwoman-painter-fears-for-her-life-alleges-abuse-for-refusing-to-beg-101613846606312.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||University of Mumbai schedules PG exams 6 weeks after course begins||Barely six weeks since colleges affiliated to the University of Mumbai (MU) started first-year classes for masters courses, the university is now asking all colleges to complete their first-semester exams on or before March 10. Colleges said not only is the varsity flouting the 90-day working period before conducting exams, but is also offering very little clarity to colleges about the exams. “Most colleges were completing the admission process for first-year Master of Commerce (MCom), Master of Arts (MA) and Master of Science (MSc) courses until January 15, and classes began only in the third week of January. Now the latest circular by university’s examination department is asking us to conduct exams before March 10 and announce results by March 15. How is this possible?” said the coordinator of the MCom department of a suburban college. This year, admissions to most courses in higher education sector got delayed due to the Covid-19 lockdown and confusion over reservation quotas. In colleges that managed to fill up their seats through the in-house quota, admissions to postgraduate courses were completed by December 2020 and classes began in the first week of January 2021. However, in many cases, colleges had to wait until January 15 this year to complete the admission process and start regular classes. “While MCom and MA lectures have been conducted online, students from the MSc-IT department have barely completed 40% practical classes. How can we conduct examination for these students without even completing basic curriculum?” asked the principal of a south Mumbai college on condition of anonymity. Officials from the Board of Examinations and Evaluation (BoEE) said the circular is not binding in terms of the date mentioned. “We have told colleges to hold the examination by March 10 but in case colleges approach us seeking an extension of examination deadline, we will consider their case,” said Vinod Patil, director BoEE, MU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-schedules-pg-exams-6-weeks-after-course-begins-101613846833493.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Sameer Khan denied bail in narcotics case||A special court under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on Saturday rejected bail plea of Sameer Khan, son-in-law of minority affairs and skill development minister Nawab Malik. Khan was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on January 13 in connection with a drug case. Khan’s name cropped up in connection with the seizure of 200 kilogrammes of marijuana after the agency arrested British national Karan Sejnani from Khar as well as Rahila and Shaista Furniturewala from Bandra on January 9.The prosecution said that the narcotic substance was to be used by Sejnani who was developing a product based on tobacco, marijuana and CBD spray. It further claimed that Khan was to invest in the business.Khan, in his defence while seeking bail, claimed that it was a herbal product and he was not aware about anything else. The prosecution, however, argued that Khan knew about it and was to also sign an agreement with Sejnani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sameer-khan-denied-bail-in-narcotics-case-101613846653330.html
21-02-2021||Chandigarh||Former PGIMER director BK Sharma passes away||Professor BK Sharma, former director of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, passed away in Chandigarh on Friday. He was 84.The late professor had served in the position from 1995 to 1996. “He rose from a humble background of Bhia village in Jammu to become PGI director. He was born in 1937. He did his schooling, undergraduate and postgraduate courses from Amritsar,” the PGIMER in a release stated.Professor Sharma had joined PGIMER in 1967 as a lecturer, had become the head of the department of internal medicine and subsequently the director. His areas of interest were hypertension and Takayasu Arteritis. He was fondly called a doyen in medicine.He is survived by his wife, professor Saroj Sharma, a microbiologist, and two children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-pgimer-director-bk-sharma-passes-away-101613845993293.html
21-02-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal likely to meet farm leaders today in Delhi Assembly||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is scheduled to meet some farm leaders on Sunday to discuss the three contentious farm laws, which have evoked vociferous protests across the country, a senior official in the chief minister’s office said on Saturday.“The CM’s meeting with the farmer leaders will take place over lunch at the Delhi Assembly on Sunday. The three farm laws and other related concerns will be discussed in the meeting,” said the official, who did not wish to be identified.The chief minister’s office and Delhi government spokespersons refused to share names of the leaders to whom invites have been sent for Sunday’s meeting. HT spoke to many farm unions but none of them confirmed to have received an invite from the Delhi chief minister’s office.Sunday’s meeting plan comes a week ahead of Kejriwal’s scheduled visit to Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut, where he is supposed to address a kisan mahapanchayat (farmers’ meeting) on February 28.Office bearers of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha – a collective of more than 30 farmer groups which are leading the ongoing protests – said that none of the leaders associated with the group has received any invite for a meeting with Kejriwal.Thousands of farmers from states such as Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have gathered at Delhi’s borders for nearly three months now, to voice concerns against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, which were passed in the Parliament in September last year. The protesting farmers have blocked the interstate highways at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur demanding that the government repeal the three farm laws.While the government says that the new laws are supposed to reform the agriculture sector in the country, the protesting farmers fear that the laws will do away with agricultural markets, favour industrialists, and affect prices of crops, which would further bring down their income.Kejriwal, who is also the national convener of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), has stood in solidarity with protesting farmers since the onset of the protest. The AAP voted against the three contentious laws in both houses of the Parliament.Before Kejriwal, other senior AAP leaders — such as deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, and health minister Satyendar Jain, among others — have met the farmers at the Delhi borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kejriwal-likely-to-meet-farm-leaders-today-in-delhiassembly-101613843953125.html
21-02-2021||Delhi||Police file second case against two south Delhi child care homes||The Delhi Police on Saturday said their Economics Offences Wing had registered a case against two child care homes for financial irregularities, cheating, forgery and criminal breach of trust, following a complaint received from the National Commission for Protection of Child Right (NCPCR).This is the second case against the two child care homes in a fortnight. The police identified the two homes as Umeed Aman Ghar, a home for boys, and Khushi Rainbow Home, a residence for girls -- both based south Delhi and established by the Centre for Equity Studies (CSE). The CSE is being run by trustee member Harsh Mander, a retired IAS officer.An officer from the EoW said that the second case was registered on Thursday under various Indian Penal Code Sections.“The NCPCR had filed a complaint against the two homes mentioning financial irregularities. After preliminary examination, which indicated financial irregularities, we registered a case. We would now be issuing notices to the concerned homes and members of their management seeking their availability to join the probe,” the officer said.Mander could not be reached for a comment on the allegations despite repeated attempts.At that time, chairperson of NCPCR Priyank Kanoongo, had said that the two homes are run by Centre for Equity Studies where activist Harsh Mander is a director. Kanoongo accused the officials of the two homes of trying to “derail” the enquiry process by saying that Mander was not connected to them.Kanoogoo, as well as the findings of an inspection by NCPCR on October 1, had pointed to alleged irregularities in the financial aspects of the two homes, the living conditions of the children and found them to be flouting several applicable laws.When HT had sought a comment on these allegations, the management of the homes had sent a response in which they had denied any financial irregularities and that Mander only conceived the Rainbow Homes Programme (HRP) under which the children are cared for.The management had said the NCPCR was trying to malign the reputation of HRP as Mander is a “known critic of the government and its policies”, they added that Mander was no longer associated with the “day-to-day running” of the programme.Earlier this month, a first information report (FIR) was registered under against the two care homes for children under the Juvenile Justice Act and the section 188 (disobedience to an order passed by a government servant) at the Mehrauli police station, after the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) reported a host of abuse and irregularities such as sexual abuse, using the children for anti-CAA protests, not providing them the right living conditions, Covid-19 norms violations, among others, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-file-second-case-against-two-south-delhi-child-care-homes-101613843892694.html
21-02-2021||Other||MSC Bank case: EOW did not consider proof, Anna Hazare tells court||Social activist Anna Hazare on Saturday claimed before a special anti-corruption bureau (ACB) court that he had on the basis of documentary evidence revealed the involvement of several political leaders in the alleged fraud at Maharashtra State Cooperative (MSC) Bank, but the economic offences wing (EOW) of the Mumbai Police “did not even touch the allegations”. Advocate Satish Talekar submitted that Hazare was the first person to raise the issue of large-scale irregularities at MSC Bank, especially with regards to the sale of the mortgaged cooperative sugar factories. Talekar added that on the basis of documentary evidence, Hazare had pointed out to high court the involvement of several political leaders. However, the investigating agency has claimed that there was no evidence of any criminality, without considering the material submitted by the social activist. Talekar was arguing the protest petition filed by Hazare, opposing a report submitted by EOW, seeking to close the criminal case involving elected representatives of almost all political parties in the state. Mumbai Police’s EOW had last September filed a closure report in the alleged Rs25,000-crore MSC Bank fraud case. The police filed a C summary (closure report) in the special ACB court after EOW’s special investigation team (SIT) found no criminal aspect to be investigated in the case. The original complainant, along with other activists, had filed a protest petition asking the court to reject the report. Along with this, Hazare too approached the court earlier this week pleading it to discard the report and asked the police for further investigation, claiming that the closure report is filed under political pressure. Hazare has claimed that he is the original complainant in this case and had filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in 2018. He has alleged that the report has been filed without taking his statement. “The IO (investigating officer) has deliberately given a colour of civil liability to the criminal acts pure and simple. The mens rea [criminal intent] as well as actus reus (criminal act) being present in the criminal actions of the accused, no other conclusion than commission of offences can be inferred,” Hazare has claimed in the petition. The petition further stated that, “The illegalities committed either in sanction of illegal loans or illegal sale of sugar units were part of the larger conspiracy. The modus operandi of granting illegal loans in the name of a cooperative, Sugar Sahakari Karkhana (SSK), though intended for personal use of directors, non-repayment of dues causing sickness of SSKs and sale of SSKs at throwaway prices to their asides and associates who were on the earlier board of directors of the SSK or the MSC Bank or their kin or their party men was nothing but criminal conspiracy within the meaning of section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.” The special court has now posted the matter for further hearing on March 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-state-cooperative-bank-case-eow-hasn-t-taken-proof-into-consideration-anna-hazare-to-court-101613838132250.html
21-02-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana seeks Centre’s help to resolve SYL Canal issue||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday sought the Union government’s intervention in resolving the long-pending issue of Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL) and Hansi-Butana Link canal so that the state could get its legitimate share of river water. “To overcome the water shortage problem in the state, the government will soon be signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for the Kishau dam. Besides this, MoUs have already been signed with the Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh governments for the Lakhwar and Renuka dam,” Khattar said during the sixth governing council meeting of the Niti Aayog, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi through video conferencing. Apprising the Prime Minister of the steps taken by the state to promote water conservation, Khattar said that at present, large parts of the state are in the dark zone and if the SYL and Hansi-Butana Link Canal issue is resolved, Haryana’s problem of water scarcity will be addressed. Highlighting the fact that though in GST collection, Haryana is at the forefront but despite that due to input tax credit, the state gets only 20% GST, the chief minister urged the Prime Minister to formulate a plan for incentivising states having the maximum GST collection. He said efforts are on for the successful implementation of the first of its kind Parivar Pehchan Patra scheme to ensure that the person standing last in the queue gets the benefit of government schemes. He said at present, export business worth ₹85,000 crore is being done, which includes basmati and automobile parts. Agricultural reforms Khattar said that for promoting agriculture, aligning cropping system to agro-climatic conditions at district levels is being done for optimum resource use. He said under Mera Pani Meri Virasat scheme, alternative crops like maize, cotton, bajra, pulses, vegetables, and fruits were being grown. ₹7, 000 is being given as incentive to farmers for adopting crop diversification, said the chief minister. He said for water conservation, Haryana water resource authority and Haryana pond and wastewater management authority have been constituted. Khatar said at present, Haryana is giving the highest price of ₹350 per quintal to sugarcane farmers. Apart from this, various crops such as gram, mustard, sunflower, bajra and maize are being procured on MSP by the state government, he added. While 17, 216 hectares has been brought under fish culture which has produced 1.91 lakh MT fish in the state, production of white shrimp in saline affected areas is becoming popular. He said the state government has planned to convert paddy straw into compressed biogas and for this, 100 compressed biogas (CBG) plant will be set up in the first phase with the help from Centre. He said that to further strengthen the storage system after harvesting, warehouses will be set up under the warehousing scheme, which will be notified as deemed mandis so that the produce can be sold from these mandis. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-seeks-centre-s-help-to-resolve-syl-canal-issue-101613825172117.html
21-02-2021||Other||Startup mantra: Technology and defence create a whole new battlefield for innovation||When news of the Chamoli glacier burst broke earlier this month, several rescue and relief teams were rushed to the spot by authorities. While the rescue operations were being conducted, the NDRF sought help from startups– some of them from Pune – to deal with the situation. These entrepreneurs, while working with the tri-services, are addressing many such problem statements with their innovative products and indigenous technologies. With more than 30 defence establishments in and around Pune, the city-based defence startups are availing benefits with direct access to these establishments. The Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture’s (MCCIA) defence committee is also running a “defence procurement assistance programme” series for startups and MSMEs. The committee members also facilitate meetings with the College of Military Engineering (CME) and Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) officials, where entrepreneurs get an opportunity to present and demonstrate their products. Tech Mahindra is establishing a Makers Lab at CME to provide cutting-edge, next-generation technologies for the forces.What the founders say“The focus of our work is biosensors. We are planning to make a drug delivery vehicle product like for example a “painless drug delivery agent”. Small children are vaccinated, and it is quite a painful experience for them. Our drug delivery vehicle will ensure that the vaccine is delivered, and it won’t cause pain to the children. We are yet in the research stage and it will take another four to five months for the finished product launch. We are also in talks with some pharmaceutical companies for this product.“Another product is in the sensors-related domain. We are planning to develop a soldier’s health monitoring system which is non-invasive. We will measure maximum health related parameters such as blood pressure, haemoglobin, serum content, and platelet count of the individual using an IoT device and interfacing it further to a display or mobile. This product will take about a year for launch as it requires multidisciplinary expertise.“Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) has started a fully equipped innovation and incubation centre and is providing all infrastructural facilities to the incubated startup. They might consider internal funding to the incubated startups, but the policy decision is yet to be taken. We are also seeking government grants from Department of Science and Technology, Biotechnology Ignition Grant (BIG) scheme of BIRAC. For guidance in availing these grants, DIAT is taking help from NCL Venture Centre. DIAT vice- chancellor Dr C P Ramanarayanan, along with Dr Suvarna Datar and Dr Thakur have been instrumental in making all this happen. “Infrastructural support from institutes and universities is available to startups. A startup founder needs takers and indigenous technologies will be developed if there are any takers for it. Hence, institutes should try to improve and increase the industry interface, only then a startup will become successful. I have raised this issue multiple times on several national platforms. There should be a common platform/ industry interface where the industry can say that they require a technology and they are ready to fund it and find out whether the startups can do it for them.”-Prof Dr Sangeeta Kale, founder of Navyukti Innovations; director, Policy and Planning at Defence Institute of Advanced Technology---“We work in the security domain and our products are unmanned ground systems or vehicles. These products help the armed forces undertake reconnaissance, surveillance and take appropriate action for physical interventions with the enemies. We have also designed a logistics robot and demonstrated its capability. It can carry 30kg to 40kg of payload. We have also designed a small spherical robot which can be used in counter-insurgency operations in northern command. “So far, we have received funding of ₹1 crore from various government departments, Science and Technology Park Pune, and SINE IIT Mumbai. Recently we also received a grant from the Ministry of Electronics and Telecommunication grant for a project which we had undertaken during the lockdown period. We have also pitched to SIDBI fund of funds.“In the last year, two to three startups have moved to Pune. The ecosystem in Pune is pretty good for hardware startups. There are other institutes like DIAT, CME which help entrepreneurs in terms of access and reach. CME is helping us to take a proposal ahead with Army Training Command. It is certainly benefiting start-ups.”- Ganesh Pandit Suryawanshi, founder, Combat Robotics India---Mentor speak“Government of India has started two schemes for startups and MSMEs. One is the technology development fund (TDF) scheme where the users (the three services) give requirements to the directorate of futuristic technology management (DFTM) at the DRDO headquarters. TDF floats a problem statement on its website. It gives up to ₹10 crore grant. Startups or MSMEs invests only 10 per cent in development. So almost all development is funded by DRDO. They give handholding support like testing the product on site. They review the progress every two months and give feedback. DRDO also offers mentor support from their laboratories.“The other scheme that government has given is the IDEX scheme. This is directly run by the department of defence production. In this scheme too, all problem statements are put online. The limit is ₹3 crore with 50 per cent funding provided. So, startups have a matching contribution in IDEX.“The best thing that has happened last year is that both the schemes have been included in the new defence acquisition procedure. As per the new DAP, the tri-services are bound to purchase items developed by startups or MSMEs under these schemes in the future. The biggest problem faced in the past regarding buyers has been addressed under the innovation purchase in the policy document. The only problem with these schemes is that they may take more time than a startup would like.“In the defence sector, the market is very uncertain and hence, venture capitalists are not keen to invest in companies unless until there is demand from the end customer, that is the ministry of defence. “As far as ecosystem is concerned, there is too much of mentoring, but collaboration is not happening. Many of us in the startup ecosystem feel that we will do everything. This is causing people to invest in efforts which somebody could have done much faster. Start-ups should worry about profitability and not the quantum of work.”-Abhishek Jain, VP, Strategic Partnerships, Zeus NumerixBest defence is attackCombat Robotics India Founded in 2015 by Ganesh Pandit Suryawanshi•Design and manufacturing of defence-grade robots that empower and enhance human abilities. These robots’ function in high endurance and rugged conditions and with the help of Intel Core processor family enable tactical surveillance and intelligence gathering on difficult terrain with adaptive chassis-less motion technology.•Funded and mentored by Intel through SINE (IIT Bombay Incubator) with central government’s Department of Science and Technology (DST) under PLUGIN Programme Made in India.Zeus Numerix •Founded in 2004 by Gopal Shevare, Basant Kumar Gupta, Shilowbhadra Banerjee and Irshad Khan•Zeus Numerix is one of the winners in the fourth edition of IDEX Defence India StartUp Challenge for the “Reduction of Radar Signature of Ships” project. Company involved in analysis, certification and design of defence systems including certification and design of various naval platforms, aircraft and missile systems.•Received seed funding of ₹12 lakh from SINE and later, angel investment of ₹2 crore.Navyukti Innovations •Founded in December 2020 by Dr Sangeeta Kale•Works on development of bio-medical devices, drug delivery vehicles and advanced sensors•First company to be incubated at the Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT)Eklavya Aero Sports, Shivajinagar•Founded in 2014 by Ajit Sapre•Provides training in Aeromodelling and sale of Aero-modelling equipment/kits. Also offers customer specific solutions in multi-copter applications and sale and support of multi-copters (Quad/Hexa/Octa-copters). •Included in 16 shortlisted startups by Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in December 2020 to solve core challenges in security sectorArtificial Intelligence and Robotics Founded in 2017 by Sushil Agarwal, Prashil Agarwal and Pankhuri Agarwal•A technology company focusing on development of AI based UAVs for surveying and mapping services. Also working on improving the take-off and landing capabilities of the fixed wing UAV to make it more agile by developing a fixed wing UAV with vertical take-off and landing capability.Skykeeper•Founded in 2018 by Swapnil Shende, Jiwan Kumre•Works on drone technology to provide high-value, end-to-end engineering solutions and services to industrial and commercial sector. The services provided include aerial UAV industrial inspections, aerial survey for GIS, agriculture and mining and drone photography.Aeronica Advance Technologies Founded in 2019 by Uday Mithari and backed by Anand Deshpande and others•Multi-utility Artificial Intelligence backed Unmanned Aerial Vehicle or drones for automation, ease of operations and lowering the cost of land surveys, land resource mappings, emergency delivery, defence or city surveillance and security, resource tracking, agricultural scanning and rescuing the resources and lives during natural calamities or accidents.Ayaan Autonomous Systems Founded in 2019 by Atul Chaudhary •Developing ‘autonomous systems’ using drones, UAVs, marine vehicles and other robotic systems, unmanned platforms. Drones designed for emergency response, portable and rapidly deployable for border and counter surveillance, urban policing and crowd management.Pahwa Metal Tech Founded in 2014 by Lalit Kumar Pahwa•Manufactures high technology copper titanium alloys and parts used in several industries like Oil & Gas, Mining, Aerospace, Automotive, Electrical, Welding etc. The technology was developed by DRDO and PMTPL is exclusive licensee on a global basis for this technology.Total number of aeronautics, aerospace and defence startups•India - 905 (DPIIT-recognised - 346)•Maharashtra - 121 (45)•Pune - 33 (13)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/startup-mantra-technology-and-defence-create-a-whole-new-battlefield-for-innovation-101613757238961.html
21-02-2021||Mumbai||'Follow Covid norms or face lockdown', warns Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Amid a spurt in Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday directed district authorities to strictly enforce the standard operating procedures (SOPs) laid down to facilitate unlocking in the state. Taking a serious note of the laxity in Covid-appropriate behaviour across the state, Thackeray warned that lockdown would have to be imposed again if people do not prevent crowding or do not follow masking in public places.In a meeting chaired by Thackeray with the health minister, divisional commissioners, district collectors, municipal commissioners and superintendents of police on the Covid-19 situation in the state, it was decided to control social gathering such as weddings and functions, which can turn into super-spreader events. There would be a temporary hold on permissions for rallies, processions, protests; while guests in wedding ceremonies will be strictly limited to 50.During the meeting, Thackeray said that declining cases has led to a carelessness among citizens. “Even if there is laxity in people, the district administration should not let your guard down and enforce the norms strictly, he told the administration.” A day after deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that tough decisions might have to be taken to prevent spread of coronavirus in the state, Thackeray said, “It is up to the people to decide whether to follow the rules or go back to the lockdown again. So, more care should be taken in the future,” he added.On Tuesday, Maharashtra recorded 3,663 new Covid-19 cases with 461 fresh cases in Mumbai. The state recorded 39 deaths, taking the toll to 51,591, while Mumbai added three fatalities. Maharashtra’s active caseload stood at 37,125, while Mumbai had 4,238 active cases. For Mumbai, there was no discussion of imposing lockdown in the city, said officials present in the meeting. However, strict enforcement of Covid rules, including fines for face mask violation, will be done.In the past couple of weeks, the state is seeing an increase in fresh Covid-19 cases from many districts. The daily average of cases recorded in first 15 days of February is more than the average number of cases recorded in January. Between February 1 and 15, the state has averaged 2,926 cases daily, while the average in January was 2,973.Alarmingly, Pune, Mumbai and Nagpur districts have added 3,739, 3,709 and 3,011 new cases between February 9 and 15. While Amravati district added 2,843 infections, followed by Thane district (2,303) and Nashik district (1,359) between the same period. In the past six weeks, although the overall active case count has gone down in the state, active cases in 15 districts have gone up. For instance, Amravati district saw active cases go from 1,144 on January 4 to 3,090 on February 15—a jump of 170% in six weeks.Five districts that need to be watched closely, according to a presentation given to Thackeray, include Amravati, Wardha, Akola, Yavatmal, and Buldhana. Amravati district has recorded a jump of 10.69% in new cases between February 8 and 14, followed by Wardha (4.62%), Akola (4.27%), Yavatmal (3.19%), and Buldhana (2.28%).Thackeray further said that the Covid-19 norms are not being followed in public places across the state. “So, rallies, processions and agitations should not be allowed. Also, it should be checked whether the attendance limit at the wedding ceremonies is followed,” said Thackeray. The CM has asked to take action against the owner of the establishment, if people are found not following Covid-appropriate behaviour or if any rules are flouted.Thackeray also allowed district collectors and superintendent of police to make their permissions mandatory for weddings to keep a tab on the number of people attending the ceremony. “The police permission is not made mandatory. However, the district authorities can decide, if they wish to. It was a suggestion that came from one of the districts, which the CM liked,” said an official requesting anonymity.For Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is going to introduce additional squads to man railway stations to ensure people wear masks. Special teams are expected to be formed to check venues for wedding ceremonies by the civic body, said an official.A senior official said that lockdown would not be practical at this moment, while stricter enforcement of the existing rules will help contain the spread. “People have become lax in taking precautionary measures. Right now we want to keep social gatherings under control. The super-spreader events such as weddings and social gathering will be strictly restricted to 50 people. The 50-people rule has been there but there have been instances where there have been 500-600 attendees,” the official said requesting anonymity.Similarly, Thackeray directed local authorities to check if restaurants and hotels are following the rules. If not, then he has asked them to take immediate action against the establishment. Thackeray added that the administration should also hold a dialogue with all the business organisations and associations, who sought relaxations from the lockdown, to ensure that the SOP is being enforced strictly.Thackeray directed local authorities to recheck on the people, who have been recorded to have six types of comorbidities under the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign. He further instructed that the local bodies should carry out disinfection of public places, toilets, bus stands, parks in rural and urban areas. The containment zones should be demarcated if need and implement them, he added.Meanwhile, Maharashtra vaccinated 27,698 beneficiaries across 655 centres in the state. Of these, 4,437 were healthcare workers who were administered their second shot of the vaccination. On Tuesday, 7,884 healthcare workers (HCWs) and 15,377 frontline workers (FLWs) were inoculated.So far, 741,370 beneficiaries, including FLWs and HCWs along with those who have got their second dose, have been inoculated. The state has completed vaccination for 567,087 (53.76%) of the total registered healthcare workers and vaccinated 165,167 (27.78%) of the total registered frontline workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-follow-covid-norms-or-face-lockdown-101613501158216.html
