23-02-2021||Pune||Case registered against social media handles backing Marne||A case was registered by Pune police against people who have posted in support of “notorious gangster” Gajanan Marne on social media. The video of a rally held after his release from Taloja jail on February 15 after acquittal in two murder cases registered against him in 2014 was shared across social media platforms last week. The case is being investigated by senior police inspector Vinayak Gaikwad, head of unit one of the anti-narcotic cell, Pune police crime branch. The police forces in Raigad, Pune city, and Pimpri-Chinchwad, have registered multiple cases against the man and his close aides for the rally. The Pune police have alleged that Marne and his accomplices flouted multiple rules and made a spectacle of his return starting from Mumbai to his house in Kothrud, Pune. The videos, edited for grandiose, were published by multiple people on various social media platforms. “Gajanan Marne is a notorious gangster and has serious cases like murder, public disorder, extortion registered against him and the war of his and rival gang led to the death of multiple people,” translates a statement from Pune police in Marathi. The statement further mentioned that given that his rival gang leaders are also outside of jail, Marne and his supports uploaded the videos and photos on various social media in order to establish his dominion and create fear among citizens. A case under Sections 290 (punishment for public nuisance in cases not otherwise provided for), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 120(b) (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act; and Section 37(1)(3)with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Bund garden police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/case-registered-against-social-media-handles-backing-marne-101614104981087.html
23-02-2021||Pune||Infant found abandoned in Kharadi dargah, second incident in a week||The Pune police officials found a five to six months old infant inside a dargah in Kharadi on Monday evening, officials said. The girl child was found at the dargah around 6:30 pm. The infant was found wearing a yellow petticoat, white half pant with pink dots on it and left inside the dargah property. A case under Section 317 (exposure and abandonment of a child under 12 years of age) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Chandan nagar police station against the guardian of the child. The incident has come to light only days after a two-day-old boy was found abandoned in the bushes near Katraj ghat. The police received a call early morning from cyclists who informed them that they heard cries of a baby at one of the spots in the ghat area. A case was registered at Bharati Vidyapeeth police station. In October 2020, a couple was booked for abandoning a three-month-old infant in a church in Khadki, Pune||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/infant-found-abandoned-in-kharadi-dargah-second-incident-in-a-week-101614104920996.html
23-02-2021||Pune||Science Day: Pune-based institutions go digital for annual celebrations this year||Around 190 schools from six states which include Maharashtra, Gujarat, Bihar, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu will participate in the science day competition Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope (GMRT) on February 28, 2021.Due to the increasing Covid-19 cases, Science day which is celebrated on February 28 annually will be hosted online by various scientific institutions in the city. Dr JK Solanki, head of administration and finance at the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics (NCRA) said the students who are participating are expected to upload the videos of their experiments by February 24. “So far there are 170 projects uploaded on our portal on the same day on February 28. We will have an inaugural ceremony on science day followed by an online video tour of GMRT and the work done by our scientists,” said Solanki. These projects by school students will be evaluated by GMRT and the subsequent prize distribution will be done. The projects can be accessed and seen on an online application called “GMRT Science Day-- Growing Dots’ developed by Indian Institute of Knowledge.” “Scientists from GMRT will be showcasing posters. Also, in a live session on February 28, there will be a question-and-answer session where the general public can ask their queries to the scientists. It is called ‘Ask an Astronomer’ stall,” said Solanki. As there are restrictions to offline events, many other institutes from Pune city will be conducting various events online. Pune-based National Centre for Cell Sciences (NCCS) will be organising a public talk on stem cell by Dr Deepa Subramanian at 11 am. The webinar will be conducted by NCCS and the link will be available online on the website on NCCS. Pune-based Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) will also be conducting online sessions on various topics. Officials said those who are interested to visit the institute can take a prior appointment and then visit. The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune will also conduct an online program. The registration is free for the general public, and the list of programs include a virtual tour of the facility. Also, the CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory (CSIR-NCL), Pune and CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (CSIR-IICT), Hyderabad will be celebrating the National Science Day together this year. The program will be on an online platform. As part of the celebration, Rishikesha Krishnan, director and professor of strategy, Indian Institute of Management Bangalore (IIMB) will deliver the National Science Day Lecture on the topic “Making the Vision of India’s New Science, Technology and Innovation Policy (STIP) a Reality: What does this mean for the Development of Human Capital?” on February 26, 2021. The link to the webinar can be accessed on the website on CSIR-NCL, Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/science-day-pune-based-institutions-go-digital-for-annual-celebrations-this-year-101614104680927.html
23-02-2021||Pune||PMC explores option to purchase electricity from private companies||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to rope in private electricity companies to provide electricity to civic body establishments at lower rates in comparison to the Maharashtra state electricity Distribution Company (MSEDCL). The PMC has called for expression of interest in the open market to provide electricity. According to PMC officials, the civic administration is planning to use electricity for plants having consumption with 1 MW. Currently, there are three plants under consideration for usage. The civic administration aims at increasing the usage up to 23 MW. The electricity policy states, “If the consumption is more than 1 MW, then it can be procured from the open market.” Therefore, the civic body has decided to use this option. At present, the PMC requires a total of 23 MW of electricity to run water supply plants, sewage treatment plants, street lights, hospitals and other utilities across the city. Shriniwas Kandul, additional city engineer of the electrical department said, “We have called for expression of interest to supply electricity to PMC. At present, we are purchasing power from the Maharashtra state electricity Distribution Company (MSEDCL). We pay more than ₹3 per unit. Our daily consumption is more than five lakh units. If we save ₹1 per unit, we can save ₹5 lakh per day.” He further said, “The PMC is the first civic body which is exploring the option to get power from a private firm. There are private power companies in the market that supply power at lower rates. We have decided to check the options of other companies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-explores-option-to-purchase-electricity-from-private-companies-101614104620855.html
23-02-2021||Patna||Amid price hike, fuel smuggling from Nepal to Bihar in full swing||Smuggling of petroleum products from neighbouring Nepal into the border districts of Bihar has become rampant over the last few days following A sharp hike in petrol and diesel prices in India.Not only this, but pilferage from oil tankers in collusion with the crew members have also become a common sight on national highways passing through north Bihar.Petrol and diesel prices are much cheaper in neighbouring Nepal, which, ironically, imports almost all of its petroleum products from India.Arjun Bharatia, a social analyst at the border town of Raxaul in Bihar, said the smuggling of petrol and diesel from Nepal was nothing new in border areas. “There is a huge gap in prices which has led to illegal trade. But this has become rampant nowadays as the difference has gone beyond ₹22/litre for petrol and ₹26/litre for diesel,” he said.“The price of petrol in Nepal was at INR 70.95 on Monday while it was ₹94.05 in Indian cities. The price of diesel was at INR 60.12 in Nepal while it was ₹86.45 in India. So, people in border areas are buying fuel much cheaper in Nepal and selling it in India,” Bhartia noted.Also read: BJP's Rakesh Singh, named by Pamela Goswami in drugs case, arrested in KolkataWhen HT visited areas along the Indo-Nepal border in Sitamarhi, Sheohar and Araria districts, it saw oil being siphoned off from tankers by locals in connivance with the vehicle’s crew members. One of the locals said they were getting cheaper oil from tankers. “The rates depend on your bargaining with the tankers’ crew members. It may range between ₹60 and ₹70 per litre,” he said.“The quality of the oil smuggled from Nepal is worse. However, the quality is very good if taken from an oil tanker. So, people prefer buying it from tankers,” the man said.The police and personnel of Sashastra Seema Bal, which guards the Indo-Nepal border, admit there was a sharp increase in the smuggling of petroleum products. “Yes, it has come to our notice. We have beefed up surveillance along the border and some people have been caught with smuggled petroleum products,” said Ganesh Kumar, inspector general of police (Tirhut range).In northeastern parts of Bihar bordering Nepal, the smuggling of petroleum products has witnessed a sharp increase.In Araria, petty businessmen of Kursankanta and Sikti markets are doing a brisk business.“It’s nothing new. This has been a practice for a long time,” said Anil Kumar of Kursakanta. “Petrol is sold at ₹22 less per litre just a few kilometres away.”The situation is the same in Kishanganj and Supaul.Sanjay Kumar Sarangi, deputy inspector general (DG) of SSB (Purnia sector), said, “We have seized petrol and diesel at several places and are conducting raids.”Araria and Purnia in the Seemanchal region and Supaul in Kosi share a 217-kilometre-long border with Nepal.Meanwhile, fuel station owners in Bihar, especially in areas bordering Nepal, are feeling the pinch.“Smuggling has become rampant as prices are cheaper in Nepal because of tax differentiation,” said Ravi Bharti, who operates a fuel station at Adapur, less than three kilometres from the Nepal border. “This is severely impacting our sales.”Daily sales of petrol and diesel at his refilling station have dropped to 1,200 litres from 1,800 litres earlier, Bharti stated. “Vehicles are now refilling from roadside vendors who are selling the smuggled fuel for much cheaper.”(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/amid-price-hike-fuel-smuggling-from-nepal-to-bihar-in-full-swing-101614104328192.html
23-02-2021||Noida||Eight machines procured to clean Noida||NOIDA: The Noida authority has procured eight new machines, including two super sucker machines, to improve sanitation services across the city ahead of the Swachh Survey-2021 that is likely to begin from March 1, officials said on Tuesday. The super sucker machines will be used to clean the choked sewer lines, the officials said. Till now, the authority used to rope in the private agencies for cleaning the choked sewers. “Now with the help of the two new super sucker machines, we can address the issues of choked sewer lines immediately. It will improve the sanitation services in the city,” said Avinash Tripath, officer on special duty, Noida authority. The authority has also procured two mechanical sweeping machines and four tree trimming machines, said the officials, adding that about ₹1.9 crore was spent to purchase the equipment. Earlier, the authority used to hire private agencies to address the complaints related with choked sewer and dusty roads, the officials said, adding that the entire process used to take time troubling general public. For the Swachh Survey, teams from the ministry of housing and urban affairs are likely to collect the details about the city’s sanitation system in March, the officials said. “We have procured these machines, which have already started work in need,” said Tripathi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/eight-machines-procured-to-clean-noida-101614104501338.html
23-02-2021||Noida||Man’s decomposed body found in Noida flat||A 50-year-old man’s body was found in a decomposed state in his house in Sector 71 in Noida on Tuesday afternoon.The dead man was identified as Vipin Goyal.We got a call from a Sector 71 Block B resident, who complained of a foul smell emanating from a nearby house, police said.“A police team, that reached the spot, found the house locked from inside. The neighbours informed Goyal’s brother, who lives in Sector 41. Police broke open the door in his presence and found the 50-year-old man lying dead inside the house,” said Jitendra Kumar Dikshit, station house officer (SHO), Phase 3 police station.Goyal’s body was sent for an autopsy, according to the police.“From the state of the body, it appears Goyal died three-four days ago. We have ruled out a foul play as the house was locked from inside. We are waiting for the autopsy report to ascertain the cause and time of his death, after which action will be taken,” SHO Dikshit added.Police suspect Goyal died of a heart failure or alcohol poisoning. Empty alcohol bottles were found inside the house, police said.Goyal worked as a contractual daily wage earner with the Noida Authority. He lived alone in the house. His family did not file a complaint in the matter yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mans-decomposed-body-found-in-noida-flat-101614104500840.html
23-02-2021||Noida||Seven years’ imprisonment to two for robbing man of ₹35,000||GREATER NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar district court on Tuesday awarded seven years’ imprisonment to two robbers in a case which took place last year. The two had robbed a man in Greater Noida on February 23 last year, and the suspects had been arrested on March 1, 2020 during patrolling. The robbed bag and some cash were recovered from them.“On Tuesday, the additional chief judicial magistrate and fast track court judge Vikas Kumar Verma awarded seven years’ imprisonment to two robbers under Section 394 (Voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code. Under IPC Section 411(Dishonestly receiving stolen property), three years’ imprisonment has been awarded. Both sentences will run concurrently,” Sonika Tyagi, assistant prosecution officer, said.On February 23, 2020 the convicts had snatched the bag of a man on the Haldwani-Jalpura road. When the victim protested, they had fired at him and had robbed the bag. There were ₹35,000 in the bag and an FIR was lodged at the Ecotech III police station under IPC sections 394 and 411. The FIR was lodged against three persons – Rohit, Tarun and Nawab. On December 3, 2020, Nawab’s case was separated from this case. Nawab and Rohit were on bail and Tarun was in jail. The police had recovered the bag and cash from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/seven-years-imprisonment-to-two-for-robbing-man-of-35000-101614104441397.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi forest dept conducts workshop for road owning agencies||The Delhi forest department on Tuesday conducted a workshop for the road owning and construction agencies of the city to educate them on ways to preserve the ecology of an area while undertaking digging and construction activities. The workshop was carried out on the directions of the Delhi high court, which in an order issued on February 10, asked the Delhi government to initiate measures to sensitise agencies to the importance of preserving trees while undertaking civil construction work. The court was hearing the matter against the PWD for damaging the roots of trees during the construction of a drain on Meera Marg at Lodi Road. Complaints were received by the forest department of 30 trees being damaged on Meera Marg by the PWD work in September last year, while in January again another 12 trees were damaged by this. The workshop was convened by the principal chief conservator forests (PCCF) Ishwar Singh and chief conservator forests (CCF) Nishith Saxena. Environment experts including Prabhakar Rao, member of Kalpkrish, an environment action group, and Vallari Sheel, researcher and urban ecologist also discussed ways in which agencies can avoid harming trees and ecology of an area by digging, concretisation and construction work. Agencies that were in attendance in the session was Public Works Department (PWD), Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), Delhi Jal Board (DJB), representatives from the three municipal corporations (south, north and east) and the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) and Delhi Cantonment. Participants in the workshop said that details of the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act (DPTA), 1994, was discussed, and court directions of the past that have pronounced best practices for the preservation of trees were also highlighted. The instances of agencies indulging in practices such as concretisation and excessive pruning were also discussed by experts and senior forest department officials. “This was a good initiative. A conversation has started around best practices that could be adopted to protect our ecology. I hope this can be extended as a series of sessions so that sensitisation can be developed among agencies,” said Vallari Sheel, one of the experts who conducted the session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-forest-dept-conducts-workshop-for-road-owning-agencies-101614104440702.html
23-02-2021||Noida||This time we will go to Parliament, says BKU leader Rakesh Tikait||Ghaziabad: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Tuesday said to a gathering of farmers in Sikar, Rajasthan that the next march of tractors will be to the Parliament in the national Capital and the date of the call will be given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM). Farmers have been camping at various borders of Delhi since November last year, demanding repeal of three new farm laws and a new law on minimum support price (MSP). Of late, Rakesh has been conducting public rallies in Haryana and Rajasthan and also intends to travel to other states in order to garner support for the farmers’ cause. The farmer leaders had given a call for a tractor parade on Republic Day in Delhi, however, incidents of violence were reported, and a flag was hoisted at the Red Fort amid the melee. Thereafter, many farmers’ leaders including Rakesh Tikait were named in FIRs lodged by the Delhi police. The farmers’ organisations, however, distanced themselves from the violence, stating that their ranks were infiltrated by outsiders. “About 3.5 lakh tractors went to Delhi on January 26. Our tractor also went to Delhi... We did not say anything about the Red Fort. It is a house of ghosts. Delhi must open its ears and listen that it is the same farmer and those are the same tractors. This time the call will be going to the Parliament and we are telling you beforehand about this. Either you take back the three farm laws or, about 40 lakh tractors will go this time and all equipment used in fields will also be taken along,” he told the gathering at Sikar after his rally at Churu earlier on Tuesday.He said that people of Rajasthan know how to fight scorching summer heat and their support will give strength to the ongoing farmers’ agitation, but that the call for marching to Parliament in Delhi will be given by the SKM. “This time the tractors will go to the lawns of the India Gate. Either you take back the laws and bring in a new law on MSP or tractors will start cultivating land there,” he added.Rakesh Tikait has been spearheading the farmers’ protest at the UP Gate protest site and has emerged as a major figure in the ongoing farmers’ agitation. He is also garnering support of farmers, khaps and people in areas near Delhi. Meanwhile, the protesting farmers at UP Gate and other protest sites near Delhi celebrated Pagdi Sambhal Divas on Tuesday, during which farmers wore the traditional pagris (turban) of their respective areas. Rakesh’a brother and BKU chief Naresh Tikait also participated in the event on Tuesday. He also appreciated Union minister Rajnath Singh, saying that the minister has the potential to get things sorted. “He is a good man and has also been the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. If they (the government) ask Rajnath Singh to talk, he can get the things sorted out. He has a lot of experience, but they are not asking him to come forward. We don’t know what the government is thinking, and farmers have been protesting for about 90 days now. We don’t know how this deadlock will be broken,” Naresh said. He added that no farmer leader who is part of the ongoing protest will go to rallies held by politicians in Uttar Pradesh. “Politicians have the right to hold panchayats and rallies and there is no ban on them. We cannot hold back people and they can go for rallies. But we will not go and will also not let them use our dais,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/this-time-we-will-go-to-parliament-says-bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-101614104381392.html
23-02-2021||Noida||Call centre staff assaulted by goons, one injured||Noida: Three persons were booked for allegedly assaulting a man at a call centre in Noida’s Sector 2 on Monday night, following an argument. The victim, identified by his first name as Abhishek, suffered head injuries.We received a phone call around 9 pm and were informed that some goons entered a call centre in Sector 2 Block B, said police.“Seven staff members, including two women, were present in the office at that time. It seems the men had come to gather information about a woman employee. When the other woman in the office stopped them, they started arguing and misbehaving with her. The other employees, too, objected to this,” said Rakesh Kumar Singh, station house officer (SHO), Sector 20 police station.“As the matter escalated, the trio allegedly assaulted the staff members, and Abhishek was injured. He was immediately admitted to a nearby hospital,” he added.The 26-year-old man is undergoing treatment.The incident was caught on the CCTV camera of the building. A case was registered at the Sector 20 police station against the three suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide).“One of the women has identified the three men, and we have traced them to New Ashok Nagar in Delhi. We will arrest them soon,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/call-centre-staff-assaulted-by-goons-one-injured-101614104380764.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal lauds AAP’s performance in Gujarat municipal polls||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday pitched the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) as the key political alternative in Gujarat, with his party winning 27 seats in municipal polls in the western state, which is ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Party spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj described it as “breaching the citadel of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP” even though the BJP retained power in all six municipal corporations winning 409 of the 474 seats where results were declared till evening.“People of Gujarat have voted for politics of work as they were fed up by the politics of BJP and Congress. The people of Gujarat wanted an alternative and AAP has emerged as the key alternative to the present parties. Now the upcoming assembly election will be only between Aam Aadmi Party and BJP,” said Kejriwal, who is also the national convener of the AAP, in a press statement issued on Tuesday.Gujarat goes to assembly polls in 2022 and the AAP has announced that they will be contesting the polls. It is the home state of Modi where he has served as the chief minister between 2001 and 2014.Delhi’s deputy chief minister and AAP leader Manish Sisodia said, “People in all the cities of Gujarat are expressing trust in the AAP. The Aam Aadmi Party is at number two in Surat which has been a BJP stronghold. People are now seeking change and they are looking at the Aam Aadmi Party as the key alternative.”All 27 seats won by the AAP are in Surat municipal corporation, where it emerged as the principal opposition party against the BJP. It was the AAP’s debut in municipal polls in Gujarat even though they had unsuccessfully contested in 30 seats in the 2017 assembly polls in the state.Bhardwaj further said, “For the first time, the Aam Aadmi Party is getting significant support and winning several seats in the grassroots level elections across India. The grassroots level elections mean that municipality elections and gram Panchayat elections… Earlier, the same trend was noticed in the states like Maharashtra, Himachal Pradesh, Goa and other states.”In the next two years, the party will be contesting assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat.“In Punjab municipal polls (earlier this month), the AAP’s performance was poor. That put a question mark in their expansion plan. Seen in that light, the Gujarat performance would be quite a saving grace. Evidently, they have gained from the decline of Congress. But it gives them hope for the assembly elections in 2022 for emerging as a prominent opposition party in Gujarat,” said Praveen Rai, political analyst with the centre for study of developing societies.Kishansinh Solanki of the BJP- the places that aap has won are traditional seats of the congress. So the bjp has taken that share. They have surat and bhavnagar and not in other places as in that area someParidar leaders who were with congress have now fallen out. So aap benefitted in that limited way||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-lauds-aap-s-performance-in-gujarat-municipal-polls-101614104320727.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||Dhaula Kuan gang-rape convict held for 12 ATM break-ins he committed while out on Covid parole||A 34-year-old man convicted in the infamous 2010 Dhaula Kuan gang-rape case was arrested for 12 ATM break-in thefts that he had allegedly committed along with his associates in December and January, while being out on parole, police said on Tuesday.Shamshad alias Khutkan, a resident of Faridabad, was arrested on Monday from near the Gokalpuri Metro station when he arrived there to meet his associate. Shamshad allegedly fired at the police party during his attempt to flee. The shot missed the target and nobody was hurt. Police personnel then overpowered him and snatched away his firearm before he could fire again, the police said.During the interrogation, Shamshad disclosed that he is a life convict in the 2010 Dhaula Kuan gang-rape case. He was released on parole on April 20, 2020, as a part of the exercise to decongest jails in view of Covid-19. Parole was later extended due to the ongoing pandemic till February 20 (Saturday). However, Shamshad did not return to the jail on the proscribed date, said deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah.Police said after being released on parole, Shamshad joined a Mewat-based interstate gang of robbers. He along with others of the gang allegedly committed 12 ATM break-ins in Delhi, between December 2020 and January 2021, and took away cash amounting to ₹1.35 lakh.“The gang members used to spray black paint on CCTV cameras after entering the ATM booths. They used to open the ATMs with the help of a gas cutter and remove the cash cabins,” the officer said, adding that the remaining five suspects have also been identified.Shamshad was previously involved in around 16 criminal cases, including attempt to murder, abduction, rape, arms act and cattle smuggling, in Delhi and Haryana.In the 2010 gang-rape case, on the night of November 23, Shamdhad and his four associates abducted a 30-year-old BPO executive while she was walking home with a colleague around midnight, in Moti Bagh near Dhaula Kuan, after being dropped off by an office cab from their Gurugram office.The five men grabbed the women, threatened them with a countrymade pistol and tried to force them into their vehicle – a Tata 407 mini truck. They put the 30-year-old woman into their vehicle while her friend managed to escape after a brief struggle. The five men took turns to rape the woman in the moving vehicle before dumping her at an isolated stretch in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri.The police had cracked the case in a week using some key clues provided by the survivor. Police had used the clues to identify the truck as well as the suspects.The first arrest in the case was made on December 2, when the police caught Shamshad and Usman from Haryana. The other three were caught between December 4 and 6. Police filed the charge sheet on February 2, 2011, and on October 20, 2014, all five accused were awarded life imprisonment by a Delhi court. It was after this incident that the Delhi Police ordered all call centres in Delhi-NCR to drop women employees home safely and to also provide them security while travelling at night. Police also instructed PCR vans to be visible on roads and one officer to remain outside every such vehicle at all times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dhaula-kuan-gang-rape-convict-held-for-12-atm-break-ins-he-committed-while-out-on-covid-parole-101614104203339.html
23-02-2021||Other||Red Fort violence: Two arrested from Jammu||New Delhi: The Delhi Police on Tuesday said they have arrested two “key conspirators” and “active participants” wanted in connection with the violence and vandalism at the Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day. Both of them are residents of Jammu, the police said.Jammu and Kashmir United Kisan Front Chairman Mohinder Singh (45), a resident of Chatha area of Jammu city, and Mandeep Singh (23), a resident of Gole Gujral, Jammu, were arrested on Monday night from Jammu by Delhi Police’s crime branch team with the help of the local police, senior Delhi Police officers said on Tuesday. The two suspects were immediately taken to the national capital for questioning, they said.“As per the information received, both the accused persons are active participants and key conspirators in the Red Fort case,” read a statement released by the Delhi Police on Tuesday morning.Mohinder Singh’s family said was innocent and demanded his immediate release. “He (Mohinder Singh) informed me that he was called by the senior superintendent of police (Jammu) and was visiting Gandhi Nagar Police Station before his mobile was switched off. Upon enquiring, I came to know that he was arrested by police and shifted to Delhi,” the farmer leader’s wife told reporters at Jammu.She said her husband was at the Delhi border (protest sites) and not Red Fort when the violence broke out. “He went alone to see the SSP because he was not afraid as he had done nothing wrong,” she said.Police said the two have been booked under charges of rioting, assaulting police personnel on duty, attempt to murder, dacoity, and criminal conspiracy, a case regarding which was registered at the Kotwali police station on the complaint of the station house officer. Another case pertaining to the vandalism and damage to the historic fort was registered at the same police station on the complaint by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), which is the custodian of the fort. Both the cases were later transferred to the crime branch for investigation.So far, 14 people have been arrested in connection with the violence at Red Fort. They include Punjab’s actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu, who was sent to jail for 14 days on Tuesday by a Delhi court after his extended seven days police custody ended.The crime branch has identified nearly 50 people who were allegedly involved in the violence at the monument. Their identification has been done after analysing the video footage and photographs available with the police. While a majority of the identified persons are named as “key participants”, the police have identified six persons as “key conspirators” and have announced cash rewards for information about them.The six suspects include Punjab’s alleged gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana, for whom the Delhi Police have announced R1 lakh reward. Despite topping the list of wanted persons in the Red Fort violence, Sidhana surfaced with bodyguards in tow to address a rally organised by Sikh hardliners at Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s ancestral village, Mehraj in Bathinda district on Tuesday afternoon.While the Delhi Police did not offer any official statement on why Lakha Sidhana could not be arrested despite him turning up at the rally in Punjab, a police officer who did not want to be named said, “Sidhana’s arrest in our top priority and his movements are being tracked. Our teams that are in Punjab to arrest the suspects are facing resistance from locals. We have arrested suspects like Deep Sidhu and others from Punjab and other states. Sidhana will also be caught.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/red-fort-violence-two-arrested-from-jammu-101614104140738.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||Pitbull attacks woman, her pet near Aerocity, owner arrested||Delhi Police have arrested a 25-year-old man after his pet pitbull – a dog breed banned in many countries for its apparent ferocity – allegedly attacked a woman and her dog and bit them both near Aerocity in south Delhi on Monday evening. The woman has alleged that the pitbull was not on a leash and that after the attack when she complained to the owner, he allegedly threatened her. A senior police officer said the woman was taken to Safdarjung hospital, from where she was discharged after treatment. Pitbull dogs are said to be banned in many states of the US as well as in countries such as Finland, New Zealand and Brazil because they are perceived to be aggressive. Proponents of the breed, however, have engaged in a nature-versus-nurture debate over whether apparent aggressive tendencies in pitbulls may be appropriately attributed to owners’ care for the dog or inherent qualitiesMonday’s incident took place around 7.30pm near Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport, when the woman, who lived on the premises of the JW Marriot hotel, was walking her dog, an Indian pariah. In her complaint, the woman has alleged that all of a sudden and without provocation, a pitbull came running and attacked her dog. When she tried to intervene and save her pet, the pitbull proceeded to attack her too, biting her several times on her hand, the woman alleged. She has said that the pitbull’s owner then came to the spot, but was not able to handle his dog. She said when she complained to him, he threatened her and asked her to leave, the complaint reads. The woman then reported the matter to the police and a police team that reached the spot arrested the man. The man was brought to the IGI airport police station. The man was identified as Neeraj Sahrawat, a resident of Mahipalpur, who also runs a hotel in the neighbourhood. Police said the woman was then taken to her home which is within the premises of JW Marriot hotel in Aerocity, as her husband works with the hotel as a general manager. She first saw her family doctor after which she was taken to Safdarjung hospital for a medical examination, they said. Deputy commissioner of police (IGIA) Rajeev Ranjan said that the woman’s medical examination confirmed that she had multiple dog bites. “A case was registered and the pitbull dog’s owner and he was arrested. Since it’s a bailable offence, he was later released on bail,” Ranjan said. Ends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pitbull-attacks-woman-her-pet-near-aerocity-owner-arrested-101614104141306.html
23-02-2021||Other||AAP-BJP spar during south civic body house meeting over alleged scholarship scam||New Delhi: The House meeting of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) witnessed chaos on Tuesday with councillors of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) shouting slogans against each other on Tuesday. AAP councillors alleged a “scholarship scam” by the civic body and demanded an investigation in the matter, apart from an explanation from the House on the issue. The move was immediately opposed by the ruling BJP. The AAP councillors then proceeded to enter the well of the House, displayed posters related to the alleged scam and raised slogans against the SDMC ruling authorities. To counter it, BJP councillors also raised anti-government slogans. The House was adjourned twice before being finally adjourned to the next date.Leader of opposition Prem Kumar Chauhan alleged that there were irregularities in payment of scholarships to SC/ST students of SDMC schools between the financial year 2013-14 and 2018-19. “It is a scam worth at least ₹5.7 crore, where annual scholarship was not paid to SC/ST students between 2013-14 and 2018-19 despite the fact that the Delhi government released this amount every year. The money never reached students and it was pocketed by the civic officials,” Chauhan alleged.He also said that an enquiry in this connection is already going on by the anti-corruption branch, but there is a need to seek an explanation from the BJP-ruled civic body and fix responsibility. “We were demanding a discussion on the issue and an explanation from the mayor. But our demand was rejected so we expressed our displeasure. BJP leaders have been protecting corrupt officials because they themselves benefit. BJP councillors opposed our move and created ruckus because they never wanted a discussion on this,” Chauhan said.According to SDMC officials, SC/ST students are given ₹500 scholarship annually by the government. In municipal schools, it is disbursed by the civic body after the funds are released by the government. Chauhan also demanded that taking moral responsibility, the SDMC mayor should resign from the post.Leader of the House, Narendra Chawla refuted the claims of involvement of any councillor or political executive in the alleged scam. “The AAP is in the habit of levelling baseless allegations. When I asked them to submit proofs regarding their claims of a scam, they had none. They just display placards not proofs,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aapbjp-spar-during-south-civic-body-house-meeting-over-alleged-scholarship-scam-101614104082680.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||How riots — and the pandemic— tore apart the lives of children of north-east Delhi||Mohammad Kaif was preparing for his CBSE class 12 exams last February when communal riots broke out in north-east Delhi, where he lives with his family. Overnight, the 19-year-old had to forget all about exams as he and family were forced to flee for their lives, to their village in Uttar Pradesh. Kaif, a resident of Mustafabad, aspired to become a doctor until last year. “We fled to our village the same day our neighbour was killed by a mob. Later, my family did not allow me to return to Delhi, to appear for the exams in the first week of March 2020. Then, before we could even think of returning to discuss my case with the school, a nationwide lockdown was announced. My entire year got ruined -- I finally completed my class 12 this month through distance learning mode.” A year after the violence, he is uncertain about his future. “Things have changed in the past one year. I could not study properly due to the circumstances. My father is also not keeping well. His work – he rents out bulldozers – was severely hit by the violence and then the pandemic. There is so much uncertainty around; I’m thinking of doing a course in the distance learning mode this year,” he said. As many as 53 people were killed and more than 400 injured in the riots that broke out in parts of north-east Delhi on February 23, 2020. Police have registered 755 cases related to the communal violence that was allegedly triggered by protests over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act.Like Kaif, hundreds of children in these parts are struggling to string together their lives interrupted by violence, even a year after the riots. Apart from seeing their neighbourhoods and schools laid to waste by rioters, many of them also lost their loved ones – some of them their parents – to the violence. Several children said they could not focus on studies throughout the year. Arsh Malik, 18, a resident of Yamuna Vihar, failed in two subjects in the class 12 exams. “My tuition centre was set afire by rioters at a time when my exams were on. Several people I knew died in the violence or were injured. Those were disturbing times. I could not study well for the exams that happened a week after the riots. Now, I’m thinking of enrolling in the distance learning mode,” he said. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had to postpone several exams for both classes 10 and 12 after the violence broke out. The board resumed exams from March 2 onwards but it could not conduct the postponed exams as by then, the Covid-19 pandemic had hit the city. Students were finally promoted last year on the basis of alternative assessment schemes. A 2005 UNICEF report on “Childhood Under Threat” define children as among the first and worst affected by conflict, whether directly or indirectly. Even if they are not killed or injured, they can be left with deep emotional scars and trauma from direct exposure to the violence or from dislocation, poverty, or the loss of loved ones, said the report. Iqra, a class 11 student who lost her two brothers, Amir Khan (30) and Hashim Ali (19), in the riots, said, “People have started referring to us as “that family that lost two sons in the danga (riots)”. That has become our identity now. I am glad that my class 10 exams were cancelled and we were promoted; otherwise, I would have failed. How do you concentrate on studies with so much tension around?” For the riot-hit children, the Covid-enforced lockdown was another bolt from the blue. Anjum, whose Khajuri Khas house was burned down by a mob, said, “We were left with nothing; not even a piece of cloth. We also lost the only smartphone we had and there was no way for any of us – myself or my siblings – to attend online classes. We could only resume studies in October after a person donated us a mobile phone.” Neetu Chaudhary, an official at the Arun Modern School in Brijpuri, one of the four schools that were attacked and damaged in the violence, said their student strength reduced by nearly 40%, post the riots and the Covid-enforced lockdown. “It took us months to bring back our school to its former status – the construction work is still going on. Now that the school has reopened for classes 9 to 12, we have another task at hand – instilling confidence in parents. We had to request the police to deploy some personnel during school hours so that their fears are allayed,” she said. Officials at the other three schools affected by the violence ---DRP Convent Public School, Victoria Senior Secondary School, and Rajdhani School -- said a large number of their students were yet to return to school. Farooq Ahmed Nawab, whose family owns both Rajdhani and Victoria schools, said, “The student strength has reduced by almost half in both of schools in the past one year. We are struggling to even manage the operational costs.” Parents and family members of children in riot-hit areas said the violence has left them traumatised and they are unable to shake it off. Imrana (32), who lost her husband to the firing in Subhash Mohalla during the riots, said her two children are now highly irritable and stubborn. “Even today, loud noises scare them and they get angry over the smallest of things. Being a single parent has been challenging as I have to discipline them, while still being mindful of the trauma they’ve been through,” she said. Fifteen-year-old Shifa Naaz, a class 10 student in old Mustafabad and the eldest of eight siblings, lost her father Mudassir Khan (30) to the riots. The loss has scarred her siblings more, she says. “My younger sister (12) refused to even see our father’s body for the last time. Since then, she has become highly irritable. The younger ones often dream of our father and cry. It is difficult to see them like that. Managing finances has also been challenging for our mother. Every day, I feel emptier and weak,” the 15-year-old said. Experts said a timely intervention is required to bring these children out of their trauma. Nimesh Desai, director of the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS), said the riots, followed by the lockdown, might have led to “conduct disorder” among children. “Conduct disorder is identified by emotional as well as behavioural disturbances. It’s very important that these children are given a chance to express themselves. For kids above 8 years of age, verbal expression is still easier but for those below that age, verbalising their trauma is a challenge. So, intervention by NGOs, child rights bodies, families, and schools is essential,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/how-riots-and-the-pandemic-tore-apart-the-lives-of-children-of-north-east-delhi-101614104081485.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||Sensitise students and parents on cyberbullying: DoE tells schools||The Directorate of Education (DoE) has directed all schools in the national capital to sensitise students and parents about cyberbullying and online threats they children might be subjected to while attending online classes during the Covid-19 pandemic.While schools have started resuming in-person sessions for classes 9 to 12, the sessions are still in the online mode for those enrolled in classes 1 to 8.In a letter addressed to all heads of government and private schools in Delhi, the DoE on Monday said, “The internet spaces are growing and multiplying and data security, privacy, and protection are inadequate to keep a check on this. It is important that everyone is aware of the risks that could be associated with being connected to the internet.”“In addition, the students need to be warned against these risks and it is extremely important for us to ensure that every possible step is taken towards giving our children safe spaces to learn in, that safeguards their innocence and cater to their curiosity in a non-harmful way,” it said.Citing a study conducted by India Child Protection Fund (ICPF), regarding online exploitation of children, which indicates a sharp rise in demand for online child pornography during the lockdown, the DoE said, “Hence, it is imperative to make children and their parents aware about the safe use of the internet.”The directorate also asked schools to make parents and students aware of the guidelines on “safe online learning in times of Covid-19” that were released by the Union education ministry in June last year. “Heads of all schools are directed to share this information with teachers, students, and parents via text messages or WhatsApp groups or by any other means which are being used to reach out to children and parents,” the DoE added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sensitise-students-and-parents-on-cyberbullying-doe-tells-schools-101614104082153.html
23-02-2021||Other||Fugitive Sidhana addresses Punjab rally, says farm laws must be repealed||Mehraj (Bathinda): Gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana, who is wanted by Delhi Police for allegedly instigating violence during the farmers’ tractor rally at Red Fort on Republic Day, addressed a rally organised by Sikh hardliners at Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s native Mehraj sub-urban town in Bathinda district on Tuesday afternoon. Sidhana, who has been evading arrest, spent about two hours at the stage and left the venue on a motorbike. He was escorted out of the rally site at the grain market by a large gathering of his supporters. Delhi Police have announced ₹1 lakh reward for information leading to Sidhana’s arrest who is resident of Bathinda. There was a heavy deployment of Punjab Police at Mehraj but Sidhana reached the stage without any resistance by cops. Bathinda range inspector general of police (IGP) Jaskaran Singh said since Sidhana is not facing any case in Punjab, “there was no question of arresting him”. “He is wanted by Delhi Police and they may have an action plan. We will provide all possible support if our counterparts in Delhi ask for it. Police deployment was made to ensure law and order at the event,” said the IG.While the Delhi Police did not offer any official statement on why Sidhana could not be arrested despite him turning up at the rally in Punjab, a police officer who did not want to be named said, “Sidhana’s arrest is our top priority and his movements are being tracked. Our teams which have been sent to Punjab to arrest the suspects are facing resistance from locals. We have arrested suspects like Deep Sidhu and others from Punjab and other states. Sidhana will also be caught soon.” It was apparent show of strength by Sidhana, who had unsuccessfully contested from Rampura Phul assembly segment as a candidate of the People’s Party of Punjab (PPP) in 2012. The PPP was floated by the state finance minister and Bathinda MLA Manpreet Singh Badal who later merged his party with the Congress. During his speech, Sidhana cautioned the leadership of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the protest against the three farm laws, for accepting anything less than the repeal of the contentious laws. “The farmers’ agitation will be intensified to ensure the three farm laws are withdrawn. There is no question of agreeing to any amendments or suspension of the laws for 18 months,” Sidhana said. No prominent farmer leader spoke on the occasion. Speakers also questioned SKM leaders for dubbing Punjabi film actor Deep Sidhu, arrested in connection with Red Fort violence, as ‘gaddar’ (traitor) to the farmers’ cause. Other speakers raised the demand for release of Sidhu and withdrawal of case against Sidhana. Talking about cases of rioting against protesters, Sidhana said: “Capt Amarinder Singh will have to explain to the public if Punjab Police helps Delhi Police in arresting anyone booked for the (January 26) violence.” He even exhorted his supporters to “hold Delhi Police hostage”. “Leaders like BKU president Balbir Singh Rajewal may have repeatedly ducked media questions on farmer leadership’s silence on police action against me. Leaders of Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders are also facing criminal complaints after January 26 incident. But I assure them our supporters will not let the police arrest them,” said Sidhana. Leaders of Sikh radical organisations such as Dal Khalsa and Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) were instrumental behind organising the rally. Dal Khalsa spokesperson Kanwar Pal Singh said the SKM should chalk out a plan to gherao Parliament again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fugitive-sidhana-addresses-punjab-rally-says-farm-laws-must-be-repealed-101614103960770.html
23-02-2021||Lucknow||UP's Kushinagar airport gets DGCA nod for international flights||The Kushinagar airport in Uttar Pradesh has received the necessary clearances from aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to operate international flights, said minister of state for civil aviation Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday.Later, the state government, in a statement, declared that the Kushinagar international airport was fully ready for international flight operations.Uttar Pradesh now has three international airports – Lucknow, Varanasi and Kushinagar.Puri, in a tweet, said, “Kushinagar airport gets necessary clearances from DGCA to become third licensed international airport in UP. (It) will boost tourism in the region and facilitate travel on Buddhist circuit by providing direct aviation connectivity to the city where Lord Buddha attained Mahaparinirvana.”It is expected that Ayodhya airport will soon join the list, the statement said.Also read: India hasn’t changed its mind on Chinese investment, will make no exceptions“The airport of air connectivity, including regional air connectivity, has been on the wish list of chief minister Yogi Adityanath ever since he came to power. The resolve is showing as Uttar Pradesh already has seven airports - Lucknow, Varanasi, Agra, Gorakhpur, Kanpur, Prayagraj and Hindon (all functional), and the eighth one, Bareilly, will join the club with flights commencing from March 8,” the statement said.The government is also working on developing an airport each in Azamgarh, Aligarh, Chitrakoot, Moradabad, Sonbhadra, Shravasti, Ayodhya and Saharanpur (Sarsawan) - all are under construction and will be operational soon. The Jewar international airport is coming up in Gautam Budh Nagar, it said.“Once all the 17 airports become functional, the state will get a connectivity boost, upswing in tourism and employment,” UP civil aviation secretary Surendra Singh said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-kushinagar-airport-gets-dgca-nod-for-international-flights-101614102743541.html
23-02-2021||Gurugram||Trio held for duping people on pretext of selling mortgaged properties||The police arrested three people over the last week for allegedly duping several people of crores of rupees on the pretext of selling mortgaged properties, over the last few months. The suspects had created a fake domain name (website) and an email ID closely resembling that of a public sector bank, and presented themselves as bank employees to fool their targets, the police said on Tuesday. According to the police, around 20 people have been duped so far and they are estimated to have struck deals for around ₹100 crore.According to the police, one of the suspects, a former employee of the bank, managed to get details of mortgaged properties as he was aware of the auction processes of the bank. The suspects allegedly approached prospective buyers as representatives of the bank and after finalising the deal, shared the sale proposal from the fake email ID and got them to deposit the property cost in their bank account. The suspects were allegedly planning to move to Dubai after collecting ₹40 crore over the next week. On February 15, Gaurav Sahni of Gurugram had filed a complaint with the cyber police station alleging that he was duped of ₹2.38 crore by people claiming to be bank employees, who had offered to sell him a mortgaged property with the bank. Based on his complaint, a case was registered under sections 419 (impersonation), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using forged document as genuine) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 66D of IT Act at the Cyber police station KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that based on the bank account in which money was transferred, and tracking the fake email ID and domain used by the suspects, the police tracked the accused and arrested three of them from different locations. The suspects were identified as Kishan Kumar of Delhi, Rakesh Vashiye alias Rakesh Gupta of Uttar Pradesh and Saurabh Palanwal, alias Sumit Sharma, alias Pashu, of Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. Rao said they had arrested Kishan on February 17 and took him on two-day police remand. “During interrogation, he revealed the names of his two associates and the police arrested two other accused on February 19,” he said. Kishan had earlier worked with the bank and was familiar with the process of auctioning mortgage property. “Kishan hatched the plan to dupe people on the pretext of selling mortgaged property of banks and engaged his two friends Rakesh and Saurabh. They purchased a domain name similar to the bank name and created a fake email ID. They created a company — Aatma Ram Mahajan Building — and purchased a domain name ARMB. They presented ARMB as an asset recovery management branch of the bank,” said Rao.The police said that the suspects approached prospective buyers as bank representatives and sent them proposals from the fake ID, which they claimed was of the asset recovery management branch of the bank. After finalising the deal, they asked their victims to transfer the money to their accounts, from which they re-transferred money to a different account and withdrew cash. They purchased three gold bricks for ₹1.50 crore from a jeweller in New Delhi. “They were planning to collect ₹40 crore through this cheating and move to Dubai with the money. They had taken visas and were ready to close two more deals for ₹17 crore,” said Rao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/trio-held-for-duping-people-on-pretext-of-selling-mortgaged-properties-101614101741367.html
23-02-2021||Gurugram||Private schools remain divided on issue of reopening for junior classes||Schools in the city were divided on reopening for students of classes 3 to 5 with some parents expressing concerns over another surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in other parts of the country. While some schools have announced that they will welcome students having put in place measures to keep them safe, others have said that they will not do so until all parents are comfortable with the decision. Those who will start their operations said that classes will be held from 10am to 1:30pm as per the government directive. The teachers have undergone training based on CDC (Centre for Disease Control and Prevention) guidelines. All entry and exit points in schools have been rearranged to a one-way flow of traffic. Schools will have to follow all Covid-19 related guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOPs) before starting the operations, said the education department’s official. Students of classes 3 to 5 will be returning to classrooms after a gap of almost a year. In-person classes were suspended early last year to check the spread of Covid-19. Schools for classes 6 to 12 have already opened in the state over the past few months. Kunal Bhadoo, director of Kunskapsskolan Schools, said they are facilitating both online as well as in-person classes on campus at the same time, with all applicable SOPs listed out by government authorities in place. “We have been doing so for grade 6 upwards for so long. After recent Government directions, we are doing the same for grade 3 upwards,” he said. Before coming to school, students will have to submit a consent letter from their parents. Parents who wish to continue online classes for their children can write to the school in this regard. Another school, Lancers International School, has reopened the school for junior classes and said that they are well prepared for the students joining classes from Wednesday onwards. In-person classes have huge a huge impact on children’s education, development and well-being, said the officials. “Our staff is undergoing training based on CDC guidelines 2021. We will continue to enhance the existing range of safety measures in place – mandatory temperature checks at the entrance, wearing face masks at all times. All entry and exit points have been rearranged to a one-way flow of traffic,” said Rohit Mann, director, Lancers International School. Physical distancing markers have been placed in the schools operational from Wednesday. Hand sanitisers have been placed strategically throughout the campuses. Mann said being an International Baccalaureate school, these measures were easy for them to implement due to the small class size ratio. “As of now, students from grades 6-12 are attending school. About 30% of students are already attending school till 1.30pm. This number has been growing ever since we started about two weeks ago,” he said. Schools said that parental consent is required before they allow any student to attend in-person classes. Those parents who do not want their children to attend in-person classes can continue with the online mode. Neeti Kaushik, director/principal, Mount Olympus School, said that the school walls missed the children, as children missed their school. “The overwhelming response from both the parents and children in rejoining the school is indeed appreciated. “We have already commenced operations for classes 6 to 11, following the safety protocols of social distancing, use of mask, staggered sitting arrangement, hand hygiene, etc. To make the transition convenient for our students and parents we are ready to welcome students of 3 to 5 to school for doubt- clearing sessions or extra classes for better understanding as their annual assessment starts from first week of March 2021,” she said. Kaushik further added that formal resumption of classes will commence as per the government instructions from April 2021 with the new academic session. Alka Singh, principal of Blue Bells Model School in Sector 4, said that they are calling students from grades 9 to 12 to clear their doubts before the exams. “We have asked the parents to give consent for students of class 6 to 8 for the coming sessions in April. For grade 3 to 5, we would not be calling the students due to increasing Covid-19 cases. We want to go in a staggered manner and we cannot compromise on the safety of students. We have started the first phase of calling students and the second phase will begin in April. Looking at the condition, we will call students of grade 3 to 5,” she said. Parents too seemed wary of in-person classes. Manmeet Kumar, mother of class 5 student of Suncity School in Sector 54, said that she is not keen in sending her ward to school given the Covid-19 situation. “The number of cases are increasing every day and the children’s safety is at risk,” she said. Ritu Gupta, mother of class 5 of Heritage School, said that she would like to wait till the vaccination drive is completed across the city, before sending her child to school. “With exams approaching, the health of children is extremely important and we would like to wait and watch before making a decision on sending young children to school,” she said. Nishant Kapoor, father of a class 5 student of Suncity school, said he is hesitant to send his son for regular classes, “Children at this age are too young to be taking proper precautions. We are doubtful that we would be sending our child to regular school till the condition improves,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/private-schools-remain-divided-on-issue-of-reopening-for-junior-classes-101614101740755.html
23-02-2021||Gurugram||Govt schools gear up to welcome students of classes 3 to 5||Students of classes 3 to 5 are set to resume in-person classes from Wednesday, with government schools taking measures to handle the full strength of students in view of the ongoing pandemic.Officials of schools said that besides following all Covid-19 protocols, they have set up separate entry and exit points and are ensuring sufficient staff presence for better attention to students, to make up for the learning loss over the last 11 months.“Except classes 1 and 2, schools will run with full strength from Wednesday. We aim to now operate schools without any panic. Students will no longer have to carry a medical certificate. Only a consent form signed by a parent will be enough to enter the school. Students can get relaxation for a day or two if they fail to get the consent form,” said Prem Lata, district nodal officer for primary education.In Haryana, classes 6 to 12 are already underway in schools, with over 80% of the students turning up to attend the in-person sessions. Classes 6 to 8 resumed on February 1, classes 10 and 12 on December 14, 2020, and classes 9 and 11 on December 21, 2020. For almost 353 government schools in the district having a separate primary wing, the directorate of school education on Monday issued the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for running schools for three-and-a-half hours, from 10am to 1.30pm.To avoid any gatherings or interaction of primary students with others after the classes, schools have planned to allow primary school students to either exit through a separate gate or leave a few minutes before 1.30pm. “Almost 80% of students in classes 6 to 12 are coming for classes. To avoid any gathering once classes are over, teachers have been instructed to let primary school students leave by 1.20pm through the exit gate. Classes are being held without any prayer or recess in between. Therefore, chances of students gathering is impossible,” said Suman Sharma, principal of a government school in sector 4/7.Principals of other government schools said they are adopting similar tactics, besides following the basic Covid-19 protocols like temperature check and sanitisation of classrooms.“Some primary classrooms are opening after 11 months, although schools have been functional. They have been sanitised. Seating arrangements will, however, depend on the footfall of students. If the strength is too high, students will be shifted to other rooms,” said Sunil Kumar, principal, principal of a government school in Sadar.According to Kumar, since students of classes 6 to 12 are attending classes in almost full strength, they are running the school in two batches. “While practising the norms to prevent transmission of Covid-19 infection, some students are given the first shift from 8.30am to 12.30 pm, while the other half is put in second shift from 1pm till 4pm,” said Kumar, adding that such an arrangement will not be required for primary classes as the overall count of students is less than 200.A government school in Kadipur, however, is not expecting many students of primary classes to turn up. “Only 50% of enrolled students in 6-12 attend the classes physically. Considering the turnout so far, it is expected that not many kids in classes 3 to 5 will come for classes as many of them are still in their villages. But it is uncertain as schools are reopening after months, it is likely students might attend the class,” the school’s principal said.Sharma and Kumar said that there are enough teachers to attend to students even if a section has to be divided. “Teachers of classes 1 and 2 will be involved as well, if required,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/govt-schools-gear-up-to-welcome-students-of-classes-3-to-5-101614101740143.html
23-02-2021||Gurugram||Parents of private schools protest against ‘unreasonable’ fee collection||Over 100 parents from at least five prominent private schools of the city protested at the Mini Secretariat on Tuesday against alleged overcharging of tuition fees by the school authorities, with most of them complaining that students’ full access to online classes have been blocked after they objected to paying the fees. Parents complained that they have been getting emails and WhatsApp messages from schools regarding full payment of fees at a time when schools have been closed for months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Senior district administration officials, however, said that a clarification has been sought from the district education officer on the matter. “The details of the matter have been submitted to the deputy commissioner, while a clarification has been sought from the district education officer to resolve the issue,” said Siddharth Dahiya, city magistrate, who met the protesting parents.Officials of the education department were unavailable for comment. Since schools were shut in March 2020 due to the coronavirus outbreak, the directorate of education has issued several directives in this regard. Private schools were asked to charge fees under applicable heads only after the physical opening of schools, until which the schools were allowed to collection fees only under the tuition head. Later, parents who were affected financially due to the pandemic were also allowed to apply for exemptions. After the schools had challenged the reduction in fee, the Punjab and Haryana high court last July had allowed “reasonable fee collection” by schools, if online classes are held daily and had ruled that teachers’ salaries should not be cut.Currently, the tuition fee paid by parents has been adjusted by schools under different heads, complained parents at the site. “They are embarrassing kids in online classes by asking for fees,” said Bharati Sharma, whose son studies in class 2. “From July onwards, schools have been asking for full payment of fees under different heads like infrastructure, examination, resources, health and hygiene. When schools are closed, why should we pay the additional fee, except for the tuition charges?” In November 2020, over 800 parents of different schools had connected on the Telegram app to share their grievances on unnecessary amounts charged by schools. Sagarika Gupta, the mother of two daughters who are in class 4, said that schools are using pressure tactics as the annual examinations are just around the corner. “School authorities never replied or responded to our queries. Therefore, we had to protest. For an academic year, we are spending almost ₹2.5 lakh when the schools are closed. Although we have paid the tuition fees, schools have blocked access to study material for the examination,” said Gupta, even as other parents nodded in agreement. A parent at the protest site, on the condition of anonymity, shared a message shared by the school sent on Tuesday, stating that the final results of their ward would be held if dues are not cleared. Another parent, who also requested not to be named, said, “The school authority has said that they will give a rebate of ₹15,000 but the annual fee has to be paid.”Dhruv Bansal, the father of a class 11 student, said, “Schools cannot ask for the annual fee, according to the court and education department orders. If the issue is not addressed, we will sit on a hunger strike.” Col (retd) KR Pratap Singh, senior vice-president of Haryana Progressive Schools Conference, said, “There is no bar on the collection of all charges by the school, as per the ruling of the Punjab and Haryana high court in July and October last year. Schools can assess their fee structure, and some schools reduced the annual charges by 10%. Parents can be exempted only if they seek relief.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/parents-of-private-schools-protest-against-unreasonable-fee-collection-101614101681542.html
23-02-2021||Gurugram||Turnout for first dose vaccination drive drops to 28.5%||The turnout of front-line workers for the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine declined to 28.5%, with only 414 of the 1,450 targeted workers turning up for the drive on Tuesday. This is the lowest coverage rate since the launch of the inoculation drive for front-line workers. The turnout of healthcare workers for the second dose also dropped to 60.6% on Tuesday, as per the health department data, with 3,036 of the 5,002 targeted healthcare workers taking the second dose shot of the Covid-19 vaccines at 66 session sites.“The footfall of both front-line and healthcare workers remained low despite targeting more than 6,000 people. In case of second dose inoculation, health workers are aware they can take jab anytime between four and six weeks, while in the case of front-line workers, there has been reluctance among the employees of revenue and panchayati raj institutions (PRI),” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. Until now, almost 14,000 of the 18,000 registered front-line workers have taken the first shot, due to which officials are expecting the footfall to remain low. Of the 500 police personnel targeted on Tuesday, about 160 took the vaccine shot, while only 123 of the 500 targeted Municipal Corporation of Gurugram employees turned up to take the jab. The sluggish response continued in other departments as well, with only 88 of 300 targeted PRI workers and 14 of the 100 targeted revenue department officials turning up for the drive. “Considering the poor footfall, the department will hold a special camp for police personnel on Saturday. For MCG, we are talking with the officials about setting up a camp,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/turnout-for-first-dose-vaccination-drive-drops-to-285-101614101682118.html
23-02-2021||Gurugram||DTCP demolishes illegal tenements in Saraswati Kunj colony||The enforcement team of the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) carried out a demolition drive in Saraswati Kunj colony located along the Golf Course Road on Tuesday, in which 200 tenements were demolished.The team also sealed 20 commercial establishments, on the Golf Course Road, that were running illegally and demolished five illegal structures.RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that an enforcement team supported by around 100 police personnel sealed the illegal commercial establishments being run in Saraswati Kunj. “The team also demolished 200 jhuggis which were set up illegally. We had received several complaints from the residents following which the action was taken,” said Bhath.Earlier on Monday, the enforcement team checked the status of illegal colonies around Bhondsi, where demolitions have been carried out to ensure illegal constructions are not resumed. “The team went to illegal colonies and found a few instances where fresh construction was being carried out again. We have issued a warning to these plot owners and asked them to stop construction immediately as they would otherwise face demolition,” said Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, enforcement.The data collected by the department estimates that they have carried out enforcement on roughly 720 acres of 840 acres where illegal colonies have come up.Bhath said that on Monday, they had also visited a private licensed colony to check violations in approved houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-demolishes-illegal-tenements-in-saraswati-kunj-colony-101614101680933.html
23-02-2021||Gurugram||MCG to intensify action against waste dumping violations at dairy farms||Responding to frequent complaints from citizens regarding unauthorised dumping of waste in sewers by dairy farms, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) plans to scale up action against violators. Residents living in areas where dairy farms are concentrated say that repeated blockages due to dumping of waste, particularly cow and buffalo dung, in open drains is causing spillover of sewage onto roads.Confirming that they frequently receive such complaints from Zone 1 and Zone 2, the older parts of Gurugram city, MCG officials said that such violations lead to an added burden for the sanitation department, which has to deploy additional labour and resources in the problem areas.Over the past week, blockages due to waste from dairy farms have been reported in Dhanwapur and Jharsa’s Krishna Colony and mechanised sewer cleaning machines had to be pressed into service.Deepa Verma, a resident of Dhanwapur, said, “The dairy farms should be relocated outside of residential areas. The streets sometimes become unwalkable because of sewage overflow. The wastewater stinks and also attracts mosquitoes. Residents here are worried about their health. Several people have raised this issue with the municipality and on social media, but the situation hasn’t changed.”According to a survey by the MCG last year, there are at least 570 registered dairy farms in the district, of which 241 farms are located in Zone 1, 259 in Zone 2, 45 in Zone 3 and 25 in Zone 4.Before the survey, which commenced in October last year, the number had earlier been estimated at around 320, indicating an increase in dairy farms.An official with the animal husbandry department, who did not wish to be identified, said that this is indeed the case. “There are also many small dairy farms that do not have any kind of registration. They also generate a lot of waste, although I cannot comment on how the waste is disposed of since that is not the purview of my department,” the official said.Bijender Sharma, a senior sanitation inspector with the MCG, said, “This is an issue that we are constantly grappling with. We issue dozens of challans every year against poor waste disposal practices at dairy farms, but more needs to be done.”To address this issue, the MCG had last year tabled a proposal to shift such farming operations outside Gurugram’s municipal limits. While Sharma did not directly comment on the status of the proposal, another MCG official who is privy to the matter confirmed that issues of land acquisition in peri-urban areas have slowed the progress of the proposal.Vinay Pratap Singh, municipal commissioner, Gurugram, could not be contacted on Tuesday despite multiple attempts.Jitendra Garg, the joint commissioner of MCG, said, “We are aware of the issue. Discharging wastewater or dung openly in residential areas cannot be allowed. The authorities concerned will serve notices to the dairy farmers warning them of stricter action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-to-intensify-action-against-waste-dumping-violations-at-dairy-farms-101614101680283.html
23-02-2021||Kolkata||CBI sleuths question TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee’s wife in coal scam case||Sleuths of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday questioned Rujira Banerjee, wife of Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee, in connection with a multi-crore coal smuggling case morning.In the morning, chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who happens to be the aunt of Abhishek Banerjee, visited his house. The CBI team, including two lady officers, reached Abhishek Banerjee’s house moments after the CM left.According to CBI officials privy to the development, Rujira was questioned for around an hour by a team and the entire proceeding was captured on video.This comes a day after the central agency questioned Menaka Gambhir, Rujira’s sister in connection with the same case.CBI officials haven’t ruled out the possibility of questioning the two sisters again. They said that the statements of Rujira and Menaka were being matched.“The statements given by Rujira Banerjee and Menaka Gambhir would be matched and verified before further steps are taken,” said an official.Also read: India hasn’t changed its mind on Chinese investment, will make no exceptionsCBI officials said that at least two bank accounts, one of a London-based bank and another of a Bangkok-based bank, have come under the scanner for huge transactions.On Sunday, the CBI had visited the residence of Abhishek Banerjee to serve notice to his wife for questioning in connection with a coal smuggling case. The agency had also summoned Banerjee’s sister-in-law for questioning in the case.On Monday, Rujira responded to the CBI and sent a letter saying, "Though I am unaware of the reason for me being called for questioning on the subject matter of the investigation, you may visit my residence as per your convenience between 11 am and 3 pm tomorrow i.e 23 February 20201”.On Sunday evening, Abhishek Banerjee tweeted a photo of the notice left by the CBI at his residence. “...if they think they can use these ploys to intimidate us, they are mistaken,” he wrote.Later, CM Banerjee said she is not intimidated by anyone adding that “a tiger cub is not scared of fighting cats and rats”.The incident has triggered mudslinging between the BJP and the TMC ahead of the crucial assembly polls.“Bhaipo (nephew) will now land in jail. More clinching evidence would surface once the diary of Anup Majhi (prime accused in the coal smuggling case) comes out,” said Suvendu Adhikari, former TMC heavyweight who sided with the BJP.“This is not done. They are dragging family members now. We are politicians and can fight. What have our family members done?” said state minister Firhad Hakim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cbi-sleuths-question-tmc-mp-abhishek-banerjee-s-wife-in-coal-scam-case-101614100384801.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Maximum temperature reaches 31.5 degrees as city sees warmest day yet in February||Delhi recorded its warmest day so far this month on Tuesday with the maximum temperature settling at 31.5 degrees Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department.The national capital had recorded a high of 30.4 degrees Celsius on February 10.The minimum temperature in the city settled at 10.7 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, a marginal drop from 11 degrees Celsius on Monday.Lodhi Road and Palam observatories recorded a maximum temperature of 32.1 degrees Celsius and 30.2 degrees Celsius, the MeT department said.The weatherman said minimum and maximum temperatures are likely to hover around 12 degrees Celsius and 31 degrees Celsius on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-maximum-temperature-reaches-31-5-degrees-as-city-sees-warmest-day-101614099941807.html
23-02-2021||Lucknow||'UP govt has freed 67,000 acres of land from land mafia': CM Yogi Adityanath||The Uttar Pradesh revenue department has so far freed 67,000 acres of land from the land mafia during the tenure of the current government and priority has been given to make sports grounds on it, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath told the Legislative Council on Tuesday.Replying to a question raised by MLC Suresh Kumar Tripathi, Adityanath said, "After this government was formed in 2017, an anti-land mafia task force was constituted to free public and private land grabbed under the patronage of those who were in power and using other tricks. The task force has so far freed 67,000 acres of land of the revenue department.""Priority has been given to sports grounds, whether under the sports department, the youth welfare department or under the MGNREGA. Our effort is that the sports grounds should be made at the panchayat level. If land is found near primary or upper primary schools, then children will get space for themselves and villagers will also get space for holding public programmes," he said.The chief minister said the intention of his government is that the sports grounds should be located near the primary and upper primary schools."The district magistrates have been instructed to exchange land if needed. So far, sports grounds have been made in thousands of village panchayats," he said.Adityanath also said sports kits have been provided to the "yuvak mangal dal" and "mahila mangal dal".Meanwhile, in the post-lunch session, Samajwadi Party (SP) members protested the passing of certain bills in the Legislative Council without a proper discussion.Amidst the noise, Chairman Kunwar Manvendra Singh declared that the bills have been passed by voice vote. Terming it as murder of democracy, the SP members trooped to the well of the House and some of them sat on a "dharna". Following this, the chairman adjourned the House till 11 am on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-has-freed-67-000-acres-of-land-from-land-mafia-cm-yogi-adityanath-101614099369779.html
23-02-2021||Kolkata||BJP's Rakesh Singh, named by Pamela Goswami in drugs case, arrested in Kolkata||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Rakesh Singh, who was named in a drugs case by the party's youth-wing activist Pamela Goswami, was arrested by Kolkata police on Tuesday.The arrest came hours after police raided Singh’s residence in connection with the case. The search operation was led by the Anti-Narcotics and Anti-Rowdy sections of the Detective Department of New Alipore police station.Also Read | Drugs case: Pamela accuses BJP colleague of conspiracyBJP leader Goswami, who was also arrested in the case on Friday along with her friend Prabeer Kumar Dey and her security guard after 90 gm of cocaine was allegedly found in her possession, had time and again named Singh in the case.During her arrest, she demanded a CID probe into the matter and also stated that Rakesh Singh had ‘planted people to keep drugs in her vehicle’. She also claimed that Singh was close to BJP’s national general secretary and observer of west Bengal, Kailash Vijayvargiya.“The way Goswami spoke to the media despite being in police custody and took the name of BJP leaders demanding a CID probe indicates that it is something fishy. Also it has been revealed that she was trying to meet a TMC leader. Politically aware people will surely understand what is going on,” Samik Bhattacharya, BJP’s state spokesperson said.Also Read: Moments after Mamata Banerjee leaves, CBI team reaches Abhishek's house; wife questioned for an hourA day before her arrest, Goswami had said she wanted to meet a TMC leader along with some other persons and ‘portfolio holders’ of the BJP.Meanwhile, fearing arrest, Singh had filed a PIL before Calcutta High Court, seeking quashing of a notice by the police to appear before it in connection with a drugs case. However, the court dismissed the plea on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjps-rakesh-singh-named-by-pamela-goswami-in-drugs-case-arrested-in-kolkata-101614096214379.html
23-02-2021||Other||Himachal cabinet gives nod for holding MC polls on party symbols||The Himachal Pradesh cabinet gave nod to hold municipal corporation elections on party symbols.The chief minister Jai Ram Thakur-led cabinet on Tuesday gave its approval for making amendments to the Himachal Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 and Himachal Pradesh Municipal Corporation Elections Rules, 2012. These amendments would pave way for conducting MC elections on party symbols, provide reservation for OBCs, have provision of disqualification on grounds of defection, and strengthen provisions of no-confidence motion.Election in four MC - Solan, Palampur, Mandi and Dharmshala - will now be held on party symbols. Election date for the four MCs is likely to be announced in the first week of March.It also gave nod to the governor’s address to be delivered during the budget session of Vidhan Sabha, slated from February 26.The cabinet approved providing government land on lease at the rate of one rupee per month for a period of 99 years in Mauja Dhaulakuan, Paonta Sahib, Sirmaur, measuring 122-08 bighas in favour of Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry Nauni at Dhaulakuan for establishment of a regional horticulture research and training station for the benefit of farmers.It also gave consent to construct additional accommodation at Sundernagar Rest House in Mandi at a cost of ₹3.90 crore to provide better boarding and lodging facilities to the employees and general public during official tours.The cabinet also decided to extend special land acquisition unit at Nalagarh in Solan and engage staff on reemployment/fixed emoluments basis for a period of one year from January 1, 2021 as the land acquisition work in the stretch of Baddi-Nalagarh road length of 18km under Project Director NHAI Shimla was being done by land acquisition collector, Nalagarh.The cabinet also gave approval to the proposal to modify penalties, fines under Section 210A of the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019 as well as to specific authorities competent to compound the offences under Section 200 of the Act. This was being done to ensure safety of the people, by motivating the people to adopt save driving.It also gave its nod to extend engagement of 2555 SMC teachers already engaged under SMC Teachers Policy in elementary and higher education departments for 2021-22 academic session.The cabinet gave its consent to rename Government Senior Secondary School, Manoh in Hamirpur, as ‘Shaheed Ankush Thakur Government Senior Secondary School, Manoh’ as a mark of respect to Galwan martyr Ankush Thakur.The cabinet decided to implement Mukhya Mantri Krishi Kosh scheme for farmer’s producer organisations (FPOs)-2020 for providing incentives, concessions and facilities for eligible FPOs in state.Under the scheme, FPOs could avail seed money up to 30% of the total project cost with a maximum ceiling of ₹6 lakh or one-and-a-half times of the equity raised by the FPOs, whichever is less. The scheme would also ensure credit guarantee cover for bank loan, interest subsidy, etc.It also approved to transfer land comprising in Khasra no. 60 situated at Mohal Bazar ward, Chhota Shimla, presently under possession with the police department in the name of Shimla MC to shift existing two shops of the MC to Khasra no. 60 so that widening of Sadbhawana Chowk can be undertaken in public interest to ease out the situation of traffic congestion on Chhota Shimla to Kasumpti road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-cabinet-gives-nod-for-holding-mc-polls-on-party-symbols-101614097720409.html
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||Vij seeks new DGP, stokes controversy||Haryana home minister Anil Vij has stoked yet another controversy by writing to additional chief secretary (ACS), home, to send a panel of officers to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) to be considered for the next Haryana director general of police (DGP) despite the fact that incumbent Manoj Yadava has over four years of service left. “As Yadava assumed charge on February 21, 2019, he has completed his two-year tenure …,” Vij wrote. On the contrary, the state government on January 7 has already extended the tenure of Yadava till further orders. In fact, Vij as home minister had put his signatures on the file ordering the extension. Minister’s note not in tune with SC directions The home minister’s latest move is also not in line with the directions of the Supreme Court. The apex court in its 2006 orders in the Prakash Singh case had held that the DGP should have a minimum tenure of at least two years irrespective of his date of superannuation. Former IPS officer Prakash Singh, the original petitioner in the matter which led to the landmark apex court judgment on police reforms, said that the Supreme Court has defined minimum and not maximum tenure for the DGP. An amendment in the Haryana Police Act in 2018 — the DGP shall have tenure of not less than one year extendable to one more year irrespective of his date of superannuation — was rejected by the Supreme Court on January 16, 2019, since it was not in consonance with its directions. The apex court in fact had dismissed a bunch of interlocutory applications filed by Haryana, Punjab and three other states, seeking exemption for their respective Police Acts from the operation of SC’s July 3, 2018, order and permission to appoint the DGPs in accordance with their respective police laws. The apex court had also ruled in its 2006 orders that any legislation or rule framed by any of the states or the central government running counter to the direction shall remain in abeyance to the aforesaid extent. Vij, who did not respond to messages for a comment, seems to have misinterpreted SC orders. He told television channels on Tuesday that the SC had directed that DGP could have a tenure of two years. “Since his two years have been completed, that’s why I have written the note,’’ he said. Quoting apex court directions, legal experts said that the DGP can only be relieved of his responsibilities by the state government in consultation with the State Security Commission if any action has been taken against him under the All-India Services (Discipline and Appeal) rules or following his conviction in a court of law in a criminal offence or in a case of corruption, or if he is otherwise incapacitated from discharging his duties. Opposition slams minister Reacting to Vij’s move, former minister Karan Dalal said this reflected poorly on the aptitude of the minister. “It is an abnormal way to function. If disciplinary action has been initiated against the DGP, then one should consider replacing him. But Yadava should be appreciated and commended for maintaining sanity in the police department despite a loose cannon minister. The truth is that a conflict is going on between Vij and the chief minister. But it is the officers who are suffering,’’ Dalal said.Congress MLA Neeraj Sharma said Vij is known for his impulsiveness. “Instead of raking up frivolous matters, he should pay attention to the performance of his departments. All his portfolios are in a shambles,’’ he said. Blurb: Writes to ACS (home) to send a panel of officers to the UPSC for the next DGP’s selection despite the incumbent already given extension by the govt on Jan 7||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vij-seeks-new-dgp-stokes-controversy-101614097600343.html
23-02-2021||Other||Soldier dead, 2 others injured in accidental fire in Akhnoor||A gunner of the artillery regiment died and two others were injured at a field firing range during a live firing training in Akhnoor sector of Jammu on Tuesday.The deceased was identified as Gunner Sayan Gosh of the artillery regiment. He was a native of Nagdaha village in the 24 Parganas North district of West Bengal.A defence spokesperson said that Ghosh suffered fatal injury due to a firing accident while carrying out live firing training at field firing ranges in Akhnoor sector on Tuesday morning.He added that during training session, the barrel of a 105mm gun suddenly burst into pieces and the flying splinters hit three soldiers including Ghosh.“While Ghosh succumbed to the injuries, the condition of two other soldiers is stated to be stable. They are out of danger and are undergoing treatment at a garrison hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/soldier-dead-2-others-injured-in-accidental-fire-in-akhnoor-101614097540394.html
23-02-2021||Other||Pak-origin wives of Kashmiri men stage protest, seek citizenship or deportation||Women having origin in Pakistan or Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), who had married Kashmiri men and came to Jammu and Kashmir under the 2010 amnesty policy for former militants by then chief minister Omar Abdullah, staged a protest in Srinagar on Tuesday, demanding citizenship or deportation to Pakistan. Dozens of women, along with their families, raised slogans at the Press Enclave in Srinagar before marching up to the Lal Chowk. “For the past 12 years, we have been protesting peacefully again and again. We came here from Pakistan when rehabilitation policy was announced. Our husbands brought us here and but the government is neither giving us citizenship nor the travel documents,” said Saira Javed, a protester from north Kashmir. The police intervened at the Lal Chowk where the women were demanding an audience with the deputy commissioner. A magistrate-level officer then arrived, prompting the gathering to disperse. Some of the Kashmiri youths, who had crossed over to the PoK in the 1990s to get arms training, gave up violence, married there and started lives afresh. There are no official figure about such couples, but the protesters said they were 400 in number. “The issue is that we don’t have any documents or any identity. The only identity we have is that she is the wife of a militant. Neither we nor our children can go anywhere. Neither can we send our kids to study outside,” said another protester. Many of such couples entered India through Nepal route and the informal entry meant no official recognition of such families even as a rehabilitation policy had been announced. The protesters said many among them have been divorced and some have lost their husbands. “I came here in 2012. My mother died recently but I could not go to see her one last time. We can’t meet our relatives and family members. Parents of many women died during these years but they could not go even for the funeral,” said Saba Fayaz, another protester.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pakorigin-wives-of-kashmiri-men-stage-protest-seek-citizenship-or-deportation-101614097309719.html
23-02-2021||Other||Pune district reports 1,195 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours on Tuesday||Pune district reported a spike on Tuesday, as 1,195 new Covid-19 cases were reported in 24 hours by the state health department. This puts the active-case count at 9,399 and the progressive count at 4.02 lakh, of which 3.84 lakh have recovered. The death toll stands at 8,089. The state health department also reported five Covid-related deaths on Tuesday. Pune city reported 679 new cases, taking its progressive count to 2,05,437. The death toll stood at 4,566 with two deaths reported in 24 hours. PCMC reported 208 fresh cases, which took the progressive count to 1,00,302. The death toll stood at 1,327 with one death reported in 24 hours. Pune rural reported 308 new cases with the progressive count at 96,570. The death toll stood at 2,147 with two deaths reported on Tuesday.53% of its targeted beneficiaries vaccinated The district saw 53% of its targeted beneficiaries vaccinated on Tuesday, with 4614 of the 8,700 registered beneficiaries getting the jab. Of those who got the vaccine, 1,279 are healthcare workers and 3,335 are frontline workers. Pune rural reported a 31% vaccination success rate, with Pune city at 96% and PCMC at 28%. Also, 1,139 beneficaries got their second dose, thereby completing their vaccination course. No adverse effects were reported following the immunisation on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reports-1-195-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-on-tuesday-101614096639492.html
23-02-2021||Mumbai||'Won't allow sale of Patanjali's Coronil...': Maharashtra home minister||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday said that the state will not allow the sale of Coronil, Patanjali Ayurveda's controversial drug against Covid-19 infection, without proper certification from competent authorities. The statement from the home minister comes a day after the World Health Organisation (WHO) clarified that it has not certified any traditional medicine for the treatment of Covid-19.Patanjali launched the product on February 19 in presence of Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari. On Monday, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) expressed shock and dismay at what it called is a “blatant lie of WHO certification” for Patanjali’s Coronil tablet. The global health body earlier tweeted not giving any certificate to Coronil. “WHO has not reviewed or certified the effectiveness of any traditional medicine for the treatment COVID-19,” the global health body said on February 19.Deshmukh, in a series of tweets on Tuesday, said that the IMA has questioned the ‘trials’ of Coronil and WHO has refuted claims that it has certified it. He added that launching such drugs hurriedly and the endorsement by two Union ministers is “deplorable”.Also read: India hasn’t changed its mind on Chinese investment, will make no exceptions“The IMA has questioned the said 'clinical trials' of #Coronil & WHO refuted the false claims made by #Patanjali Ayurveda for giving any certificate regarding its effectiveness for #Covid19 treatment. Launching such a drug hurriedly and being endorsed by two senior Central Union Ministers is highly deplorable. Selling of #Coronil without proper certification from competent health organizations like #WHO, #IMA and others will not be allowed in Maharashtra,” Deshmukh tweeted.Meanwhile, Patanjali Ayurveda claimed that it has the proper certification from the relevant authorities to sell and export the product to 158 countries across the world.SK Tijarawala, spokesperson of Patanjali Ayurveda said, "Coronil has received the Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product (CoPP) from the Ayush section of Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation as per the WHO certification scheme. This empowers us to sell the product across 158 countries. The public is under the misconception that the WHO has not certified it, but the WHO never certifies any product. It sets a protocol for clinical control trials on modern medical parameters. Once that is cleared DCGI and Ayush Ministry gives its certificate. and we have those certificates. If the minister does not have this knowledge we can give him proper details," said Tijarawala. He claimed that Coronil is "declared to treat, prevent and to deal with the effects of long corona".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wont-allow-sale-of-patanjali-s-coronil-maharashtra-home-minister-101614094680052.html
23-02-2021||City||Jagan rolls out ₹670 cr scheme for economically weak upper caste women||The YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh has rolled out yet another populist scheme, this time for women belonging to Economically Backward Class (EBC) sections of various upper castes with an annual budgetary allocation of ₹670 crore.A decision to this effect was taken at the state cabinet meeting held by the chief minister at the secretariat in Amaravati on Tuesday.“Under this scheme, christened as EBC Nestham (Friend of EBCs), each beneficiary would be given financial assistance to the tune of ₹15,000 per annum for the next three years,” state minister for information and public relations Perni Venkataramaiah alias Nani told reporters after the cabinet meeting.He said women belonging to upper castes but economically weak, in the age group of 45-60 years, were eligible to get the benefit under the EBC Nestham scheme. “Each beneficiary would get a direct cash transfer of ₹45,000 during the three-year period,” Nani said.The cabinet discussed in detail the ongoing agitation by the workers of Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL) at Visakhapatnam, better known as Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, in protest against the Central government’s decision to go in for 100 per cent disinvestment.Also read: India hasn’t changed its mind on Chinese investment, will make no exceptions“The chief minister said he had already written a detailed letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to drop the steel plant privatisation plan and was awaiting a response.The cabinet approved a resolution to be introduced in the coming budget session of the state assembly opposing the privatisation move,” the minister said.Another decision taken at the cabinet meeting was to complete all the buildings, residential quarters and villas in Amaravati, which had been abandoned after Jagan took over as the chief minister.“The cabinet decided that the state government stands guarantee to the commercial banks to lend ₹3,000 crore to Amaravati Metropolitan Development Authority (AMRD) to complete the under-construction buildings on a priority basis,” Nani said.He said the chief minister was committed to the development of Amaravati, but the people of the region were not spelling out their demands. “Under any circumstances, the executive capital will be shifted to Visakhapatnam and there is no question of going back on that. Amaravati will remain the legislative capital and the people have to decide what exactly they want,” he said.The cabinet approved the compensation package to be given to the farmers whose lands were acquired for Kakinada Special Economic Zone in East Godavari district.“The cabinet sub-committee headed by agriculture minister K Kanna Babu submitted its report to the chief minister suggesting certain compensation package for the farmers who would be losing their lands, but the cabinet decided to enhance the compensation amount,” he said.The cabinet also approved the selection of a joint venture partner for the construction of the YSR Steel Plant in Kadapa district. The cabinet finalised the calendar of implementation of nine various welfare schemes under the Navaratnalu (nine jewels) programme. “The benefits would be extended to the people as per the calendar,” Nani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jagan-rolls-out-rs-670-cr-scheme-for-economically-weak-upper-caste-women-101614093255430.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt launches campaign to encourage shift from pvt to electric vehicles||The Dialogue and Development Commission (DDC) on Tuesday launched their Switch Delhi campaign to encourage private vehicle owners to shift to electric vehicles.The campaign in association with WRI India, a research organisation that works to foster environmentally sound and socially equitable development, was launched by Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot."The Switch Delhi pledge has been launched to cement the commitment of Delhiites to be a part of the electric vehicle revolution in Delhi and make Delhi the EV capital of India. I encourage all Delhiites to take this pledge if you are going to switch to an EV and install a charging point on your premise in the next three years. I have taken this pledge today and hope everyone will do the same."Over 7,000 new EVs have been registered in Delhi. Total subsidy of around ₹13.5 crore on over 210 approved models has been disbursed as of now," the minister said, while delivering the keynote address during a webinar on "Encouraging Private Vehicles to Switch to Electric Vehicles".The webinar that saw the participation of over 100 electric vehicle enthusiasts comprised two panel discussions - one with EV adopters and experts, and another on how youth can drive the EV movement in Delhi"The EV policies introduced by other states seem more like an industrial policy to attract investments to the state. But the Delhi government's EV policy has set an example to the country by providing huge subsidies and incentives to people switching to an EV, and by involving them in this movement," said O P Agarwal from WRI India.Among other participating expert panelists were Abhishek Ranjan (BSES Rajdhani Power Limited) and Akshima Ghate (Rocky Mountain Institute, India).The webinar was the first in a series of similar virtual events organised under the Switch Delhi campaign, an eight-week mass awareness initiative by the Delhi government to sensitise Delhiites about the benefits of switching to electric vehicles."The campaign aims at informing, encouraging, and motivating each and every person in Delhi to switch from polluting vehicles to zero-emission electric vehicles," a statement from the DDC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-launches-campaign-to-encourage-shift-from-pvt-to-electric-vehicles-101614090375790.html
23-02-2021||Other||Home isolation keeps pressure on bed availability at bay... for now... dist admin claims to be ready||PUNE The district administration claims to be at the ready to ensure enough of beds are available for Covid-19 patients.While there were 1,200 ventilators available for Covid-19 patients on February 19, this number has come down to 652 as of February 23. With home isolation allowed for Covid-19 patients, patients, asymptomatic or with mild symptoms, are opting for the same, and so the pressure on hospital infrastructure has gone down. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “In view of the increasing cases, the administration will increase beds. We will ensure more beds are reserved. At the current active centres, we have brought down the number of beds at the dedicated Covid care centre’s, dedicated Covid health centres and Covid hospitals, which will be increased when needed.”Currently, the district has 13,763 beds reserved for Covid-19, of which 652 are with ventilators. Of these, the 13K-+ beds, 4,498 beds are reserved in the city, while 4,787 are in PCMC.The remaining are reserved in the Cantonment and rural areas of the district.Of the 652 ventilators available, 388 are reserved for Pune city. As of February 19, the district had 51,305 beds, of which, 40,000 were isolation beds without oxygen; 7,069 were beds with oxygen; 2,617 were ICU beds without ventilators; and 1,200 beds were with ventilators. At least 60% of the isolation beds without oxygen were let go of by the administration, from both private and government hospitals, when the case numbers began to drop in December 2020-January 2021. On February 19, the number of active cases in the district stood at 8,528 and this number went up to 9,399 by Tuesday evening, as per the state health department. While the number of cases has gone up in these two days, the number of reserved beds has gone down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/home-isolation-keeps-pressure-on-bed-availability-at-bay-for-now-dist-admin-claims-to-be-ready-101614091539023.html
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||India, UK ties set to grow deeper: Andrew Ayre||Andrew Ayre, the outgoing British deputy high commissioner in Chandigarh, believes India-UK ties are set to grow deeper with the focus on information technology and manufacturing in business and partnership in health, education and climate change. “The past is important, but our future is more important. We have close ties, particularly in this region, comprising Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. Whether it’s business delegation visits or the trade flow or the growing number of students and health care professionals opting for further studies and jobs in the United Kingdom, they are all an indicator of our success in the region,” Ayre said, reflecting on his four-year tenure at the deputy high commission in Chandigarh that draws to a close on Wednesday. “I’d urge youngsters not to overlook my country. Rather, they should make the most of the opportunities there, particularly now that the UK has left the European Union and has its own visa and immigration policy,” he said, highlighting the strong diaspora connect. Caroline Rowett first British woman deputy high commissioner in India His successor, Caroline Rowett, was the UK’s charge d’affairs in Haiti before being appointed the first British woman deputy high commissioner in India. “She is looking forward to meeting you all as soon as she has completed her self-isolation,” Ayre said during an interview on the eve of his departure. “The Covid-19 pandemic has had a severe impact on everyone, including the operations of the deputy high commission. My only regret is that I’ve been unable to host a farewell event due to the restrictions. I leave with a heavy heart but a part of me will always be here,” he said on an emotional note. Besides expressing gratitude to the governors and chief ministers of Punjab and Haryana and their ministerial teams and officials, Ayre said, “I want to thank the citizens of Chandigarh, too numerous to mention individually, who have guided my wife Bettina and I, hosted us and shown us nothing but kindness since we arrived in 2017. I’m grateful to my staff and family without whom much less would have been achieved. Chandigarh, the City Beautiful, stay kind, be kind. Cherish the way you are. It’s people who make this place special. ” Finds India diverse, complex Reminiscing his trips to Rajasthan, Goa and Agra apart from the region, the deputy high commissioner, who learnt Hindi for four months before taking up his Indian mission, said, “India is complex, there’s so much diversity that honestly no foreigner can claim to have understood it entirely.” As for Punjabi, he admitted he has picked up more of it during his stay in Chandigarh and has a weakness for butter chicken, naan and kulfi. “I’ll miss walking in Kansal forest adjoining Sukhna Lake; it’s been a sanctuary for me, too,” he said in his inimitable style. A passionate biker, he recalled trips on his Royal Enfield Classic around the region and the camaraderie among fellow bikers. Reading non-fiction is another area of interest with Daniel Silva and Tony Parsons being favourite authors at present. Signing off with his life lessons, he said, “Don’t take life too seriously, accept you can’t control everything and put family and friends first.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/india-uk-ties-set-to-grow-deeper-andrew-ayre-101614090279299.html
23-02-2021||Other||PMC instructs pvt hospitals to reserve 2,000 beds for Covid-19 patients||PUNE In the light of increasing Covid-19 cases in the city, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has issued instructions to all private hospitals to reserve 2,000 beds, in total, for Covid-19 patients. The decision was taken during a meeting on Tuesday when the PMC chief medical officer enquired with private hospitals regarding beds for Covid-19 patients. As on Monday, Pune city’s active case tally reached 2,902, with 1,984 taking treatment in various hospitals; the count of total positive cases is 2,04,758. Dr Ashish Bharati, PMC’s chief medical officer, said, “We have given instructions to all private hospitals to secure beds for Covid-19 patients and give priority to Covid-19 patients. We want to reserve 2,000 beds across all private hospitals.” The dashboard of the Pune district administration, on Tuesday, showed a total of 9,259 beds vacant across the district of a total of 13,722. To tackle with any eventualities, the PMC has also decided to restart some of its Covid care centres. Suresh Jagtap, additional municipal commissioner said, “Though the number of patients has gone down on Tuesday, as compared to Monday, we have started preparing to tackle Covid-19. We have started 15 ward- wise war rooms and deputed manpower on a contract basis. This staff will follow-up with patients.” “We have four Covid care centres (CCC) in four different zone, like Bankar school (Hadapsar), Sanas ground (Tilak road), Vimananagar and Aundh. However, patients are being advised home quarantine right now,” he added. According to PMC officials, the civic body has started aggressive contact tracing of those with symptoms. Dr Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner, said, “Most patients are in home isolation. Our Covid centre employees are taking a continuous follow-up and guiding them. At present, we haven’t taken a call on the Jumbo centre, but, we have increased capacity at the Baner Covid-19 hospital, which was reduced earlier.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-instructs-pvt-hospitals-to-reserve-2-000-beds-for-covid-19-patients-101614090158594.html
23-02-2021||City||Goa's contentious second airport sees fresh protests. Here's why||Farmers in Goa’s northernmost taluka of Pernem have risen against losing their lands this time for a road connecting the upcoming International airport at Mopa to the national highway. This could be the latest chapter in a protracted struggle the farmers have raged against the acquisition of their lands - first for the airport and now for the connecting road.On Friday, some 200-odd farmers were bundled into police buses and placed under arrest after they blocked the path of government surveyors who were on their way to demarcate the land for a brand new approach road. The protesters refused to budge and not to part with even an inch more of the land that they say has sustained them.“The chief minister is saying that he is trying to make us understand. They are saying we should understand? What should we understand? We have even given them an alternative alignment that will involve less land. More than 500 farmers are going to lose their homes for the road,” Prashant Shirodkar, a land-losing farmer, said.Also read: England’s medical officer says Covid-19 to remain problem for ‘next few winters’“If the CM really wants to understand us then he should come and have a look at our fields and cashews. Villagers from this area have already sacrificed land for the Tillari canal, the Sports City, Ayush Hospital, Ravindra Bhavan, and now they say they are bringing casinos too,” Shirodkar added.Goa’s second International Airport, which is being built in the state’s northern corner and covering nearly 100-lakh square metres of land that once comprised villages of Mopa, Uguem, Dhadachivada, Poroscodem and Dhargal, has had a contentious history. First proposed in the late 90s, the project ran into opposition from politicians, hoteliers and taxi operators from South Goa who opposed the airport saying it was too far North and going ahead with the project would harm the development of South Goa.The land acquisition procedure that had nearly lapsed was taken forward only in 2012 after the BJP government came to power and after written assurances from the central government that the existing Dabolim airport, which doubles up as a Naval base, will continue to operate as a civilian airport even after the new airport is inaugurated.But the land losing farmers were not convinced. Within a radius of ten kilometres, farmers in the once rural Pernem taluka have had to part with 9-lakh square metre of land, mainly comprising cashew, mango and other fruit orchards, for a Sports City for which land was acquired but never materialised, the tiller irrigation canal that is lying in a state of disrepair and other projects like an Ayush Hospital, an auditorium, etc.“How much more land should we part with? Is it always us who have to pay the price of development? Is there no other area that you can choose to ‘develop’? Let other parts of Goa also see the benefits of ‘development’. It’s not like we are the only farmers,” Bharat Bagkar, who had led the villagers collective to oppose the acquisition, said.Villagers are also upset that more land than what is necessary for an airport is being acquired while the rest is being ‘given away’ to GMR Infrastructure which won the bid to build and operate the airport for ‘city-side’ development.Nearly 10-lakh square metres has been given to the airport concessionaire that will likely be used to build a gaming zone besides other hospitality ventures.“We understand that an airport can be built with 30-40 lakh square metres of land but here the government has acquired 1-crore square metres,” Shirodkar said.“We were paid a compensation of ₹30-40 per square metre which was later hiked to 120 per square metre but the value of the land in the vicinity has gone up and is now being sold in the thousands. Why should we face this injustice,” Bagkar said.The Goa government, which only recently had to relent in the face of ferocious opposition from farmers unwilling to part with their lands for an IIT in another similarly rural area in the state, has had talks with the farmers which have remained inconclusive.“I have already met them twice and listened to their demands. I have told them that the government is committed to go out of the way to ensure compensation for their land,” Sawant told reporters late on Friday.Till date, the farmers have yet to relent vowing to fight till their last breath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/goas-contentious-second-airport-sees-fresh-protests-here-s-why-101614089453147.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 145 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths; recovery rate hovers around 98%||Delhi’s Covid-19 tally reached 6,38,173 cases and 10,903 deaths on Tuesday as the city reported 145 new cases and two related deaths, according to a bulletin released by the Delhi government. Cumulative recovery rate continues to hover slightly above the 98 per cent mark with 130 patients recovered on Tuesday, taking the overall recoveries to 6,26,216 patients.🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 23rd February 2021🏥#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/2M6uQvtlPqActive caseload in Delhi, stands at 1054 cases, which is 13 cases higher than the 1,041 cases reported on Monday.Also read | ‘My trust in judiciary has increased’, says Disha Ravi’s motherThe Delhi government on Tuesday conducted 58,327 tests comprising 35,751 RT-PCR, CBNAAT, TrueNat tests and 22,576 Rapid Antigen Tests. With this, the city has tested 1,20,72,509 samples for the disease and the tests per million count stands at 6,35,395 tests, according to the bulletin.With 6,38,173 Covid-19 cases so far, Delhi’s cumulative positivity rate, considering the number of tests done and the number of confirmed cases, stands at 5.29 per cent. Also, with 10,903 deaths, Delhi’s case fatality rate stands at 1.71 per cent, according to official data. Also, the bulletin showed that 472 patients are currently under home isolation and the city has a total of 639 containment zones.Also read | Daily Covid-19 deaths fall below 100; no new fatality in 21 states, UTsEarlier on Tuesday, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan had noted that Delhi is among 11 states and Union territories (UT) which have administered the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine to less than 60 per cent of its registered healthcare workers. Delhi has given the first dose to 51.59 per cent of its beneficiaries.#IndiaFightsCorona:📍Administered first dose to less than 60% of the registered Health Care Workers.: Secretary, @MoHFW_INDIA #Unite2FightCorona #IndiaWillWin pic.twitter.com/98XQ4k4BJ1According to data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, Delhi has so far administered 3,38,629 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine and 3,15,841 people have received the first dose and 22,788 people have received the second dose, as on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-145-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-recovery-rate-hovers-around-98-101614089091036.html
23-02-2021||Bangalore||'No restrictions on inter-state travel': Karnataka govt clarifies after Vijayan's letter||The Yediyurappa government on Tuesday clarified that it has not imposed any restrictions on travel between Karnataka and Kerala, but has mandated RT-PCR test reports not older than 72 hours for those arriving in the state from the neighbouring state of Kerala. Health Minister K Sudhakar said, “Karnataka has not prohibited inter-state travel b/w Karnataka & Kerala. As a precautionary measure, guidelines have been issued that travellers entering Karnataka from Kerala must mandatorily possess a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours.”Earlier in the day, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to look into the restrictions imposed by Karnataka on passengers arriving from his state. "Imposing restrictions on inter-state movement of people by states is contrary to instructions of Government of India, which are at present holding the field," Vijayan said in the letter.Vijayan also highlighted the hardships faced by students and patients going to Karnataka for medical purposes. He added that the trucks carrying essential commodities at the inter-state borders were also being stopped.Read more: Kerala CM writes to PM Modi on Karnataka travel restrictionThe Kerala chief minister requested the Prime Minister’s attention to the decision taken by the Karnataka government so that the people of Kerala do not face such problems.According to Karnataka government order, the passengers from Kerala will have to produce a negative RT-PCR test taken not more than 72 hours before commencement of the journey, at the time of entry into the state. Additionally, the Karnataka government sealed many roads, including national highways on the borders between Karnataka and Kerala. Health and police personnel were also put on duty at the four borders of Talapady in Mangalore taluk, Saradka in Bantwal, Nettanige-Mudnuru in Puttur taluk, and Jalsoor in Sullia, to verify test certificates.The Karnataka government has reinstated stricter control for people coming from Kerala as the latter has been reporting increasing cases of coronavirus for the past few weeks. Kerala recorded 2,212 new coronavirus cases on Tuesday and 4,070 cases on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/no-restrictions-on-inter-state-travel-karnataka-govt-clarifies-after-vijayan-s-letter-101614088864107.html
23-02-2021||Other||BJP alleges FIR against Mahadik for violating Covid norms is “political vendetta”||PUNE The Pune Police, late on Monday, registered a case against BJP leader and former Kolhapur MP Dhananjay Mahadik and two others for violating Covid-19 norms at a wedding reception held on Sunday. The BJP, however, termed the action as “selective” and part of “political vendetta”. BJP city unit chief Jagdish Mulik said that while on one hand the NCP and Congress leaders have been attending events where Covid norms are openly flouted, the action against Mahadik has been unfair. “The Congress has in the last few days held multiple events and rallies as part of its show of strength. However, no action has been taken against the party leaders. The NCP minister Jayant Patil, too, was seen attending a wedding in Nashik, while another leader celebrated his birthday in a helicopter, after which, he too tested positive for Covid,” said Mulik. Jayant Patil was recently on state tour when he came in contact with large number of people. He also held meetings in Vidarbha, currently, a Covid hotspot. “The promptness of Maharashtra’s home minister in filing a case against Dhananjay Mahadik should have been shown against some of the criminals in Pune to control crime here,” said Mulik.According to the officials, a wedding reception for Mahadik’s son was held at the Laxmi Lawns in Magarpatta, Hadapsar, on Sunday evening, where at least 1,000 people attended the ceremony. This is a violation of the order which has capped the number of people allowed to attend weddings at 200. Balkrushna Kadam, the senior police inspector, Hadapsar police station, said, “We have registered a case against Mahadik and two others including the owner and manager of the lawn under section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-alleges-fir-against-mahadik-for-violating-covid-norms-is-political-vendetta-101614089018520.html
23-02-2021||Pune||Five booked, yet to be arrested, under Black Magic Act after 8-month pregnant woman and her baby die in Pune||Pune: While five accused have been identified by the Pune rural police for causing the death of an eight-month pregnant woman and her child by taking her to a godman instead of a hospital when she started experiencing pain, no arrests have been made yet as on Tuesday evening, according to the police. The deceased was identified as Deepali Mahesh Bidkar (23) of Shilim village of Lonavla, according to a statement issued by Andhashradha Nirmoolan Samiti (ANiS) - an organisation started by slain rationalist Dr Narendra Dabholkar. A complaint was lodged by Deepali’s brother Santosh Ashok Magar. “The pregnant woman was taken to a godman in the village by her husband and his parents. The baby and the 23-year-old mother, both died because of it,” said Milind Deshmukh, Pune head of ANiS. “The accused include the deceased’s husband Mahesh Bidkar, and his relatives — Raghunath, Jijabai, Mohan and Bakula Bidkar,” said senior inspector Sandip Ghorpade of Lonavla rural police station. The accused were booked under the Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act, 2013. The members of ANiS claim that the complaint lodged at the police station on February 17 went without acknowledgement for some days. Navneet Kunwat, sub-divisional police officer of Lonavla division, said, “The death happened on February 10, and the victim’s family lodged a complaint on February 17. In their initial complaint, there was no mention of superstition, but domestic violence in which case the Supreme Court allows us time to investigate. Their next complaint was received by the station’s police inspector on February 21. On the morning of February 22, they (the deceased’s family) came to me and by the night of the same day, a case was registered. Our priority is to catch the godman and then make further arrests based on the findings of the investigation.” Meanwhile, a case under Sections 498(a), 304(a) of Indian Penal Code along with Anti Black Magic Act was registered at Lonavla rural police station. Police sub inspector Lavate is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/five-booked-yet-to-be-arrested-under-black-magic-act-after-8-month-pregnant-woman-and-her-baby-die-in-pune-101614088538566.html
23-02-2021||Other||Sangli mayoral polls a jolt for BJP: NCP-Cong win mayor, dy mayor’s seats||PUNE The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) received a setback on Tuesday when some of its corporators voted in favour of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress candidate in the mayoral elections of the Sangli-Kupwad municipal corporation. As a result, the NCP managed to elect Digvijay Suryawanshi as mayor, while the Congress’ candidate, Umesh Patil, has been elected deputy mayor of the Sangli Miraj Kupwad municipal corporation.The corporation is currently ruled by the BJP with a clear majority. Of the 78-member civic body, the BJP has a total of 43 councillors, while the NCP-Congress strength is 34. According to NCP leaders, five of BJP corporators defied the party line and voted in favour of the NCP-Congress candidates, while two remained absent. After winning the mayoral polls, Digvijay Suryawanshi said, “This success belongs to all the senior leaders of Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) including Vishwajit Patil and Jayant Patil. What happened - some of the BJP members voting in our favour – is the result of the dictatorship that the party is exercising while running the civic body. Even though we had a strength of 34 corporators, we managed to elect our mayor and deputy mayor.” According to NCP district president Dinesh Jagtap, the BJP’s Dhiraj Suryawanshi only got 36 votes, despite the party having strength of 43 in the house. “This had to happen as many were unhappy with the local leadership here,” said Bajaj. The development is seen as jolt to BJP state unit chief Chandrakant Patil, who was monitoring the elections. NCP state president and cabinet minister, Jayant Patil, who personally was looking into the election strategy, congratulated Suryawanshi and Patil on their win. The BJP alleged that NCP and Congress misused their power to garner support from some BJP councillors. “We will inquire into what went wrong. However, is it very clear that the Congress and NCP is misusing its power in the state which may have led to our defeat in Sangli,” said BJP leader Ashish Shelar. This is the second consecutive setback for Chandrakant Patil after the BJP candidate suffered a massive defeat in the recent graduate constituency polls in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sangli-mayoral-polls-a-jolt-for-bjp-ncp-cong-win-mayor-dy-mayor-s-seats-101614088478488.html
23-02-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan to have own law to upgrade prisons, impart skills to inmates||In a first, the Rajasthan government will bring in a law to upgrade prisons across the state and equip inmates with skills to help them earn a decent living after their jail terms, said a top official familiar with the development.Prisons and their administration come under the state list in the seventh schedule of the Constitution. At present, the jail department follows the Prisons Act, 1894, and rules like Rajasthan Prisons Rules, 1954, drawn from the act.The state has prepared a new bill, the Rajasthan Prisons Bill, 2021, taking inspiration from the model jail manual, which was shared by the Union home ministry in 2016.“The draft of the bill has been sent to the law department for examination and the bill is expected to be passed in the ongoing budget session,” the official said.“The purpose of the bill is to focus on correctional measures for the inmates. Earlier, prisons were considered places for punishment. The new bill aims to make prisons more humane and change the mindset of the inmates so that they can go back and lead a new life in society again.”Also read: Terrorism one of the gravest threats to humankind - JaishankarThe major focus of the bill is to connect the inmates with employment. “If this bill is passed, then the focus is to link the inmates with different industrial set-ups. For this, the inmates would be connected with skill development programmes,” another official from the prisons department said on the condition of anonymity.In this bill, a provision has been made to make inmates aware of their rights. A special focus is on strengthening the security of jails through technology and a central command centre at the district level, the official said.Software systems, including a personal information system for recording information relating to inmates, will be incorporated by the department. Prison authorities will maintain electronic registers. CCTV cameras will be installed in work sheds, kitchens, high-security enclosures and main gates of prisons to prevent human rights violations, he said.“In this bill, procedures have been made for a proper system for the visitors, canteen facilities, laundry, hygiene, quantification of leave, distribution of works, parole, children staying with mothers and the segregation of different criminals,” the official said.The bill specifically describes the role of every official. In the present act, the inspector general of prisons is the supreme authority but under the new bill, roles and powers of the additional director general and the director general are mentioned, he said.“A special focus has been also laid on safety and reformation of women prisoners. Special programmes will be initiated specifically to empower women inmates with skills so that they can become self-reliant after release. The health of women prisoners has also been recognised as a focus area.”In the first week of February, the state government had overhauled the “archaic rules” for allotment of work to jail inmates based on their caste.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-to-have-own-law-to-upgrade-prisons-impart-skills-to-inmates-101614087177370.html
23-02-2021||Other||PMC crackdown on nightclubs, marriage halls, gymkhanas for violating Covid norms: 63 venues fined||PUNE With Covid-19 cases rising in the city, inspection squads of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has begun surprise visits to multiple public sites, and those violating Covid-prevention norms are being fined. In the last six days (from Feb 17-Feb 22), the PMC officials have taken action against nightclubs, marriage halls and gymkhanas for violating Covid norms. A total of 63 such venues were found violating Covid safety norms and fines have been levied. A total of 103 shopping malls and retail outlets were found to be in non-compliance with the Covid norms; also, 102 restaurants have been fined for not following the norms. From February 18 to February 22 PMC has taken action against 772 citizens for not wearing masks and has collected Rs3,86,000 in fines thereof. Across the 15 PMC ward offices, two squads have been appointed in each ward office to keep a check on compliance with Covid norms.As of February 22, the highest number of Covid positive cases has been recorded in the Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward office. “We are going on-site and conducting inspections at restaurants and malls, also eateries. If we find people not wearing masks they are fined. People have to keep in mind that we are working round the clock for them. They have to follow the Covid norms for their own safety. Everyone should take care of themselves,” said Somnath Bankar, Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward officer.The Pune city police have also been taking action against those not wearing masks. The police have taken action against 25,61,74 people, as of February 22, and collected fines of Rs21,44,61,200, in total.PMC inspectors take action against those not wearing masks Between May 2020 and February 22 2021Month-wise breakdown of number of fines leviedMay 2020 - 2June - 189July - 417August - 14September – 3,438October – 1,267November - 585December - 416January 2021 - 241Feb 1- 22 - 1,131||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-crackdown-on-nightclubs-marriage-halls-gymkhanas-for-violating-covid-norms-63-venues-fined-101614087518382.html
23-02-2021||Lucknow||'UP CM Covid Care Fund received 412 crore till July last year': CM Adityanath||The Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister's Covid Care Fund received ₹412 crore through various sources last year till July 23, the state Assembly was told Tuesday."In the Chief Minister Relief Fund-Covid Care Fund, ₹412 crore was received through various sources including through the District Magistrates," the chief minister said in a written reply to a question in the state Assembly.The question was asked by Samajwadi Party MLA Sanjay Garg who had sought to know about the amount received in the Chief Minister's care fund and the District Magistrates’ care fund between January1 to July 23 last year."Of the total amount, ₹252 crore was spent in different works including ₹169.75 crore for the purchase of medicines and equipment and infrastructure facilities, ₹83.07 crore in providing monetary relief of ₹1,000 per migrant to 8,30,745 eligible people in their bank accounts," the CM said in the reply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cm-covid-care-fund-received-412-crore-till-july-last-year-cm-adityanath-101614074891232.html
23-02-2021||City||16 officials at Vijayawada's Kanaka Durga temple suspended after irregularities||The Andhra Pradesh government on Tuesday suspended as many as 16 officials at Sri Durga Malleshwara Swamy temple, popularly known as Kanaka Durga temple in Vijayawada city of Krishna district, for allegedly indulging in irregularities in the temple management.Temple executive officer MV Suresh Babu served the suspension orders on the officials working in various capacities in the temple administration, including six superintendent-rank officials, following communication from Special Commissioner of Endowments P Arjuna Rao.Kanaka Durga temple, located atop the picturesque Indrakeeladri hill on the banks of Krishna river in Vijayawada, is one of the most popular temples in the state.Also read: Terrorism one of the gravest threats to humankind - JaishankarThe suspension orders were served based on a preliminary report submitted by the Anti-Corruption Bureau, which conducted a series of raids on the temple for three days from February 18 to 20. “The suspension was done following instructions from the government,” Babu said without elaborating further.The suspended officials include superintendents working at Annadanam (food serving) wing, stores department, housekeeping department, lands and shops management wing and those who manage various other wings related to donations to the temple, besides employees working at darshanam ticket sales counter, prasadam (food to be distributed among devotees after being offered to the deity) counters, the department that auctions sarees offered to the deity and even the wing that sells pictures of the temple and the Goddess.An official from the state endowments department familiar with the development said the ACB, during its raids, detected large-scale malpractices related to the lease of temple lands and shops, food servicing, sale of darshanam tickets and auction of sarees.“This is for the first time that so many employees, including senior officials, were suspended from services in any major temple in the state,” the official said.Telugu Desam Party MP from Vijayawada, Kesineni Nani, alleged that the government was trying to wash off its hands by suspending a few lower-rung employees in the Kanaka Durga temple and sparing the real culprits.He demanded that the government should sack endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivasa Rao and held him responsible for the corrupt practices at the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/13-officials-at-vijayawada-s-kanaka-durga-temple-suspended-after-irregularities-101614081969095.html
23-02-2021||Other||Marathi Sahitya Sammelan organisers in “wait and watch” mode over Nashik event||PUNE The 94th Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan (All-India Marathi Literary Meet) is scheduled to be held in Nashik on March 26, 27 and 28. The Lokhitwadi Mandal of Nashik is the organising body of the annual meet and renowned astrophysicist Dr Jayant Narlikar will preside over the literary meet.As the Covid cases are increasing in the state, uncertainty has now shadowed this literary meet which usually is attended by thousands of language aficinados. Though preparations for the sammelan have not halted, organisers and the Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Mahamandal are closely watching the situation and contemplating “other means” to conduct the literary meet.“The cases have been spiking again, which is not a good sign. In the sahitya sammelan we have many attendees from all over the country. Many noted literary figures are over 60-years of age. If this situation continues, then either the literary meet will have to be postponed or it will have to be conducted online. “If the sammelan is online then where will publishers put up their stalls?” said Milind Joshi, chief secretary, Maharashtra Sahitya Parishad, Pune.“Let’s not rush to any conclusion as of now. We are monitoring the situation and keeping track of the number of cases. The chief minister has also said that we should wait for a week. Preparations for the sahitya sammelan have not stopped. After eight-10 days we will have a meeting with the Sahitya Mahamandal and the next course of the action will be decided,” said Jayprakash Jategaonkar, president, Lokhitwadi Mandal.The three-day Marathi Sahitya Sammelan is attended by many noted literary figures, publishers, and book lovers. Speakers come all over from the state. In his address to citizens on Sunday, chief minister of Maharashtra, Uddhav Thackeray, urged people to follow the Covid-prevention norms and avoid crowding. He also warned that if Covid norms are not followed and cases do not come down in a week, then the administration will have to take stern steps.“We cannot make any decision at this moment. We are aware of the situation and closely monitoring it. Let’s wait for a few days and then come to a conclusion,” said Kautikrao Thale-Patil, president, Akhil Bhartiya Marathi Sahitya Mahamandal.On Feb 22, Nashik rural reported 54 fresh Covid-19 cases, while 127 cases were reported from Nashik city, according to the state health department. “We are keeping a close eye on the numbers. No decision has been made yet. We will take a call after a week,” said Suraj Mandhare, collector, Nashik district. The annual literary meet took place in Osmanabad in January 2020. This year, due to the Covid pandemic, it was not clear whether the meet could be held. As cases began to decline in December 2020 and January 2021, the schedule was announced. Once again, doubts have been raised about whether it will be possible to hold the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/marathi-sahitya-sammelan-organisers-in-wait-and-watch-mode-over-nashik-event-101614080857559.html
23-02-2021||Pune||Man stabbed while trying to stop thieves from unlocking car in a residential society||A 35-year-old man was stabbed inside a residential complex in Nerhegaon, Pune after he tried to stop an armed robbery of his car. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the 29-year-old wife of the injured man. The couple was identified as Pramod Kisan Ghare (35), who works as an accountant in a private company, and Komal Ghare (29), a housewife. The couple reside in a gated residential society in the Bhumkar chowk area in Nerhegaon, Pune. “There are no suspects yet as the CCTV in the parking was facing in the other direction. The security guard was asleep when the men entered from the backside of the building. The victim sustained serious injuries but is stable and is undergoing treatment at Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital,” said police sub-inspector Kuldeep Sankpal of Sinhagad road police station who is investigating the case.The car in question was a Swift Dzire. However, the police believe that the men may have been trying to steal something from inside the car and not the car itself as it was surrounded by vehicles on all sides and there was no way of driving the car out without being noticed, according to PSI Sankpal. “The one who was trying to open the car fought with the victim, and the three others who were keeping a watch came and stabbed him,” said PSI Sankpal. The couple were sleeping in their room when they heard noises from the parking inside their society compound at 3:45 am on Monday Upon peeping from their balcony, the woman found a man trying to fiddle with their car, according to her complaint. She informed her husband who went down to check on the situation and found that the miscreants were trying to force the car lock open. The man tried to catch hold of the man who was trying to force the car lock open. However, the three others who were accompanying him started beating the complainant’s husband while verbally abusing him. The complainant also claims to have intervened. However, one of them stabbed her husband in the stomach with a knife and grievously injured him. A case under Sections 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with an attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 4(25) of the Arms Act was registered at Sinhagad road police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-stabbed-while-trying-to-stop-thieves-from-unlocking-car-in-a-residential-society-101614080858248.html
23-02-2021||Dehradun||Black carbon aerosols on Himalayan glaciers could speed up melting: Scientists||Dehradun’s Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG) scientists have said they have for the first time found black carbon aerosols on the Himalayan glaciers, which could fasten their melt and have implications on the people living downstream the rivers emanating from them. The warning is based on the analysis of the three-year data from two observatories with aerosol monitors set up near Gangotri glacier in Uttarakhand in 2016 at a height of about 3,800 metres. The scientists said that aerosols were the second major factor after greenhouse gases in the faster melting of the glaciers.The aerosol is a suspension of fine solid particles or liquid droplets and is produced mostly by the burning of fossil fuels. Black materials absorb more light and emit infra-red radiation that increases the temperature. An increase in black carbon in the high Himalayas will contribute to the faster melting of glaciers.India and China are the largest emitters of black carbon with emissions of up to 25-35%. These figures are expected to increase in the coming decades, according to a 2019 study published in the journal Atmospheric Research.Also Read | Expert team widens mouth of Rishiganga lake by 15ft to prevent repeat tragedyWIHG scientist PS Negi, who led the study, said before they set up the observatories, there were none in the Himalayas. “...[There were] 22 [observatories] in the plains to check black carbon aerosols. Our move not only proved the presence of the invisible particles in the Himalayas but their amount in a particular area also.”Negi said they found black carbon in the Himalayas varied from 0.01 microgram per cubic metre to 4.62 micrograms per cubic metre. He added their analysis also suggested that the black carbons are coming even from Europe and other Asian countries apart from the plains of India.“The climatic phenomena of Western Disturbance, which comes from Europe to the northern Indian states to cause rainfall and snow during winters also carries black carbon aerosols from there. When the Western Disturbance reaches higher reaches of Himalayas, the black carbon aerosols get deposited there causing significant damage to the glaciers by artificially increasing the temperature,” said Negi. He added a large amount of the invisible particle is coming from neighbouring countries such as China.Negi said the black carbon aerosols were also affecting the Himalayan ecosystem and causing the snowline in the upper reaches to move upwards. “This is...adversely affecting the whole ecosystem there... changing the growth of native plants and other vegetation which is worrisome.”Negi warned if this persists, then it could also lead to a major disaster as higher temperature caused by the black carbon could loosen the hold of glaciers on mountains. “That would then lead them to break in large chunks or cause a devastating avalanche or landslide like the one in recent disaster in Chamoli.”A glacier breach on February 7 in Chamoli triggered flash floods, hit two hydropower projects and left 69 people dead. As many as 135 people remain missing in the aftermath of the disaster.Negi said environment-friendly lifestyle changes needed to be adopted to reduce black carbon. He added this means people have to use lesser fossil fuels, commercial fuelwood, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/black-carbon-aerosols-on-himalayan-glaciers-could-speed-up-melting-scientists-101614080258146.html
23-02-2021||Pune||Pune dist collector orders submission of video coverage of public event at police station to check 200-guest cap violation||Pune: The Pune district administration, in an order issued on Tuesday, has directed the organisers of public functions to submit video recording of the event with the respective police stations within five days of the programme. As per the latest safety norms following a spike in Covid cases in the city, the administration has fixed ceiling of attendees at public functions to 200. District collector Rajesh Deshmukh has ordered submission of details of name, contact and signature of attendees at public events to the nearest police station. Deshmukh said, “The restrictions are in place to prevent the spread of infection in the district. Residents should strictly follow Covid prevention steps like using sanitiser at regular intervals and maintaining social distance at public places.” The order has given directions to the police to lodge FIR against violators. The district collector has also instructed officials to form flying squads to inspect public functions for violation of safety norms. “Control rooms and police heads have been instructed to take action against violators,” Deshmukh said. The order specifies that organisers of marriage and public functions will have to seek prior permission from the police and give an undertaking that the terms and conditions specified by the district collector will be adhered to during the function. The collector mentioned that rural areas have witnessed a spike in Covid cases Sanjay Renuse, owner of a marriage hall at Warje, said, “We have taken prior permission from the police and will follow the instructions laid by the administration, including limiting the attendees to 200 persons.” Sanjay Shirsath, an event manager, said, “It is mandatory for event organisers to ensure that attendance does not exceed more than 200 persons.” Meanwhile, on Monday, the Pune police booked former BJP MP Dhananjay Mahadik and two others, including owner and manager of the Lakshmi Lawns in Hadapsar, on charges of violation of guest cap at the marriage reception of his son on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-collector-orders-submission-of-video-coverage-of-public-event-at-police-station-to-check-200-guest-cap-violation-101614080137578.html
23-02-2021||Mumbai||Karate association secy held in Mumbai for forgery to avail govt privileges||Mumbai police have arrested the secretary of the Karate Association of India (KAI), Bharat Sharma, from Delhi in connection with a cheating and forgery case registered in 2019 for an elaborate fraud he is suspected to have committed.Sharma and other office bearers of KAI allegedly forged documents and fraudulently represented themselves as representatives of the All India Karate-Do Federation (AIKF) to the World Karate Federation (WKF). They then got the AIKF’s name changed to KAI and got it fraudulently recognised by the WKF, the police said.Sharma and his colleagues made false representations to the ministry of youth affairs and sports and the Indian Olympic Association (IOA), enjoyed many privileges and received government funds, the police complaint states. HT reached out to Kiren Rijuju, the sports minister, who said he was aware of the case, but did not offer any comment.Ananda Hodage, senior inspector of MRA Marg police station in Mumbai, confirmed Sharma’s arrest.“Sharma, who was arrested on February 13 from Delhi, has been charged with sections 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) 471 (using as genuine a forged document) 419 (cheating by impersonation), 420 (cheating), 34 (common intention) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code. Presently he is in police custody. He would be produced in court on Tuesday,” said assistant police inspector Himmat Jadhav, who is investigating officer of the case. “The accused with their fraudulent acts cheated AIKF and the government of India and enjoyed many government privileges and received government funds,” he said.Mumbai police are likely to elaborate on how much money was siphoned off in the fraud in their second remand application on Tuesday to seek further custody of Sharma. “The unauthorised association, which does not even have any legal existence in National Sports Federation, siphoned huge amounts of government grants and moneys from young aspirants of karate by misrepresenting before the Indian Olympic Association and internationally before World Karate Federation,” alleged advocate Sandeep Sherkhane, who is representing the complainant in the case.“AIKDF is the only legally recognised and genuine Association for Karate in India. As a result of this fraud recently no representation was given to Karate from India in the international tournament of Olympics,” said Priyanka Chhabria, also an advocate for AIKDF.Sharma has been arrested on a complaint filed by Nandji Prasad, secretary of the AIKF. Prasad stated in the FIR, a copy of which is with HT, that AIKF is a recognised trust that encourages young talent in karate and also trains and grooms potential karatekas for the Asian Games and other International Olympic Committee-recognised tournaments. Karate was made a part of the Olympics for the first time in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, deferred until this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic, with eight gold medals on offer.“KAI is an illegal body and they also got recognition from the government showing the World Karate Federation etter in 2014,” alleges Nandji Prasad, the general secretary of AIKF.The sports ministry declined to comment on the issue.The FIR filed by Prasad also names Thiyagarajan and another KAI office bearer, Virat Vaccha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/karate-association-secy-held-in-mumbai-for-forgery-to-avail-govt-privileges-101614080018082.html
23-02-2021||Bangalore||Everything you wanted to know about Darling Krishna and Milana’s wedding||Sandalwood stars Darling Krishna and Milana Nagraj are on a dreamy honeymoon in Maldives, but we still can’t get over their grand wedding in Bengaluru on Valentine’s Day. We decided to snoop around a little and found that it took months of planning to make this into a dream wedding. Their wedding planner Lakshmi Keerthu tells us how it all happened. “So, we knew we had about six to seven events and it was going to take a long time to plan it. It took us six months or so to just finalise and put together everything, because right from Milana’s wedding ensembles to the last few details like the decor elements, I had to take care of everything with a lot attention to detail! The couple’s mandap, set in a pool, made a lot of noise and Lakshmi says that it was Krishna’s idea. “So Milana is a swimmer and Krishna wanted that to be representative of what she does and is best at. They were so sure of wanting the mandap in the middle of a pool... that it was something I had to ensure.”It was also the most challenging part about the event, she says, “The hardest thing was definitely balancing the mandap and ensuring it is safe, and could take the weight of people coming in and out. The other challenging thing was making sure everything and everyone was in pastels and colour coordinated. We had to give guests the whole memo about pastel dress codes and other finer details that took a lot of work. On their sangeet, we also had a large canopy driveway full of fairy lights and we made sure that it looked like a star studded evening, which was a large set up to do and I haven’t really seen this concept anywhere else.The colour scheme of the wedding, she reveals, was the bride’s choice. “Milana was pretty clear about the colours she wanted and how she was not really a fan of bright hues. She wanted it to be all pastels and that’s what we followed. Executing an Indian wedding with just pastel colours and ensuring we don’t repeat the set of colours wasn’t easy and took a lot of design sense to sort of get to doing,” she concludes. For more stories follow Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/everything-you-wanted-to-know-about-darling-krishna-and-milana-s-wedding-101614079898110.html
23-02-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan to present first paperless budget tomorrow||Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in Rajasthan will present its first paperless budget on Wednesday. This year’s budget is the third budget presented by the Gehlot government in the state. After Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan is the second state in the country to table a paperless budget. Gehlot, who is also the state finance minister, will read out the budget from a tablet at 11am. The government this time will be providing a soft copy of the budget to MLAs on a tablet, instead of a hard copy. Also Read | World is looking up to India’s health sector, especially after Covid-19: PM ModiExperts believe that this will probably prove to be the Gehlot government’s most challenging budget as they did not get ₹25,000 crore in revenue from taxes because of the pandemic. The government has already taken a loan of ₹40,000 crore, which is ₹14,000 crore higher than the last financial year. However, a senior official of the finance department, requesting anonymity, claimed that the state revenue had done better in comparison to last year (2019-20). The idea, the official said, is to go paperless – the questions asked by members and the replies consume thousands of sheets of paper. He said besides, the agriculture and health sectors, the budget will focus on governance and use of information and technology. “The pandemic has taught us importance of technology and ways to save unnecessary expenditure and time, such as by holding department meetings online,” he said. Sources in the government believe that the government could announce new jobs, increase in honorarium to Anganwadi workers; and resuming rural bus services etc. Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma said, “We expect that the budget will be inclusive and fulfil the aspirations of the state. The budget will be growth-oriented.” Senior BJP MLA Narpat Singh Rajvi said, “We don’t expect anything from budget, especially looking at the zero implementation of the last two.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-to-present-first-paperless-budget-tomorrow-101614079119297.html
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||Centre should resume dialogue with protesting farmers: Hooda||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda has said that the central government should take an initiative of resuming the dialogue with protesting farmers to resolve the deadlock over the three farm laws.Hooda, who was addressing a press conference in Chandigarh on Monday, attacked the BJP-JJP government in Haryana over its policies which have “led to job loss”.“The government is cancelling one recruitment after another. First, the recruitment of village secretary, then PGT Sanskrit and now TGT English have been cancelled. Educated youth are suffering due to the irregularities and frequent paper leaks,” he said.He said that the BJP-JJP coalition government is working on a policy of increasing unemployment, inflation and corruption. “The government should cut down on scams if it wants to bring in more revenue instead of imposing taxes that add to inflation,” he said.Raising questions on the new sports policy, the leader of Opposition said that the state government has completely destroyed the “get medals, get employment” policy of Congress.“Under the new policy, medal-winning players will now be able to get appointments from junior coaches to deputy directors. The new policy discriminates against para-Olympic players. Appointment of para-Olympians has been restricted to Group-B posts. This is a violation of their constitutional rights,” he said.He added that 40-50 people had died after drinking poisonous liquor in November last and a big liquor scam was exposed in state. “The SIT has submitted its investigation report, but the government is not ready to make it public. Similarly, the report of registry scam has also been kept under wraps. The government should make these inquiry reports public,” he demanded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-should-resume-dialogue-with-protesting-farmers-hooda-101614078398020.html
23-02-2021||Lucknow||Ex-gratia for families of govt staff who died working for Covid prevention in UP||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said ex-gratia of ₹50 lakh was being provided to the families of employees of government and semi-government institutions, corporations, autonomous institutions, and contractual workers who lost their lives working for the prevention and treatment of Covid-19.Also Read: Centre tells states to scale up testing as Covid-19 trajectory witnesses surgeAdityanath made this written statement in the state Assembly in response to a question by Samajwadi Party (SP) member Mohd Faheem Irfan.According to news agency PTI, till October 26, 2020, families of 19 personnel who died due to the virus were given the amount of ₹50 lakh each. Since the pandemic started in the country last year, the state has seen 8,716 fatalities.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh alone accounts for 10.4 per cent (12,26,775) of the vaccine doses, while 51.66 per cent of the total doses are concentrated in seven states, Union health ministry said in a release.After reviewing the situation following the spike in Covid cases in many areas, the state is expected to issue an advisory for mandatory testing and quarantine for passengers coming from red zones, especially in states such Maharashtra, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Chattisgarh, Punjab, Haryana and Kerala. Click here for Covid-19 full coverageThese states have also been instructed by the Centre to ramp up sample testing, do comprehensive surveillance, regularly monitor the mutant strains through testing followed by genome sequencing, monitor the emerging cluster of cases, and introduce rigorous containment curbs to check the spread of the virus."Though Covid cases have declined in Uttar Pradesh, the situation in all districts is being monitored, particularly those bordering other states," said DS Negi, director general, health. "The state government is carrying out over 1.25 lakh sample tests daily along with contact tracing and surveillance work in all districts," he added.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-deaths-ex-gratia-provision-for-families-of-govt-employees-in-up-101614075249260.html
23-02-2021||Patna||Bihar: 15-year-old boy’s body found in toilet of hostel-cum-coaching centre||Hundreds of people blocked a road in Bihar’s Saharsa after a 15-year-old boy’s body was recovered from the toilet of a hostel-cum-coaching centre.The boy’s family alleged he was beaten and later stabbed. “The boy was a genius and wanted to become a doctor,” said the boy’s uncle. “We got a phone call from the hostel on Monday that my nephew had escaped from the hostel. We started a search for him [and] on Tuesday his body was recovered from the toilet.”Also Read | Suspect in rape case that ousted a CM finally held“Prima facie it appears that the boy was beaten to death,” said Rajmani, a local police officer.The hostel staffers have been on the run since the boy was reported missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/boys-body-recovered-from-bihar-hostel-toilet-101614077017833.html
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||Wanted Punjab gangster mocks police, calls for intensifying farmers’ stir||Cocking a snook at the police, wanted gangster Lakha Sidhana, who is accused of instigating the violence during the farmers’ tractor rally at Red Fort on Republic Day, surfaced with bodyguards in tow to address a rally organised by Sikh hardliners at Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s ancestral Mehraj village in Bathinda district on Tuesday afternoon. “The farmers’ agitation will be intensified to ensure the three farm laws are withdrawn. There is no question of agreeing to any amendments or suspension of the laws for 18 months,” Sidhana said at the well-attended rally, where Sikh flags outnumbered those of the farm unions. Besides Sidhana, radical Sikhs have proactively rallied behind actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu, who was arrested for the January 26 violence conspiracy. Sidhana warned leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha against making any concession and regretted that Dalits have negligible participation in the agitation. Turning to the cases of rioting against protesters, he said: “Capt Amarinder Singh will have to explain to the public if Punjab Police help Delhi Police in arresting anyone booked for the (January 26) violence.” In a brazen attack on the police, he even exhorted his supporters to “hold Delhi Police hostage if they come”. He was escorted out of the venue by a large number of supporters to thwart any attempt of his arrest. Took to Facebook to announce rally Last Friday, Sidhana shared a 13-minute video on Facebook announcing today’s rally in support of the agitating farmers at the grain market in Mehraj, 35 km from the Bathinda district headquarters. A native of Sidhana village in Bathinda district, Lakha is on the run since January 26 and had hinted that he would join the rally on his home turf. Delhi Police had on February 14 announced a reward of ₹1 lakh for information on his whereabouts. Teams of Delhi Police, along with the special cell, had conducted searches for the gangster across Punjab, Haryana and Delhi-NCR. Sidhana was earlier seen in Punjab when he had visited Moga on January 20 to garner support for the tractor rally on Republic Day. Charged with murder, dabbled in politics Mehraj is a part of the Rampura Phul assembly segment from where Sidhana had unsuccessfully contested as a candidate of the People’s Party of Punjab (PPP) in 2012. The PPP was floated by state finance minister and Bathinda MLA Manpreet Singh Badal and later merged in the Congress. Sidhana is booked for murder, attempt to murder, loot and violation of the Arms Act. He was jailed several times between 2004 and 2017. During this duration, he also came in contact with politicians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wanted-punjab-gangster-mocks-police-calls-for-intensifying-farmers-stir-101614076957889.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||ITBP to close its Covid care centre, world's largest, within a week||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police Force (ITBP) has said that it will close its 10,000-bed Covid-19 care centre in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur. It is called Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre."The Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre and Hospital, Radha Soami Satsang Beas in Chhatarpur will be closed within a week once patients currently admitted are discharged. No new patients will be admitted. The city's hospitals are equipped to handle the current numbers," ITBP Director General SS Deswal said.Also Read: Daily Covid-19 deaths fall below 100; no new fatality in 21 states, UTsInaugurated in July 5, 2020, it was serving as a treatment centre for those who are asymptomatic but cannot afford home isolation.The centre had started as am emergency measure by the ITBP in July last year when the country, as well as the national capital, was reeling under the impact of Covid-19 pandemic. The world's largest Covid-19 case centre admitted patients referred by 11 hospitals in Delhi, including AIIMS, Safdarjung, Medanta and Max Hospital.In November, the ITBP had announced increasing the capacity of Covid-19 beds from 2,000 to 3,000. These new beds were equipped with a proper supply of medical oxygen. The centre also has 75 dedicated ambulances.The number of patients being treated at the centre during the peak of the infection was 2,000. But by December, as the number of Covid-19 patients declined in the national capital, the number of patients declined at the Sardar Patel centre too; in the same month, the number of patients at the centre dipped to 59.The Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre is 1,700 feet long, 700 feet wide - roughly the size of 20 football fields - and has 200 enclosures with 50 beds each.The Delhi government had provided administrative support, but the ITBP was operating the centre. Volunteers from the religious sect of Radha Soami Beas are also helping in its day-to-day functioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/itbp-to-close-its-covid-care-centre-world-s-largest-within-a-week-101614075477937.html
23-02-2021||Ranchi||10th century Buddha Vihar discovered in Jharkhand’s Hazaribag||A 10th century structure resembling a small ‘Buddha Vihar’ (Buddhist shrine-cum-monastery) has been discovered during an excavation, being carried out by Archeological Survey of India (ASI), in foothills of Juljul hill at Sadar block of Hazaribagh district, around 110-km from capital Ranchi, ASI officials said on Tuesday.The ASI identified three mounds in the foothills having links to Buddhism last year. The excavation of the first mound last year led to the discovery of a complete shrine with a central and two subsidiary shrines, just two metres below the surface. However, the excavation work was suspended after two months due to Covid-19 pandemic triggered lockdowns and some other reasons.In the second round of excavation, beginning the last week of January this year, the second mound, around 40-meters away from the first mound or central shrine, was excavated and a small Buddha Vihar like structure was discovered.“We started excavation in the second mound of the area in January last week, where a huge structural mound, similar to a small Buddha Vihar, was found with three cells (rooms). In the west corner of the structure, we found five sculptures of Gautam Buddha in seated position and one sculpture of Tara, which indicates that it might also be a centre of Vajrayana,” said Dr Neeraj Mishra, assistant archaeologist at ASI.Spread over a 50-metre long and 50-metre wide area, three cells and hoards of artefacts including statues of Gautam Budha and Tara, the female Bodhisattva in Mahayana Buddhism who appears as a female Buddha in Vajrayana Buddhism, were discovered.“As per the evidence found here, it appeared that the structures had been built during the Pala period. During the excavation, we found an inscription on a stone slab. The paleographic dating of the inscription suggests that it was of 10th century AD, meaning the Pala period,” said Dr Mishra.It might have been a big religious centre then, as it is located on the side of the old Grand Trunk road, connecting Sarnath in Uttar Pradesh to Bihar, home to historic Bodh Gaya where Buddha attained salvation, he added.He recalled that a shrine and two subsidiary shrines, spread over 30 metres long and 50 metres wide area, were discovered last year. “It was a single storey temple. An entry gate and stairs were also found there.”Historians and archaeologists find the discovery of great importance, which will help understand the history and influence of the dynasty in Jharkhand.Also Read: Jharkhand petroleum dealers body demands reduction of VAT on dieselHistorian Dr DN Ojha, dean, social sciences department at Ranchi University, said ancient history talks about the arrival of Buddhist monks in this area and the extension of Buddhism’s reach here."However, there was also a debate on this. The recent discovery in Hazaribag would work as a big evidence to support the theory of extension of Buddhism and arrival of monks here," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/10th-century-buddha-vihar-discovered-in-jharkhand-s-hazaribag-101614072362306.html
23-02-2021||Mumbai||Probe ordered in iPhone scam, says Maharashtra home minister||The Maharashtra government has ordered a comprehensive inquiry into the alleged iPhone scam which ran into crores of rupees. State cyber cell inspector general of police would be taking the probe forward.State home minister Anil Deshmukh tweeted on Tuesday, “The iPhone scam is being perpetrated by scamsters in foreign countries and most of the beneficiaries are right wing influencers. @bainjal we have ordered a comprehensive enquiry & entrusted it to IGP Maharashtra Cyber for further lawful action.”Deshmukh was reacting to a tweet by journalist Swati Chaturvedi, demanding an investigation into the scam. She tweeted, “@MumbaiPolice should investigate IT cell ‘influencers’, @BJP4India members, so called RW journalists all begging for cash & freebies in the #iPhoneScam What’s app chat are proof the same lot part of the celebrity tweets @AnilDeshmukhNCP.(sic)”Also Read | India’s daily Covid-19 cases fall, active caseload drops below 150,000On February 15, Twitter users raised an alarm about an alleged online racket running into crores of rupees by duping the customers with the promise of cheap iPhones. Twitter users also named a social media platform and its sister concern, an online payment company, which were allegedly involved in the racket. Last week, Deshmukh had caused an uproar by saying that the preliminary investigation into the tweets of celebrities over the ongoing farmers’ protest had revealed the involvement of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) information and technology cell chief and 12 others. Later, he went on to clarify that he meant that it is the BJP’s IT cell which should be investigated in the matter as the names of its chief and 12 other influencers came up in the probe.Celebrities including cricketers, Bollywood actors and singers took to Twitter on February 3 after international personalities such as Rihanna and climate change activist Greta Thunberg expressed support for the farmers’ protest. Indian celebrities tweeted using hashtags #IndiaAgainstPropaganda and #IndiaTogether, leading to a row on social media and trolling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/probe-ordered-in-iphone-scam-says-maharashtra-home-minister-101614071617017.html
23-02-2021||Patna||6 of a family killed in Bihar road crash; PM, Nitish condole deaths||Six members of a family died and three others were injured when the SUV in which they were travelling collided head on with a truck on Kosi Bridge on NH-31 near Kursela in Katihar district on Tuesday morning.The family was returning to Rosera of Samastipur from Phulwaria village under Kodha police station of Katihar district after a ritual of engagement when the accident took place. The deceased included the father, uncle, brother and cousins of the would-be bride.Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a tweet expressed his deep concern over the loss of lives and offered condolences to the bereaved family. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar too, in a tweet, paid condolences and offered all assistance to the bereaved family. He instructed the district administration for proper treatment of all those injured in the accident.The deceased have been identified as Shivaji Mahto, Nandlal Mahto, Rajkumar, Ajay Mahto, Ramswarup Sah and Santosh Kumar. The condition of the injured, Kailash Mahto, Arjun Mahto and Sunil Mahto, who are undergoing treatment at Kurseala primary health center is stated to be critical. All the victims are between the ages of 20 and 60.Local police, who rushed to the spot soon after the accident, said, “Both the Scorpio and truck were caught in a head on collision at a great speed which resulted in the deaths of six persons including the driver on the spot.” The police said that the injured were rushed to the Kursela PHC but since their condition was critical they were referred to Purnia for treatment.“We have intimated the relatives of the victims at Rosera in Samastipur,” police said, adding, “The dead bodies have been sent for post-mortem.” The impact of the collision was so immense that the Scorpio was damaged beyond recognition.Also Read: Girl sexually harassed in Bihar, video posted on social mediaAnjay Aman, the station house officer (SHO) of Kursela police station said, “The truck has been seized but the driver managed to escape from the scene.” He added “Both the vehicles were removed from NH-31 and traffic was restored.”On Monday, five persons of a musical party were killed and five others were injured when their auto collided with a speeding truck from the opposite direction on NH-31 near Sameli in Katihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/6-of-a-family-killed-in-bihar-road-crash-pm-nitish-condole-deaths-101614068306906.html
23-02-2021||Mumbai||Gangster Ravi Pujari remanded to Mumbai police custody in hotel firing case||Underworld gangster Ravi Pujari was remanded to police custody till March 9 by the special court for Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) on Tuesday.Pujari was extradited to India in February 2020 but was taken to Karnataka, where he had the most cases registered against him. Last week, a Karnataka court granted permission to the Mumbai Police to take him in custody in a case of firing outside Gajalee hotel on October 22, 2016 in Vile Parle. Also Read | In Mumbai: 2 more Ravi Pujari men arrested for Gajalee firingIn the shooting case, as per the prosecution, a few men of Pujari’s gang fired at the complainant to intimidate the hotel owner. They allegedly gave the owner Pujari’s contact details, threatening to kill him if he didn’t call the gangster. Pujari was also wanted in 51 cases in Mumbai, including murder, extortion and shootouts over the past 24 years. Out of the 51 cases, Mumbai Police has invoked the provisions of MCOCA in 20. Pujari has been named in at least 200 cases across the country. He was arrested in Senegal in West Africa in January 2019, where he jumped bail and fled to South Africa. In South Africa, he was allegedly involved in drug trafficking and extortion racket. Sources in Indian Intelligence said he was living there under the assumed identity of Anthony Fernandes, a Burkina Faso passport holder, and was arrested from Dakar, capital of Senegal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/gangster-ravi-pujari-remanded-to-mumbai-police-custody-in-hotel-firing-case-101614068616763.html
23-02-2021||Mumbai||Follow Covid-19 protocols: Punjab, Maharashtra urge amid rising cases||Authorities in Maharashtra and Punjab have stepped up their efforts in the last two days to address the issue of rising Covid-19 cases in the states. Officials have said that carelessness among the people in the state could be one of the reasons for the rise in the number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). They have also warned citizens that failing to adhere to rules could hurt the process of further reopening as well as efforts put in by healthcare workers over the past year to bring the pandemic under control.Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Tuesday urged people to adhere to Covid-19 preventive measures as surging Covid-19 cases put the government in Maharashtra in a tight spot. Pednekar distributed protective masks to people at a vegetable market in Dadar while instructing people to adhere to social distancing rules. Pednekar also pointed out that people tend to fear the police officials more than marshals appointed by the civic authorities. “Mumbai Police have joined hands with us. People are more scared of the police than marshals. I request all to wear masks, sanitise and maintain social distancing,” Pednekar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The government in Maharashtra, which has been recording more than 2,500 Covid-19 cases on average since the past few weeks, has over the past two weeks asked citizens to take precautions in order to prevent contracting coronavirus disease. It has already warned its citizens of a lockdown if rules are not followed and cases are on the rise.The state recorded 5,210 Covid-19 cases on Monday while Mumbai recorded 1,364 cases and there were four reports of death from the city. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had earlier said that Mumbai has witnessed a 36.38% rise in Covid-19 cases in the city since February 8, according to a report by news agency PTI.Civic officials outlined the carelessness of citizens and the running of local trains as a reason for the rise in cases and also said that the reopening of malls and shopping complexes leading to a rise in commercial activities have also led to a surge in the number of cases.The Punjab government also asked people to follow social distancing rules and adhere to Covid-19 preventative measures in order to save themselves from getting infected. It has said that people need to shed their careless attitude regarding the pandemic and follow rules strictly. “People are not following Covid-19 safety precautions like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing which is the main reason behind the surge in cases in the state,” Punjab’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Rajesh Bhaskar was quoted as saying by news agency PTI on Monday.The northern state recorded close to 400 cases of the coronavirus disease on Monday even as the death toll inched closer to 5,800 with 15 fresh fatalities.The Centre has urged Punjab and Maharashtra to step up efforts to arrest the rise in Covid-19 cases. It has asked these states, along with Chattisgarh, Kerala, Karnataka and the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, to increase the pace of vaccination, identify clusters and increase RT-PCR testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/follow-covid-19-protocols-punjab-maharashtra-urge-amid-rising-cases-101614065409184.html
23-02-2021||Kolkata||Coal smuggling case: Mamata Banerjee visits nephew Abhishek’s residence||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday visited Abhishek Banerjee, her nephew and Trinamool Congress (TMC) lawmaker, at his residence in Kolkata, ahead of the arrival of a Central Bureau Investigation (CBI) team at his house. Moments after the chief minister left, the CBI team arrived to question Abhishek’s wife in connection with an alleged coal smuggling case.Banerjee, the two-term chief minister of the eastern state who faces re-election this year, stayed at her nephew’s residence for around 10 minutes. News agency ANI shared a video of the TMC chief arriving at the young Lok Sabha MP’s house in the city and leaving after spending some time there.#WATCH | Kolkata: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee arrives at nephew and TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee's residenceAbhishek's wife, Rujira, is expected to answer CBI's queries today in connection with the coal scam case pic.twitter.com/srmLo7awiWOn Sunday, the CBI had served notices to Abhishek’s wife, Rujira, and sister-in-law Menaka Gambhir, in connection with the alleged case. While Gambhir was questioned by the probe agency on Monday, Rujira requested the CBI to visit her residence anytime from 11am-3pm on Tuesday. Confirming that the notice was indeed issued, Abhishek had tweeted that while they have full faith in the law of the land, they’re not the ones who could be cowed down. “If they think they can use these ploys to intimidate us, they’re mistaken. We’re not the ones who would ever be cowed down,” he had tweeted.At 2pm today, the CBI served a notice in the name of my wife. We have full faith in the law of the land. However, if they think they can use these ploys to intimidate us, they are mistaken. We are not the ones who would ever be cowed down. pic.twitter.com/U0YB6SC5b8Heading into the assembly elections, which are likely to take place in April-May, the state’s opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has turned the spotlight on Abhishek, who is considered by many as the heir apparent to Banerjee. Responding to allegations of nepotism and dynasty politics, Abhishek last month pointed out how several senior leaders of the BJP, including West Bengal in-charge Kailash Vijayvargiya, defence minister Rajnath Singh and former TMC leader Mukul Roy have sons who themselves are lawmakers in the party.On the CBI notices, TMC has already said it would fight these legally, adding that the BJP is left with no allies except investigating agencies like the CBI and Enforcement Directorate (ED).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/coal-smuggling-case-mamata-banerjee-visits-nephew-abhishek-s-residence-101614065711072.html
23-02-2021||Mumbai||Congress seeks probe into BJP’s role in MP Mohan Delkar’s death||The Congress has demanded an investigation into the role of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the death of Mohan Sanjibhai Delkar, the seven-time Parliament member from Dadra and Nagar Haveli. Delkar was found dead in a South Mumbai hotel on Monday.Congress leader Sachin Sawant said he will meet home minister Anil Deshmukh and demand the investigation even as the BJP called it absurd.Also Read | Suspect in rape case that ousted a CM finally heldSawant, in a tweet on Tuesday, said, “Will soon call on Hon’ble HM Maharashtra @AnilDeshmukNCP with a demand to investigate the role of BJP in the death of Dadra Nagar Haveli MP Mohanbhai Delkar.”Sawant said he will meet Deshmukh on Tuesday or Wednesday. He added the case is more serious. “He was a seven-time MP and looking at his personality, he would not have taken this extreme step without any compelling reason. He believably was under tremendous pressure and it has been referred to in his suicide note...”A preliminary police probe indicated Delkar died by suicide.Aam Admi Party’s Preeti Menon tweeted that sources “claim his suicide notes cites harassment from the bureaucracy. India needs widespread bureaucratic reforms. And all UTs [Union Territories] need complete democracy, they are heaven for arrogant officers.”BJP leader Madhu Chavan said it is absurd that the Congress is linking BJP with the unfortunate death. “Let the police investigate the case and the seven-page suicide note left behind by the deceased and the truth will come to the fore. It is the sick mindset of Congress, out of which they have been naming BJP for no reason.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-seeks-probe-into-bjp-s-role-in-mp-mohan-delkar-s-death-101614063876107.html
23-02-2021||Bhopal||6 youths killed in a car accident in Indore after party||Six persons were killed when their car rammed into a stationary tanker in Indore in the early hours on Tuesday, said police.The deceased were identified as Rishi Pawar, 19, Sonu Jat, 23, Chandrabhan Raghuvanshi, 23, Suraj, 25, Dev, 28 and Sumit Singh Yadav, 30. The accident at Niranjan Square of Indore, took place when the victims were returning from Dewas after attending a party, said Nar Pal Singh, inspector, Lasudia police station.“An employee of a petrol pump said he heard a blast-like sound and when he reached the spot, he saw the car in a bad shape. He informed the police about the accident,” said the inspector.“All the youths were believed to be drunk. The car was damaged badly in the accident. Four of the killed youth’s body's parts were severed by the impact,” he added.Also Watch:Kamal Nath's 'pity’ jibe at MP guv, BJP demands immediate apology“Two persons were rushed to hospital where they died while under treatment,” said Yadav.After the post-mortem, the bodies have been handed over to their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/6-youths-killed-in-a-car-accident-in-indore-after-party-101614062791372.html
23-02-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Girl found dead, cousin injured hours after they went missing||A five-year-old girl was found dead while her seven-year-old cousin was struggling for her life after they went missing in Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur, a police officer said.Police superintendent S Anand said the two were found in a field with serious injuries. “The younger girl was declared dead at a hospital while the other is admitted to intensive care unit. Her condition is stable.”The girls went missing on their way home after attending their classes at a madrassa. “A search party was formed by the local police station to look for the girls. Additional force from other police stations was also sent. The younger girl was found around 8pm in a field beside a road around a kilometre from their home. The elder girl was found three hours later at some distance from her,” said Anand.Also Read | Suspect in rape case that ousted a CM finally heldThe younger girl had blood oozing out of her mouth. Her head and neck were also injured. Police are awaiting her postmortem report. “The elder girl also has injuries on her neck. It appears that someone tried to strangulate her,” said Anand.Police have filed a case, started an investigation and detained over half a dozen suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-girl-found-dead-cousin-injured-hours-after-they-went-missing-101614062795672.html
23-02-2021||Bangalore||Marshals at Karnataka wedding halls to ensure Covid-19 rules followed||The Karnataka government on Monday said it will deploy marshals at wedding halls and other public events to ensure that guidelines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are adhered to.“People attending large gatherings are not following the guidelines. In fact, people urged me to remove (my) mask when I attended a function. Therefore, it is necessary to deploy a marshal to ensure the Covid guidelines are followed,” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health and family welfare and medical education, said on Monday.According to the latest central guidelines, social, religious, cultural, sports, entertainment and educational gatherings will be subject to standard operating procedures (SOPs) by states and Union Territories (UTs). The central guidelines say such gatherings are permitted, but with a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity and a ceiling of 500 people in closed spaces.Sudhakar said Karnataka did not want a situation like that in Maharashtra, where cases are on the rise and fresh curbs have been introduced in a few pockets to curb the spread of infections.On Sunday, Karnataka recorded 490 daily infections, as compared with the 6,971 in Maharashtra.Altogether 3,293 cases have been recorded across Karnataka over the last seven days till Sunday, government data showed. According to Covid19india.org, the number of new infections in Karnataka has grown by an average of 0% every day in the last one week. For Maharashtra, the growth rate is 0.3%.Karnataka has already put in place strict guidelines, including mandatory Covid-19 negative certificates for people entering from neighbouring Kerala and Maharashtra.Truck, bus and cab drivers protested in Talapady check post that connects Kerala with Dakshina Kannada district, about 350km from Bengaluru, after authorities restricted entry without Covid-19 negative certificates.Bengaluru has recorded nearly 2,000 cases in the last one week (till Sunday). While Tumakuru recorded 120 cases in this period, the number was 145 for Dakshina Kannada. It was 150 for Mysuru and 114 for Kalaburagi, according to government data.In Bengaluru, the number of cases reported on February 12 was 194, as against 248 on Sunday. “The six contiguous blocks with 10 cases have been declared as a Containment Zone by HO (health officer),” N Manjunath Prasad, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) commissioner said in a statement on Monday, referring to the apartment blocks.Two other containment zones with over 100 cases were identified in the city last week.Meanwhile, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said the issue of closure of many border roads from Kerala to Karnataka will be brought to the notice of the central government.“Karnataka government has taken the decision that only those who show a negative RT-PCR test certificate will be allowed to enter Karnataka. The state police chief has brought the matter to the notice of the Karnataka DGP. The Karnataka DGP assured that vehicles carrying essential items could be exempted from this requirement,” Vijayan said at a Covid-19 press briefing.Vijayan added that Kerala would continue to take up the issue with the Karnataka government to resolve it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/marshals-at-karnataka-wedding-halls-to-ensure-covid-19-rules-followed-101614061902165.html
23-02-2021||Bangalore||Basanagouda Patil Yatnal acting as B Team of Congress, say 2 Karnataka ministers||Two senior ministers of the Karnataka government on Monday hit out at the backers of an ongoing campaign by the Panchamasalis, a sub-sect of the Lingayat community, for 2A category reservation status that would entitle them to 15% reservation in government jobs and college seats, saying they wanted to advance their own political ambitions.The main target of CC Patil and Murugesh Nirani was Basanagouda Ramanagouda Patil Yatnal, who is a legislator of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and Vijayanand Kashappanavar, a former Congress legislator.“The campaign has been used for selfish reasons by some people and this is something that we do not agree with such statements or attacks. The rally was held for inclusion into 2A {category reservation status} and these people are misusing it for their own selfish reasons,” Patil, a senior minister in the BS Yediyurappa-led government, said.“Some people have kept the seer (Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swamy) under their grip and misusing the forum,” he added.The ministers, who both belong to the sub-sect of the Lingayat community, lashed out at the way the agitation was being taken forward.Nirani said Yatnal was behaving like a member of the B Team of the Congress.The statements come a day after Patil had stormed off the stage after Yatnal had remarked that both ministers should threaten the chief minister that they would resign and get him to cede the Panchamasali community’s demands.Increasing calls for reservations by several dominant and politically influential communities has made life harder for the 77-year-old chief minister who will turn a year older later this week.Already trying to manage simmering dissent within his government and party, the chief minister is facing attacks from the opposition over the poor state of finances, reduction of revenue inflows from the Centre and the Cauvery river water row.The ministers said that Yatnal and Kashappanavar had ‘hijacked’ the agitation by the Panchamasali seers.Nirani even said that Kudalasangama math pontiff Basava Jayamruthyunjaya Swamy was being misguided by Yatnal and Kashappanavar.“What was the need for the seer to announce Kashappanavar as president of Akhila Bharata Lingayat Panchamasali Mahasabha when such a decision was not taken by the rightful body of the community. The seer has no right to take such a decision,” Nirani said.In Karnataka’s caste-influenced politics, it is very rare to see political leaders criticise influential pontiffs in public.The seer, who has continued his agitation in Bengaluru, has demanded that they be given a timeline by when the community can expect an announcement conceding its demand for 2A category reservation status.“The main reason for the delay is that the chief minister did not take us seriously from the beginning,” Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami said.He said that the government should give an exact time frame of the process and the community leaders would take a call based on these assurances.Kashappanavar has also hit back, calling the minister’s two-faced and without the will to fight for the cause of the community.Yatnal could not be reached for comment.Meanwhile, Yediyurappa on Monday said the government would take strong measures to protect the state’s interests.“Karnataka will not allow a single drop of excess water from the Cauvery river to Tamil Nadu,” the chief minister said on Monday.The statements came a day after Tamil Nadu laid the foundation for the first phase of the ₹14,400 crore Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar river interlinking project, which aims to divert around 6,000 cubic feet water to drier areas in southern districts.The Karnataka government said it will hold a meeting with all parties to discuss the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/basanagouda-yatnal-acting-as-b-team-of-congress-say-2-karnataka-ministers-101614061427617.html
23-02-2021||Bangalore||Belagavi’s Marathis accuse BJP, Congress of ignoring region||The Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES), an umbrella organisation created to integrate Marathi speaking majority districts of Karnataka with Maharashtra, will neither support the Congress nor the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the upcoming Lok Sabha by-polls, accusing the two national parties of ignoring the issues of the region.“As a group, we will not be supporting anybody. All these national parties are of no use to us,” Deepak Dalvi, a senior MES leader told Hindustan Times.Formed in 1948, the group has been fighting for the inclusion of Marathi speaking areas, on the border shared by the two states, in Maharashtra.“They (national parties) just milk our cause for their (political) reasons. Once the bypolls are declared and we know the candidates, we will come up with a strategy whether it is to field our own candidate, go for NOTA or abstain from the entire election itself,” Prakash Margale, another MES leader said.The Marathi speaking people in the region have sought the inclusion of Belagavi, Karwar, Balki, Bidar and Nipani with Maharashtra, ever since the areas, then part of the Bombay State, were made parts of then Mysore State under the States Reorganisation Act of 1956, which divided the states along linguistic and administrative lines.According to the 2011 Census, over 50% of the district’s population are Marathi speakers. In Karnataka, 3.95% are Marathi speakers.In previous elections, the MES tried to mobilize the people to press NOTA, backed independents or boycotted the polls. In the 2019 elections, there were 48 independents who contested the Belagavi Lok Sabha elections. The 48 independents mustered only 60,605 votes out of the total 1205229 polled in the district. NOTA or none of the above accounted for 3243 votes or 0.27% of the total polls.In 2013, Sambaji Patil and Aravind Patil, both backed by the MES won the Belagavi North and Khanapur, about 26 km from Belagavi city.“One of the reasons for MES not participating in Lok Sabha elections is that by breaking constituencies (both parliamentary and assembly) in a very selective manner and using the policy of gerrymandering, Karnataka government has created constituencies that change the demographic components. That has adversely affected the prospects of the MES in the recent elections,” Deepak Pawar, Mumbai-based political analyst and faculty at the University of Mumbai said.The issue gained significance recently after Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray suggested that the “disputed” area be made into Union territory.Reacting to the MES decision to not support it in the upcoming by-election, Laxmi Hebbalkar, Congress MLA from Belagavi Rural, said, “The MES does not have any connection on the ground with the border issue and the people here are more interested in development and equality.”“They will state that they do not want to support any of us but no one listens to these leaders anymore,” Prabhakar Kore, a senior BJP leader and former Rajya Sabha member said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/belagavis-marathis-accuse-bjp-congress-of-ignoring-region-101614060480202.html
23-02-2021||Patna||Girl sexually harassed in Bihar, video posted on social media||A video of a group of men purportedly sexually harassing a schoolgirl in Bihar’s Gaya district has provoked outrage and forced police to register a case after the footage went viral.Senior police superintendent Aditya Kumar said he has ordered identification of the men.The men are purportedly seen assaulting, calling themselves social reformers, and sexually harassing the girl after they found her with a friend, who was also assaulted on Saturday. They recorded the assault and posted the video on social media. The men pulled the girl’s dupatta, hair and kept touching her inappropriately.Also Read | Suspect in rape case that ousted a CM finally held“Despite the girl’s protests, the harassment... continued. When she tried to escape from the spot, the men threatened to kill her friend, who was held hostage on gunpoint,” an investigator said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/girl-sexually-harassed-in-bihar-video-posted-on-social-media-101614060216176.html
23-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to meet BMC officials amid spike in Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will hold a review meeting with the officials of BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday in view of the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state as well as the capital city, news agency ANI reported.In an address on Sunday, Thackeray had announced a fresh set of restrictions under which all religious, social and cultural programmes have been banned for the next few days. The chief minister also said that the state government will review the situation in the upcoming days and will take a decision on whether lockdown should be imposed. "Should we impose another lockdown, I am asking you. It will all depend on the people of Maharashtra," he said during the address.Also Read | India’s daily Covid-19 cases fall, active caseload drops below 150,000Over the last few days, Maharashtra has been witnessing an upsurge in Covid-19 cases. It had reported 6,971 cases on Sunday in the highest single-day count in nearly four months. Out of this 761 were reported from Mumbai city as it continues to be the worst-hit. However, after registering more than 6,000 Covid-19 cases for three days in a row, Maharashtra reported a dip in the number of daily infection on Monday as 5,210 people contracted the virus.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region including Thane, Navi Mumbai and Kalyan-Dombivli, reported no new fatalities in the span of 24 hours, as per the daily health bulletin. Before this, it has seen a bulk of the state's fatalities.As of Monday evening, the state has 21,06,094 total cases and the death toll stands at 51,806. The states recovery rate is 94.96 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.46 per cent, the health department said.Experts and government officials have attributed the resurgence of Covid-19 to the laxity shown by people of the state after relaxations in the Covid-19 restrictions and the reopening of social activities.A week-long lockdown has already been imposed in Amravati which is among the worst-affected districts in Maharashtra. During this, all non-essential activities are ordered to remain closed.Apart from Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Punjab are also seeing a resurgence of the virus prompting authorities to rush to contain the outbreak as fears of Covid-19 second wave looms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-to-meet-bmc-officials-amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases-101614059172337.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||Trans-people welcome the decision for separate toilets, but need gender-neutral toilets||The Delhi government has mandated that all its departments, offices, district authorities, municipal corporations, state-run companies and the Delhi Police have separate and exclusive washrooms for transgender persons. The order further stated that trans-people shall continue to be allowed to use gender-based toilets as per their self-identified gender. The agencies have been given a maximum time of two years to build these exclusive toilets.For 38-year old trans-woman Simran Shaikh, using public restrooms pre as well as post transition was a nightmare. “It is a brilliant move; using washrooms which were not actually assigned to you, both before transition and after transition, was very difficult. It was stigmatising to use the men’s washroom before transitioning, and now to use the women’s washroom attracts questions. We are moving towards a progressive India and such initiatives create a beautiful impact. We feel included that we are counted within the system and that the system is thinking about you,” she says.There is, however, an opinion about gender-neutrality. Grace Banu, a 34-year old trans-woman, questions, “What about trans-men and queer people? We don’t need separate toilets; we need gender-neutral toilets. These schemes have little impact.”Read: A Rainbow of inclusivity: Trans community welcomes move by NMRC to rename metro stationThe need for gender-neutral toilets is felt strongly, but more so for creating change in the mindsets. Trans rights activist Abhina Aher says, “It is a welcome change. Providing facilities for transgenders for a basic necessity is very well appreciated, but I think more work needs to be done. The governments need to look into the prioritisation of trans-community needs. Think about the bigger change and other changes will happen. Some trans-people feel that with these separate toilets, you are further stigmatising them.” She adds that in areas where separate toilets cannot be made, then at least one toilet should be made gender-neutral.Stressing on fundamental rights, Shreegauri Sawant, who runs a shelter home for children of sex workers in Mumbai, says that though it will help create a safe space for trangenders, separate washrooms come with their perils. “It is a good move, but security is very important. How will you ensure that trans-men and trans-women are not using it for nefarious activities? Sirf toilet banaa dena solution nahi hai. Have a security guard and allow only one person at a time,” she says and adds that the area and location also matter. “Separate toilets in office and malls would be safe, but what about highways?” she questions.While the decision has drawn mixed reviews, people who have been working to bring about change believe that no decisions should be made without involving the people the decisions are being made for. Activist Harish Iyer is of the opinion that the needs of trans-men and trans-women should be evaluated. “I wish to know how many trans-women and trans-men were consulted before making this suggestion. Did they check with trans-people if they need all-gender restrooms, the freedom to use a restroom of their choice, or a separate restroom with a sign labelled transgender? The point I am making is no decision about them should be made without them,” he says, stressing upon the need for creating awareness around the community and their needs. Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/transpeople-welcome-the-decision-for-separate-toilets-but-need-gender-neutral-toilets-101614059375436.html
23-02-2021||Bangalore||6 die in dynamite blast in Karnataka; second such incident in a month||Six men were killed in a dynamite blast in Karnataka’s Chikkabalapur district on Tuesday when they were allegedly trying to dispose of illegal explosives. M Chandrashekhar, Inspector General of police (central range), cited an initial investigation and added the explosives belonged to a legal quarry pulled up recently for violation of norms.“It looks like some people had tried to dispose of illegal explosives and there was an accidental blast. Bomb detection and disposal team and forensic teams have arrived from Bengaluru. We will be able to finer details of the incident once their investigation is over,” said Chandrashekhar.Also Read | Bengaluru apartment sealed; Karnataka ups vigil as Covid cases rise in KeralaAn ambulance driver, who ferried the injured, said they received a call about the incident around 1.20am. “We reached the location around 1.40am. We were initially told it was an accident, but when we reached the location, we realised there was a blast and there were five people.”D Sudhakar, who is the minister in charge of the district, said the explosives belonged to the legal quarry that was closed down on February 7 for not storing explosives properly and not having an engineer at the site. “…we suspect that fearing further inspections, the owners must have got some employees to move the explosives to a forested area in Gudubande, around 2km away from the quarry,” he said.He added the explosives were moved using a mini-truck and two others have accompanied it on bikes. “...the bomb disposal team...said that even the signals from the mobile phones could have triggered the explosion. But they are investigating further,” Sudhakar said.Police have identified three owners of the quarry and legal action has begun.Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the deaths. “Pained by the loss of lives due to a mishap at Chikkaballapur in Karnataka. Condolences to the bereaved families. Praying that the injured recover quickly: PM,” he tweeted.This is the second such blast in Karnataka in the last month. On January 22, eight people were killed in a dynamite blast at a railway crusher site in Shivamogga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/6-die-in-dynamite-blast-in-karnataka-second-such-incident-in-a-month-101614057995147.html
23-02-2021||Kolkata||BJP leader, named by Pamela Goswami in drugs case, summoned by Kolkata cops||Bharatiya Janata Party leader Rakesh Singh has been summoned by the detective department of Kolkata Police at 4pm on Tuesday in connection with the probe into the seizure of drugs from the party’s youth wing leader Pamela Goswami, a city police officer said.Pamela Goswami, state secretary of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), was arrested from south Kolkata’s New Alipore area on Saturday along with a friend, Prabir Kumar De, and another person from south Kolkata’s New Alipore area. According to the police, 90 gm of cocaine was allegedly seized from her handbag and car.Soon after the police presented her before a city court, Goswami told reporters that she had been framed. “I want a CID investigation. BJP’s Rakesh Singh, the aide of Kailash Vijayvargiya, should be arrested. This is his conspiracy,” Goswami told reporters on Saturday.Singh, a BJP state committee member, has refuted the charge and accused the ruling Trinamool Congress and the Kolkata Police of having “brainwashed” Goswami.“If I am involved, they can call me or Kailash Vijayvargiya or Amit Shah. I think the police have brainwashed her. I am not in touch with Pamela for more than one-and-a-half-years now,” Singh told news agency Press Trust of India.The detective department, which has taken over the case initiated by the local police, said Rakesh Singh would be questioned later in the day.“Singh has been sent a notice under Section 160 of the CrPC to appear by 4 pm on Tuesday for questioning,” said a senior officer of the Kolkata Police.Section 160 of the criminal procedure code empowers the police to summon a witness who may be familiar with the facts and circumstances of a criminal case.Police had said that Goswami’s father Kaushik Goswami had sent a letter to the police commissioner and joint commissioner of police (crime) in April 2020 alleging that De, who was arrested with Pamela Goswami, had introduced her to drugs.In the letter, Pamela’s father stated that De first started a business with Pamela as a partner and later introduced her to drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-leader-named-by-pamela-goswami-in-drugs-case-summoned-by-kolkata-cops-at-4pm-101614057022590.html
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||Slight increase in Covid infections in Haryana for second week||For the second week, Haryana recorded a slight increase of 69 more coronavirus infections last week as compared to the week before.According to statistics, the state registered 684 infections last week (February 15-21) as compared to 615 reported the week before (February 8-14).An all time low of 534 infections were reported between Feb 1-7. The state had reported an all time high 17,616 viral infections during September 14-20 last year.Health officials said the limited increase in number of infections is not a cause of worry yet. Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said the department has been testing over a lakh individuals every week and the positivity rate is 4.9%. “But we are conscious of the fact that there is always a possibility of a surge in infections. So, we are not taking things lightly,” he said.The number of total active infections (861) continued to stay to a three-digit figure for the third successive week. “The recovery rate stays at 98.6% and the mortality rate at 1.1%,” health officials said.The ACS said that sampling has been consistent at well over a lakh individual every week even when infection rate was on decline. The health department tested about one lakh persons last week and about 1.29 lakh persons the week before.Data shows that though four districts- Faridabad (8.7%), Gurugram (7.2%), Rewari (7.1%) and Panchkula (6.1%) - continued to have critical positivity rate of more than 6%, the rate continues to decline steadily. While three districts - Nuh (0.9%), Charkhi Dadri (1.2%) and Jhajjar (1.9%) - have a desirable positivity rate of less than 2%, the remaining 15 districts have a positivity rate in the range of 2.5% to 5.6%, according to the data.Vaccine wastage below 10%Health officials said that the average vaccine wastage in state was 8.3% as per latest figures. This is well below the programmatic wastage of 10% allowed by the Union ministry of health, they said.As per the vaccine coverage data up to February 20, the state has administered 2,28,180 doses against the actual dose consumption of 2,48,828. This also means that more than 91% of the doses have been successfully utilised for inoculation, officials said.“The wastage is more for Covaxin since each vial has 10ml vaccine (20 doses) while each Covishield vial has 5ml vaccine (10 doses),” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/slight-increase-in-covid-infections-in-haryana-for-second-week-101614056975179.html
23-02-2021||Jaipur||Prohibitory orders imposed in Jodhpur city to contain coronavirus cases||Jodhpur city on Tuesday imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) till March 21 to contain the spread of Covid-19 cases as concerns over a resurgence in the infection mounts in several states.According to official orders, while a gathering of four and more people has been prohibited in public places in the city, for public gatherings such as marriages, only 100 people will be allowed in Jodhpur city limits. Essential services and schools and colleges will, however, stay open.Till Monday, Rajasthan registered 319,626 coronavirus cases and 2,785 related deaths. 315,635 people have been discharged after treatment till now. Jodhpur logged a total of 145 active cases on Monday.So far, 518 people have died in Jaipur, 305 in Jodhpur, 222 in Ajmer, 169 in Kota, 167 in Bikaner, 120 in Bharatpur, 123 in Udaipur, 109 in Pali and 101 in Sikar due to coronavirus.On Monday, Rajasthan recorded 83 new Covid cases including 25 in Jaipur, 12 in Jodhpur, seven each in Bhilwara and Sriganganagar, three in Udaipur.Several states including Maharashtra, Kerala, MP and Punjab continue to record high number of Covid cases. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday prohibited religious, social and political gatherings in the state from Monday.Also Read: Raje to attend BJP’s core committee meeting on TuesdayMadhya Pradesh and Gujarat have made thermal screening mandatory for people coming from Maharashtra in wake of the surge, while Karnataka has mandated RT-PCR certificates not older than 72 hours for those arriving from neighbouring Kerala and Maharashtra.Active COVID-19 cases in India rose for the fifth consecutive day and went past the 1.5 lakh mark again after a gap of 17 days, according to the Union health ministry data on Monday, as the total infections crossed 1.10 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/prohibitory-orders-imposed-in-jodhpur-city-to-contain-coronavirus-cases-101614055321769.html
23-02-2021||Mumbai||Gangster Ravi Pujari likely to be produced in Mumbai court today||Almost a year after his extradition to India, gangster Ravi Pujari is being brought to Mumbai from Karnataka. Pujari is likely to be produced before a designated court for the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) on Tuesday.Pujari was extradited to India in February last year but was taken to Karnataka, where the most cases were lodged against him. Last week, a Karnataka court granted permission to Mumbai Police to take Pujari into custody in connection with a case of firing outside Gajalee Hotel on October 22, 2016 in Vile Parle.As per the prosecution, a few of Pujari’s men fired at the complainant to intimidate the owner of the hotel. The prosecution alleged that the men gave the hotel owner a chit with Pujari’s number and asked him to call Pujari or they would kill him.Also Read | In Mumbai: 2 more Ravi Pujari men arrested for Gajalee firingPujari is wanted in connection with 51 cases in Mumbai, including murder, extortion and shoot-outs over the past 24 years. Of the 51 cases, Mumbai Police has invoked the provisions of MCOCA in 20 cases. This was Mumbai Police’s second attempt to get custody of Pujari. They tried to take him into custody last year but due to technical glitches in his extradition process, Mumbai had to wait for few more months to get him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/gangster-ravi-pujari-likely-to-be-produced-in-mumbai-court-today-101614054394707.html
23-02-2021||Patna||Bihar: Three arrested for raping girl in Patna||Three men were arrested on Monday for allegedly raping a 15-year-old girl at a Patna hotel two days earlier, a police officer said. They allegedly lured her to accompany them and sexually assaulted her.Arti Jaiswal, a local police officer, said the accused were arrested while they were planning to catch a train. She added the girl had left home after her mother scolded her. Jaiswal identified the accused as Suraj Sao, Sharvan Kumar, and Krishna Kumar.Also Read | Suspect in rape case that ousted a CM finally heldPolice separately said a driver raped a physically challenged minor girl at his house. Mukesh Verma, a police officer, said the incident took place on February 17 and that raids were on to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-three-arrested-for-raping-girl-in-patna-101614051994584.html
23-02-2021||Patna||4 million Aadhaar-linked PDS cardholders avail foodgrains in Bihar||Around 23%, or four million, of the 17.6 million Aadhaar-linked public distribution system (PDS) cardholders in Bihar have availed their quota of food grains at subsidised prices under the One Nation, One Ration Card scheme, officials aware of the matter said. The government is now promoting the portability feature through advertisements. The linking of the ration card with Aadhaar is essential for getting PDS food grains.Bihar’s food and consumer protection secretary Vinay Kumar said Aadhaar seeding of every beneficiary mentioned on a ration card is mandatory. “... 50,000 Aadhaar seeding is happening on an average daily.”Aadhaar seeding allows the authorities to check duplication and to ensure that families eligible for PDS under the National Food Security Act avail the benefit.Also Read | Social security dept to link Aadhaar with welfare schemes“We have allowed PDS beneficiaries time till March 31 to get the Aadhaar seeding done of every eligible family member, failing which their ration card will be blocked and allotment of food grains stopped,” said Kumar.The PDS beneficiaries were offered double their allotment of food grains during the pandemic till November. The government has now allowed them the option to have a month’s supply of ration in advance. The beneficiaries could get food grains for December and January till February 5.“We have extended the facility to get a one-month ration supply in advance. So, the allotment of food grains for February and March can be taken together till March 31.”Under the Antyoday Yojana scheme, the beneficiaries are eligible for 35kg food grains per family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/4-million-aadhaar-linked-pds-cardholders-avail-foodgrains-in-bihar-101614051454249.html
23-02-2021||Patna||Bihar: Grants to govt aided schools to be released soon, says minister||Bihar education minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary on Monday said assistance grant to the government aided secondary and higher secondary schools would not be denied in the name of formalities. The assistance grant is given by the government for payment of salary to teaching and non-teaching staff.“The officers, who would try to linger the process of award of the grant to deserving schools, would be taken to task,” said Chaudhary in response to a call attention motion moved by Congress MLC Madan Mohan Jha in the legislative council.Raising the issue, Jha stated that grants to about 1400-1500 government aided schools, including those upgraded to intermediate levels, had been held up since 2016 by the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) on one pretext or the other. “The state government had allocated ₹630 crore on account of payment of arrears to various schools last year. However, in the absence of payment to the concerned schools, the government took back ₹500 crore from the BSEB to manage corona-induced crisis,” said Jha, also the state Congress president.Chaudhary said that assistance grant of ₹842 crore would be released to the BSEB for its disbursement among the schools, which fulfil the laid down criteria, within a month. “The department will also see that the BESB did not stop payment to the schools without strong valid reasons,” said the minister.Leaders cutting across the party lines lashed out at the BSEB claiming it put up stumbling blocks unnecessarily in payment of grants to the schools. Sanjeev Singh of the Janata Dal United (JD-U) alleged that the BESB declined the payments to the schools, even though the rules for award of grants have been considerably simplified in 2013.Nawal Kishore Yadav of the BJP and Kedarnath Pandey of the CPI claimed that the amount had been kept up by the BSEB despite the inquiries. Sanjeev Singh claimed that as per the government circular issued in 2013, no inspection is required for payment of grants to the schools, which were found eligible for recognition by the government.The minister assured that the arrear payments to schools will be cleared after approval by the state cabinet soon.Honorarium for Panchayat functionariesPanchayati raj department minister Samrat Chaudhary on Monday informed the legislative council that a sum of ₹577 crore was released to clear the arrears in honourarium to elected representatives of gram panchayats and gram kutcheries till the current fiscal of 2020-21. “The payment would be ensured to the elected representatives by the end of this month or before the expiry of their current tenure,” added the minister.Earlier, raising the issue, BPCC chief Madan Mohan Jha claimed that monthly honorariums to panchayat leaders had not been paid since March 2020. The panchayat elections are due to be held in May-June this year.The minister said that an estimated expense of ₹228.91 crore was likely to be incurred by the department on account of payment of honorarium to elected representatives of panchayats and gram kutcheries for the year 2019-20, while a sum of ₹227.48 crore would be spent to clear payments for the current fiscal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-grants-to-govt-aided-schools-to-be-released-soon-says-minister-101614049668063.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi air quality remains poor today as well, AQI at 263||Delhi’s air quality on Tuesday morning remained in the poor category, with hourly average air quality index (AQI) at 263.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed that on Monday, the overall AQI was 288, also in the poor category. Air quality early warning system for Delhi under the ministry of earth sciences forecast that air quality is likely to be in very poor category on Tuesday. The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from west of Delhi with wind speed 05-15 kmph, mainly clear sky and mist or shallow fog on Tuesday morning.In the neighbouring cities on Monday, the AQI was recorded in the very poor category in Ghaziabad while it was poor in Noida, Greater Noida, Faridabad and Gurgaon, according to CPCB.Levels of PM2.5 and PM10 also remained high in the five cities.According to the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 is satisfactory, 101 and 200 is moderate, 201 and 300 is poor, 301 and 400 is very poor, and 401 and 500 is severe.The average AQI at 4pm was 318 in Ghaziabad, 294 in Greater Noida, 290 in Noida, 265 in Faridabad and 296 in Gurgaon, according to CPCB’s Sameer app.According to the CPCB, an AQI in the poor category can lead to breathing discomfort for most people on prolonged exposure while a very poor AQI may cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-air-quality-remains-poor-today-as-well-aqi-at-263-101614049834035.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||Several Delhi borders remain closed due to farmers’ protest, traffic diverted||Several borders of the national capital with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) remained closed for vehicular movement on Tuesday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three new farm laws.For those coming to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, Ghazipur border has been closed. The traffic police advised them to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. The commuters can also take the Chilla border route. Also Read | Even pop stars concerned over farmers’ plight, but not central govt, says RahulThe entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Saboli and Mangesh, continue to remain closed. The traffic police have advised commuters to take alternate routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK Road. Commuters can choose other border routes such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches between the Delhi and Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/several-delhi-borders-remain-closed-due-to-farmers-protest-traffic-diverted-101614048153878.html
23-02-2021||Kolkata||CBI may question TMC MP’s wife today||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday is slated to quiz Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Abhishek Banerjee’s wife Rujira Banerjee in connection with the alleged coal pilferage case. On Monday, the agency interrogated the lawmaker’s sister-in-law Menaka Gambhir for three hours in this regard.“Though I am unaware of the reason for me being called for questioning or the subject matter of the investigation, you may visit my residence as per your convenience between 11 am and 3 pm tomorrow, i.e. 23 February, 2021,” Rujira said in a letter to CBI, news agency PTI reported. “You are requested to kindly inform me your schedule,” she added.On Sunday, a team of CBI officials had visited the MP’s residence to deliver the summons but Rujira was not present. The agency asked her to join the probe in the matter.It is alleged that illegally-mined coal, worth several thousand crores of rupees, have been sold in the black market over several years through a racket operating in the western parts of West Bengal where the Eastern Coalfields Limited runs several mines. The sale proceeds were allegedly routed through numerous shell companies that the CBI, Income Tax department and Enforcement Directorate are now probing.After the summonses were issued on Sunday, the TMC hit out the BJP-led central government alleging political vendetta while the BJP claimed that the ruling party was trying to politicise the matter. The developments come ahead of the crucial assembly polls due in April/May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cbimay-question-tmc-mp-s-wife-today-101614044062179.html
23-02-2021||Lucknow||Self-reliant development key in UP govt’s budget for FY 2021-22||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday presented a ₹5.5 lakh crore budget for 2021-22 that proposed new schemes worth ₹27,598.40 crore in the next financial year, but no new taxes despite the state facing a high deficit.The state’s first paperless budget, unveiled amid the Covid-19 pandemic, aims at “empowering different sections” with “self-reliance, integrated and inclusive development,” the Yogi Adityanath government said.It comes a year ahead of the 2022 assembly elections and marks an increase of around ₹37,000 crore from the previous year’s budget size.Minister for finance Suresh Khanna began his budget address by referring to the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, the relief work carried out in its aftermath and how the country and its people had overcome difficulties under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Following our efforts, economy activity is gaining momentum,” Khanna said.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, his ministers and members of the BJP thumped the desks repeatedly in the state assembly as Khanna read out the announcements and promises in his 45-page address.The state cabinet, at its meeting held at the chief minister’s residence, approved the budget before it was presented in the state assembly. “The state government is sensitive towards the problems of farmers, women, youths, entrepreneurs and labourers,” said Khanna, making allocations for various infrastructure development projects.A sum of ₹101 crore has been earmarked for an upcoming airport in Ayodhya that has been named Maryada Purushottam Shri Ram Airport. A sum of ₹300 crore has been set aside for the construction of approach roads to the Ram temple being built in Ayodhya.“...A lot of promises have been made though more new schemes may have been announced in a large-sized budget,” said Yashvir Tyagi, a former professor in department of economics at Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/selfreliant-development-key-in-up-govt-s-budget-for-fy-202122-101614043856923.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||Multiple strands, piles of evidence: Inside the Delhi riots probe||A year ago to the day, a clash between supporters and opponents of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or CAA, below the Jafrabad Metro station in north-east Delhi triggered one of the worst bouts of rioting in Delhi in recent years.The clash snowballed into full-fledged Hindu-Muslim rioting between February 23 and 27 in parts of north-east Delhi. Fifty-three people were killed , 581 injured.The following month, even as the country came to grips with the Covid-19 pandemic, Delhi Police started what would be one of the longest and most controversial investigations in recent years.The police have claimed that the riots had been planned by prominent protestors against the CAA, which seeks to fast-track citizenship for members of minorities like Hindus, Sikhs, Christians, Buddhists, Jains and Parsis from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, the first time citizenship has been linked to faith in a professedly secular nation.However, much before the first stones were hurled by supporters and opponents of the new Citizenship law below the Jafrabad Metro station at 7. 30pm, on February 23, 2020, Delhi had already reported at least nine incidents of rioting during the anti-CAA protest.The police have alleged that the first two incidents of rioting outside Jamia Millia Islamia and around New Friends Colony was the “beta version” executed by the key conspirators before the February rioting two months later in north-east Delhi.Linking the violence in the December and the February rioting, the police wrote in one of the charge sheets: “..every character who gained notoriety in February 2020 had been noticed as being present in the incidents of December 2019.”Joining the dotsOf the 472 murders reported in 2020, at least 53 (11%) murders were victims of the Delhi riots. The police registered 755 cases, of which 697 were probed by the local police, 57 by the crime branch and one by the special cell. The local police investigated incidents of rioting and arson, the crime branch probed heinous cases (including all 53 murders) and the special cell is probing an alleged conspiracy behind the riots.The special cell has arrested 21 people, including student leaders such as Natasha Narwal, local politicians Tahir Hussain and Ishrat Jahan, university student Sharjeel Imam, and activists like Umar Khalid and Khalid Saifi who the police say planned and orchestrated the riots. They have been arrested and charged under stringent sections of the sedition law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.Of the 1,825 people arrested, at least 40 have got bail till date. But these 40 do not include the 21 people mentioned above. The 40 are those who were arrested for isolated incidents of rioting.The police have alleged that on January 8, 2020, more than a month before the riots, Umar Khalid had met AAP councillor Tahir Hussain at the Shaheen Bagh sit-in protest site to plan the riots. According to Delhi Police, the alleged conspirators had planned that the protests would dovetail with then US President Donald Trump’s official visit to India to create an international embarrassment for India and defame the country.The suspects, denying the police’s claims, have said that as of January 8, news of the US President’s impending visit had not been published.Videos, WhatsApp chats, protected witnessesIn all these months, the police have filed at least 400 charge-sheets against the 1,818 arrested suspects. A charge sheet is a document submitted to the court that lists charges and evidence against suspects. A trial starts in a case only after a court takes cognizance of the charge sheet.An analysis of the charge-sheets shows that the police have relied on CCTV footages, WhatsApp chats and protected witnesses as evidence.The police have taken help of at least 15 people who were insiders at the anti-CAA protest sites before the riots and have claimed to have seen or heard the main conspirators plan the violence. Referred to only by pseudonyms such as Alpha, Beta, Silver, Gold, James and Bond, these witnesses are currently in protective custody and are the key to the police’s claims that the violence was a “planned conspiracy”.Apart from such witnesses, police also have the WhatsApp chats that the suspected main conspirators were part of during the riots. In its 7,500-page charge-sheet, the special cell attached at least 100 WhatsApp chats.ControversyMany civil society groups have also filed petitions urging courts to intervene alleging that the police did not act against certain people who were involved in triggering the riots. Several of those arrested also accused police of conducting a biased probe against anti-government voices.Social activist Harsh Mander has filed a petition against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kapil Mishra for making an inflammatory speech which allegedly led to the riots.Another person has filed a similar petition against Mander and other persons for delivering allegedly inflammatory speeches before the riots broke out. The courts are hearing the matter.Police spokesperson, deputy commissioner of police Chinmoy Biswal, said police arrested 869 Hindu rioters and 956 from Muslim community. “The numbers speak for themselves. Our investigation is absolutely fair and impartial, replying only on credible, material and scientific evidence. We are also working to solve the unsolved cases,” he said.Former Delhi police commissioner Neeraj Kumar believes investigations of the riots is one of the best conducted by the department till date. “Newer scientific technologies were adopted...unlike the past, when the accused were only those caught on the spot, Delhi police have unearthed the conspiracy and arrested the key accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-multiple-strands-piles-of-evidence-inside-the-probe-101614041223515.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||Then and now: At 5 Delhi riots hot spots, the memory remains||A year after communal riots ravaged north-east Delhi, HT revisits five places which were hot spots of violence.JafrabadA little ahead of Jafrabad metro station — ground zero for the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests in north-east Delhi; where the communal violence is believed to have sparked on the night of February 23, 2020 — sits Mohammad Yasir, a banana seller. The fruit cart is on a stretch where riot accused Shahrukh Pathan was seen pointing a pistol it at a policeman in a photo that became emblematic of the riots.Yasir says the Hindu residents of the area avoid buying from his stall since last year. “That forces me to push my cart to areas where there are more Muslims,” he said, wearing a white kurta-pyjama and donning a white skull cap.But some others in the area have managed to bridge the divide. Dharamvir Singh and Mohammad Imran, a milk booth owner and an ironmonger whose shops are located right next to each other, still spend their free hours talking to each other.They say their shops have been next to each other’s for the past 30 years, and no riot can split them apart. After the riots, when both returned to open their shops, there was some awkwardness, but they ensured that it did not come between them.Singh does his bit to make Imran feel comfortable. “If someone stands outside my booth and starts talking ill of Muslims, I immediately send them packing,” he said.Imran, who would earlier allow his friends to gather outside his shop and discuss local issues, in turn stops community gatherings outside in shop because he knows the discussions will veer towards the riots.The stretch that connects Jaffrabad metro station to Maujpur-Babarpur metro station witnessed heavy stone pelting, tear gas shells, and the looting or burning of shops. While the buildings and houses have been reconstructed and repainted, the concrete fence on the road divider was never reconstructed.It remains conspicuous by its absence — a grim reminder of what happened last year.Shiv Vihar parking lotsGajinder Parihar now runs a banquet hall in Shiv Vihar. Until last year, this 400 square yards area was a parking lot. It was set on fire by rioters during the communal clashes. There were 45 cars parked in the garage. They were all gutted.With the parking lot his only source of income, it took Parihar over 200 days to re-establish the area, but not as a parking space this time. “Businesses in this area may look normal after a year, but the uncertainty has left people scared. No one would have imagined that their houses or cars will be burnt — but it happened. Many of them who have rebuilt their houses have made sure to have a parking space. Some have left the area never to return,” he said.Parihar, 46, said he is still here only because this is his ancestral land. “It took me five months to clear the scrap of the burnt cars. They had to be cut, dismantled, and lifted out of the area using cranes. Many owners who were waiting for insurance money did not want their burnt cars removed. Once that was done, I had to make sure that the yard is repaired and painted to new, which took another two months. As the space is usually hired by local residents, I didn’t want them to be reminded of what they witnessed last year.”He lives in Sonia Vihar with his wife and two children. The parking facility that he owned was right at Shiv Vihar Tiraha (three-road junction) one of the epicentres of the communal violence last February.A densely populated area where free space is a premium, most residents parked their cars at two garages, one of which was run by Parihar. The other one, next to it, was also burnt to ashes, along with the 54 parked inside. Its owner, Prem Giri, has also turned the place into a banquet hall — it was inaugurated on Tuesday.Ashok Nagar mosqueAt around 1pm on February 25 last year, a mob stormed the Maula Baksh Masjid in Ashok Nagar, and torched it. A year later, the mosque — built over a 400 square yards in this neighbourhood with a low Muslim population — is being reconstructed from scratch.The local Hindu population, which is the majority here, has offered to support rebuilding the mosque — both financially and physically. Rebuilding the trust between the two communities, however, has not been easy.The mosque’s imam, Abdul Rahim, and muezzin, Zahir Hussain, continue to stay in the mosque, but their families are no longer with them. “There is dua-salaam (wishes exchanged) with the Hindus here, but all that is just over the surface,” said Rahim, with a tinge of bitterness and regret.There are less than 100 Muslim houses in this neighbourhood, about one-fifth of the locality’s population. Last year, the armed mob stormed the mosque and used petrol to set it ablaze. The three families living inside had a narrow escape. The imam believes that most in the mob were outsiders.Attempts by local Hindus to comfort the fear-stricken Muslims in this neighbourhood began hours after the burning. “Several Muslims began preparing to leave the neighbourhood. But we couldn’t have abandoned the Masjid, so we stayed on,” said Hussain.As it turned out, it was the locals who eventually stepped in to prevent an exodus.“We convinced them that the attackers were outsiders, and the Muslims here didn’t have any reason to fear. We told them that even the houses of the Hindus around the mosque were not spared by the mob. So far, not a single Muslim family has left from here,” says Jaiveer Singh, president of the Ashok Nagar footwear market association.Tyre marketUntil last February, the Old Mini Motor Market, popularly known as the Gokalpuri tyre market, would remain closed every Tuesday. Ever since it reopened last July, after much of this market was burnt to the ground during the riots, the weekly holiday has stopped.“Many shopkeepers here lost all their businesses built over years and decades. We now have to work seven days a week and longer hours to even attempt a recovery,” said the market’s vice president, Mohammad Rashid.But recovery is not the only reason to operate seven days a week. There is also the fear that an unattended market would be prone to a repeat attack.“When the riots began, we had downed our shutters and left for our homes. Our absence is what the mob took advantage of. Now, we have to ensure our presence on all days,” said Fazly Rahman, the owner of a shop, Famous Tyres.This market has tyre shops and two-wheeler repair shops, all of them owned by Muslims. Of the 224 establishments here, 62 were gutted, and a few others damaged when rioters struck on February 24. A mosque in the premises was gutted as well.While much of the cost of the reconstruction was borne by religious organisations, the shopkeepers continue to pursue civic agencies for raising the walls of the market and securing gates of the two entrances. Mohammad Aftab, legal advisor to the market association, says that about two dozen shopkeepers have received compensation, and the rest are under process.The silver lining, says Rashid with a tinge of irony, is that the market has become better known after the riots. “The riots led to many motorists in east Delhi getting to know of this specialised market. The customers have increased,” he said.Tahir Hussain’s factoryA few hundred metres on both sides of the factory of former Aam Aadmi Party councillor Tahir Hussain on the Main Karawal Nagar Road near Chand Bagh are markets buzzing with activity. But as you near Hussain’s four-storey wood products factory, the crowd thins considerably.Local residents say this is no coincidence.“Locals and customers usually choose not to stop on the stretch of road around this building. There is a sense of stigma attached to it,” said Suraj Singh, owner of a recently opened restaurant in a building next to Hussain’s factory.Around this time a year ago, the stretch was among the worst affected in the Delhi riots. So many stones and bottles were pelted by rival mobs, that vehicles could not negotiate the terrain.Hussain is in jail on allegations of orchestrating the riots. He and some of his associates are accused of killing some local Hindus, including IB officer Ankit Sharma, whose house is located in the narrow bylanes behind the factory. According to police, Hussain and his men stocked weapons, ranging from acid bags to petrol bombs, on the terrace of his factory.Now, local residents say, work continues in the factory under the supervision of some of Hussain’s relatives, but the large iron gates remain locked from inside.Hussain’s factory is in a neighbourhood with mixed population. While there are more Hindu homes around his factory, a few hundred metres away, Chand Bagh is a Muslim-dominated neighbourhood.While people of both communities have continued their businesses on either side of the road, the bonhomie is gone. Suresh Chand, who operates a tea cart opposite the factory (his previous cart was burnt down by the mob), says gatherings outside his stall have thinned since the riots. “People don’t stop around here to have tea, smoke and converse anymore. The fear hasn’t left anyone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/then-and-now-at-5-delhi-riots-hot-spots-the-memory-remains-101614040799853.html
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||Testing down, Covid cases on the rise in Punjab||Chandigarh With the Centre advising Punjab and four other states to take preventive measures in view of the latest surge in Covid-19 cases, the government has asked all the district administration to double the testing. Testing has slowed down in the state even as there has been a rise in cases in the last week (February 14-21). The state tested 1, 23,379 samples with an average of 17,625 daily this week, only once crossing 20,000 mark. The previous week (February 7-14) when the average daily testing was 18,980, more than 20,000 samples were tested thrice. Daily cases go up Alongside the dip in testing, the state has witnessed increase in cases with the week ending on Sunday (February 14-21) witnessing 2,161 fresh cases with a daily average of 308 infections as compared to 1,652 cases in previous week (Feb 7-14) with a daily average of 236 patients. In the week of February, 1,370 positive cases were detected with a daily average of 195. In past three days, the state has witnessed 1,073 new cases. As per health department figures, in the last one week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 0.2% every day, which almost double as compared to the first week of this month. As various reports suggest, after the Centre specifically asked Punjab to focus on testing, all the deputy commissioners have been instructed to ramp-up the testing. “All the districts have been asked to double the testing immediately so that we cross the daily target to 30,000 a day,” Punjab’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said. Surge in fatalities too Punjab’s Case Fatality Rate (CFR) has remained highest in the country at 3.2% with the state witnessing 5,754 Covid-19 deaths till February 21. In the second and third weeks (February7-14 and February 14-21), the state recorded 57 and 56 deaths, respectively, which are more than double the number of deceased reported in the first week with 27 virus-related fatalities. Sources in the health department also disclosed that the Centre has once again flagged the high CFR with the government. ‘No trace of new strain’ The state has refuted reports by some experts about the presence of the new Covid-19 strain in Punjab. “No sample has been found positive for the new strain till now. A few days back, we received reports of 14 samples from the Pune lab and all were negative for the new strain,” said the nodal officer. Cases are going up in the state primarily because people have started violating Covid protocols, he said, adding, “Cases are surging but the situation is not alarming. Following the Covid protocols strictly can reverse the latest surge”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/testing-down-covid-cases-on-the-rise-in-punjab-101614026852319.html
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||GST scam: VB pegs annual loss at ₹225cr from Mandi Gobindgarh||Patiala Mohali district and sessions judge RS Rai on Monday took up the multi-crore GST scam case for framing of charges against 13 accused against whom the challan was presented by the vigilance bureau. The next date of hearing is March 5, district attorney Sanjeev Batra said. Officials of taxation department were causing an annual loss of about ₹225 crore to the state exchequer by pocketing ₹ 1.5 crore monthly in bribe, reads the Punjab Vigilance Bureau’s first charge sheet. The scam was busted in September 2020 with the arrest of eight people, including six officials, while a dozen officials named in the FIR are evading arrest. The VB has submitted charge sheet against three officials and two private persons, while the role of more than 20 others is under the scanner. The VB has so far arrested 12 people in the case. In the challan, the VB summarised the statements of Sukhwinder Singh Shinda and Rohit Kumar Bansal, two main conduits (passers), whose names cropped up during the interrogation of taxation official Kalicharan, who was posted at Shambu barrier, who was arrested by the VB. “Every day, about 60 to 70 vehicles of metal scrap were unloaded in Mandi Gobindgarh by evading tax through a nexus of GST officials and passers. A same number of outbound vehicles having finished steel material leave the industrial town by evading tax. The total loss in GST evasion is ₹60 -70 lakh per day, which roughly is about ₹225 crore a year,” reads the VB challan, citing its investigations based on call recordings and cross-verification of the GST records. It further mentions that for passing a truck, GST officials would charge ₹5,000 to ₹7,000. “Every month, the passers would collect up to ₹1.5 crore at Mandi Gobindgarh for the select GST officials. Businessmen paid this bribe in advance and was handed over to officials in the first week of every month for smooth tax-free operations,” reads statement of Shinda, one of the accused, who has named eight firms which were paying ₹10 to 15 lakh per month in advance. In the challan, the VB has named several officials in the rank of director, deputy excise and taxation commissioner, assistant excise and taxation commissioner, excise and taxation officer, inspector, who were receiving bribe ranging between ₹30,000 and ₹7 lakh per month. “The money was going from bottom to top,” reads the statement of an official arrested by VB. The VB has said they have made a list of 60 iron manufacturers and traders indulging in tax evasion and shared with taxation department for submitting records.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gst-sca-vb-pegs-annual-loss-at-225-cr-from-mandi-gobindgarh-101614026490140.html
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||Pregnancy termination law: HC seeks details from Centre on steps taken for uniform policy||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Centre to detail about the steps being taken or contemplated for legal termination of the pregnancies of the women with medical advice beyond 20 weeks as legal and moral predicament of the court is being tested “yet again”. The high court bench of justice Arun Monga while seeking response from the Centre by March 1 asked the central government counsel to apprise the court about the steps being taken or contemplated, in order to frame a uniform policy about legal termination of the pregnancies of the women, where the medical opinion is strongly in their favour. Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971, does not permit termination of pregnancy beyond 20 weeks. The law allows termination of pregnancy by a registered medical practitioner, where the duration of the pregnancy does not exceed 12 weeks. If the duration is up to 20 weeks, the pregnancy can be terminated on doctors’ opinion that continuance of the pregnancy would involve a risk to the life of the pregnant woman or can cause grave injury to her physical or mental health. However, courts in India have been allowing termination of pregnancy beyond 20 weeks by invoking its powers. “Apart from easier access to justice, such a policy shall also ensure the deserved dignity and confidentiality to the women, confronted with such legal impediments,” the bench observed, lamenting that this is not the first time when such a case has come before this court where the age of the foetus is more than 20 weeks and the doctors have opined in favour of medical termination of pregnancy. Past instances are many, perhaps becoming a routine, but only where a litigant has the means to approach this court, it said, while dealing with a pregnancy termination plea of a Chandigarh woman sought on the advice of medical practitioner. The foetus in the case in hand was of 23 weeks and five days. “This court feels that a uniform policy is required to be formulated in order to deal with all such like cases as the one in hand. A balanced approach has to be adopted to ensure the well-being and safety of the women vis-a-vis fetal abnormalities,” the bench of justice Monga said. During the hearing, the court was told that an amendment is underway in the law for allowing termination of certain kinds of advanced stage pregnancies, provided the medical opinion in favour thereof and a Bill has been introduced in the Parliament in March 2020, which prompted the court to ask about status of the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pregnancy-termination-law-hc-seeks-details-from-centre-on-steps-taken-for-uniform-policy-101614025710064.html
23-02-2021||Other||Allow us to continue working from home, say teachers from Mumbai||With the rising number of Covid-19 infections in the city, teachers have requested the government to allow them to work from home. Schools in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai are yet to reopen, even as those in the other parts of the state began physical classes from November 23. “There is a lot of risk associated in travelling as cases are rising in the city. The chief minister has recently appealed to organisations to allow employees to work from home, if possible. Then what is the point in calling teachers and the non-teaching staff to school?” asked Rajesh Pandya, vice-president of the Teachers’ Democratic Front. While schools have remained closed for physical classes for the past 10 months, teachers are being called for work related to online learning and exams. As per the state education department’s standard operating procedures (SOPs), teachers from all the schools in the state can be called to school for work related to online learning or other academic work. Similarly, schools need to follow the policy of ‘staying home if unwell’ for teachers who are sick, especially if they have comorbidities or are aged above 50. Meanwhile, parents are now requesting the government to allow online exams for Class 9 and Class 11 students. “Many schools are scheduling offline exams for these students and it is risky considering the current situation. We also request that students be promoted on the basis of internal assessments,” said Anubha Sahai, president of the Indiawide Parents association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allow-us-to-continue-working-from-home-say-teachers-from-mumbai-101614025169785.html
23-02-2021||Other||University of Mumbai says online exams likely||As Covid-19 cases increase in the city, many colleges want to hold examinations online in the interest of students.SNDT Women’s University has already decided to conduct examinations online, the varsity’s professor Meera Desai informed. While the multiple-choice-based exams for postgraduate students kick off on Tuesday, those for undergraduate students have been postponed as the admissions for first-year students were delayed. Though the University of Mumbai (MU) is yet to take a final decision on the issue, sources said it is more likely to hold online examinations. MU’s pro-vice chancellor Ravindra Kulkarni said, “While the final decision is likely to be taken within the month, an online examination would be in the best interest of the students’ safety.” While colleges in rural areas around Mumbai have been allowed to resume physical classes, the university is yet to allow those within the Mumbai Metropolitan Region to reopen institutes.“At the moment, the varsity is mulling whether to allow colleges within Mumbai to begin physical classes. However, as colleges have been conducting online exams for a year now, we are confident that they will be ready in case we decide to opt for semester exams virtually,” said Kulkarni.Even as colleges were preparing to reopen their campuses in phases for students, they are now preparing to conduct examinations for the ongoing semester.“There is a state of utter confusion on whether or not will we be allowed to reopen colleges. We were hoping to at least conduct practical exams physically. Online examinations don’t go a long way in helping students secure jobs,” said a principal of a suburban college.Anju Kapoor, the principal of Usha Pravin Gandhi College in Vile Parle, said, “We haven’t taken a decision on exams yet as we are waiting for a word from the university on whether to hold exams online or offline.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/university-of-mumbai-says-online-exams-likely-101614024929856.html
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||SAD to gherao Punjab Vidhan Sabha on March 1||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has decided to gherao the Vidhan Sabha on the opening day of the forthcoming budget session on March 1 to “give voice to the widespread resentment against Captain Amarinder Singh’s sacrilegious act of breaking his oath of promises,” made to the people in the run-up to last assembly elections. The party workers will assemble at Sector 25 on March 1 morning from where they will proceed towards the Vidhan Sabha premises. It will also focus on the back-breaking hike in electricity bills as well as in the prices of diesel, petrol and cooking gas as a result of excessive Central and state government taxes, according to a statement released after a meeting of the party’s core committee on Monday evening. The core committee met under party president Sukhbir Singh Badal to chalk out its line of action to secure justice for the beleaguered people of Punjab who are feeling cheated by a “brazenly dishonest” Congress government, Harcharan Bains, principal adviser to Sukhbir, said. The core committee also paid rich tributes to the brave party workers who sacrificed their lives fighting the “government sponsored goondaism” and all farmers who have sacrifices their lives during the on-going struggle against the Centre’s three anti-farmer laws. Balwinder Singh Bhundar, Jathedar Tota Singh, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur, Charanjit Singh Atwal, Prem Singh Chandumajra, Maheshinder Grewal, Daljit Singh Cheema, Janmeja Singh Sekhon, Sikander Singh Maluka, Dr Upinderjit Kaur, Gulzar Singh Ranike, Bikram Singh Majithia and Surjit Singh Rakhra were among those who attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-to-gherao-punjab-vidhan-sabha-on-march-1-101614024809840.html
23-02-2021||Other||6 booked after raid on 3 Palghar wedding venues||Palghar district collector Dr Manik Gursal led a team of officials and raided three marriage halls in Satpati, Shirgaon and Umroli-Birwadi areas on Sunday late at night after receiving information that more than 800 people were participating in wedding ceremonies by flouting Covid-19 norms. Satpati and Boisar police stations booked six accused, including the fathers of the grooms, the disc jockey (DJ) and caterer, after a majority of those present at the ceremonies were seen without masks or practicing social distancing. No arrests have been made so far. “The accused have been booked under section 188 (disobedience) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) as well as under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897; and the Disaster Management Act, 2005. We have given permission to allow only 50 persons to attend such functions, but people were flouting the rules and were not following the rule about masks, social distancing and other standard operating procedure (SOP),” said Dr Gursal. Meanwhile, the Palghar administration has collected fines worth ₹36,150 from 189 people at 66 places for not wearing masks or practising social distancing. A Palghar district has reported 45,697 Covid-19 cases and 1,202 deaths, said an official from the district information office (DIO). Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had on Sunday evening directed a ban on all religious, social and political gatherings in the state from Monday owing to the rise in Covid-19 cases. He said he would decide over imposing another stringent lockdown after observing if citizens are following all the Covid-19 rules for the next eight days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/6-booked-after-raid-on-3-palghar-wedding-venues-101614024569775.html
23-02-2021||Other||Covid-19 cases on the rise, but Maharashtra sees a dip in fatality rate||Though the state has witnessed a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in the past two weeks, data from the health department has shown that the fatality rate has decreased from last month. The state Covid-19 task force said this is a good sign, as most of the newly infected patients are either mildly or moderately infected.From January 1 to 21, Pune, Amravati, Yavatmal and Akola recorded 10,664, 1,152, 1,083 and 770 new cases. However, this month till February 21, the numbers surged to 11,600 in Pune, 8,350 at Amravati, 2,070 in Akola and 1,572 at Yavatmal.However, new Covid-19 cases fell by 7% in Mumbai in the same time period. Last month, till January 21, Mumbai had recorded 10,586, which declined to 9,825 from February 1 to 21.Despite the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state, the silver lining is that the overall fatality rate has decreased from 2.56% recorded on January 1 to 2.47% on February 21. Also, Pune, Amravati, Yavatmal and Akola – the districts that are recording the highest positivity rate – have also witnessed a decrease in the fatality from February 1 to 21 against the same period last month.Amravati which has a 50% positivity rate, has recorded around 600% surge in cases in the past 21 days as compared to the figures in January 1-21. But the fatality rate has fallen from 0.86% in January to 0.41% in the past 21 days of this month. Similarly, the fatality rate in Akola has dropped from 1.94% to 0.33%, while in Pune, it has decreased to 0.56% from 1.10%. Mumbai’s fatality rate was 1.4% last month till January 21, which dropped to 0.86% this month. Only Yavatmal has recorded a rise in the fatality rate, as it surged from 2.40% in January to 2.92% this month.“Viruses getting mutated is a regular phenomenon. But it has been observed that the severity of mutated viruses always remains lesser compared to the original one. So, if the citizens are getting infected with the new strains of Covid-19, its severity will be less. Thus, it can be one of the reasons behind the low fatality rate,” said Amravati district health officer Dr Dilip Ranmale.Claiming the decline in the fatality a good sign, the state’s Covid-19 task force attributed the rise in cases to testing. “Since the start of February, the state-wide testing has been increased. With the rise in testing, it is accepted theory that the new Covid-19 cases would also increase. So there is nothing to be scared of,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the task force. When asked if the mutation of the Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19 is the reason behind the sudden rise in cases, he said, “At Amravati, the mutation can be a reason for the faster spread of the virus. But so far, we haven’t seen any mutation in Mumbai or Pune. However, samples have been sent for analysis so, we have to wait for that.” “Unlike the beginning of the pandemic, the severity of the infection among patients has gone down. Though there is a surge in the number of admissions now, we aren’t witnessing many deaths,” said St George’s medical superintendent Dr Akash Khobragade. On Sunday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, through a video message, stated that he would review the situation for the next eight days and then take a decision on imposing the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-cases-on-the-rise-but-maharashtra-sees-a-dip-in-fatality-rate-101614024269647.html
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder will lead Congress in 2022 Punjab assembly polls, says Jakhar||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Sunil Jakhar on Monday said that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh would lead the party in the 2022 assembly elections. Jakhar said the people of the state had reposed their faith in Amarinder Singh’s leadership with their landslide verdict in the Congress’ favour in the recent civic body polls. “The Congress’ sweeping victory in the civic polls has not only revalidated his leadership in the state but is an endorsement of the faith of Punjabis in his future leadership also,” he said while participating in an event for the launch of developmental projects. The state Congress has already launched mission “#Captainfor2022”, and the next elections would be fought under his leadership, he added. “Amarinder has led the state in very difficult times and the people were well aware of his massive contribution. Punjab is perhaps facing its worst-ever crisis – Covid-19 and the farmers’ unrest coupled with an unfriendly Union government,” he said, lambasting the Centre for what he termed as its stepmotherly treatment to the state. He alleged that the federal structure of the country was under extreme threat under the BJP-led central government. He also questioned the recent decision of the Union government to refuse permission to a Sikh jatha to go to Nankana Sahib in Pakistan and accused it of being biased against the state. Jakhar also urged the CM to ensure that the Congress manifesto for 2022 should promise making Amritsar – the ‘Guru ki Nagri’ - an iconic city. “Amritsar should be made as one of the best cities in the world on the lines of the Vatican,” he said. 
23-02-2021||Other||Political parties in Maharashtra cancel meetings, protests||A day after chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray coined the new campaign ‘I Am Responsible for people’s participation in containing the Covid-19 spread’, political parties have lent a proactive support to the initiative by cancelling their meetings, programmes and protests. The state launched the campaign virtually and released its logo on Monday.While announcing the drive during his televised address to the state on Sunday, Thackeray had appealed to the citizens to act with responsibility. He said that it was up to them to decide if they want to follow the norms or face another lockdown. CM Thackeray had also appealed political parties to again conduct meetings virtually. Hours after the appeal, the political fraternity reacted positively. Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) postponed its February 24 ‘jail bharo (voluntary arrest)’ agitation to protest against the disconnection of electricity connection. Mumbai Congress chief Bhai Jagtap took to Twitter to announce about the postponement of his meetings and padyatras (campaigning by foot), while Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leaders such as Sharad Pawar and Supriya Sule cancelled their public programmes for the next few days. “I am cancelling all my programmes in the wake of the spike in the Covid-19 cases after the appeal by CM,” Pawar tweeted. Sule tweeted on Sunday night that all her scheduled meetings and programmes till March 7 stand postponed. Congress has decided to keep the number of attendees limited for its meeting over the week to chalk out a strategy for the forthcoming local body polls. Shiv Sena leader and higher and technical education minister Uday Samant cancelled his press conference on Monday. “We’re publicising ‘Mee Jababdar (I Am Responsible)’ the campaign through media,” said Ajay Ambekar, director of state publicity department.The Pune police late on Monday registered a case against BJP leader Dhananjay Mahadik and two others for violating Covid norms at a wedding reception.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/political-parties-in-maharashtra-cancel-meetings-protests-101614023849547.html
23-02-2021||Other||Mumbai Police book wedding venue at Chembur, 3 pubs in Andheri||Tilak Nagar police have booked the parents of the bride and groom, and the management of a wedding venue at Chembur for violating the rule of not having more than 50 people at any ceremony. The police registered a first information report (FIR) under sections 188 (disobeying the order of public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection) and 34 (common intention), of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) which stipulate imprisonment of up to six months, or a fine, or both, based on the complaint of the officials of the M-West ward Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation after they visited the gymkhana where a marriage ceremony was on. On Sunday, ward authorities acted on a tip-off about the wedding venue violating Covid-19 rules. According to civic officials, over 200 people were present at the venue of the ceremony. The officials also found that physical distancing norms were being flouted and many guests were not wearing masks properly. Senior inspector Sunil Kale from Tilak Nagar police station said, “On the basis of the complaint by the civic officials, an FIR has been registered against the gymkhana secretary, organisers, caterers and the family who had booked the gymkhana for the ceremony.” Prithviraj Chauhan, assistant commissioner of M-West ward, said, “The FIR was lodged against Chheda Nagar Gymkhana which was the organiser, and the parents of the bride and groom on Sunday night, for violating SOPs (standard operating procedures) of the marriage ceremony, such as conducting the ceremony without permission, allowing more than 200 people at the venue, not maintaining social distancing. Many people present there were also not wearing face masks.” Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had last week directed all the wards to conduct surprise inspections at at least five marriage and banquet halls each day to ensure that Covid-19 rules were being followed. He also directed ward officers to take action against bars, restaurants, cinema halls, violating Covid-19 rules. From Monday, Mumbai Police have been authorised to issue fines to citizens for not wearing masks. A police officer said that the department would be largely focusing on public places and large gatherings. Continuing its crackdown, BMC on Sunday filed police complaints against three Andheri-based pubs – Arbour, Illusion and Amethyst for violating Covid-19 rules, according to an FIR filed at Amboli police station. A senior civic official said, “The bars were open after 1.10am and were operating with over 50% occupancy. Many of the customers and staffers were not wearing masks. In one case, we noticed that the organisers were not checking the temperature of those entering the premises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-police-book-wedding-venue-at-chembur-3-pubs-in-andheri-101614023489771.html
23-02-2021||Mumbai||Spike in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra’s Vidarbha: Cause not clear||Even as Vidarbha region is reporting the highest number of Covid cases in the state, surpassing Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), state officials are clueless about the reason behind the sudden spike, which is similar to the July-September peak. The state is now awaiting reports from the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, to ascertain the type of strain, which may be an important factor. Earlier, there were reports that genome sequencing of Covid-19 samples has found E484K mutation in one sample in Amravati and N440K mutation in another sample in Yavatmal, which are foreign mutants. However, the state on February 19 denied it. In the past 12 days, the region has clocked 21,193 cases, which on an average comes to 1,766 cases a day. Since February 11, MMR has clocked 14,492 cases and its per-day average cases is 1,207. “We also don’t know reason why the cases are increasing specifically in Amravati division because laxity regarding Covid-appropriate behavior is seen everywhere in the state,” said Piyush Singh, divisional commissioner Amravati region, comprising Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal, Washim and Buldhana districts. In Vidarbha, Amravati division is more affected than Nagpur division, which comprises Nagpur, Wardha, Bhandara, Gondia, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli districts. Amravati, including both city and district, has never seen such a rise during the entire pandemic. On September 17, when the state reported its highest number of cases, 24,619, the district clocked 391 cases. However, on February 20, 21 and 22, it reported 1,055 cases, 926 cases and 649 cases respectively. The positivity rate of the district is 29.8.%. The local administrations in all districts of Amravati division have imposed a slew of restrictions that includes a week-long lockdown in Amravati city, starting Monday evening. “We have imposed restrictions on timing and activities. In containment zones, the rules are a bit stricter,” said the divisional commissioner. The state recently asked Dr Subhash Salunkhe, public health expert, who is also heading the communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee of the, state to visit a few districts and analyse the situation. He visited Amravati and Akola districts and made a presentation before the state. “One of the reasons was active transmission of cases. Although mutation is a normal phenomenon, it is not yet clear if it is a dangerous mutation. Only the NIV report can clear the air,” said Dr Salunkhe. “However, most of them are mild cases and case fatality rate (CFR) has also not gone up in the districts.” Shelesh Nawal, district collector, Amravati district, said they have sent some 50 samples to NIV and are expecting reports by next week. “We are trying to control the situation by the means of restrictions in activities and are also penalizing people for violations,” Nawal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-s-vidarbha-cause-not-clear-101614023129913.html
23-02-2021||Mumbai||Four in Mumbai arrested with drugs worth ₹60 lakh||In two separate operations, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and anti-narcotics cell (ANC) arrested four persons on Sunday and allegedly seized 3kg of charas and 2.613kg tramadol tablets, worth ₹60 lakh.The Mumbai zonal unit of NCB seized 4,824 tablets weighing 2.613kg (a commercial quantity) of tramadol tablets at a professional courier at Damji Shamji Industrial Estate in Kamani area, Kurla (West).The consignment was sent by Mohammad Anas who was traced to Delhi and arrested on Monday morning. During the investigation, NCB found that Anas had four previous cases registered against by the bureau, said Sameer Wankhede, zonal director, NCB.Tramadol is a psychotropic drug that is medically prescribed as a painkiller. It is a scheduled ‘H’ drug under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act and can only be dispensed under the prescription of a registered medical practitioner.Over the past few years, agencies have noticed that it has been abused as an intoxicating drug, due to which it was added to the schedule of psychotropic substances under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, in 2018.In the second operation, the Bandra unit of the ANC on Sunday evening arrested three drug suppliers from Kurar in Malad and allegedly seized 3kg of charas from their possession. The arrested accused were identified as Sonu Rampal Singh, 29, Amar alias Ramshiromani Yadav, 33, and Chandan Chaurasiya, 24. All three accused are residents of Appapada area in Malad (East). An ANC officer said the gang was active for more than two years and supplied charas to small drug peddlers in north Mumbai. They were also in touch with high-profile customers in Malad and Kandivli, said Datta Nalawade, deputy commissioner of police (ANC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/four-in-mumbai-arrested-with-drugs-worth-60-lakh-101614022829381.html
23-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai cyber police bust major online racket that duped 250K people nationwide||Over the past week, the city’s cybercrime police station has arrested four men for carrying out online fraud worth ₹4 crore and duping more than 250,000 people from across the country. The arrested accused are part of a gang that had created unauthorised mobile apps and websites using fake identification numbers. On the pretext of sanctioning loans under schemes named to resemble schemes launched by the Prime Minister, the accused lured people to pay processing fees. The online fraud came to light when Pune resident Suraj Sawle filed a complaint at the Mumbai cyber crime police station in January, saying unknown people were threatening him over the phone and demanding refunds. The police probe found that Sawle’s mobile number had been used by the accused on five fake mobile apps — named Pradhan Mantri Yojana Loan, PM Loan Yojana, PMYL Loan and Sarvottam Finance Loan Service — which promised loans with low rates of interest. In the name of loan processing fees, the fraudsters charged applicants ₹900 and ₹3,000 in two phases and then cut off all communication with them, said the police. Accused Sanjeev Kumar Singh, 36, was arrested on February 15 in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh while Pranjul Rathore, 27; Ramnivas Kumawat, 25; and Vivek Sharma, 42, were arrested in Jaipur on February 18. The arrested accused have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Information Technology (IT) Act. Police have seized 18 mobile phones, 10 hard discs, three routers and a pen drive from the gang’s offices in Aligarh and Jaipur. “The fraudsters had featured a photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the national emblem on the app and as a result, over 279,000 people registered for loans, and many paid the processing fees,” said Dr Rashmi Karandikar, deputy commissioner of police (cyber). The accused made the fake apps and three fake websites, which they created using fake Aadhaar cards, voters’ identity and PAN cards. Karandikar said that in order to carry out the online fraud, call centres were set up in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh, and Jaipur, Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-cyber-police-bust-major-online-racket-that-duped-250k-people-nationwide-101614022710802.html
23-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s St George Hospital concludes trial for Sputnik V vaccine||The government-run St George hospital completed the third phase of clinical trial of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine last week. So far, no adverse effect has been recorded among the volunteers who completed taking both the shots of the vaccine. In January, the hospital participated in the third phase of the clinical trial of the vaccine. Just like Covishield and Covaxin, Sputnik V also has two shots to be given 28 days apart. The hospital started the trial from January 20 under which they provided the first jab to 144 volunteers of which two developed mild fever. But none had any other severe health complications. Following this, the hospital started providing the second shot to the volunteers from last week. The process concluded on February 20. “All 144 volunteers who took the first shot participated in the trial. No one refused to take the second shot. In fact, no one has developed any kind of mild reactions,” said Dr Akash Khobragade, superintendent of the hospital. However, the hospital will keep following up with the volunteers for the next seven months to see if anyone develops any kind of adverse effect to the vaccine. The new analysis of data from 20,000 Phase-3 trial participants, published in the medical journal—The Lancet, claimed the vaccine provides more than 90% efficiency against Sars-Cov-2—the virus that causes Covid-19. After being vaccinated with Sputnik V, the body produces antibodies which are specially tailored to the coronavirus which helps the immune system to fight coronavirus when it encounters it for real. “Sputnik V is one of the three vaccines in the world with efficacy of over 90%,” reads the official website of the manufacturer. In November 2020, the hospital had also participated in the second phase of the clinical trial where around 18 volunteers enrolled. “For the third phase, we got very good responses from doctors. Around 25 of the volunteers were doctors from private hospitals,” he added.The vaccine was developed by Moscow’s Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology. The vaccine maintained over 91% efficacy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-st-george-hospital-concludes-trial-for-sputnik-v-vaccine-101614022709718.html
23-02-2021||Mumbai||Time to reactivate all quarantine centres: Mumbai civic body chief||To deal with the daily spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) chief Iqbal Singh Chahal, in a video conference with all ward officers, on Monday decided to restart all its deactivated quarantine facilities within a week. According to BMC officials, of the 70,518 beds available for isolation in quarantine facilities, 13,136 beds are currently active, 9,757 beds are buffer beds and the remaining are deactivated. In dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and centres, 7,915 of the 11,205 beds are vacant. In terms of ICU beds, 972 of the total 1,528 are vacant; 4,749 of the 6,174 oxygen beds and 596 of the 959 ventilators are vacant. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, had earlier told HT that all jumbo centres and makeshift hospitals in the city will remain activated until March 31, 2021. However, BMC officials on Monday said these facilities now may have to stay activated for a longer period. A BMC official who attended the meeting said, “There was no discussion on reopening of schools or colleges in the city, which means they will remain shut for now. Further, every ward officer has been asked to keep a close watch on restaurants, marriage halls, night clubs and bars. Every ward office already has a flying squad to check compliance, and levying of penalty and filing police cases has started since Friday. However, there might be restrictions in the coming days, if the spike is not brought under control.” Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday hinted at a lockdown after monitoring the situation for the next eight days. Last week, mayor Kishori Pednekar also hinted at a night curfew, if the spike is not brought under control. Apart from this, all deans of BMC hospitals were asked to ensure all medical accessories are stocked up, and representatives of private hospitals were also asked to ensure 80% of the total beds in their hospitals are reserved for Covid-19. Meanwhile, as of Sunday, the BMC levied a penalty on over 1.6 million citizens for not wearing a mask in public places and collected over ₹32 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/time-to-reactivate-all-quarantine-centres-mumbai-civic-body-chief-101614022349744.html
23-02-2021||Mumbai||₹15 crore worth mobile phones, watches, gold seized by Mumbai Customs||A team from Indian Customs seized high-end mobile phones and other undeclared goods worth ₹15 crore over the weekend which were being smuggled through the postal service.The seizures were made after officers were tipped off about illegal movements of the goods, which included gold, mobile phones, drones, smart-watches and cigarettes, which were smuggled via post by non-declaration of the items, thus evading the Customs and Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST). The rummaging &intelligence division of the Preventive Commissionerate (New Customs House) in Ballard Estate conducted an anti-smuggling operation and the first raid was conducted on February 18 at the MIDC post office in Andheri. Subsequent raids were conducted at Foreign Post Office (FPO) in Ballard Estate, and Air Parcel Sorting Office (APSO) at Vile Parle (East) on February 20 and 21.By the end of the raids, officers discovered that the names and addresses of the recipients of the consignments were fake. An officer close to the investigation said that the operation resulted in the seizure of 12 consignments from Chakala -MIDC post office, 26 from FPO and VDB, and five consignments from APSO. A total of around 180gm of gold, 1,470 mobile phones, 322 smart-watches, 64 drones, 41 Bluetooth earphones, 391 cigarette sleeves and 36 auto parts, collectively worth around ₹15 crore were found. “These were smuggled from Dubai. We are now investigating the case, to get the details,” said the officer.Sources from the Customs department said that since the number of passenger movements is low due to flying restrictions, smugglers seem to be choosing the least risky (as the addresses mentioned are fake) and lucrative mode to transport undeclared goods. “However, these goods undergo thorough checking before being cleared. Hence, the involvement of internal officers is being looked at,” said a source from the department. Alok Chopra, principal commissioner of customs, said, “Acting on specific intelligence, the operation was conducted, and seizures were made. While the operation is ongoing, based on intelligence inputs, we are looking forward to a few more seizures and learning the modus operandi used by the smugglers.”When asked if any Customs officer was involved, Chopra said, “It is too early to comment on this as the investigation is on. However, we will be looking at all the angles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/15-crore-worth-mobile-phones-watches-gold-seized-by-mumbai-customs-101614022229270.html
23-02-2021||Other||62-year-old ex-sarpanch held for raping 8-year-old in Palghar||Yeshwanant Thakre, 62, a former sarpanch of Manor gram panchayat was arrested by Manor police for allegedly raping an eight-year-old girl in his house on Monday.“The survivor had come to Thakre’s house to pluck berries and the accused lured her inside with chocolates. He then assaulted her,” said Vikas Nayak, deputy superintendent of police (DySP), Palghar.Hearing her screams, locals came to her rescue and hauled Thakre to the police station. The accused’s relatives came to the police station and alleged that Thakre had been falsely implicated as he is a political figure and former sarpanch. However, we registered a case under section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. He will be produced before the Palghar court on Tuesday,” said Nayak. Police have sent the survivor for a medical test and are awaiting the report to ascertain whether she was sexually assaulted, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/62yearold-ex-sarpanch-held-for-raping-8-year-old-in-palghar-101614021689359.html
23-02-2021||Patna||No fresh taxes in Bihar's multi-crore budget for FY ’21-22||Bihar's deputy chief minister Tar Kishore Prasad on Monday presented a budget worth ₹218,302 crore for the year 2021-22, which is ₹6,541 crore more than last year's budget estimate. This year the focus is on youth, women, agriculture, rural development, technical and skill education, and entrepreneurship development.Presenting his maiden budget, Prasad said the budget has a separate allocation of ₹4,671 crore for Bihar government's 'Seven Resolves (Part-2)' and promised the creation of over 20-lakh employment opportunities and development of skill centres and training institutes. In the 2020 Assembly election, joblessness had emerged as a big issue in Bihar.“It is a budget to add pace to Bihar’s inclusive growth story and take development to the next stage. In the year 2020-21, the expected crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic put the world economy under strain and Bihar was no exception. However, the way Bihar responded to the challenge at multiple levels despite its limited resources has resulted in the state barely registering around 536 active cases today. Though we still need to maintain utmost precaution,” he added.This estimated budget expenditure includes establishment and committed expenditure of ₹117,783 crore, which is ₹11,788 crore more than last year. The scheme expenditure is estimated at ₹100,518 crore, with a lion’s share of 21.94 per cent going to education, followed by 16.78 per cent to rural development, 7.31 per cent to rural works department, 8.19 per cent to social welfare and 6.93 per cent to the health department.Also read: UP allocates ₹479 crore in budget for madrasa modernisation schemePrasad said that a new department would be set up focussing on skill and entrepreneurship development. “It will include industrial training institutes (ITIs) and polytechnics and also incorporate entrepreneurship in the curriculum. Mega skill centres will be set up in every district. The youth will be encouraged to start their own enterprise and women will be given interest-free loan up to ₹5-lakh or 50 per cent of the project cost. A sum of ₹200-crore has been earmarked for the purpose,” he added.He said that the survey for the government’s resolve to ensure water to every farm in the next five years has been completed and a sum of ₹550 crore has been added for this purpose in this year’s budgetary allocation of agriculture, energy, minor irrigation and water resources departments.The deputy CM, who also holds the finance portfolio, said that the estimated fiscal deficit for 2021-22 was estimated to be ₹22,510 crore, which is 2.97 per cent of the gross state domestic product (GSDP). The receipt from the state’s resources is estimated to be around ₹40,555 crore, which is just around 18.5 per cent of the total estimated budget.However, economic experts feel that the government would find it difficult to match the estimated budgetary target, as it would depend heavily on the fiscal situation and intent of the Centre. Even in 2019-20, against the estimated budgetary estimate of ₹200,501 crore, the actual expenditure was much lower at 143,613 crore.“The situation could be even worse during 2020-21 when India was hit by Covid-19 pandemic. Therefore, the numbers need to be seen with caution,” said the expert who did not want to be quoted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/no-fresh-taxes-in-bihar-s-multi-crore-budget-for-fy-2122-101614021255397.html
23-02-2021||Other||Puducherry govt falls on brink of elections||V Narayanasamy resigned as Puducherry chief minister on Monday ahead of a floor test to prove that his party, the Congress, has a majority, throwing the Union Territory (UT) into a crisis, potentially just weeks before assembly elections are announced.Narayanasamy had looked set to lose the floor test. The Opposition, comprising the All India NR Congress and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), has a majority of 14 representatives, including three nominated MLAs representing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 33-member House. It is unlikely to stake a claim to form government, and President’s rule is imminent, opposition party leaders said.The Congress was jolted with six (five Congress and one Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam) legislators resigning in the run-up to the trust vote, ordered by the newly appointed Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Tamilisai Soundararajan after it was sought by the Opposition.When legislators occupied the assembly on Monday, there were seven vacancies in the 33-member (30 elected; 3 nominated) assembly. The government’s strength was 12, including two DMK MLAs, an independent legislator and speaker VP Sivakozhundu. The speaker votes only when there is a tie. There was no need for that, though.The collapse of the government means the Congress isn’t part of the government in any southern state or UT. Since 2019, the Congress has seen its governments collapse in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, largely on account of internal issues.In an hour-long speech on the floor of the assembly, Narayanasamy attacked the BJP-led Centre and recently ousted L-G Kiran Bedi for colluding with the Opposition and topping his government. “What is happening in Puducherry now is political prostitution, but the truth will prevail,” Narayanasamy said.Also Read | Congress needs to worry more about rebels than opponents in PuducherryNarayanasamy and his loyalists argued that the nominated members could not vote. Opposition MLAs were on their feet, drawing to their defence a Supreme Court ruling that interpreted the 1963 UT Act that allows nominated members the powers of elected MLAs.Soon after, Narayansamy and his 11 MLAs walked out. “We walked out as the Speaker refused to accept our contention that only elected members and not nominated MLAs have a right to vote,” said Narayanasamy, who then submitted his resignation to Soundararajan.Last Tuesday, amidst Congress MLAs resigning, Bedi was removed as L-G and Telangana governor Soundararajan was handed additional charge of Puducherry. Narayanasamy, who had been at odds with Bedi since 2016, had appealed to the President to recall her and rejoiced at her removal. But senior BJP leaders in the Capital said at the time that they didn’t want a seemingly partisan person to be L-G when President’s rule seemed imminent.Puducherry BJP president V Samithan said that while no move was discussed so far to stake claim to form the government, the party’s national leadership will take a decision.Former chief minister and opposition leader N Rangasamy, visibly happy as he walked out of the assembly, said the government lost “because they didn’t deliver on their promises but they are blaming the Centre”. He, too, said that the next course of action will soon be discussed.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to visit Puducherry on February 25 to inaugurate government projects and will later head to Tamil Nadu’s Coimbatore district to participate in a BJP rally in the state, which will also go to the polls shortly.Analysts say that polls in Puducherry may be delayed and will not be held alongside Tamil Nadu and three other states. “BJP government will want the President’s rule to go on for at least six months so they can build their base,” said political commentator Maalan Narayanan. “Administratively, through the L-G, they will roll out development projects and restart projects that were stalled. Politically, they will weaken the Congress further, (perhaps) use Modi’s visit to poach more MLAs. Rangasamy may want early elections hoping to be chief minister because he wouldn’t like to be dependent on the nominated (BJP) MLAs.”DMK chief MK Stalin called the elected government’s fall a “murder of democracy”. He said his party will move court if the BJP tries to delay polls in the UT.“In the coming elections people will punish the Opposition who used the three nominated MLAs (of the BJP) to topple our government,” Narayansamy told reporters.Samithan responded: “He lost because his MLAs resigned. What do our nominated MLAs have to do with it?”On Sunday, Congress MLA K Lakshminarayanan and DMK MLA K Venkatesan resigned. On Monday, the DMK suspended Venkatesan. Since late January, four other Congress MLAs — including former ministers A Namassivayam and Malladi Krishna Rao — have quit, while another party legislator was disqualified for anti-party activities last year.Namassivayam and another MLA have joined the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/puducherry-govt-falls-on-brink-of-elections-101614021223563.html
23-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police arrest 6 school drop-outs for duping 450 job aspirants across India||An ongoing investigation has revealed that a fake job racket that duped more than 450 people was run by six school drop-outs. On January 11, Mumbai Police’s crime branch raided the office of Mumbai Sri Consultancy in Malad (West), which was a fraud recruitment agency that promised foreign jobs to applicants. It was run by Mainuddin Musuruddin Shaikh, 44; Sapurid Shaikh Shamsuddin Shaikh, 34; Moinuddin Goldar Aminuddin Goldar, 34; Jayantkumar Panchanan Mandal, 38; Abdul Hasim Shaikh Ajadul Islam, 33; and Tarak Manoranjan Mondal, 32, who were arrested following the raid. The six, all from West Bengal, are school drop-outs. They had been running offices in Kolkata and Mumbai and had duped job applicants from across the country. Mainuddin is believed to have been the mastermind of the gang. The police believe the Mumbai office was set up last year on the advice of Sapurid, who lived in Malwani and had previously worked with a travel agency in Wadala. Initially, they had an office in Kolkata, which they shut down in February. A case was registered against Mainuddin and his associates in West Bengal in March 2020. After closing the Kolkata office, the plan had been to set up the Mumbai office in March 2020, but the lockdown forced them to delay their move. Eventually, they rented an office in a mall in Malad in September 2020. Inspector Sanjeev Gavade of Mumbai Police’s crime branch said that Mumbai Sri Consultancy had hired two people as office workers and issued advertisements declaring several vacancies in a Russia-based firm called Enka & Euretek. In the advertisements, Mainuddin gave his mobile number. “Their modus operandi was to contact job aspirants from outside the state where they would set shop and not entertain any locals from the same city or state in which they set up office,” said Gavade. Applicants would be asked to send their passports and pay between ₹80,000 and ₹125,000 for services such as visa processing and plane tickets. Between November 2020 and January this year, the accused had collected money and passports from around 200 people from different states, under the pretext of providing them jobs in Russia. Mainuddin and his associates advertised their services through WhatsApp and on employment websites. Mumbai Police’s crime branch got a tip-off about the gang in early January and sent a decoy to obtain information. When the decoy asked questions about their Mumbai operations, the gang members asked him to leave and approach another agency. Following this, Gavade and his team raided the office on January 11 and recovered 250 original passports of various people outside Maharashtra and fake offer letters, a computer, laptop and mobile phones. The six arrested accused have been charged with cheating, forgery and using forged documents. HT spoke to some victims of this fraud, many of whom have prior experience of working abroad. Meghnath Duhudi, for instance, had worked as an electrician in Dubai for two years. Similarly, Manish Gupta had worked as a crane operator in Saudi Arabia. Another victim, Srikant Nayak, 40, is a resident of Behrampur in Orissa and had worked for 12 years in Abu Dhabi, in fabrication work. All of them have acquaintances who fell for the fraud. “Around 20 people I know have given their passports to Mainuddin for jobs and all have deposited ₹80,000 each,” said Nayak. All the submitted passports will be returned to their rightful owners on February 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-arrest-6-school-drop-outs-for-duping-450-job-aspirants-across-india-101614021389375.html
23-02-2021||City||Odisha presents ₹1.7 lakh cr budget with focus on agriculture, health||Odisha finance minister Niranjan Pujari on Monday presented the state budget for 2021-22 with an outlay of ₹1,70,000 crore, about 26 per cent higher than the previous year, with a focus on agriculture, healthcare and heritage even as Covid-19 affected its revenue receipts.The budget projects a revenue surplus of 2,336 crore, almost one-fourth of the revenue surplus that it had in 2020-21 FY while the fiscal deficit was below the FRBM limit of 3.5 per cent of the gross state domestic product (GSDP).“The outlay is proposed to be financed mainly through revenue receipts of ₹1,25,600 crore and gross borrowing and other receipts amounting to ₹44,400 crore. Total revenue receipts for the year 2021-22 include state’s own tax of ₹37,500 crore, own non-tax revenue amounting to ₹20,000 crore, state’s share in central taxes of ₹30,137 crore, and grants from the Centre, including GST compensation to the tune of ₹37,963 crore," said Pujari in his budget speech.With farm protests still raging around northern India and panchayat polls less than a year away, the budget kept its focus on agriculture, allocating ₹17,469 crore for agriculture and allied activities, up from ₹11,911 crore in 2020-21.The allocation includes ₹1,800 crore for Krushak Assistance for Livelihood and Income Augmentation scheme, ₹819 crore has been sanctioned towards interest subvention on crop loans to co-operative and commercial banks, ₹454 crore towards subsidy, ₹106 crore for Odisha Millet Mission, ₹1,415 crore for fisheries & animal resources development sector, and ₹137 crore for development of brackish water aquaculture, marine fisheries, intensive aquaculture, and inland fisheries.Also read: UP allocates ₹479 crore in budget for madrasa modernisation schemeSimilarly, the allocation for healthcare was up by 19 per cent over previous years with a budgeted expenditure of ₹9,164 crore. While ₹1,353 crore was provisioned for Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana for free medical facilities with coverage up to ₹5 lakh per family in case of male members and up to ₹10 lakh per family in case of female beneficiaries, ₹500 crore was allocated to convert SCB Medical College into “AIIMS Plus Institute” to provide world-class healthcare facilities. Similarly, ₹1,572 crore was allocated under Mukhyamantri Swasthya Seva Mission for building health infrastructure and services.Keeping its focus on heritage, the government allocated ₹542 crore in the coming fiscal to transform Puri into a world heritage city while ₹200 crore each for the Lingaraj and Samaleswari temple development. For drinking water supply, the budget allocated a massive investment of ₹12,000 crore for piped drinking water supply projects while it allocated ₹7,618 crore for building new roads, bridges, improvement of existing roads and bridges as well as highway development programme.A corpus of ₹500 crore has been created to facilitate timely payment of wages under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Guarantee Act pending receipt of Central assistance for the wage component. Around ₹29,063 crore has been allocated under the tribal and the SC sub-components.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik said the budget was pro-people, pro-growth and transformative.“Most of last year, we lost in Covid lockdowns. From that scenario to present a holistic, fiscally prudent budget is nothing short of brilliant,” said Patnaik.The finance minister said after a contraction in the current year, robust economic growth is expected to support improved revenue growth in the coming year. "Odisha’s two largest revenue sources are its share of centralgovernment revenue and its revenue. In 2019-20 they amounted to 70 per cent of total revenue. Mining revenue is also subject to fluctuations in global demand. There is still uncertainty around goods and services tax compensation given the recent economic slowdown. Despite these negative revenue shocks, state revenue is expected to grow by about 10 per cent over the medium term," he said.The finance minister said in the current year, the short-term expenditure priority has been to design and implementimmediate responses to the Covid-19 crisis. "Amid the shortfall in tax revenue against the budget estimate, the state government has undertaken some expenditure rationalisation measures to cut down spending in the short-term but is budgeting for increased expenditure over the medium term," said Pujari."The total spending is projected to increase from 24.01 per cent of GSDP in FY 2019-20 to 29.01 per cent in FY 2021-22. Working with limited resources, and guided by the need to ensure sustainable public finances, the state is placing a greater focus on strategic sectors such as health, education, social security, livelihood security, employment generation and support for economic recovery," he added.The finance minister said despite Covid-19 affecting revenue, Odisha's revenue is expected to grow modestly by 5.5 per cent. "The slower growth is the combined result of the falloff in economic activity as a result of the Covid-19 lockdown and a decline in the state’s share of central taxes. A lower share in Central taxes is anticipated as a result of updated demographic data being used in the calculation of states’ share, and uncertainty in GST compensation. As the economy expands over the medium term, revenue is expected to recover to pre-pandemic levels, reaching 21 per cent of GSDP in FY 2021-22," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odisha-presents-rs-1-7-lakh-cr-budget-with-focus-on-agriculture-health-101614020239198.html
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Golf Club to host Samarvir Sahi Championship||More than 100 golfers from across India will be taking part in the 21st edition of the four-day Samarvir Sahi Amateur Golf Championship which will begin at the Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC) greens from Tuesday. As many as 20 local amateur golfers will be competing in the Indian Golf Union (IGU)-backed championship, including Chandigarh’s Sunny, defending champion and caddie-turned golfer. Rajvir Singh, president of IGU, said, “This championship has been an integral part of the IGU annual calendar since 2000. We have seen renowned golfers like Khalin Joshi, Gaganjeet Bhullar, Rashid Khan and Anirban Lahiri clinch the trophy in the past. It is a great chance for the participants to showcase their skills.” “Chandigarh Golf Club course is one of the best in India. It provides the best challenging tracks, bunkers and trees for the competition. It is not easy to maintain such a course after the winter season. This championship consistently attracts more than 100 golfers from states like Mysore, Bengaluru, Pune and Haryana every year,” said Paramjit Singh, director of IGU. The championship is conducted in the memory of late golfer Samarvir Sahi, who passed away in 1994.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-golf-club-to-host-samarvir-sahi-championship-101614020971446.html
23-02-2021||Mumbai||No new Covid-19 deaths in Mumbai for first time in 11 months||Mumbai on Monday reported zero deaths due to Covid-19, its first such day since March 31, 2020, according to data from the state health department. Maharashtra added 5,210 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking its total to 2,106,094 and alarmingly, pushing its active case count to 53,113.India’s financial capital reported its first Covid-19 death on March 17, 2020, six days after its first case. As of Monday, Mumbai has reported 11,446 deaths. Mumbai’s mortality rate went from around 6% in June 2020 to 4% in January 2021, followed by 3.58% in February 2021, which civic officials attribute to early treatment and detection. Mumbai has seen 319,889 Covid-19 cases, followed by 301,593 recoveries at a recovery rate of 94.28%. There are 5,986 active infections in the city.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “The mortality rate has gone down in the city as there is a proper system in place and also citizens have better awareness about the virus one year down the line. Due to better treatment, tracing and awareness among citizens, the mortality rate has gone down.”Meanwhile, a day after Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned citizens to follow Covid-19 protocol or risk a lockdown, the health department and district authorities have already swung in action to tackle the increase in cases. Some districts such as Nagpur imposed stringent restrictions on the movement of people, including shutting markets, schools and colleges, among others, to break the chain of transmission, while not affecting daily economic activities.The state added 18 fatalities due to Covid-19 on Monday to push the toll to 51,806. Of the 18 deaths reported, six occurred in the past 48 hours and nine in the past week. The remaining three deaths were from the period before last week. Mumbai topped in the state by recording 761 fresh cases on Monday, followed by Nagpur city (643), Amravati city (555) and Pune city (336). Maharashtra, which is witnessing a resurgence of cases, recorded over 6,000 infections daily for the past three days. The active caseload in the state has shot up significantly in Akola, Amravati, Nagpur, Pune, Mumbai and Thane districts. State health department officials attributed the rise to multiple factors, including laxity in Covid-appropriate behaviour, colder weather, possible mutation of the virus in the Vidarbha region, local village body elections, and social programmes such as wedding and other events.As per the data, Akola’s active cases have gone up by 145% between February 15 and 22. The active cases on February 15 were 809, which rose to 1,981 on Monday. Amravati district too saw a jump of almost 75% between the same period. The active cases in Amravati district were 3090 on February 15, which rose to 5,404 on Thursday.State surveillance officer, Dr Pradeep Awate, said that besides faster transmission and cold weather that is conducive for increasing viral activity, the laxity and increasing movement of people could have lead to an increase of cases in the state. “There have been functions, get-togethers, weddings with 500-1000 attendees happening. In January we had elections of over 14,000 Gram Panchayats where the turnout was 80%. The movements of people have increased, coupled with lack of covid-appropriate behaviour, it has led to an increase.”Mumbai reported a jump of 45.29% in its active caseload between February 15 and 22. The vast Thane district, which has five municipal corporations and a substantial rural belt, has seen an increase in active cases by 26.5% during the same period. Authorities said that cases have gone up due after local train services were allowed made available to the general public since February 1. Kakani told reporters that so far there are no signs of a night curfew being implemented in Mumbai. However, public response to Thackeray’s appeal to the state to follow masking, sanitisation and physical distancing needs to be adhered to.Kakani said that the BMC took stock of the preparedness in the city with laboratories, private hospitals, civic hospital, jumbo centres etc. “The availability of beds is at 75% now. We took stock of labs, jumbo facilities, private hospitals and have decided to maintain preparedness that was there in September 2020 [when Maharashtra reached its peak]. The laboratories have been directed to turn in reports within 24 hours. They must ensure proper contact details with pin code is mentioned so that tracing patient does not take more time,” Kakani said.Nagpur district recorded an increase of active cases by nearly 62%. It had 4,429 active cases on February 15, which rose to 7,167 on Thursday. Nagpur city on Thursday reported 643 new cases, while its rural areas reported 130 fresh cases.The rise in cases prompted the district administration to introduce stringent measures to get control the spread. Nitin Raut, guardian minister of the district, who took stock of the situation in the district, said that they are putting strict rules in the district instead of a lockdown.Raut said, “Looking at the rising Covid cases, these measures are taken include shitting all weekly markets till March 7. Similarly, all schools, colleges and coaching classes will remain shut till March 7. All markets will remain closed on the weekends. Hotel and restaurants have permission to operate at 50% capacity but till 9 pm. All religious, social, and political too will not be allowed till March 7. Besides that, we have asked wedding venues, including marriage halls and open lawns, to remain shut between February 25 and March 7.”He added that the Covid centres in the district have been directed to remain alert. He said that testing in the district has increased.Meanwhile, Maharashtra is inching closure to the landmark of inoculating 1,000,000 beneficiaries. On Monday, the state inoculated additional 57,367 beneficiaries across 823 centres, including 21,185 healthcare workers (HCWs), who received their second dose of the vaccine. Overall, the state has vaccinated 983,830 beneficiaries. On Monday, 25,235 frontline workers (FLWs) were also vaccinated.In Mumbai, 10,556 beneficiaries were inoculated on Monday. The BMC achieved 93% of the expected turnout. Of the ones vaccinated 6,706 were FLWs, 1,086 HCWs received their first dose, while 2,764 beneficiaries received their second shot on Monday, the BMC data revealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-new-covid-19-deaths-in-mumbai-for-first-time-in-11-months-101614020926213.html
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||Fresh hostel allotment begins at Panjab University||In fresh hostel allotment that began at Panjab University (PU) for the first time after the lockdown, 20 PhD scholars were provided accommodation on campus on Monday.Earlier, only those PhD scholars and MPhil students who were earlier residing in hostels were allowed to return.Last week, the varsity had decided to provide hostel accommodation to PhD students who were enrolled/registered before the lockdown (March 23, 2020). PU has also allowed final-year students of various courses, governed by different regulatory bodies, to return.Response bleak on Day 1Not many PhD scholars, however, showed up on the first day of hostel allotment, and the response is expected to increase in the coming days.Many PhD scholars, who were enrolled before lockdown but were not able to get hostel accommodation, were waiting for the varsity to start fresh allotment. Many PhD students of the varsity were also residing at rented accommodations in the peripheral areas of the varsity.A PhD scholar, on the condition of anonymity, said, “I was enrolled before the lockdown and I have been living in a rented accommodation since August last year.”PU has still not started hostel allotment for students of new batches of various undergraduate and postgraduate courses; newly-enrolled PhD scholars, too, have been asked to wait.Dean student welfare (women) professor Sukhbir Kaur said, “All standard operating procedures related to Covid-19 will be strictly followed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fresh-hostel-allotment-begins-at-panjab-university-101614020918083.html
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||Former EPFO official gets 4-year jail for graft in Chandigarh||Stating that the conduct of the convict was “highly deplorable”, the special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court, Chandigarh, on Monday awarded four-year imprisonment to a former enforcement officer of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), Sector 17, who was held guilty in a bribery case. A fine of ₹50,000 was also imposed on him.The CBI had arrested Manmohan Gilhotra in April 2015 for accepting ₹15,000 as bribe from a private firm based in Baltana, Zirakpur. According to the chargesheet, Gilhotra demanded the money from the firm’s chief administrative officer after threatening to conduct raids at his office.Last week, court held him guilty under Sections 7 and 13 (1)(d), pertaining to public servant taking gratification and criminal misconduct, of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The quantum of sentence was pronounced on Monday.In court, Gilhotra, 45, pleaded that he is a first offender and has two school-going daughters and a family to look after. Pleading for leniency, he said that on account of the conviction, his services would be terminated by the government and would not get any service benefits. Public prosecutor KP Singh argued that in order to check rampant corruption in public life, it is the need of the hour to give an exemplary punishment to a public servant found indulging in corrupt practices.Stating that “corruption is worse than prostitution”, Sushil Kumar Garg, special judge, CBI, ruled: “The latter might endanger morals of an individual, the former invariably endangers morals of the entire country... There are still those of us who work to overcome corruption and believe it to be possible. The world will not be destroyed by those who do evil, but by those who watch them without doing anything.”The judge observed that “the conduct of accused-convict is highly deplorable” and “any softness in this regard could produce an undesirable result, namely encouragement to adoption of corrupt means by public servants which has indeed to be checked, and not allowed to be increased”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-epfo-official-gets-4-year-jail-for-graft-in-chandigarh-101614020670563.html
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University to have hi-res cameras at all six gates||Panjab University has initiated the process of installing high-resolution cameras at the campus gates to record the images of visitors and number plates of the vehicle. The cameras will replace the present ones which are of low resolution, and will be installed at six gates in Sectors 14 and 25. The matter was under consideration for the last few years and a committee was also constituted to make suggestions. Several rounds of meetings were held for the implementation of this project.Chief of university security Ashwani Koul said: “These cameras will allow us to detect vehicles and visitors in a better way. They will be useful in maintaining law and order on the campus.”According to the plan, two cameras will be installed at each gate and will be operational day and night.The National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) team during its last visit to PU in 2015 had also recommended that the campus security needs to be strengthened.Last month, the varsity had also asked the departments where heritage furniture was available to install CCTV cameras on the premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-to-have-hi-res-cameras-at-all-six-gates-101614020669121.html
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||Dumping ground fire chokes Chandigarh||Even as the fire department had earlier claimed to have brought under control the blaze that erupted at the Dadumajra dumping ground on Sunday afternoon, it kept smouldering on Monday, emanating thick plumes of smoke that were carried across the city by winds, causing inconvenience to residents. According to officials, it will take at least another day to douse the fire completely.While people in northern and western sectors woke up to a hazy morning, those residing in the south-east corner of the city, as far as in Sectors 48 and 49, also complained of difficulty in breathing due to smoke in the air. However, the Air Quality Index (AQI) did not show any unusual rise at any of the observatories in the city, according to Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee member secretary Debendra Dalai. At the monitoring station in Sector 25, which is located close to the dumping site and gives continuous data, AQI stayed at 125, as per the daily bulletin. Even in the previous days, it was staying in the 100-200 range, which comes under the moderate bracket. The highest value of PM 2.5 was recorded at 157 during the day. “Though there was lesser smoke on Monday as compared to Sunday, there was a cover of haze and white ash was also seen falling,” said Pankaj Gupta, president of the resident welfare association in Sector 38 West, which is located next to the dumping ground.Surinder Sharma, president, RWA, Sector 15, said: “Besides smoke, we could feel the foul smell as well. The administration needs to do something to address this problem.” Jatinder Mehta, vice-president, RWA, Sector 49, said: “There was a layer of smoke in the morning, and it smelled foul as well. However, later, the smoke dissipated.”Winds, methane at landfill fuel fireThe fire had been controlled in the morning, but as winds started blowing, they made the things worse, said a fire official who visited the spot. “As the fire erupted near a landfill, methane gas emanating from there kept fuelling it. We were putting sand to douse the flames, but winds kept blowing it away and made the fire spread further,” he said, adding that the things are likely to be brought under control by Tuesday.Fires frequently break out Dadumajra dumping site, which has around five lakh tonnes of legacy waste. A similar fire in October 2020 had put residents to inconvenience for days, with many complaining of irritation in eyes and throat. Amardeep Singh, president, RWA, Sector 39B, said, “Living in close proximity to the dumping site, we are fed up with the fires. An inquiry needs to be conducted to find the reasons and rule out any foul play.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dumping-ground-fire-chokes-chandigarh-101614020549484.html
23-02-2021||Mumbai||Sachiin Joshi remanded in judicial custody in ₹87-crore money laundering case||Businessman and actor Sachiin Joshi, who was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on February 14 for his alleged involvement in a ₹87-crore money laundering case, has been remanded in judicial custody by a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Monday.ED officers on Monday informed the court that the actor has not provided the required information regarding laundering proceeds of crime and sought further custody for seven days. However, the defence lawyer opposed it, saying nothing new has emerged in the ED’s investigation. Special PMLA judge Abhijeet Nandgaonkar refused to extend Joshi’s ED custody and remanded him to 14 days of judicial custody.The ED told the court that Joshi has set up companies in Dubai and also has some properties in Dubai. The agency said it wants to confront him with documents related to the same.“On this point itself when the source of money to be layered which alleged to be processed of crime can be traced by way of documented and statements recorded. But I do not think for this purpose further custody of the applicant (Joshi) is required,” the special judge observed while rejecting plea of ED for Joshi’s further custody.ED’s investigations has so far revealed that the loans availed by Omkar Group from Yes Bank were diverted and Joshi, son of Gutkha baron JM Joshi, had helped Omkar Group promoters in diversion of at least ₹87 crore.Joshi’s name came to the fore when the anti-money laundering agency was scanning documents seized during the search and seizure operation carried out at the premises of Omkar Developers last month. ED found certain documents related to payments to the tune of ₹87 crore to certain outside entities (Viikings Group of companies owned by Joshi). During initial investigation, ED confronted Babulal Varma and Kamal Kishore Gupta, both previously arrested by the agency, about these documents. Varma and Gupta said these payments were made for slum evacuation and slum rehabilitation services for certain Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) projects and a part of it was investment. However, the claim later turned out to be incorrect.ED said the funds were received by Joshi and his companies from various firms of Omkar Group. Part of the funds was shown as investment and part is shown as received against rendering of services.When questioned about funds received as investment, Joshi said the same was sent for development of land near Pune. However, no definitive agreement is entered between Omkar Group and Viiking Group with respect to such a huge investment, ED said.“It is very surprising that an amount of ₹48 crore is shown as an investment, but except for simple term sheet dated March 15, 2019, no definite agreement is made. On analysing the actual utilisation of the funds, it shows that the said funds were utilised for various purposes such as repayment of loans, various expenses etc. However, no expense is seen to be incurred towards the stated purpose of investment,” ED stated in their remand application.When ED confronted Joshi about it, he said it was a verbal agreement between the promoters of Omkar group and him that till the full payment is received, he can use the received funds as per his needs.“The said reply of the accused is clearly evasive and does not reflect the true nature of transaction. It appears that the said term sheet of investment is simply used to disguise the real intention of diversion of funds received from Omkar Group of companies and park these funds on behalf of the promoters of Omkar Group. It can be seen that any prudent business transaction would involve definite black and white agreement about investment/utilisation of such huge funds,” ED added.Investigations regarding the funds received against various invoices raised by the accused has shown that the purpose mentioned in the said invoices were for facilitating settlement of non-eligible tenants and possession of constructed rehabilitation units, help in getting consents from society, slum dwellers, committee members, brokerage towards land deal, etc. However, when Joshi was interrogated about whether any such services were actually rendered, he said no slum rehabilitation work was done by him. He, however, added that he was involved in facilitation with Omkar Group, where Omkar Group was to use his name and brand name in order to rehabilitate the tenants/settle with the tenants.“This reply of the accused is devoid of any truth and thus evasive. Use of brand name and/or goodwill for settlement of non-eligible tenants appears to be very far-fetched in light of the fact that neither the accused nor his companies had ever done any SRA project or SRA-related works. He himself stated that actual work was done by persons of Omkar Group. Thus, for no actual work done or no actual services rendered, the invoices were raised and funds were diverted in the name of expenses,” ED had submitted before the court previously. ED’s previous remand application stated that after perusing cash flows of Omkar Realtors & Developers Pvt Ltd for various years, it is observed that there are huge inter-company transactions with group companies including companies from which funds have been transferred to Joshi and his companies.It is established that loans availed from Yes Bank have been diverted, and Joshi has helped promoters of Omkar Group in diversion of at least ₹87 crore, ED stated.Joshi was charged for money-laundering under sections 3 and 4 of PMLA, 2002.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachiin-joshi-remanded-in-judicial-custody-in-87-crore-money-laundering-case-101614020489045.html
23-02-2021||Mumbai||Minor electrocuted at Airoli near Mumbai||A boy, aged around 12, died of electrocution after the iron ladder he was playing with came in contact with a high-tension wire at Airoli on Monday morning. The deceased begged for a living, the police said. Rabale police registered an accidental death case. According to police, a four-pole iron ladder was brought to that area for some repairing work of a shop on the ground floor of a building at sector 7, Airoli. Yogesh Gawde, senior inspector of Rabale police station, said, “After finishing their work on Sunday evening, the workers had kept the ladder with rubber wheels at a safe place. The CCTV footage from that area shows that around 8.52am on Monday, the boy started playing around the ladder. At one point, he unknowingly pushed the ladder towards the overhead high tension wire. He was electrocuted as soon as that ladder came in contact with the 11KV high-tension wire.” “The boy was not wearing any footwear, hence the electricity flow got connected to earth through his body. The boy was burnt and died on the spot,” said an official from Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL). Gawde said, “Our investigations are on and if we find anyone at fault, we will register an FIR against him or her. We have come to know that the boy would beg in that area to earn his livelihood. So far, no one has come to claim the body and we are unable to trace his family members.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/minor-electrocuted-at-airoli-near-mumbai-101614020369021.html
23-02-2021||Mumbai||Indrani Mukerjea has no severe ailments: Prison authorities to Bombay HC||Responding to Indrani Mukerjea’s claim in the Bombay high court (HC) that she suffered from neurological issues and the same aggravated while in prison, the prison authorities on Monday submitted medical report stating that her condition was stable. The authorities further added that Mukerjea, the main accused in Sheena Bora murder case, did not suffer from any severe ailments which cannot be treated within the prison. The report was submitted in connection with the bail application filed by Mukerjea who is lodged in Byculla women’s prison. The court, while adjourning the hearing to Tuesday, directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to file an affidavit in reply to the application within March 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/indrani-mukerjea-has-no-severe-ailments-prison-authorities-to-bombay-hc-101614020129519.html
23-02-2021||Pune||Three booked under Black Magic Act after 8-month pregnant woman and her baby die in Pune||PUNE: Three of a family were booked by the Pune rural police under the Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act, 2013, for causing the death of an eight-month pregnant woman and her child by taking her to a godman instead of a hospital when she started experiencing pain. The deceased was identified as Deepali Mahesh Bidkar (23) of Shilim village of Lonavla, according to a statement issued by Andhashradha Nirmoolan Samiti (ANiS) - an organisation started by slain rationalist Dr Narendra Dabholkar. A complaint was lodged by Deepali’s brother Santosh Ashok Magar. Among the accused are the woman’s husband, and both his parents. “The pregnant woman was taken to a godman in the village by her husband and his parents. The baby and the 23-year-old mother, both died because of it,” said Milind Deshmukh, Pune head of ANiS. A case under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and the Black Magic Act was registered at Lonavla rural police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-booked-under-black-magic-act-after-8-month-pregnant-woman-and-her-baby-die-in-pune-101614020128335.html
23-02-2021||Other||Film City DPR submitted, ₹10,500 crore needed for development||The Film City projected proposed at Greater Noida sector 21 will require around ₹10,500 crore, according to the draft detailed project report (DPR).The DPR was presented to the Yamuna expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) on Monday. The authority will now study it and send it to the state government in a week’s time. “We will study and discuss as to how much land allocation for a particular facility was made in the DPR (and add our suggestions). Then it wil be sent to the state government for their suggestions on the financials. After that we will make changes and finalise it,” said Arun Vir Singh chief executive officer of Yeida.Officials quoted from the 2000-page DPR that suggested mixed-land use -- residential, commercial, institutional and recreational --- will attract investment from international investors.The DPR has also spoken on the three proposed models -- public-private partnership (PPP), the authority alone, or another single developer -- to develop the project. “We will study to ascertain if the PPP model will be financially more viable. We will go by the state government’s directions on the model to give opportunity to create world-class facilities for filmmakers,” said Singh.On September 18 last year, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced the development of the Film City project that will provide the platform to encompass all aspects of filmmaking -- related with script, music, writing, editing and production -- under one roof. Subsequently, Yeida offered 1,000 acres located only 6 km from the upcoming Noida International Airport and 12 km from the Eastern Peripheral Expressway.On December 14, 2020, Yeida hired CBRE South Asia Private Limited as the consultant for the project to prepare the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/film-city-dpr-submitted-10-500-crore-needed-for-development-101614018929194.html
23-02-2021||Other||Ludhiana school that evaded property tax to tune of ₹57 lakh to now pay ₹1.5 crore||After the management of Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar, failed to submit pending property tax of ₹1.15 crore, a team of the municipal corporation (MC) went to the school on Monday to issue a warning. The school authorities submitted ₹18 lakh to the MC and sought time till Wednesday to pay the remaining amount.After receiving a complaint that the school management was evading property tax, MC officials looked into the matter and found that the school had filed property tax returns for three years under the self-occupied category. But the school had been paying rent for the property in crores. The building owner or the tenant has to pay 7.5% of the annual rent as property tax, but in case of schools, 50% exemption is provided by the department. It was found that the school management has evaded tax amounting to over ₹57 lakh by filing tax return under the wrong category. As per the tax evasion norms, a violator has to pay 100% penalty on the amount evaded. So the MC served a notice for recovery of ₹1.5 crore on the school on January 7.MC superintendent Rajeev Bhardwaj said, “The school authorities were delaying the payment following which we issued a warning that the civic body will initiate sealing proceedings if the dues are not cleared. The management has paid ₹18 lakh and assured that the rest of the amount will be paid by Wednesday.”Zonal commissioner Kulpreet Singh led the team of officials. The MC team also recovered ₹10 lakh from the management of a bank in Kochar market area, which was caught evading tax recently. The MC officials said the bank authorities have to pay ₹20 lakh as tax, including penalty, and they have assured that pending ₹10 lakh will be paid by March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-school-that-evaded-property-tax-to-tune-of-rs-57-lakh-to-now-pay-rs-1-5-crore-101614018928789.html
23-02-2021||Noida||UP cabinet approves 700 acres for Electronic City project near Jewar airport||The Uttar Pradesh cabinet on Monday approved a 700-acre Electronic City project near the upcoming Noida International Airport.The first-of-its-kind project in the national capital region (NCR) is expected to help the state create a hub of electronics system design and manufacturing sector together with multiple incentives.The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) in 2020 sought the approval for the project proposed in sector 7, adjacent to the airport and along the expressway that connects Greater Noida and Agra.“It is a matter of extremely happiness that the UP government in its annual budget has approved the project paving way for further operations to begin at the ground. Now we will ready the land and allot the same to interested companies willing to set up businesses here,” said Arun Vir Singh chief executive officer of the Yeida.The authority has not yet set a deadline for the project or estimated cost for the project. That, officials say, will be known once detailed project report (DPR) is prepared.“Other modalities will be worked out. We have to prepare a detailed project report and also finalise the floor area ratio that will be allowed within the sector,” said Singh.Apart from IT industry services, outsourcing and research and development, the focus will be on attracting small, medium and big hardware manufacturers to the site due to its proximity to Dadri where multiple freight corridors and logistics hub are planned. The region is likely to shape up as a prime export and import centre and manufacturers will find it convenience to operate from this region.Among the incentives that the state government will offer will be subsidy on interest and capital payment, common infrastructure development, tax reimbursement and up to 100% exemption from stamp duty, among others.In 2018, Yeida had planned the project in sector 33 and had earmarked 103 acres. Now, that land will be used for a Toy City project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-cabinet-approves-700-acres-for-electronic-city-project-near-jewar-airport-101614018808277.html
23-02-2021||Noida||GB Nagar administration enlists 4.25 lakh beneficiaries for phase-3 vaccination||On the basis of latest electoral roll, the Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad district administrations have prepared a list of beneficiaries for the third phase of Covid-19 vaccinations expected to begin in March. The third phase will administer the first dose for people over 50 years or those suffering from comorbidities.While Gautam Budh Nagar has identified over 424,500 such people, while Ghaziabad said it had a list of over 616,000 people.GB Nagar chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Deepak Ohri, said that the list was made in compliance of the instructions from the state government. “Everyone who has completed 50 years have been include in the list of beneficiaries enlisted for the third phase, irrespective of any co-morbidity. For accuracy, we decided to tally it with the latest electoral roll in the district. As soon as the dates of vaccination for these beneficiaries will be announced by the government, the district health officials will begin the process of registration, in which the addresses and mobile numbers of the beneficiaries will be updated,” he said. “To increase the turnout during inoculation, we have made a proposal to the state government, to increase the sessions to thrice in a week from the existing twice in a week,” he said. The phase will have 15 rounds.Meanwhile, aimed to inoculate the remaining frontline workers, the mop-up round for second phase of vaccination began on Monday. However, it could not yield better results than previous sessions as only 2,405 of remaining 8,062 frontline workers could be inoculated, which was 29% of the remaining frontline workers. GB Nagar district vaccination officer, Dr Neeraj Tyagi, said that taking serious notes of the instructions given by the state health department to increase the vaccination turnout, the district vaccination department had made 54 booths at 26 different locations, for this mop-up round. “All our efforts couldn’t pull up the beneficiaries as 5,637 out of overall 18,717 frontline workers finally missed the inoculation in the second round. These left out beneficiaries could not get the jabs in any of the four sessions of second phase of vaccination,” he said. He further said that after the mop-up round, the final figures of vaccination in the first phase, have gone to 69.77%. “As many as 13,060 health workers could be inoculated in all three sessions and the mop-up round. Now, the failure of potential beneficiaries to get vaccinated in the mop up round will automatically push them to the age-appropriate vaccination category, which will perhaps take place after the last round of vaccination,” he said. When asked about the reasons behind the lukewarm response to the mop-up drive, Tyagi said that a lack of confidence in the vaccine among the health workers appears to be the main reason. “While many of them remained sceptical about the efficacy of the vaccine, others claimed that they do not need it as their bodies have developed immunity against the virus,” he said. He said that the health department officials had informed the beneficiaries, two days ahead of their stipulated date of vaccination. “We had also informed the departments concerned of the beneficiaries about their presence or absence during the vaccination. To increase vaccine confidence, it is essential to improve the public’s understanding of how they can help control the spread of Covid-19 in their families and their communities,” Tyagi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-administration-enlists-4-25-lakh-beneficiaries-for-phase-3-vaccination-101614018748344.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||‘Poor’ air in Delhi; IMD says mercury to hit 30°C again this week||Air quality in Delhi the national capital was in the “poor” category on Monday, with an Air Quality Index (AQI) of 288. Pollution levels are likely to hover between the “poor” and “very poor” categories over Delhi and other parts of northwest India due to calm winds in the evening that slow the dispersal of pollutants.An AQI between 301 to 400 is categorised as “very poor”.“Wind speed during day time is around 10kmph, but they are mostly calm during the evening. This is why we are not seeing any improvement in air quality. We are unlikely to record any significant improvement in the coming days either,” said VK Soni, scientist at IMD’s air quality division. Baghpat, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Moradabad, Meerut recorded “very poor” air quality on Monday.“With February coming to an end, we expect a rise in maximum and minimum temperatures. The maximum temperature is likely to rest between 30 to 31 degrees Celsius (°C), while the minimum is likely to be 12 to 13°C in the next three to four days. A western disturbance is impacting the Western Himalayan region. Once that moves away, there will be a marginal and brief drop in temperatures in the Capital as cold northwesterly winds will be blowing. But otherwise, it is likely to get warmer now,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.On Monday the maximum temperature was 28.9°C, four degrees above normal, while the minimum temperature was 11°C, which is the normal mercury level for this time of year.Under the influence of a fresh western disturbance, widespread rainfall or snowfall is very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad; scattered rainfall/snowfall is likely over Himachal Pradesh for next 3 days and fairly widespread rainfall for the subsequent 2 days while scattered rainfall or snowfall is also likely over Uttarakhand during next 5 days.Thunderstorm or lighting is very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad during the next five days and over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand from February 23 to 26.Isolated hailstorms are likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad on February 24 and 25; Himachal Pradesh on February 25 and 26 and over Uttarakhand during February 23 to 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/poor-air-in-delhi-imd-says-mercury-to-hit-30-c-again-this-week-101614017728627.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||Sisodia opens mega registration drive for over 1 million construction workers||A mega registration drive, to enroll construction workers so that they are able to avail of government assistance, was launched on Monday by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the labour portfolio.The minister said out of Delhi’s approximately 1 million construction workers, only 0.13 million (13%) are currently registered with the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, and the registration drive is to enable more workers to get the financial assistance provided by the Delhi government.The drive that will be held till March 22 at 45 sites across the city, Sisodia said.Addressing a digital press conference, he said the government aims to register around 0.8 million construction workers in a month and clarified that other workers -- electricians, plumbers and carpenters -- will also be brought under the Board, which offers financial assistance under various schemes, including pension, education, maternity and marriage.Also Read | Sisodia, cabinet ministers campaign for bypolls “Construction workers are the backbone of the nation. The Delhi government is committed to ensure their dignity and welfare. Registration camps will be organised at 45 sites across the city, which includes 29 government schools and 16 major construction sites. Mobile units would be deployed to all 11 districts of Delhi and they will move around different construction sites so that workers do not have to forego their daily wage to register themselves,” Sisodia said.Delhi has 262 major labour chowks where workers assemble daily in search of work. As part of its awareness campaign, the government, in a statement, said it will put up hoardings, posters and distribute handbills to encourage labourers to get themselves registered at the nearest registration camp. These camps will operate from 9am to 5pm till March 22 and all documentation -- be it new registration, renewal or verification -- will be offered at these sites, the statement read.This is not the first time that the Delhi government is organising such a camp for construction workers. A similar camp was launched last August, but it received a tepid response and the Delhi government was pulled up by a city court for not spreading awareness about its enrolment drive.“There are one million construction workers in Delhi of whom only 0.13 million workers are registered with Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board till date. Around 80,000 workers are in the process of getting registered. I appeal to the residents of Delhi to assist the construction workers and spread awareness about the mega registration drive so that maximum workers are able to avail of benefits,” Sisodia said.Construction workers can also get themselves registered using the Delhi government’s doorstep delivery service. They need to call 1076 and the personnel from the labour department will visit their homes to register them, he said.The Delhi government has a number of schemes for those registered with the Board. Workers can get ₹ 3-5 lakh for the construction of a house, ₹30,000 as maternity benefit, ₹ 20,000 as loan for the purchase of work-related tools and ₹5,000 as grant for the purchase of work-related tools. Other than these, the registered workers’ family gets assistance of ₹1 lakh in case of a natural death of the worker, and ₹2 lakh in case of accidental death. They can also avail of ₹1 lakh in case of permanent disability and a disability pension of ₹3,000 a month.Under the education scheme, registered workers can avail of benefits between ₹500 and ₹10,000 a month for school education and higher education of their children. In other schemes, the workers can get ₹35,000-51,000 as financial assistance for the marriage of children, and ₹3,000 a month as pension.So far, the Delhi government has distributed cheques totalling ₹3.18 crore to 488 construction workers in the month of February. Also, the Delhi government has provided an aid of ₹10,000 each to 1,139 workers during the pandemic, a government spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sisodia-opens-mega-registration-drive-for-over-1-million-construction-workers-101614017728068.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: AAP govt has disbursed over ₹26 crore as compensation||The Delhi government has cleared 2,221 applications for compensation and, so far, disbursed ₹26.10 crore to victims of the communal violence in north-east Delhi in February last year, a senior government official said on Monday.Of the 2,221 applications cleared by the government so far, 44 pertain to cases of death, 233 of injury, 731 of burnt residences, 1,176 cases of shops and commercial properties burnt and vandalised, 12 cases of vehicles damaged and loss of cattle, 22 cases of burnt slums, and three of schools that were torched and vandalised, said the official citing government records.A second senior official, who did not wish to be identified, said that the government had received around 3,500 compensation applications, of which some are pending and others have been rejected.Also, 2,599 individuals have approached the North East Delhi Riots Claims Commission that was set up on April 13, 2020, in adherence to an order of the Delhi high court, a month after being approached by the Delhi government which sought the court’s intervention, citing several cases of mismatches and discrepancies in claim forms.These applications include cases in which people did not apply for compensation earlier at the revenue department offices and special camps set up by the government as well as cases pertaining to people whose claims were rejected, unpaid or partially disbursed. There are also claimants who have received the full amount but appealed that the total compensation announced by the government was inadequate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-riots-aap-govt-has-disbursed-over-rs-26-crore-as-compensation-101614017668060.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||No whereabouts on the man who went missing during tractor rally, police tell HC||The Delhi Police have informed the Delhi high court that the whereabouts of a 27-year- old man, who went missing from Nangloi during the Republic Day tractor rally, has yet not been ascertained and neither has he been arrested in connection with the violence during the rally.The police told the court that it has intimated 25 police stations of the Jhajjar district and also pasted photos of the man, Bajinder, at 10 police stations of the outer district of Delhi to find him.Bajinder’s brother Baljeet had moved the court, through his advocate Naginder Benipal, seeking to know the whereabouts of his brother.In a status report, filed before a bench of justice Siddharth Mridul and justice Anup J Bhambhani, police said they have searched for the man everywhere, including hospitals, gurdwaras and night shelters, and also made announcements seeking information but to no avail.The police said they also conducted searches in his home town and areas in its vicinity but he was not to be found. The court was informed that relatives of Bajinder were questioned but no breakthrough could be made. Police added that they have put up posters across the city to find Bajinder.The police said they have announced a reward for anyone who would give information about Bajinder. They have also checked the list of unidentified bodies found after January 26; however, no body matching the description of Bajinder was found.Police said they have checked the list of arrested persons lodged in Tihar jail but Bajinder was not among them.The report filed by ACP Anand Sagar, Nangloi, said one of their police personnel was also injured in the search for Bajinder -- he was attacked by some agitators with sticks at Tikri border while pasting the man missing poster. The police said the head constable sustained head injuries and an FIR was lodged in this regard.The court, last week, had granted the police two weeks to find Bajinder after the force said they have been making all possible efforts to trace him.The tractor parade on January 26, held by farmers to highlight their demands to repeal three new farm laws, had turned violent as police clashed with protesters.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over two months now against the three laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-whereabouts-on-the-man-who-went-missing-during-tractor-rally-police-tell-hc-101614017608679.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||One more arrested in Red Fort violence case||The Delhi Police on Monday said they have arrested one more person in connection with the violence at the Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor rally on January 26, adding that efforts were on to nab six key suspects, including Punjab’s alleged gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana.The police identified the arrested suspect as 29-year-old Singh alias Sunny. He was arrested by the crime branch on Saturday. A resident of Delhi’s Swaroop Nagar, Singh identified through video footage of the incidents at the fort, police said.Two separate cases were registered in connection with the violence at the Red Fort. While one case involving serious charges such as rioting, attempt to murder, and criminal conspiracy was registered on the police’s complaint, the second case was registered on the basis of a complaint filed by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), which is the custodian of the Mughal-era fort.With the latest arrest, 12 people have been so far nabbed in the two cases.Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said on January 17, Maninder Singh alias Moni was arrested in the Red Fort case. He was seen in video footage waiving two swords on the rampart of the fort.“In the footage, Jaspreet is seen standing behind Maninder on the ramparts. He climbed up one of the domes located on both sides of the rampart. Jaspreet is also seen in an offensive gesture holding a steel tensile at the fort,” said Biswal.On January 26, violence broke out at the Red Fort and many other places in Delhi during the farmers’ tractor rally against the three contentious farm laws. A farmer was killed after his tractor overturned near the ITO while at least 10 farmers and over 400 police personnel were injured during the violence. A total of 48 cases have been registered and 150 people have been arrested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-more-arrested-in-red-fort-violence-case-101614017609196.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi airport sets up more booths, deploys extra staff to test foreign flyers||Arrangements have been made at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) to test all arriving international passengers starting Monday midnight. At least 30 new counters have been set up and additional staff deployed to test and guide the passengers through the new protocol.The government of India on February 17 had issued new guidelines for passengers travelling to India, in the wake of new variants of the Covid-19 virus, with demonstrated increased transmissibility, being reported from countries such as the United Kingdom, South Africa, and Brazil.Starting Tuesday, all international flyers arriving at Delhi international airport on flights from the UK, Europe and South Africa can exit the airport only after giving their samples for an RT-PCR test. The flyers will also have to upload a “negative RT-PCR test report”, done within 72 hours of boarding the flight to India. Only those travelling on exigencies, such as a death in the family, will be exempted from the pre-boarding mandatory RT-PCR test, the new rules say.Transit passengers will have to wait for their test reports before boarding the connecting flight, the new SOP says.Since under the new arrangement, more RT-PCR tests will be conducted per day, special arrangements have been put in place at the Delhi airport.Dr Gauri Agarwal, founder and director of Genestrings Diagnostics, which will be conducting these tests at the Delhi airport, said they were earlier conducting 500 to 600 RT-PCR tests a day, which is now expected to go up at least tenfold -- to about 6,000 to 7,000 a day.“With government’s stringent approach to control spread of the new variant of the virus, the number of our daily tests will go up from 500-600 to 7,000-plus. While our laboratory is equipped to test more than 15,000 samples a day, the operations teams, comprising data entry operators and sample collection technicians, had to be increased to handle the large inflow of passengers from these countries. For this, a massive recruitment drive had to be launched and at least 230 additional staff had to be recruited overnight -- they will trained over the next two days,” Agarwal said.“It is expected that during peak hours, between 3am and 5am, there will be roughly 1,200 passengers an hour undergoing testing,” she said.The airport operator, DIAL (Delhi International Airport Ltd), said since all incoming international passengers on flights from the UK, Europe and South Africa will have to undergo the mandatory RT-PCR tests, two categories of services will be available for passengers. “One is the government approved rate of ₹800 per test, while the other is a premium service at ₹1,300. This service will also be available for pre-booking on www.newdelhiairport.in.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-airport-sets-up-more-booths-deploys-additional-staff-to-test-international-flyers-101614017608209.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||Metro, buses to continue operating at restricted capacity for two more weeks||The Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA) on Monday decided that state-run buses and Metro trains will continue operating at their current limited capacity for at least two more weeks in view of a rise in Covid-19 cases in a few states.A senior official, who attended the meeting, said the decision was taken as states such as Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab are witnessing a surge in cases with the new strain of Covid-19 virus. “The Delhi transport corporation (DTC) and cluster buses and the Delhi Metro will run at previously fixed limited capacities for now. The idea is to be vigilant and to watch the Covid-19 daily cases for another two weeks,” the official said, on condition of anonymity.Last week, the Delhi transport department had sent a proposal to the DDMA to allow people to travel standing up on public buses. The DDMA is chaired by lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal and has chief minister Arvind Kejriwal as its vice-chairperson.DTC and cluster buses are currently plying at full seating capacity, while on Metro trains, commuters can sit only on alternate seats. Commuters are also allowed to stand and travel, but have to maintain a stipulated distance between them. This, according to Metro officials, further reduced the carrying capacity of each coach.In the face of a sudden rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, several states have imposed fresh restrictions on allowing passengers from other states.A negative report of the RT-PCR test is required if you are travelling to Maharashtra from Gujarat, Delhi-NCR, Goa, Rajasthan and Kerala. This is applicable to all travellers irrespective of whether they are travelling by flight or train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/metro-trains-buses-to-continue-operating-at-restricted-capacity-for-two-more-weeks-101614017549057.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||NCRTC starts work on bridge over Yamuna for Delhi-Meerut RRTS link||The National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) has started the construction work on a 1.35-km-long bridge on Yamuna, which will be the 17th bridge to come up on the river. The bridge is part of the 82-km-long Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) project between Delhi and Meerut.The bridge will run parallel to the existing Delhi Noida Direct flyway and connect Sarai Kale Khan and New Ashok Nagar RRTS stations.A NCRTC spokesperson said, “The length of the bridge crossing over the river will be around 626 metres and the remaining portion will come up on the floodplain on both sides. We have started digging the foundation for the piers.”This will be the eighth mass transit corridor to be constructed on the river. The Northern railway is constructing a new bridge parallel to the Old Yamuna bridge. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has four corridors crossing the river and the construction work on the fifth bridge on the Majlis Park-Maujpur corridor started in August last year.Environment expert CR Babu said, “The agency should ensure that there is no damage to the floodplain and wetlands. The agency should undertake work to restore the ecology and protect the wetland.”A senior NCRTC official said, “All the construction activities are being carried out following the prescribed guidelines to avoid any adverse impact on the floodplains. Various eco-friendly measures will also be taken during the construction. The muck and debris generated will be disposed of systematically and no dumping will be done on the floodplains.”Earlier this month, the NCRTC started work at its Anand Vihar station, one of the 22 stations on the Delhi-Meerut RRTS corridor. Anand Vihar is an important transit point as it has a railway station, inter-state bus terminal and two Metro corridors --- blue line (Vaishali to Dwarka) and pink line (Majlis Park to Shiv Vihar).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ncrtc-starts-work-on-bridge-over-yamuna-for-delhi-meerut-rrtslink-101614017548017.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||North MCD to pass a proposal for legal tag to makeshift temple in Chandni Chowk||North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash on Monday directed civic officials to draft a proposal within two days to grant legal status to a makeshift structure that has come up near the site of a Hanuman temple in Chandni Chowk demolished by the North civic body on January 3 on the orders of the Delhi high court.The makeshift structure came up on the central verge of the Chandni Chowk main road, which has been redeveloped into a pedestrian-only zone as part of a project to decongest and beautify the Mughal-era market. The temple was demolished as it fell in the course of the redevelopment work. The demolition kicked off a row with both the AAP and BJP blaming each other for not taking steps to what they claimed was a 100-year-old structure. It was yet to be known who built the makeshift structure.Mayor Jai Prakash has also called an all-party meeting to “achieve a consensus” on the issue and then pass the proposal in its House meeting on Thursday, called specifically to discuss the matter.Prakash said officials informed the political executive that the temple can be granted a legal status provided it is approved by the city government and its religious committee. “So, we have now directed the legal and land & building departments officials to draft a proposal or a document of support for the temple within two days and it will be passed in the house meeting of north corporation on Thursday. We have also invited councillors of all parties for a meeting on Tuesday so that a consensus can be reached on legalising the temple construction. Since all party leaders have offered prayers at the new structure, it should not be a problem for them to support the cause,” the mayor said.Civic officials said once passed by the House, the proposal will be sent to the Delhi government’s religious committee and urban development department for approval. Once approved, the temple will be granted a legal status.On Saturday, the Public Works Department (PWD) wrote to the Delhi police asking them to take action against the construction. The PWD mentioned that the structure came up without any permission from any of the agencies executing the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project.Prakash said the makeshift temple did not encroach upon the road as it was located on the central verge. “Keeping sentiments of thousands of people in the area, we request the religious committee to consider the proposal,” he said.Leader of opposition in north corporation and Aam Aadmi Party councillor, Vikas Goel, said the Hanuman temple should not have been demolished in the first place, but the civic body demolished the temple. “Now, they are doing drama over the issue. We have always been in favour of the temple as we respect sentiments of the public. We will attend the all-party meeting tomorrow (Tuesday),” Goel said.The Delhi Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) requested chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to direct the PWD to withdraw its complaint from the police. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor wrote to the CM on Sunday, requesting him to take back the complaint and also direct the Delhi government’s religious committee to review and approve the new temple and make it part of the beautification plan.In last three days, leaders of all the three political parties have visited the makeshift temple in Chandni Chowk and offered prayers, performed hawan and chanted religious hymns such as Hanuman Chalisa and Sundar Kand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/north-mcd-to-pass-a-proposal-for-legal-tag-to-makeshift-temple-in-chandni-chowk-101614017488594.html
23-02-2021||Delhi||Two murders in a span of 15 hours; suspects nabbed in both cases are family||Two persons, including a 64-year-old woman, were killed in two separate incidents reported from south and north-east Delhi within a span of 15 hours on Sunday. Both murders have been solved and the suspects -- family members of those killed -- have been arrested.The first murder came to fore around 7.30am on Sunday, when the Safdarjung Hospital authorities informed south Delhi’s Fatehpur Beri police station about the death of 38-year-old Sikandar Sahni due to strangulation. Sahni was admitted to the hospital by his 35-year-old wife Sarita Devi, who was later arrested for the murder. Police said during questioning, she admitted to killing her husband by strangling him with her saree.“Sarita Devi told us that her husband was a habitual drinker despite being a chronic tuberculosis patient. The couple often had arguments over this. After consuming liquor, he allegedly used to abuse and assault her daily in front of their children,” said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.On Saturday night, an investigator who did not want to be named, said Sahini returned home in an inebriated condition and picked up a fight with Sarita Devi. Their four children went to another room on the ground floor. The couple’s argument continued till the early hours of Sunday and the woman strangled her husband with her saree in a fit of rage.“The woman alerted her neighbours, sought their help to rush him to hospital but did not tell them that she had strangled him. It was the doctors who found the ligature marks around his neck and informed us. Sahni was declared brought dead at the hospital,” the officer added.In the second case, a 22-year-old man allegedly killed his mother by stabbing her multiple times with a screwdriver at their home in north-east Delhi’s Khajoori Khas on Sunday around 10pm. The man, Sushil Pandey, turned violent when his mother, Ramlalli Devi, rebuked him for his drinking habit and refused to give money to buy liquor, the police said.DCP (north-east) Ved Prakash Surya said Pandey was caught from the crime scene after his father returned home, found his wife’s body and raised the alarm. “Pandey’s parents were concerned over his drinking habit. He worked as an electrician but had stopped going to work for the past sometime. He often fought with his mother Ramlalli Devi over money for buying liquor,” said the DCP, adding that the screwdriver used in the murder was recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-murders-in-a-span-of-15-hours-suspects-arrested-in-both-cases-are-family-members-101614017488082.html
23-02-2021||Mumbai||Auto, taxi fares in Mumbai to increase by ₹3 from March 1||Mumbaiites will have to shell out more for autorickshaw and black-and-yellow taxis to travel in the city from March 1. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Transport Authority (MMRTA) on Monday gave nod for a ₹3-hike in minimum fares for both auto and taxi, bringing fares to ₹21 and ₹25 respectively. The minimum fare for 1.5 km for autorickshaws will increase to ₹21 from ₹18. Thereafter, per kilometre rate will increase to ₹14.20 from the present ₹12.19. The minimum fare for black and yellow taxis for 1.5 km will be ₹25 from ₹22, and the per km rate will increase to ₹16.93 from ₹14.84.“The price hike will be implemented from March 1. Autorickshaw and taxi drivers will have to get their meters calibrated by May 30,” said state transport minister Anil Parab. Also Read | ‘Another lockdown unaffordable’: Maharashtra minister Tope urges peopleParab said the fare hike has been decided as per the criteria of the Khatua committee appointed by state government to determine tariff hike formula. There are various factors in deciding revised fares such as transport bodies, price of vehicles, insurance cost, CNG prices, interest on loan, licence fees, and consumer index.“A fare hike has not happened in the past six years. As per the rules of the Khatua committee, if there is an increase due of 50 paise in June, it should be given in that year itself. This fare hike was due for a long time. The transport department has helped several sections of the transportation sector by way of tax waiver, but we could not do so for auto and taxi drivers. The hike would give them some relief,”Parab said. “The hike in petrol, diesel and CNG prices is an important factor. In this backdrop, auto and taxi drivers are also a section of society who should be given support by the government,” he said and added that the fare of shared auto and taxi routes will also be revised.The last fare hike of autorickshaws and taxis was in June 2015.Unions have welcomed the move and said it will help the taxi drivers recover from losses they had to face during the lockdown. “We had demanded an increase in fares in 2019 as there has been a significant increase in prices of CNG. According to Khatua committee report, the increased fare should be ₹27, but we demanded for ₹25. Long distance passengers will not be impacted much,” said AL Quadros, leader, Mumbai Taximen’s Union.“The fare hike was due for the past five years. Though it has happened now, other demands have been sidelined. Auto drivers should be provided ₹10,000 as compensation along with waiver of vehicle loans,” said Shashank Rao, president, Mumbai AutorickshawMen’s Union. “The government should reconsider the increase in fare. This will be a steep increase. A minimum token amount fare hike was expected. There has been an increase in fuel prices, while autos and taxis operate on CNG. The increase in CNG price will have to be seen,” said Shirish Deshpande from Mumbai Grahak Panchayat.Mumbai has around 200,000 autorickshaws and 40,000 black-and-yellow taxis operating in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-commuters-may-have-to-pay-higher-auto-taxi-fares-101613993001208.html
23-02-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Bombay HC grants six months’ interim bail to Varavara Rao||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday granted bail to Telugu poet and activist P Varavara Rao for six months on health grounds, nearly two-and-a-half years after he was arrested in connection with the so-called Elgar Parishad case.The 80-year-old Rao, arrested on August 28, 2018 from his residence at Hyderabad, was asked by the court to remain in Mumbai.A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale said in the course of delivering its order that the answer to the question — can aged prisoners with various health conditions be forced to live a subhuman existence behind the bars only because they stand accused of serious offences — has to be in the negative.Also Read | NIA supports plan to shift P Varavara Rao to Mumbai’s Sir JJ HospitalThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) opposed the bail, and pointed out that Rao had been charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, under which bail is not usually granted, but the bench held that undertrial prisoners can be granted bail purely on the grounds of sickness, advanced age, infirmity and health conditions, if continued incarceration is found to be incompatible with their health and endangers their life.In this case, the court concluded that the hospital attached to Taloja Central Prison, where Rao was lodged, was ill-equipped and inadequate to take care of his health; his health had deteriorated when he was admitted to various government hospitals in the city; and it improved only when he was shifted to Nanavati Hospital, a private super-specialty hospital.“In view of the aforesaid material and sequence of events, we have come to the conclusion that sending the undertrial (Rao) back to Taloja Central Prison would certainly endanger his life,” the court added.As part of the bail conditions, Rao has to report to the nearest police station in Mumbai through a fortnightly WhatsApp video call. He has also been told not to make any statements regarding the case in any form.Rao’s family in Hyderabad welcomed the court’s decision.“It is really a big relief for all of us that he will be out of jail after a gap of more than two-and-a-half years. But it is unfortunate that the court did not grant him permission to return to his home in Hyderabad during the bail period,” said Rao’s brother-in-law N Venugopal, who is also a poet and writer.Rao’s wife Hemlatha is in Mumbai, awaiting his release.According to Venugopal, there are two more cases pending against Rao, one in connection with a 2005 Maoist attack in Pavagada in Kolar district of Karnataka and another case of trucks burning at Gadchiroli in Maharashtra in 2016.“While he got bail in Pavagada case, the bail petition pertaining to the Gadchiroli case is pending before the Bombay high court. Since the same high court has granted him bail, it will not be a problem for his release from jail,” he added.The Elgar Parishad case is about a meeting of a group of activist organisations, held on 31 December 2017, to commemorate the 200th anniversary of the Bhima-Koregaon battle, where a Dalit regiment of the British army is believed to have defeated the Marathas.The Bhima-Koregaon battle is celebrated as a symbol of Dalit empowerment.The Elgar Parishad meeting in 2017 preceded widespread violence on January 1, 2018, and the charge against Rao and other activists of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) is that they incited violence by creating communal disharmony.The case was taken over by the NIA on January 25, 2020. Fifteen other activists were also arrested in connection with the case.(Srinivasa Rao Apparasu in Hyderabad contributed to this story)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-bombay-hc-grants-six-months-interim-bail-to-varavara-rao-101613975240139.html
