25-02-2021||Mumbai||Explosive, threat letter found in a car near Ambani house in Mumbai||Parts of south Mumbai were on alert on Thursday evening after an abandoned sport utility vehicle (SUV) with explosive material was found parked around 600 metres from the house of Reliance Industries Limited chairman Mukesh Ambani on Pedder Road. The police, however, clarified that the material found was not an assembled explosive device.Police sources said that around 20 gelatin sticks were found in the vehicle, which was also clamped by the traffic police as it was parked illegally. The number plate of the car was allegedly fake, and according to police, several other number plates were found inside the vehicle.A threat letter has also been discovered, however, police have not shared the details of its content.The car was suspiciously abandoned on Carmichael Road the previous night. After the police control room was informed about it on Thursday afternoon, police rushed to the spot and were soon joined by the bomb detection and disposal squad (BDDS).“Two explosive detector labrador dogs of BDDS – Oscar and Moti – detected suspicious explosives and alerted their handlers. The bomb squad personnel were then called in and scanned the articles found in the vehicle. They identified these as gelatin. The material was taken out and moved to a safe place, following standard procedures. In all, 20 gelatin sticks were found,” said a police officer.Police sources said the car’s driver had used the same registration number as a car driven by security personnel of Ambani and owned by Reliance Industries Limited.The person who parked the car at 1am on Thursday, has been captured on CCTV of a nearby Vijay general store. Police have already collected the CCTV footage and will enhance its quality to identify the suspect.“I opened my shop at 8am. In the afternoon around 2pm, when I was going to have lunch, I saw police standing and checking the vehicle. Police inquired with me about the CCTV camera I have installed outside my shop,” said Rajesh Singh, 45, the owner of the store.“Police then checked the footage and found that two vehicles were seen coming around 1am from Pedder Road and heading towards Altamount Road. One car did not stop but the driver of the other vehicle stopped and parked opposite my shop, in front of Shikhar Kunj building. After checking the footage, it was found that the driver was clearly seen sitting inside the vehicle. He did not come out at least two hours,” said Singh, adding that the police took the DVR for further investigation.“A suspicious vehicle was found on Carmichael Road today (Thursday) evening under the limits of Gamdevi police station. The police were alerted. The BDDS team and other police teams reached the spot immediately, examined the vehicle and found some explosive material (gelatin) inside. It is not an assembled explosive device. Further investigation is going on,” said Chaitanya Siriprolu, Mumbai Police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police.“A letter has been found inside the said vehicle. The registration number displayed on the said vehicle matches the registration number of a vehicle in Mukesh Ambani’s security detail. The said vehicle has been seized by police for investigation,” Siriprolu added.Later, state home minister Anil Deshmukh released a video statement and confirmed that a car with gelatin sticks was found near Ambani’s house.Minister of state for home Shambhuraj Desai said, “[The matter] has been taken very seriously, and the police will unearth the plot and nab the people behind it. Since the investigation is underway, it would not be appropriate to speak more on it. If the need arises, there will be additional security cover given to the Ambani family.”After detection of the explosives, the Mumbai Police force, anti-terrorism squad (ATS) and other intelligence and security personnel involved in anti-terrorism operations swung into action. Senior crime branch and ATS officers visited the spot along with a team of forensic experts.Following the incident, a city-wide alert was sounded, and security was stepped up around important establishments, especially in south Mumbai. Checking was increased at entry and exit points of the city.At the time of going to press, the police were in the process of registering a case under the Explosives Act.No statement has been issued by Reliance yet.(With inputs from Surendra Gangan)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/explosive-threat-letter-found-in-a-car-near-ambani-house-in-mumbai-101614277674906.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||Will take action based on probe report, says Shiv Sena on allegations against Sanjay Rathod||Amid mounting pressure to take action against Shiv Sena minister Sanjay Rathod, the party has adopted a wait-and-watch stance. Sena ministers said that allegations of flouting Covid rules are being probed and action can only be taken after the report is submitted.A day after Rathod briefly met chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray at his official residence Varsha, senior party leaders said that action against the minister is likely for flouting Covid preventive rules.Senior Sena minister Anil Parab on Thursday said the director general of police (DGP) is inquiring into the crowding at Pohradevi in Washim on Tuesday, and added that there would be no half measures in taking action against the ones found guilty.Parab said the CM has already given orders to take action wherever rules have been flouted and against anyone who has flouted them. “Today the DGP has said that inquiry is on in this matter. Based on the report, action will be taken… The inquiry is to find out who were there [at Pohradevi]. Before arriving at any conclusion, an inquiry is being made in detail. The CM has already said that action will be taken against whoever is found guilty,” he told reporters.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) has launched an attack on the Sena-led government over Rathod’s alleged involvement in the death of 22-year-old Pooja Chavan. BJP leaders questioned as to why the minister has not been booked for violating Covid norms for organising a show of strength at Pohradevi temple in Washim.BJP legislator Ashish Shelar said, “Why has the minister not been booked yet based on the pictures we saw in Pohradevi temple complex? The police failed to prevent crowding there. Who organised the programme? The minister made a speech there. The messages through social medial [platforms] were sent out on the minister’s behalf. So why is he not booked yet? The intention of the Thackeray government is clearly to support the minister. They do not care about the people who fall prey to Covid-19.”Parab, however, dismissed the opposition’s charges and added that action would be taken only after the inquiry is conducted. “Apart from looking at what the Opposition is saying, we have to see how the law works. We believe in following the process. Once the process of inquiry is over, only then action can be initiated. There will be no half measures in taking any action nor will there be any wrongful action,” Parab said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-take-action-based-on-probe-report-says-shiv-sena-on-allegations-against-sanjay-rathod-101614277495878.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||MMRDA begins pre-trials for Mumbai’s Metro trains||Close to a month after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray unveiled the first indigenously built Metro train for Metro-2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro-7 (Dahisar E-Andheri-E), the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) conducted pre-trials for the train at the Charkop depot before testing begins on the actual route in a month.However, the MMRDA said the trial runs are expected to be completed in the next four-five months, after which commercial operations will begin. Earlier, the MMRDA had stated that the trial runs will begin in January 2021 and commercial operations will begin in May 2021.Officials said that dynamic testing is a procedure undertaken before actual testing begins. “The functionality of various systems will now be tested, which will take a month, after which connectivity to the main route and trial runs will begin. We expect the next train set also to arrive in March,” an official from MMRDA said.The earliest deadline for the two corridors was December 2019. However, it has been delays owing to various issues, followed by the pandemic that slowed down major infrastructure projects in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mmrda-to-begin-pre-trials-for-mumbai-s-metro-trains-101614276774493.html
25-02-2021||City||After 3 years in power, Tripura govt to give first allowances to employees||The Tripura decided to provide dearness allowance and dearness relief to its employees and pensioners with A hike of three per cent, state law minister Ratan Lal Nath said on Thursday.This is for the first time the BJP-IPFT government would provide allowances to its employees since coming to power in 2018. The move will come into effect from March 1."Our economic condition is not very good and the previous government left a huge financial burden. We could not give allowances due to financial constraints despite the new pay scale being implemented on October 1 in 2018. During the Covid-19 pandemic, only West Bengal in the entire country gave allowances to the employees," Nath told the media.The estimated expenditure for providing allowances is ₹320 crores.The state has 110,517 regular employees and 67,809 pensioners besides 12,000 fixed pay employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-3-years-in-power-tripura-govt-to-give-first-allowances-to-employees-101614275956602.html
25-02-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram MP asks agencies to expedite development work||Member of Parliament(MP) from Gurugram and union minister of state Rao Inderjit Singh on Thursday asked all the civic agencies to work in tandem with one other so that development work can be carried out without any hitch. Singh also asked Haryana Sahari Vikas Pradhikaran(HSVP) to work out modalities so that sites meant for public amenities, such as health centres, community buildings, etc, can be developed by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG). He also asked the agencies to identify vacant plots and prepare project plans so that those too can be developed. Officials from HSVP, MCG, Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Limited (HSIIDC) and district administration were present in the meeting, which was held at the PWD guest house in Civil Lines. During the meeting, Singh emphasised increasing the pace of development works, which had got stuck due to lockdown and expedite projects such as the auto market, transport market, markets in HSVP sectors, parking projects, apart from utilising land and plots owned by civic agencies across the city. “There are a number of plots in various sectors that are earmarked for basic facilities but due to a number of reasons these have not been developed. I have asked the civic agencies to work out the modalities so that they can work together and develop these plots,” said Singh. Singh also asked the agencies to conduct a survey for setting up old age homes as there is a paucity of such facilities despite the rising population of the city. He also directed that a plan should be made to improve the condition of sector markets, community centres and arrangements for proper parking facilities. “There are multiple civic agencies working in the city and the meeting was held today to ensure that everyone is working in alignment,” said Singh. He also called for creating better health care facilities for city residents and asked MCG officials to work in tandem with the health department. It was also decided in the meeting that boundary walls would be constructed on all plots owned by HSVP and trees would be planted on the land to increase greenery. During the meeting, Jitender Yadav, administrator, HSVP stated that the process to set up a transport market and auto market has already been initiated by the authority. He also said that work on developing a market in Sector 45 and improvement works in other sector markets is also going on. Vinay Pratap Singh, MCG Commissioner, said that work on multi-level parking in the city has already commenced and other works related to improving conditions of sector markets are also going on. Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram was also present at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-mp-asks-agencies-to-expedite-development-work-101614275816863.html
25-02-2021||Gurugram||Three men rob ₹29K cash from a gold exchange office in DLF Phase-1||Three masked men allegedly robbed two employees in a gold exchange company’s office in DLF Phase-1 on Wednesday at gunpoint in broad daylight. The office of the company, Minsara Gold Private Limited, located on the ground floor of Rapid Metro Station In DLF Phase-1 deals in exchange of old gold and pays money online. The office does not deal in cash, said the police. Raju Thomas, manager of the company who handles the office, said that he and an office boy were present in the office when three masked men, including one wearing helmet, entered the premises around 3.15pm and took them at gunpoint and asked to hand over gold and cash. “There was no gold in the office and I told him that we did not deal in cash. They thrashed me and took us to the other room and snatched cash of ₹29,000 and our mobile phones,” he said. The trio told them not to raise alarm and threatened them for life. Fearing for their lives, they remained silent and came out of the room after a few minutes. Thomas said there was no CCTV camera installed in the office and they were not sure if they had used any motorbike or car to reach the spot. “They were aggressive and kept on asking us to put all the gold and money in their bag. All the while, they kept abusing us and threatened to kill us,” he said adding that they couldn’t even shout for help. After the suspects have left the premises, the employees came out and looked for them. Later, they informed the police control room, following which a team of DLF Phase 1 police reached the spot and recorded their statement, said the police. Autorickshaw drivers and neighbours said they didn’t come to know about the incident immediately. “We were busy. We did see three masked men leaving, but at that time, we thought someone might have come to sell gold. We came to know about the incident when the police reached the spot,” said Amit Yadav, one of the drivers. Ajay Kumar, station house officer (SHO), DLF Phase 1, said “We have registered a case under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code. We are scanning the CCTV footage to trace the suspects. We have recovered several footage from nearby area but we are yet to identify the motorbike registration number,” he said. The shopkeepers said they were in panic after the incident and said that their safety is at risk in the city as criminals with weapons are freely targeting people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/three-men-rob-29k-cash-from-a-gold-exchange-office-in-dlf-phase1-101614275816166.html
25-02-2021||Gurugram||Kant Enclave ruling: Proposal to restore 425 acres of Aravalli forest in Faridabad gathers dust||A proposal to rehabilitate nearly 425 acres of the Aravalli forest land in Faridabad, tabled by the forest department a year ago, has been gathering dust despite Supreme Court directions calling for the restoration of the area.Forest department officials confirmed that the proposal, which was drawn up in line with the apex court’s Kant Enclave ruling of 2018, has been awaiting the state government’s approval for over a year, despite funds for the same being available.Officials also said that there has been no correspondence between the forest department and the Haryana government on the matter since February 2020, when the proposal was first sent for approval. They attributed the lack of correspondence to the Covid-19 induced lockdown and a subsequent administrative reshuffle within the forest department.“We have not started any plantation work in Kant Enclave because the restoration plans are yet to be approved. The matter has been pending for a year now. There has been no communication to us from the head office, or the state government, about the same since the proposal was sent,” said Raj Kumar, district forest officer, Faridabad.Senior officials at the state level, including Haryana’s principal chief conservator of forests, said they will take up the matter on priority to ensure compliance with the Supreme Court’s judgement.When asked whether there are any immediate plans to proceed with reforestation in Kant Enclave, Tajinder P Singh,‎ secretary to the government and chief conservator of forests, Haryana, responded that he is not aware of such a proposal. “It is probably with the head office. I am not aware of it in the secretariat,” Singh said, suggesting that inquiries instead be directed to the principal chief conservator of forests, Haryana.VS Tanwar, the principal chief conservator of forests, Haryana, said, “I was not aware of this proposal since it was submitted before I took charge. During my tenure, there has not been any communication with the state government on the matter, but I will send across a reminder so that the work can be taken up in compliance with the Supreme Court’s judgement.”In September 2018, the Supreme Court had ordered the demolition of structures in the erstwhile Kant Enclave colony, developed near Anangpur village in Faridabad’s Surajkund area, ruling that it had been built on Aravalli forest land in illegal collusion with officials of the then Haryana government. In its judgement, the court had also observed, “The damage caused to the Aravalli hills, as already noted, is irreversible. However, perhaps some of the damage could be remedied - at least we hope so.”On the court’s directions, R Kant & Co — the developer found to be in violation of forest law — had already deposited a sum of ₹5 crore with the Aravalli Rehabilitation Fund “for rehabilitation of the damaged areas.”Accordingly, in December 2019, the forest department drew up a plan to reforest Kant Enclave’s 425 acres over a period of five years, using only native species of trees and shrubs. This land, as previously reported by HT, is accorded legal “forest” status by virtue of a notification under special sections 4 and 5 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act (1900).“The plantation work was to be done on a budget of ₹5 crore. The developer had already deposited the penalty amount in the ARF sometime in 2018. We made the restoration plan in December 2019 and it was sent for approval sometime in February 2020,” said Suresh Punia, former district forest officer of Faridabad.At least 33 illegal structures in Kant Enclave were demolished in October 2019, more than a year after the apex court’s ruling. An HT team visit to the site on Thursday found that the area is overrun with the fresh growth of Prosopis Juliflora (colloquially known as vilayati kikkar), leading to significant densification of the green cover.HT also observed multiple packs of stray dogs on the premises, as well as several peafowls and a jackal, which are protected under the Wildlife Act.While rubble from the demolitions of privately owned structures is still lying at over a dozen sites scattered throughout the complex, other constructions, including at least two overhead water tanks, pavements, power lines and roads, are yet to be removed. Forest department officials said they plan to use these utilities to facilitate restoration work, when it eventually begins.It was also noted that the area is frequented by locals from Anangpur village, which abuts the rear boundary of Kant Enclave. Three young men, who did not reveal their names, said they often come to the area to race motorcycles, while another local from Anangpur said he prefers to do his morning jogs and exercises over there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/kant-enclave-ruling-proposal-to-restore-425-acres-of-aravalli-forest-in-faridabad-gathers-dust-101614275757705.html
25-02-2021||Gurugram||Haryana yet to submit plan to conserve Najafgarh Jheel, matter with state technical committee||The Haryana government, even two months after the deadline, is yet to submit an environment management plan to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) for the protection of Najafgarh Jheel, as sought by the green court last September.However, officials from the state environment department said that technical committees have been formed to look into the matter and study the reports concerned.On September 17, 2020, the NGT, hearing a petition filed by the Indian National Trust for Art & Cultural Heritage (INTACH) for protection of the water body, had said, “In view of the fact that there is a large transboundary water body which partly falls in Delhi and partly in Haryana, it will be appropriate that an environment management plan is prepared jointly by the State of Haryana and NCT of Delhi. The MoEF&CC may steer the proceedings for preparation of environment management plan with the assistance of the Central Pollution Control Board. Central Pollution Control Board may coordinate as a nodal agency. Such plan may be prepared within three months.”The petitioners in the case are of the view that protection of the water body is important to maintain groundwater level in Gurugram district.Akash Vashishtha, the advocate for the petitioner, said, “It is well known that the water situation in Gurugram is grave with heavy reliance on a water table which is almost exhausted. The petitioners, INTACH, has estimated that if the water body is protected, then a regular and sustainable groundwater withdrawal is possible to support a population of half a million, based on rainwater harvesting as well as recycled water. The Delhi government has already submitted an environment management plan to the union ministry, but the Haryana government is delaying.”Vashishtha further said that the Haryana government, in February 2017, had submitted to the NGT acknowledging the presence of a Jheel (lake) and that the government would notify and protect it.Manu Bhatnagar, principal director of Natural Heritage Division of INTACH, said, “Apart from being an ecologically sensitive site for birds, Najafgarh Jheel is crucial for (solving) water woes of Gurugram region if it is protected properly. This waterbody is equivalent to 5,000 ponds area wise, which can act as a huge aquifer to recharge groundwater. Along with this, the lake being situated on seismic zone IV and highest zone of soil liquefaction, it is a hazard zone if buildings are constructed there. Destroying the Jheel will greatly worsen the flooding of Gurugram.”Meanwhile, the member secretary of the State Wetland Authority of Haryana on January 22 wrote a letter to the additional advocate general of Haryana regarding the matter, a copy of which was accessed by HT. The petitioners confirmed that this letter was submitted by the state government to NGT in the last hearing on January 27.The letter mentions that the divisional commissioner of Gurugram submitted a report to the State Wetland Authority considering issues related to the Najafgarh water body, which was placed before the authority on October 19, 2020, at its second meeting held under the chairmanship of the chief minister.The State Wetland Authority has decided that, “The revenue department shall examine temporary discontinuation of registry of sale deed of land falling below contour level 211 and only agricultural and allied activities be permitted in the said contour level till the final notification of the Wetland or till further orders. Change of land use shall not be further permitted in the area by the Town & Country Planning Department till further orders.”The letter further mentioned that based on the decisions taken in the second meeting of the State Wetland Authority, “reminders were issued to the quarters concerned on January 6, 2021, for taking action on the relevant points, but till date, no action take reports from any quarter concerned has been received in this office.”RK Chauhan, the joint director of state environment, said, “Before forming the environment management plan, we have to first identify or designate the area which falls under the ambit of the lake. The state government has formed technical committees for studying this matter. The State Wetland Authority is also regularly monitoring this issue, with two meetings already conducted. At present, we are following all rules of the union environment ministry and will soon be able to submit the environment management plan to NGT.”Yash Garg, who recently took charge as the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said, “A committee under the previous divisional commissioner was formed earlier and it had sent its recommendations to the state government. The environment department of the government is assessing the report and will submit a plan accordingly.”According to an RTI reply given by the irrigation and water resources department of Haryana, the Najafgarh Jheel, located near Kherki Majra village, is spread across 120.80 hectares. Depending on the mean sea level, the size of the water body differs; with 120 hectares at 209 metres, 300 hectares at 210 metres and 450 hectares at 211 metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-yet-to-submit-plan-to-conserve-najafgarh-jheel-matter-with-state-technical-committee-101614275756692.html
25-02-2021||Gurugram||Developer of Malibu Towne booked for violating fire safety norms||The police have booked the developer of Malibu Towne — a residential township on Sohna Road — for alleged violations of fire safety norms on the premises of Maple Club based on the complaint of the city’s fire department, which found several shortcomings in the club’s fire fighting system. Earlier, on February 17, the fire department sealed the Maple Club after inspections were carried out. A case was registered at Sadar Police station on Monday under sections 336 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 30, 31 and 32 of the Haryana Fire Service Act of 2009, said the police. Fire department officials said that they had conducted multiple inspections of the club after a complaint was lodged by a colony resident, named Raman Sharma. An inspection was conducted on January 7 and a notice was issued to the developer to get a fire-fighting system installed, failing which the fire safety NOC (no-objection certificate) would be cancelled, said the police. “On February 12, another inspection was conducted and we found that no corrective measures have been taken. The smoke detectors were missing on the premises and the developer has not taken an NOC for the basement. Also, the occupancy certificate for the basement has not been acquired. Only a few fire extinguishers were present, most of which were non-functional. The Maple Club is an assembly building and such violations can put the lives of residents in danger,” said Isham Singh Kashyap, assistant divisional fire officer, adding that they sealed the club on February 17 and recommended that a case be registered by the police. Kashyap also said that notices were given to the developer to take corrective action, but nothing was done, which forced them to recommend that a criminal case be registered against the developer. Raman Sharma, who had lodged complaint against the developer in this matter, said that the developer has carried out several violations, which would come out during the police probe. “All the violations would be revealed and those responsible for these violations would be exposed,” said Sharma. Subash Raghav, vice president, Malibu Estate Private Limited, the developer of Malibu Towne, however, maintained that they did not violate any fire safety norms. The deficiencies that were flagged by the fire department were corrected. “We have installed fire-fighting equipment, taken corrective measures and also closed the basement for which occupancy certificate was not obtained as directed by the department of town and country planning. We have a partial occupancy certificate for the club that we were using,” said Raghav. Subash Boken, spokesperson, Gurugram Police, said that a case has been registered on the complaint of fire department. “The matter is under investigation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/developer-of-malibu-towne-booked-for-violating-fire-safety-norms-101614275756086.html
25-02-2021||Gurugram||First pedestrian refuge island constructed at Sector 44 intersection||The city’s first pedestrian refuge island has been constructed at the Sector 44 intersection near Huda City Centre (HCC) by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), Raahgiri Foundation and World Resources Institute (WRI). A pedestrian refuge island is a wide and elevated median that allows pedestrians and cyclists to safely wait on the structures and continue to navigate intersections according to the signal changes.The Sector 44 intersection witnesses a consistently high volume of traffic throughout the day, as it leads to major road network and junctions of Subhash Chowk, Sohna Road, Golf Course Road through Kanhai Chowk, Signature Towers and Iffco Chowk through the Huda City Centre and the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway via the Sector 30/31 crossing. Prior to the redesign, there were no pedestrian-friendly amenities at the intersection despite a high volume of cyclists using the intersection.The islands at Sector 44, set up on all three sides of the intersection, are also unconventional, said experts. Usually, a pedestrian refuge island is 2.5 metres wide. However, to account for the cycle track running through the intersection, it has been widened to four metres for the ease of cyclists and for ensuring that they rejoin the track seamlessly.In October last year, the city’s first cycle track was constructed along the Netaji Subhash Marg, between HCC and Subhash Chowk.“Across the city, refuge islands have been used for placing utilities or landscaping purposes. Its role, however, is entirely different as it is meant to ensure that pedestrians and cyclists have a safe place to wait rather than being stuck on a conventional median against fast speed traffic and wait for the signal to turn red,” said Priyanka Sulkhlan, manager, cities and transport, WRI India.Sulkhlan said that the wider crossings, with the extra 1.5-metre width, have been provided to ensure that the high volume of cyclists on this intersection also have adequate space to both cross and wait safely alongside pedestrians.Sarika Panda Bhatt, Raahgiri Foundation’s co-founder, said that the redesign will not just be a one-off experiment in Gurugram. “The redesign of the Sector 44 intersection is a pilot project to showcase and acquaint the city with the concept of refuge islands. The GMDA has now decided to implement this concept at all intersections, which they will be redesigning or constructing afresh. Different models of refuge islands are being analysed according to the need of each intersection or junction,” said Bhatt.Bhatt also highlighted that the redesign not only ensures the safety of pedestrians and cyclists, but also addresses traffic management issues. “As there are no safe places to wait, often cyclists and pedestrians try to cross a carriageway against moving traffic and inadvertently, cause congestion. A refuge island will address this issue and reduce snarls as well, along with its safety feature,” said Bhatt.The Sector 44 intersection was one of the four intersections across the city shortlisted by the GMDA for a redesign, as part of Road Safety Month. The other intersections to be selected are at Bristol Chowk, Kanhai Chowk, and Ambedkar Chowk. The GMDA’s office is located adjacent to the Sector 44 intersection.Jitender Mittal, chief engineer, GMDA, said, “We will be adding pelican crossing lights at the Sector 44 intersection as well. It will be an added safety feature to the redesign. These will be synced with all the traffic signals. When all the traffic signals at the intersection are red than the pelican crossing lights will turn green. This will provide an added safety layer to cyclists and pedestrians.” Mittal also said that GMDA will make the pedestrian refuge island a standard feature across all junctions and intersections in the city. “At the beginning, we will be prioritising the installation of pedestrian refuge islands at all those stretches where GMDA is building cycle tracks as well as where new intersections or junctions are being created. Subsequently, the rest of the city will be covered,” said Mittal.He further said that the next pedestrian refuge island will be constructed at the Sector 70/75 crossing, where a new intersection is being engineered by the GMDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/first-pedestrian-refuge-island-constructed-at-sector-44-intersection-101614275755415.html
25-02-2021||Gurugram||Vehicle-free trial at Sadar Bazar deferred to next week||Citing administrative reasons, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has deferred the week-long vehicle-free trial at Sadar Bazar, which was scheduled to start on Friday. The trial will now be held next week, a release issued by the civic body on Thursday stated.The MCG, however, has not set a date for the trial yet. “Due to administrative reasons, the Sadar Bazar pedestrianisation (vehicle-free) trial is being postponed for a week,” the one-liner official release by MCG stated.The MCG had scheduled the one-week trial between February 26 and March 4. As part of the trial, the MCG would barricade all the entry and exit points along the 600-metre stretch between Jama Masjid and Head Post Office to prevent vehicles from entering the city’s oldest market. In addition, all encroachments around the market would be cleared, a dedicated vending zone set up for around 350 hawkers, green belts would be cultivated and streetlights and benches would be installed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/vehiclefree-trial-at-sadar-bazar-deferred-to-next-week-101614275754858.html
25-02-2021||Gurugram||City hospitals to administer vaccine to public from March 1||Over 360 private hospitals and 170 government hospitals empanelled under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY) in Haryana will administer Covid-19 vaccine doses to people above the age of 60 or people above 45 who have co-morbidities from March 1, said officials. As many as 27 hospitals, including 7 empanelled government hospitals and 20 private hospitals, are located in the city, as per the data available on the state health department’s website.“A two-day training of hospitals empanelled under Ayushman Bharat will begin in the state. The staff to be deployed by private hospitals as vaccinators and different vaccination officers, who will be involved in verification of beneficiaries to their inoculation and observation, will be trained by the district-level health staff,” said Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, state health department on Thursday. For the roll-out of vaccines to the public, the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday held a meeting with states, advising them to expand sessions to public healthcare facilities and PMJAY empanelled hospitals. “So far, the Central government has not conveyed any directions related to the distribution and delivery of the Covid-19 vaccine as well as their cost in private set-ups,” said Arora. According to the Covid-19 vaccine guidelines, every vaccination site is mandated to have four vaccination officers — Vaccination Officer 1 to check registration, Vaccination Officer 2 to verify ID proof, and Vaccination officers 3 and 4 to monitor the recipients of the jabs for 30 minutes for any side effects. Ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive The turnout for the Covid-19 vaccination picked up on Thursday, with 3,823 healthcare workers turning up for the second dose inoculation, exceeding the target of 3,200 set by the health department for the day. The inoculation of front-line workers, however, remained slow with only 45.8% of the 1,650 taking the vaccine jab, even as the union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday, in a review meeting with the states, directed them to focus on improving the pace of vaccination. “Front-line workers have to be motivated further as many of them are still unwilling. They want to wait and confirm that the vaccine is safe or are concerned about adverse reactions,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. “In the case of healthcare workers, there is no longer any reluctance. They responded well to the drive on Thursday after they were communicated that they couldn’t wait for a long time after 28 days of the first dose,” he said. From this week, the health department has started administering vaccines only thrice — on Monday, Tuesday and Thursday – with a target of covering almost 5,000 people every day. Private hospitals were also directed to ensure timely inoculation of the second dose. Elaborating of their efforts to raise the turnout of front-line workers, Yadav said that he has reached out to officials of the police department, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), revenue department and panchayati raj institutions, asking the heads to motivate their employees to take the vaccine jabs on designated days. As per the data available with the district health department, 24,739 health workers out of nearly 28,000 registered as vaccine beneficiaries have taken the first shot of the vaccine. Among them, at least 12,761 have taken the second shot too. As per the data, 15,046 of over 18,000 registered front-line workers registered on the Co-WIN portal have received the first dose of the vaccine shot.Officials said that increasing the vaccination coverage is crucial to ensure the immunity of enough people to ensure that the virus cannot spread. In Gurugram, 269 cases are currently active, with 36 new cases of infection reported on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/city-hospitals-to-administer-vaccine-to-public-from-march-1-101614275754253.html
25-02-2021||Gurugram||18 landowners booked for developing illegal colony in Farrukhnagar||The police on Wednesday registered two cases against 18 landowners for allegedly developing an illegal colony in Farrukhnagar after a complaint was filed by the officials of the enforcement wing of the department of town and country planning (DTCP). RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that the land on which the colony was being developed falls within the controlled urban area. This means that on any land that falls within the limits of a municipal area or notified area, no construction can be carried out without the necessary permission. Also, subdividing the land is prohibited without approval. The landowners are accused of carving out an illegal colony in Farrukhnagar by sub-division of agricultural land and constructing an unauthorised road network in violation of Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Area Act, 1975. “The land on which illegal colony was being developed falls within urban area limit of Farrukhnagar and it is under the ambit of Farrukhnagar Municipal Committee,” said Batth. Bhath added that despite notice from the department, the landowners were deliberately continuing with the development of the colony in contravention of the law. Violation of these laws is punishable with jail up to three years and penalty. The department has requested the police to keep an eye on any unauthorised development carried out across the city. Bhath said they have been taking action against illegal colonies and multiple demolition drives have been carried out in the last few months. “We had demolished many such structures and recommended the registration of FIRs against land owners,” he said, adding that they are conducting demolition drives on a regular basis to tackle the mushrooming of illegal colonies across the city. In order to make a quick buck, several landowners in Manesar, Bhondsi, Sohna, Farrukhnagar and Pataudi had set up unauthorised colonies in more than 50 villages without seeking mandatory permissions from the government agencies. According to norms, the tehsil office cannot carry out registration of any property without procuring a no-objection certificate from the DTCP office, said the police. Two cases were registered under sections 7A and 10 of Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975 against the land owners. “Following the complaint of DTCP, FIRs were registered against landowners and we are investigating the case,” said KK Rao, commissioner of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/18-landowners-booked-for-developing-illegal-colony-in-farrukhnagar-101614275753601.html
25-02-2021||Other||Washim: Pohradevi priest, 229 students test positive for Covid-19||After the gathering of thousands of supporters of Maharashtra forest minister and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Rathod at Washim’s Pohradevi temple earlier this week, at least 12 people, including the temple’s chief priest have tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has banned all gatherings of more than 50 people given a fresh surge in coronavirus cases in Vidarbha. Rathod had visited the Pohradevi temple on Tuesday amid tight security, during which, many of his supporters thronged his vehicle creating a commotion.The chief temple priest was present during the minister’s visit and around 25,000 of his supporters from different districts including Yavatmal, Jalna, Amravati, Washim and Nanded gathered there to boost the morale of the minister, who was on the defensive after the opposition attacked him and demanded his arrest and removal from the Thackeray cabinet, linking him in the death of a 22-year-old woman. A large majority of those present flouted social distancing norms and did not wear masks. The Washim district collector, Shanmugarajan S informed that the temple priest and his family members had undergone a Covid-19 test two days ago. The test later established that he and his five members were infected with the virus. “We have set up testing camps near the temple to detect coronavirus infection among the temple staff and nearby villagers, particularly those who had attended the temple on Tuesday when the minister visited there,” the collector said. After the minister’s visit, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray took a serious note of the Poharadevi temple gathering and directed the district and police administration to immediately take action against those who flouted Covid-19 norms. The district administration had registered offences against around 10 people, but no offence was registered against Rathod. “We are trying to identify others in this connection and will certainly book them,” the collector Shanmugarajan said. Meanwhile, as many as 229 students at a residential school at Degaon, near Washim, have tested positive for Covid-19, district health officer Avinash Aher said. Four teaching and non-teaching staffers have also been found to be infected, he added. “Necessary treatment is being given to the patients. Two doctors and other health workers have been deputed to treat the students,” said Aher and added that almost all the students are asymptomatic. District collector Shanmugarajan also visited the school and instructed the district health department to provide care to the students and school staff. “Assistant collector Vaibhah Waghmare has been appointed as the nodal officer to coordinate the healthcare,” he said. Ruling Shiv Sena lawmaker Bhavna Gawli, who represents the Yavatmal-Washim Lok Sabha constituency, runs the school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/washim-pohradevi-priest-229-students-test-positive-for-covid19-101614275514262.html
25-02-2021||City||With Sasikala's blessing, AMMK vows to make Dhinakaran Tamil Nadu CM||The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) in its general council meeting held on Thursday vowed to make its founder TTV Dhinakaran Tamil Nadu's chief minister in the upcoming polls with the ‘blessings’ of his aunt VK Sasikala. The resolution appears to indicate that they will face the Assembly elections in April-May alone.It was one of the 14 resolutions passed by the fledgeling party which was floated by Dhinakaran in 2018 with a breakaway faction of Sasikala’s supporters after the duo was expelled from the AIADMK in 2017.The AMMK also resolved to reclaim the AIADMK from ‘the wrong hands’ which is currently in the dual leadership of chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami and his deputy O Paneerselvam.Also read: Pakistan stays in FATF ‘grey list’, given June deadline to implement action planSasikala, late chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s close aide, returned to Chennai earlier this month after serving a four-year jail term in the disproportionate assets case in Bengaluru. She briefly held the reins of the AIADMK before her conviction and on her return has called for the ‘loyal cadre of Jayalalithaa’ to be united to fight their common enemy the DMK.Sasikala has positioned herself as Jayalalithaa’s true heir and continues to identify herself as the AIADMK's general secretary and uses the party flag. The AMMK wants Sasikala to take back her post in the AIADMK and merge the factions. The AIADMK, however, has stonewalled Sasikala and her family and has categorically rejected taking her back and the idea of a merger with the AMMK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-sasikala-s-blessing-ammk-vows-to-make-dhinakaran-tamil-nadu-cm-101614275232690.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai college to start certificate course in hip-hop from March||Almost 14 months after the course was approved by the University of Mumbai (MU), a suburban college is all set to start the first batch in Introduction to Hip-Hop Studies. Vile Parle’s Usha Pravin Gandhi College (UPG College) will be starting the first batch in March this year and registrations for the same have already begun.Yatindra Ingle, a professor with the college said, “While hip-hop has been practised as a performing art, now having it into academics will add in the in-depth knowledge of the subject, for those who wish to study it as a culture. It’s important not only to art but also history and even contemporary life.” Ingle has helped design the curriculum and will now be coordinating the course at UPG College. “Due to its cultural relevance and its tendency to promote through its connection with students—an increased social and cultural awareness can be created in an academic setting through this course.”The 60-hour certificate course, originally meant to be launched in the year 2018, was under review by an expert committee and the final approval came through only in 2019, making it the first course of its kind to be offered by a university in the country.The approval process for the course faced some hiccups, and a committee had to be set up to make sure that a subject like hip-hop could be taught. The final approval came through in June 2019.Ingle, who himself has been rapping for more than a decade and also emcees rap battles in and around the city, said the course will teach hip-hop as a medium of communication and take students back to the roots when African Americans and other oppressed groups in the US used hip-hop to make their voices heard. “The course will take students back to the days when hip-hop first was introduced on the streets of the US as a platform to speak out against oppression, violence, identity, culture as well as power,” added Ingle.Sanjay Ranade, associate professor, department of communication and journalism, MU, was also part of the formulation of this course along with Ingle and will now be part of the course at UPG College. “My focus will be on lyrical development in the Indian hip-hop scenario, especially in Indian languages. I feel this will be unique to India,” he said.The 60-hour certificate program will take students from a basic introduction to the art form to the politics attached to it, women in hip-hop and the art form that goes beyond borders and the economic status of the performer. Along with weekend classes where students will be introduced to the concept with the help of experts from the industry, students will also be part of practical sessions and will then go through a written exam to pass the course. “The course will take students on a virtual global trip to understand the concept,” added Ingle.Not only will this course bring together artists from India, but the institute is also trying to rope in international hip-hop artists. Ambarin Kadri aka Am-B, a Hip-hop artist and faculty of this program said, “Hip-hop in academics would work as a good bridge between the real HipHop community and the younger generation that’s interested in learning in-depth about hip-hop from scratch. We as hip-hop artists get the opportunity to impart the right knowledge and pass on our life-changing experiences first hand with the younger generation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-college-to-start-certificate-course-in-hip-hop-from-march-101614275394725.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||45.3% Mumbai university students passed after re-evaluation in 2018: RTI data||Almost 45.3% students, who applied for re-evaluation at the University of Mumbai (MU), passed after getting their results re-evaluated in 2018, shows data received under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. This means that almost three in five students passed the exams after re-evaluation. Vihar Durve, a city based RTI activist said that these students had been erroneously marked fail in their exams. Data from the board of examinations and evaluation shows that 87,567 students applied for re-evaluation in the first and second half of 2018. Of these, 39,652 students passed the exams after re-evaluation. “Almost 45.3% of the students, who had been marked ‘fail’, were able to pass. This means they had been wrongly failed in the exams by teachers. This has been a recurring trend and no action has been taken by the university so far,” said Durve. In the first half of 2019, a total of 43,630 students applied for re-evaluation, of which 11,626 passed after getting their paper re-evaluated, finds the RTI. An earlier RTI query had revealed that more than two lakh students had applied for re-evaluation of papers between April 2014 and August 2016. Almost 73,000 students found out that they passed after re-evaluation. This means almost 30% students passed a paper after being marked “fail” in their papers. “Students passing the exam after re-evaluation does not necessarily mean than they were erroneously failed in the exam. Re-evaluation is a natural justice option available to students where the paper is looked at with a fresh perspective,” said a spokesperson for the board of examination.Applications for revaluation and photocopy remain a large source of income for the university which charges ₹500 for every revaluation application and an additional ₹100 for a photocopy of answer sheets. Yet another of Durve’s RTIs found that the university raked in ₹5 crore in 2016-17, ₹3.62 crore in 2017-18 and ₹2.46 crore in 2018-19 from re-evaluation alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/453-mumbai-university-students-passed-after-re-evaluation-in-2018-rti-data-101614275094796.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body gears up to vaccinate senior citizens, comorbid citizens above age 45||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is gearing up to start the Covid-19 vaccination drive for senior citizens, and citizens above age 45 years who have co-morbidity, by conducting training sessions for hospital staff. The Central government had announced on Wednesday that the third phase of the vaccination drive will begin country-wide from March 1.In a meeting on Thursday, BMC decided to contact the hospitals in the city, empanelled under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana and Central government insurance scheme, which qualify for administering the vaccine to citizens. Training sessions for the hospital staff who will administer the vaccines will take place, along with logistically readying their premises for the vaccine drive.Approximately 3,000,000 Mumbaiites will qualify as beneficiaries for the third phase of the vaccination drive, according to data collected by the civic body during its My Family, My Responsibility campaign. However, BMC is still awaiting instructions from the government on how the registration of these beneficiaries will take place, and what documents will be required.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of BMC’s public health department said, “We are awaiting guidelines from the Central government regarding this phase of the vaccination drive. The training module for staff who will administer the vaccine is yet to be activated by the government because it is Co-WIN app-based training. We are also awaiting clarity on whether we will register beneficiaries on the Co-WIN app, or they will register themselves.”Once the registration process is complete, BMC will have clarity regarding the number of beneficiaries who qualify for vaccination. Kakani said, “It may prove challenging. Due to the lifestyle in a city like Mumbai, almost everyone has co-morbidity. Everyone has blood pressure or hypertension. What documents beneficiaries above age 45 years will have to submit to prove they are co-morbid, remains to be examined.”BMC is examining if a simple doctor’s certificate will suffice for those with co-morbidities, or patients will have to submit their medical history. A senior civic official said, “We may run into another challenge if we say a simple doctor’s certificate regarding co-morbidity can qualify a beneficiary to get vaccinated. I may have high blood pressure today and may not record it tomorrow. Those who are in the highest risk groups should be prioritised.”Whether Mumbai will be able to start phase three of the drive, by March 1, as scheduled by the state government will depend on the amount of time it will take for beneficiaries to get registered. The actual drive may take two or three days more to kickstart, authorities said. A senior civic official said, “It may be logistically difficult for a person to walk in for a vaccine shot, the same day he or she gets registered. We also have to decide the charges for vaccination, in the case of private hospitals.”More meetings of the BMC’s public health department will take place on Friday and Saturday to chalk out all details of the drive.Presently, BMC is vaccinating healthcare workers from the first phase that began on January 16, and frontline workers from the second phase that began on February 4, across 36 vaccination centres in the city. Until Wednesday, BMC has vaccinated a total of 186,158 beneficiaries, of which 83,241 are frontline workers. 13,754 healthcare workers have also received the second shot of their vaccine, administered 28 days after the first shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-gears-up-to-vaccinate-senior-citizens-comorbid-citizens-above-age-45-101614274974444.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records 1,145 cases; active cases increase by 64% in 2 weeks||Mumbai has reported over 1,000 Covid-19 cases for the second consecutive day. On Thursday, the city recorded 1,145 new cases and five deaths, taking the case tally to 322,844 and the death toll to 11,463. According to state health department data, active cases in the city has increased by around 64% in the last two weeks.On February 11, Mumbai had reported 4,197 active cases and the same has gone up to 6,900 active cases, as of February 24, in the period of nearly two weeks. The city has been reporting over 500 cases since the past 10 days, compared to the range of 300 to 500 cases being reported daily two weeks ago.As of Thursday, 302,930 patients have been recovered, taking the recovery rate to 93.82%. The mortality rate in Mumbai is 3.55%. The number of active cases jumped to 7,583 on Thursday.Similarly, on Wednesday, Mumbai reported 1,167 cases in a single day. The 1,000 mark was crossed by Mumbai for the first time after November 28, 2020. In terms of active cases going up, the biggest spike is observed in areas like Bandra, Khar, Santacruz, Andheri, Ghatkopar, Mulund etc. However, the highest number of active cases are currently in areas including Borivli, Kandivli, Malad, Jogeshwari, Andheri and Mulund, according to BMC’s data.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of BMC, earlier this week said, “We are hoping for the best and are reactivating beds at quarantine facilities incase the cases go up further. At the same time, citizens need to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and not lower their guard.”The BMC has attributed several factors to be behind the increase in the number of cases. BMC said restarting of local trains for all, increased gathering at marriages and other social events, followed by non-compliance of Covid-19 norms by citizens, restaurants and night clubs owners. Earlier this week, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in a review meeting, directed BMC to prepare for the September peak, and increase testing, tracing and quarantining.Meanwhile, Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based physician said, “Considering the situation in Mumbai since the last ten days, I feel that complete lockdown is not the solution, but the government can think of several restrictions. This may include focusing on tweaking timings for nightclubs, bars etc. However, for now, the government should wait and watch for the next five to six days to go ahead with further restrictions keeping in mind the economic factor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-1-145-cases-active-cases-increase-by-64-in-2-weeks-101614274795204.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||Railway security forces save man’s life, lauded by minister Piyush Goyal||Railway minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday lauded the efforts of railway security officers who saved the life of a man who was attempting to commit suicide on the railway track at Virar station located in Mumbai. Goyal added that the man was attempting suicide as he was distressed by the death of his mother but was rescued from the track by the railway security forces.“Distressed by the death of his mother, a suicide attempt was made on the railway track at Virar station but because of the alertness of the railway security forces, he was rescued from the track in time to save an invaluable life,” Goyal tweeted in Hindi along with the video of the moment the man was saved by the railway security forces.अपनी माता जी के देहांत से व्यथित, एक व्यक्ति द्वारा विरार स्टेशन पर, रेलवे ट्रैक पर आत्महत्या का प्रयास किया गया, रेलवे सुरक्षा बलों की सतर्कता से, उन्हें समय रहते ट्रैक से हटा कर एक अमूल्य जीवन बचाया गया।Watch on Koo: https://t.co/h0hxGiFSKE pic.twitter.com/azjl8BQUbnThe number of deaths on Mumbai’s train tracks between January and July 2020 was considerably lower than in the corresponding period last year, owing to the lockdown. The proportion of these deaths that were registered as suicides rose considerably, data from western railways and central railways revealed. Data showed that one in 10 deaths on railway tracks from January to July 2020 was a suicide as 436 track deaths were reported of which 43 of them were registered as suicides. In the same period in 2019, 828 deaths on tracks were reported of which 32 were registered as suicide.In September 2020, union social justice and empowerment ministry launched India’s first 24/7 suicide helpline KIRAN. The helpline number is 1800-599-0019. India reported about 381 suicides daily in 2019, marking a nearly 3.4% increase as compared to 2018, a report by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) stated. Of this, Maharashtra recorded the highest number of deaths by suicides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/railway-security-forces-save-man-s-life-lauded-by-minister-piyush-goyal-101614274267263.html
25-02-2021||City||In poll-bound Tamil Nadu, Congress-DMK begin seat-sharing talks||Long-standing allies, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and Congress began their first round of seat-sharing talks on Thursday in Chennai for elections to the 234 members Assembly due in April-May.While Congress has presented its expectations of contesting more than 40 constituencies, DMK is not keen on parting with more than 20-25 seats for Congress, people privy to the meeting said on condition of anonymity.The DMK has constituted a three-member committee comprising MP Kanimozhi, party treasurer TR Balu and general secretary Durai Murugan, to lead the talks with Congress. “DMK’s party leadership wants to contest a higher number of seats compared to 2016,” said Kanimozhi. “We have told them (Congress) what is possible.” This will also be the highest allocation DMK offers amongst its allies since Congress is a national party.Congress won eight out of the 41 constituencies it was allotted in the 2016 assembly elections and is hoping for a similar scale. “The leadership is saying they are fine if they get the same number of 41 seats,” said a Congress member privy to the meeting and did not wish to be named. “But it doesn’t seem like DMK is ready to give more than 30.”Also read: Pakistan stays in FATF ‘grey list’, given June deadline to implement action planThe Congress party, which is dependent on DMK for its presence in Tamil Nadu, is hoping to cash in on former party chief Rahul Gandhi’s successive visits to the southern state which drew huge crowds to leverage its side on the negotiating table given its poor performance in the 2020 Bihar elections and the fall of their government in Puducherry last week.The national party is represented by former Kerala chief minister Oomen Chandy, AICC in-charge of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Goa Dinesh Gundu Rao, INC general secretary, Randeep Surjewala, and Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president KS Alagiri for its talks.“We are serious about the state and we can add a lot of value to the allies to win,” said Rao. “That’s why Rahul Gandhi has been coming here and doing programs. So it creates an atmosphere to take on this fascist force (of) BJP. He is the best person who can take them on. That is fundamentally what we are bringing to the table.” Another senior Congress leader also added that Gandhi’s visits would work to their advantage.The DMK-led alliance swept the 2019 parliamentary elections winning 38 of the 39 seats in Tamil Nadu. The DMK had won all 20 seats it fought for and Congress eight out of nine. However, the combine has been out of power since 2011. In the assembly elections in 2011, Congress contested 63 seats and won five in the wake of the 2G spectrum scam. Their vote share was 9.3 per cent that year which further dwindled to 6.4 per cent in 2016.Congress held meetings with its state leaders on Wednesday night and again after the seat-sharing talks on Thursday. From the party’s end, Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi would take the final call. Meanwhile, the three DMK leaders apprised their party president MK Stalin about their discussion. Both sides said that their talks were amicable and will go for a few more rounds.“We spoke regarding our alliance with politeness and happiness. We exchanged our opinions. We will speak with our respective parties and have the next round of talks," Alagiri told reporters after the meeting.The other allies in DMK-led alliance are Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK), CPI, CPI(M), Manithaneya Makkal Katchi (MMK), Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) and smaller partners such as Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi (KMDK) and Tamilaga Valvurimai Katchi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-poll-bound-tamil-nadu-congress-dmk-begin-seat-sharing-talks-101614274239300.html
25-02-2021||Other||Man strangles wife to death at Mohali’s Amb Sahib Colony||A migrant labourer strangled his wife to death during an altercation at their house in Amb Sahib Colony, Phase 11, on Wednesday night.According to police, the victim, Manju, 23, a native of Muradabad, Uttar Pradesh, had married Kamal, 25, around two years ago. Her brother complained that since their marriage, Kamal and his parents would often harass and assault her. She even returned to her parents’ house several times, but was asked to reconcile every time.“On the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, the couple had a fight and in a fit of rage, Kamal strangled Manju using a dupatta, before fleeing the scene,” said inspector Jagdeep Singh Brar, station house officer of Phase 11 police station.Neighbours noticed Manju unconscious and informed the police. She was rushed to the civil hospital in Phase 6, but the doctors declared her dead. “Kamal has been booked for murder. He will be arrested soon,” the SHO said. The victim’s body was handed over to her family after autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-strangles-wife-to-death-at-mohali-s-amb-sahib-colony-101614272753489.html
25-02-2021||Delhi||Covid-19:Delhi reports 220 new cases, 188 recoveries||Delhi recorded 220 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest number of single-day incidences in February, even as no new fatality was registered.This is the fourth time the single-day fatality count has stood nil in this month.Over 3.46 lakh beneficiaries have received Covid-19 vaccine till date in Delhi since the start of the inoculation drive a month ago, with more than 18,000 people receiving shots on Thursday, according to data shared by officials.Out of these, more than 1.44 lakh are healthcare workers and over two lakh are frontline workers, as per the data.Coronavirus vaccine shots were administered to more than 18,900 beneficiaries in Delhi on Thursday. Six minor cases of AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) were reported, the officials said.🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 25th February 2021🏥#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/EbT3bAXx27A total of 18,599 beneficiaries received shots across over 300 centres in the national capital on Wednesday.On Thursday, 18,945 people were vaccinated, including 5,542 healthcare workers who got their second dose, as the inoculation drive picked up pace, according to the data."Six minor cases of AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) were reported," an official said.Till date, 1,44,346 healthcare workers have been vaccinated and 2,02,945 frontline workers also received vaccine, as per the data shared by the officials.Frontline workers include police personnel, civil defence staff, sanitation workers, among others.The vaccination drive, started on January 16, has picked up pace in the last one week.Under the nationwide mega vaccination drive launched on January 16, a total of 4,319 (53 per cent) health workers against a target of 8,117 were administered the shots at 81 centres across the city on day one.As per doctors, the second dose is to be given to a beneficiary after a gap of 28 days.On February 13, a total of 13,768 beneficiaries received vaccine shots and second dose began to given to healthcare workers who had received the first jab 28 days ago.On the second scheduled day after the roll-out of the exercise on January 16, the figures had stood at 3,598 (44 per cent of the target). The sharp fall had come after one severe and 50 minor adverse effect cases were reported, on the opening day of the vaccination drive.The count on third scheduled day was much higher, at 4,936 (48 per cent).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19delhi-reports-220-new-cases-188-recoveries-101614271672723.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra's MVA govt trying to curtail budget session citing pandemic: BJP||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday accused the Maharashtra government of trying to curtail the upcoming budget session of the state legislature on the pretext of rising number of coronavirus cases.He was speaking after attending the meeting of the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) of the state legislature.Fadnavis claimed that the BJP walked out of the meeting over the issue."The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is citing the rising number of COVID-19 cases to curtail the budget session. The BJP condemns such a move, hence we walked out of the meeting," the Leader of Opposition in the Assembly said.This government does not want to be questioned on any issue, the former chief minister said."There is rampant corruption in the state, but it does not want any scrutiny," Fadnavis alleged.He also said that the election of the new Assembly Speaker was not on the agenda of the meeting.The post fell vacant with the resignation of Nana Patole, who has taken over as chief of the state unit of the Congress.Fadnavis also criticised the MVA government for its "double standards" over the coronavirus situation in the state."Political parties (in power) are holding large meetings and organising rallies, but they are asking the opposition parties not to demand a longer budget session," he said.On a query over state forest minister and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Rathod, whose name is being linked to the death of a woman in Pune, he said, "This government is hiding him...The incident had taken place several weeks back, but there was no complaint filed by the police. They are not even taking any initiative to probe it."State parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab has announced that the budget session will be held from March 1 to 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-mva-govt-trying-to-curtail-budget-session-citing-pandemic-bjp-101614260594714.html
25-02-2021||Other||Ajit Pawar fails to follow up on road widening project in Pune||PUNE As the opposition parties opposed Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC’s) decision to widen city roads from six to nine-metre, Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister, had given instructions to put the project on hold until a decision is taken, but PMC has not got anything in writing about the decision.When the PMC standing committee decided to widen 323 roads in the first phase, Pawar had opposed it, but later PMC did not get any instructions from the minister and has now called for suggestions and objections from residents, said officials.Later, a meeting for the same was held in Mumbai where Pawar and urban development minister Eknath Shinde were present along with PMC officials. PMC had put forth the project details before the ministers during the meeting.Former state chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, meanwhile, has also backed the proposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ajit-pawar-fails-to-follow-up-on-road-widening-project-in-pune-101614268853140.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||Car with explosives found near Mukesh Ambani's house, investigation underway||A car with gelatin, an explosive material, was found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in Mumbai on Thursday evening, police said.A Mahindra Scorpio was found parked on Carmichael Road near 'Antilia', Ambani's residence and a Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad (BDDS) team reached the spot immediately, said Chaitanya Siriprolu, deputy commissioner of police, Mumbai."Police teams found that it was not an assembled explosive device," he said.A letter was also found inside the vehicle, the officer later added. "The registration number displayed on the said vehicle matches with the registration number of a vehicle in Mukesh Ambani's security detail. The said vehicle has been seized by police for investigation," he said.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/car-with-explosives-found-near-mukesh-ambani-s-house-101614267561861.html
25-02-2021||Other||Political parties in Pune divided over PMC’s road-widening proposal||PUNE Political parties in Pune appear to be divided on the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC’s) decision to widen city roads from six to nine-metre.Recently, former state chief minister Devendra Fadnavis visited PMC and agreed with the decision taken by PMC. Earlier, he had opposed the same proposal when he was the chief minister.Sandeep Khardekar, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson, said, “Many housing societies are in favour of redevelopment. Earlier they were unable to do it as there would be less construction on the existing plot. BJP leader Devendra Fadnvis and state unit president Chandrakant Patil have expressed the same views.”Another BJP leader Ujwal Keskar said, “While framing uniform development control rules, state government has already allowed additional FSI on same plots. There is no need for the additional proposal, but some developers want more FSI so they are pushing for road widening.”Congress leader Aba Bagul said, “Those people who live in bungalows will be affected by this move. The city houses a lot of old and traditional bungalows. Even there are chances that at some places developers would force citizens to redevelop plots.”Nationalist Congress Party (NCP)leader Nitin Kadam said, “Many citizens from the Sahakarnagar area have opposed the road widening proposal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/political-parties-in-pune-divided-over-pmc-s-road-widening-proposal-101614267053022.html
25-02-2021||Other||PMC, state health dept awaiting final instructions on vaccination for seniors; unlikely to start from Mar 1||PUNE Though the central government declared that the vaccination drive for those 60-years of age and higher, and those aged 45-years-plus with comorbidities, will start from March 1, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and state health department is yet to get more details regarding the same. As detailed instructions are awaited, officials noted that the process may take time to start.Speaking on the issue, Dr Archana Patil, director, state health department, said “Details about how the beneficiaries will register and how many centre will be vaccinating beneficiaries above the age of 60 will be given to us soon. As soon as that comes to us, we will lay out the plan and start the process.” Talking about the registration of beneficiaries, Dr Archana Patil added that the process is unclear as of now. The registration of healthcare workers (HCW) and frontline workers (FLW), was done through the CoWin app. Sources from the health department said that the registration for the public may be done in a similar way. Dr Dilip Patil, state immunisation officer, also said that since there has been no information from the centre yet, the entire process may take time to start.“From March 1, the process of vaccination is to start. This means that the registration process and allocation of centres and similar details will be made public. The actual vaccination drive may take a little longer to start,” said Dr Patil. Dr Ashish Bharti, chief of the health department at the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said the PMC is ready to set up for the vaccination of those aged 60 years and above, and beneficiaries with co-morbidities.“We can vaccinate 100 beneficiaries per vaccinator. In some centres where there are more beneficiaries we have two vaccinators. We are likely to follow the same pattern for the third phase as well,” said Dr Bharti.Beneficiary registration through the CoWin app had a lot of glitches earlier. Health department officials are hopeful that this time, there will be no problems. 76% success rate for vaccination in districtOn Thursday, Pune district reported a 76% success rate for vaccination of HCWs and FLWs.In PMC limits, the vaccination success rate was 37% and in PCMC it was 61%. Pune rural reported a 44% vaccination rate on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-state-health-dept-awaiting-final-instructions-on-vaccination-for-seniors-unlikely-to-start-from-mar-1-101614266453021.html
25-02-2021||Other||1,525 fresh cases in Pune district on Thursday||PUNE Pune district reported 11,570 active cases in the state, as per the state health department, of which 1,525 are fresh cases reported on Thursday. Four Covid-related deaths were also reported in the district. Of these, two each are from Pune rural and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). No deaths were reported in the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Thursday.As per the state health department, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 2,06,971 Covid cases with a death toll of 4,569, till Thursday. Whereas PCMC has reported 1,01,139 cases so far, and a total of 1,328 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 97,197 total cases so far and 2,151 deaths due to Covid. In Pune district, there are a total of 4,05,307 lakh Covid cases, of which 3,85,640 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 8,097 deaths in the district. As per the state health department, 3,744 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra, taking that total to 20,12,367. The recovery rate in the state is 94.49%.The state case fatality rate in the state is 2.4%.Currently, 3,05,745 people are in home quarantine and 2,521 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1525-fresh-cases-in-pune-district-on-thursday-101614265792972.html
25-02-2021||Other||PCMC’s Covid positivity rate jumps from 6% to 25% in 10 days||The Covid positivity rate, which was 6 per cent in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation till February 15, has seen a massive surge to 25 per cent, as of February 24.Currently, in PCMC, there are a total 3,164 Covid positive cases, of which 2,427 are in home isolation and 743 patients are in hospital.“The positivity rate has gone up and most of the numbers are noticed among youngsters. On February 15, the positivity rate was only 6 per percent, while it is increasing every day and now it has reached 25 per cent on February 24,” said Rajesh Patil, PCMC commissioner, on Thursday.In PCMC, there are a total of 2,575 beds currently available for Covid patients.“Currently, we are conducting 2,000 covid tests every day, which will be increased to 3,000 in the coming days. Private hospitals will also be starting to conduct tests in a few days. We will allocate the hospitals for the same,” added Patil.The PCMC administration currently has 19 containment zones listed.“In these containment zones we are also just sealing the blocks where patients are found and not the complete building. If there more than 11 cases found, then the entire area will be sealed,” added Patil.The PCMC administration has also increased vigilance at hotels and public places.“Till now, we have fined 18 hotels in PCMC and collected ₹45,000 in fines from them. My only request to all is to follow norms. People need to support us if we don’t want lockdown situations like the past,” added Patil.PCMC’s Covid spikeA look at the number of Covid positive cases between Feb 18 and Feb 25Date No of positive patientsFebruary 25 468February 24 425February 23 204February 22 223February 21 298February 20 202February 19 281February 18 180February 17 227February 16 142February 15 100||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pcmcs-covid-positivity-rate-jumps-from-6-to-25-in-10-days-101614265313574.html
25-02-2021||Pune||12-year-old old falls to death from seventh-floor flat in Pune||PUNE: A 12-year-old boy fell to his death while allegedly playing at the balcony of his seventh-floor home in Pimpri on Wednesday. According to the police, the child, his mother and his younger brother were present at the flat of Kohinoor Shangrila apartment building in Pimpri when the incident happened around 4pm. The doctors told the police that the child died of lung and chest trauma and internal bleeding. The child was taken to Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial hospital where he was declared dead, according to the police. The 12-year-old is survived by a younger brother and his parents. “His father was probably at work when the incident happened. His mother was doing household work and he was playing with his brother. He may have slipped and fell, but we can conclude only after probe,” said assistant inspector RS Pandhare of Pimpri police station who is investigating the case. The parents of the child were in a state of shock and could not record a statement to the police. Based on the information given by Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial hospital, the child’s death was recorded in an accidental death report at Pimpri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/12yearold-old-falls-to-death-from-seventh-floor-flat-in-pune-101614265312941.html
25-02-2021||City||'Meghalaya is a potential role model for India': Lok Sabha Speaker||Meghalaya can act as a model of development and prosperity for the entire nation, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla observed on Thursday. Addressing members of the Meghalaya Legislative Assembly on his maiden visit to the state, Birla said as a state, Meghalaya has all the enabling institutions for inclusive growth.“The state government and the autonomous councils have to make collective efforts to find an amicable solution to the problems being faced by the people of the state,” he underscored.He said that democracy has immense potential to address all the grievances, face all the challenges and find a solution for the same. “As representatives of people, we should be fully committed to extending all possible assistance to mark a new beginning for growth and development in Meghalaya and all across the country,” Birla urged.Expressing happiness over the smooth construction of the new Assembly building, he said, “Meghalaya Legislative Assembly will soon have its permanent building after a wait of 15 years. The design of the building is very attractive. I am sure your new Legislative Assembly building will truly reflect the diversity and rich cultural heritage of your beautiful state.”Also read: Indian Newspaper Society writes to Google to pay for newsThe Lok Sabha Speaker further suggested the state Assembly sets up a modern research wing to provide round-the-clock support to the members. “We have started a new service in Parliament namely PRISM in the current Budget Session through which Parliamentary Research and Information Support is being provided to MPs round the clock… We will be happy to provide all possible support for setting up each research wing,” he promised.Birla also stated that at the time of the pandemic also, the Parliament as, well as all the Legislative Assemblies, worked together in coordination and contributed to the efforts of the government. “I am glad that our collective efforts helped in facing this challenge. This cooperation is our source of strength. We should strengthen our collective efforts and try to make them even more effective,” he stated.“We summoned the Parliament even amid the pandemic and sent a positive message to the people through our functioning. Your Legislative Assembly had also held its session in November despite Corona and had made a meaningful effort to work in accordance with the hopes and aspirations of the people. It indicates that our legislative institutions are discharging their constitutional responsibilities with utmost sincerity,” he added.Asserting that progressive use of ICT tools such as e-Parliament and e-Office in the functioning of the Parliament has significantly helped members of parliament to fulfil their obligations effectively, Birla said he is sure that the use of virtual platforms, e-notice, Members Portal and other such facilities will help in bridging the digital divide and create a ‘people-centric, sustainable and development-oriented society.Pointing out that the legislative institutions have various parliamentary devices to ensure the accountability of the executive, he said Parliamentary devices such as Question Hour, Zero Hour, etc are the best ways to address the issues being faced by the people.Lauding the state Assembly for its initiative to include Zero Hour, Birla said, “Your initiative of including Zero Hour in the practice and procedure of your legislative assembly is commendable. You deserve accolades for this.”“Please share the conventions followed by your legislative assembly and also the new initiatives so that democratic institutions of the country may adopt best practices from each other.”Meanwhile, the Lok Sabha Speaker also said the North-East region of India has immense potential and capabilities. Hence, this region can lead the country on the path of progress.“Let us all resolve to build a strong Meghalaya, a vibrant North-East and a formidable India. We resolve to make India the most prosperous, dynamic and powerful nation in the world in the 21st century which will act as the guiding force for all the democracies in the world,” he emphasised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/meghalaya-is-a-potential-role-model-for-india-lok-sabha-speaker-101614264419275.html
25-02-2021||Delhi||Warm day in Delhi, maximum temperature settles at 33.2 deg celsius||It was a warm Thursday with a clear sky in the national as the maximum temperature settled at 33.2 degrees Celsius and the minimum at 13.4 degrees Celsius, a notch above the season's average, the meteorological office here said.Humidity was recorded at 96 per cent at 8.30 am, a weather official said.The Palam and the Lodhi Road weather stations recorded maximum temperatures of 31.2 degrees Celsius and 32.6 degrees Celsius respectively, while the one at Ridge area recorded a high of 32.6 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperature in Ridge and Palam were recorded at 16.4 degrees Celsius and 16.3 degrees Celsius respectively.The weatherman has predicted mainly clear sky and shallow fog on Friday morning.“The maximum and minimum temperatures would be around 34 degrees Celsius and 13 degrees Celsius respectively,” the Met department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/warm-day-in-delhi-maximum-temperature-settles-at-33-2-deg-celsius-101614260707636.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Mumbai records another spike with 1,145 new cases in 24 hours||Mumbai on Thursday recorded yet another spike of 1,145 new Covid-19 cases int he last 24 hours, which pushed the city's tally to 3,22,844, according to Maharashtra health department's update.The city also recorded five deaths, which took its death toll to 11,463.Also Read: The list of hotspots in MumbaiMaharashtra is the worst-affected state by the spread of the disease, and after a brief fall, the cases have started rising there again. On Thursday, the state recorded 8,702 new cases of the infection, according to state health department update.The total caseload in Maharashta has now reached 21,29,821.The state saw 3,744 people recover from the disease, after which the number of recoveries in Maharashtra reached 20,12,367. The health department data also showed that 84,814 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours.On Wednesday, Mumbai had recorded 1,167 new cases of Covid-19, crossing the 1,000-case mark for the first time since November 28 last year when the city had reported 1,063 cases in a single day.Barring the occasional dip, there has been a noticeable rise in the number of reported cases with over 700 cases being reported on most days of the past week for the first time since December 2020. On Sunday, there were 921 new cases of Covid-19, followed by 761 new cases on Monday. Last Saturday, Mumbai saw 897 new Covid-19 cases, and on Friday 823 new cases were reported.Also Read: Active cases in Mumbai up by 64% in a fortnightBorivali has the highest number of active Covid-19 cases - 545 - in Mumbai and has recorded the highest number of deaths (646) till date, according to BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) records. The KW ward, consisting of Andheri West, Jogeshwari West, and Vile Parle West has the second-highest number of active coronavirus cases - 510.Though the official reason for the sudden rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra has not been ascertained yet, experts say the ever-changing nature of the virus is one of factors. A senior state health official told news agency PTI the nature of the virus, the person who has the virus and is transmitting it to others and the overall environment of an area including weather, pollution, housing structure, are the three factors that play behind the ups and downs of a virus.The same can be applicable to the sudden spike in Maharashtra's Vidarbha region, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-another-spike-with-1-145-new-cases-in-24-hours-101614263510627.html
25-02-2021||Bangalore||Mural on BBMP building lauds sanitation staff as they protest for better wages||The work on a mural honouring ‘pourakarmikas’, Bengaluru city’s sweepers, is on its last leg. The 30-feet high mural with two women -- Jayabai, a pourakarmika and Valli, a waste segregator was commissioned to give due credit to the unsung sanitation workers of the city. The painting on the outer wall of the Utility Building, a prominent building on the busy MG Road in the Central Business District (CBD), is expected to draw attention in the days to come.Though this tribute is coming up on the building owned by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), those honoured on the wall are engaged in fighting for their rights with the BBMP. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Pourakarmika Sangha has been protesting demanding equal pay for equal work and minimum wages of ₹30,000 for all workers.“Elderly workers were laid off without notices or workers were transferred. We want the elderly workers to receive due pension and dignity along with three months’ notice if a worker is being terminated. We are not provided with adequate safety gear or machinery. The workers who perform the work are constantly harassed by the policy supervisory authorities,” read a statement from the organisation.Maithreyi Krishnan of BBMP Pourakarmikara Sangha said even though labelled frontline workers by the BBMP following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, their salaries and benefits continue to be controlled by the garbage contractors.The sanitation workers who held a protest outside the BBMP headquarters on Wednesday said that workers who have died while on duty did not receive any compensation either from the government or the civic body.Venkata Lakshmi, a Pourakarmikara said she has not been issued any gloves or proper masks. “We have to pick the waste with our hands and instead of the pushcart to collect the garbage, we are given sacks,” she said.BBMP Special Commissioner, solid waste management, D Randeep said the government will take a decision on increasing minimum wages but added that the BBMP is paying minimum wage as per rules already.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/mural-on-bbmp-building-lauds-sanitation-staff-as-they-protest-for-better-wages-101614261611140.html
25-02-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan makes RT-PCR tests mandatory for arrivals from Maharashtra, Kerala||Rajasthan government on Thursday announced that people arriving from Maharashtra and Kerala will need to produce a negative RT-PCR test on arrival to be allowed entry into the state.West Bengal on Wednesday announced the same but for people arriving from four states - Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka and Telangana.The decision was taken in a review meeting chaired by chief minister Ashok Gehlot at his residence today. It was also decided that an awareness campaign will be run from March for Covid-19 vaccination.“In a review meeting on Covid-19 infection and vaccination at the residence, it has been decided that it will be mandatory for people coming to Rajasthan from Maharashtra and Kerala to bring a negative report of the corona RT-PCR test,” Gehlot tweeted.Also read: President's Rule imposed in Puducherry, Assembly kept in suspended animationHe informed that the awareness campaign for vaccination will be started from the first week of March. “Follow all Covid protocols strictly, and avoid any negligence. There is no need for fear from Covid vaccine and those who are getting a chance should get vaccinated,” he tweeted.Gehlot said a review meeting was called in the wake of the reoccurrence of Covid-19 infection in neighbouring states and spread among the school-going children.On Thursday, 128 Covid-19 cases were reported across the state, a maximum of 29 from Jaipur. The number of active cases in the state is 1,208.In Rajasthan, over 7.83 lakh health and frontline workers have been vaccinated, against the target of over 12 lakh. A total of 1,47,570 people have been given a second dose of the vaccine.Meanwhile, Jodhpur city on Tuesday had imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) till March 21 to contain the spread of Covid-19 cases as concerns over the resurgence of the infection mounts in several states. According to official orders, only 100 people can gather in public, including for weddings, in Jodhpur city limits. Essential services and schools and colleges will, however, continue to operate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-makes-rt-pcr-tests-mandatory-for-arrivals-from-maharashtra-kerala-101614262753464.html
25-02-2021||Other||Pedestrians irked as hawkers encroach footpath on FC road||PUNE After missing several deadlines the smart footpath project on Fergusson College road is finally complete, but pedestrians still find it difficult to use it as the footpath has been occupied by illegal hawkers for selling products like clothes, accessories among others.While walking from Goodluck chowk to Agriculture College on the right side of the footpath, a major portion is occupied by hawkers.When HT visited the spot, the daily commuters and shop owners claimed that Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) anti-encroachment department has not been taking action against illegal hawkers for the past one month.“In the evening time, one cannot walk on the footpath as space is used by hawkers. I have not seen any action being taken against them,” said Nikhil Rana, Chat House, FC road.“Many private hotels are using footpaths as their own and allowing customers to stand and have coffee or snacks. They have also put up illegal structures on the footpath and no action has been taken against them,” said Rohit Salve, a regular visitor.Harshad Abhyankar, director of Save Pune Traffic Movement, said, “When a footpath is being constructed there should be dedicated space for pedestrians, bicycle tracks and even hawkers. Most of the time hawkers sell their products on footpaths causing inconvenience to pedestrians.”Dattatray Ramchandra Langhe, divisional encroachment officer, said, “In every three days we conduct encroachment drive at FC road and JM road, but these vendors keep coming back. The number of vendors have gone down since the past and we are taking strict action against them.”Smart footpath projectThe smart footpath work began in May 2018. The entire stretch where footpath construction work has been undertaken is 2.5 kilometres, starting from Goodluck chowk to Agriculture College. The project includes the building of a footpath on the left flank up to five metres, including a cycle track and three metres on the right flank. The cost of the project is ₹25 crore that includes parking lots on both sides.Beautification work in progressIn a month’s time, PMC will be beautifying the FC road. “A mural painting will come up at Goodluck junction where “Kalakar Kata” has been constructed. Near police ground, a play area for children will be constructed. This will be done in a month’s time,” said Dinkar Gojare, superintendent engineer of the PMC’s road department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pedestrians-irked-as-hawkers-encroach-footpath-on-fc-road-101614262852860.html
25-02-2021||Other||6 booked for threatening, abusing PMC officials during anti-encroachment drive||PUNE Six residents of the Bhimnagar slum area were booked for threatening and abusing officials of the anti-encroachment department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Wednesday.A complaint in the matter was lodged by an official of the anti-encroachment department- Prakash Dhumal (49), a resident of Ambegaon Pathar.The complainant was accompanied by five other officials of the department who had gone to Bhimnagar around 3pm on Wednesday.Dhumal went to take action against encroachment of government space in the area, as per the PMC schedule.The house of one of the accused person was forming a barrier in the process of road widening on Paud road, according to the complainant.The accused raised the issue of not having received any notice or remuneration from PMC before starting to demolish his house. He then allegedly made his old parents sit in the part of the house that was to be felled.When the complainant asked him to move his parents, the man allegedly started verbally abusing them and said that he will find Dhumal personally and hurt him. Five others joined him and threatened and abused the officials.A case under Sections 353, 143, 149, 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Kothrud police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/6-booked-for-threatening-abusing-pmc-officials-during-anti-encroachment-drive-101614262673343.html
25-02-2021||Other||Five officials of auto firm booked after worker dies; wife alleges robot caused fatal mishap||PUNE: Five officials of an automobile multinational were booked after a worker died on the company premises Wednesday morning in Chakan.According to a police complaint filed by his wife, Umesh Ramesh Dhake (44), a resident of Dutt Nagar in Alandi, died due to the alleged malfunction of a robot.Dhake is a native of Denanagar in Bhusawal, Jalgaon.A complaint was lodged by Priya Ramesh Dhake (43), who works as a domestic help, according to police.The man was rushed to the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital after the incident at 8:15am and was declared dead at the hospital sometime after 10am, according to the police report. The man was working with a welding machine near a robot whose sensors were allegedly malfunctioning, according to the complainant.The robot allegedly fell on Dhake and caused injuries to his head and back, according to his wife. Company officials also allegedly failed to provide him with safety gear like helmet, gloves, and boots, the wife’s complaint stated.Despite several requests for a company statement, there was no response.A case under Sections 304(a) (causing death due to negligence) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-officials-of-auto-firm-booked-after-worker-dies-wife-alleges-robot-caused-fatal-mishap-101614262672775.html
25-02-2021||Pune||PMC to float fresh tender for cat sterilisation||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to float fresh tender for cat sterilisation after the last year’s plan did not take off due to the Covid-19 situation. According to PMC, only on agency had shown interest in the previous tender and it did not have the mandatory certificate from the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) for cat sterilisation. The civic body estimates the cat sterilisation plan will cost around ₹1.50 crore. PMC had floated the tender in September 2019 as per the state government’s directives to all local bodies to curb population of cats with the help of sterilisation. The time period to submit the tender was extended following poor response. Later, the civic body received response from an agency, Getmoksha Environmental Foundation, but it did have the AWBI certificate for cat sterilization. PMC gave the agency six months, as per the tender conditions followed by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), to get certificate from the animal welfare body. However, the process was halted because of the Covid-19 outbreak. Dr Prakash Wagh, assistant medical officer (veterinary), PMC health department said, “Last year, we got response from one agency. We had floated tender for cat sterilisation for the first time.” Civic officials said that sterilisation of cats is carried out in a similar manner like dogs, but cages are used instead of pounds. “Permission from cat owners or caretakers are sought before carrying out sterilisation as cats are mostly seen in housing societies, homes and bungalows,” a civic official said. The Maharashtra government’s May 9, 2019 order reads: “Generally, a cat gives birth to four to five kittens every three months, thereby increasing their population immensely. There are many incidents of kittens dying on roads, gutters and drainage pipes. Hence, it’s imperative that cats are sterilised to curb their population and by extension, put an end to cruelty on them”. PMC issues show cause to dog sterilisation agency The Pune civic body has issued a show cause notice to Universal Animal Welfare Society of Beed to end its contract with PMC. The civic administration took the step after BMC stopped the agency from working under its jurisdiction. The decision was taken based on allegations and complaints of one of the animal activists over ill-treatment and death of animals. Universal Animal Welfare Society of Beed, Blue Cross Society of India, Animal Welfare Association of Navi Mumbai and Society for the Provision of Cruelty of Animals of Latur have been given contract to carry out sterilisation within PMC limits. Dr Wagh said, “We have issued a show cause notice to Universal Animal Welfare Society of Beed, but the agency has already stopped their sterilisation work in PMC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-float-fresh-tender-for-cat-sterilisation-101614261712728.html
25-02-2021||Other||2 members of Ghaywal gang held, 6 booked for wrongfully taking car from rental service for “rally”||PUNE The Pune police arrested two and booked six other aides of externee Nilesh Ghaywal for extortion after they wrongfully took a four-wheeler vehicle from a local rental service to hold a “rally” for Ghaywal.The arrested have been identified as Santosh Anand Dhumal (38), a resident of Bhugaon in Mulshi and Musab alias Musa Ilahi Shaikh (29), a resident of Shastrinagar, Kothrud.Among the others booked in the case are Kunal Kamdhare, Akshay Gogawale, Vipul Mazire and three others who are yet to be identified.A complaint in the matter was lodged by the person who owns the rental service.The two were arrested by unit 2 of the anti-extortion cell of the Pune police crime branch, on Thursday.The vehicle that the men took is estimated to be worth ₹3 lakh, according to a statement issued by the crime branch.Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of Pune Police, had ordered to track the members of gangs in Pune city.The men allegedly carried a chopper (blade) in order to threaten the complainant if he refused to comply with their demand.The alleged incident has occurred in light of multiple cases registered against Marne. The release of gangsters Marne and Sharad Mohol has forced the city police into action.Mohol, Marne, and Ghaywal are some of the names which were at the forefront of the gang war that ensued in Pune city around a decade ago. This alleged attempt by externee Ghaywal is an apparent step in the same direction.A case has been registered under Sections 395, 294(b), 109, 596(2), and 504 of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 4(25) of Arms Act at Kothrud police station based on a complaint filed by the local businessman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-members-of-ghaywal-gang-held-6-booked-for-wrongfully-taking-car-from-rental-service-for-rally-101614261412781.html
25-02-2021||Other||Malls begin to restrict customer entry to ensure no overcrowding||PUNE Following the imposition of some curbs by district administration, many commercial establishments and malls have started restricting the entry of customers people inside the premises. On Thursday, D-Mart on Satara road allowed only a limited number of people at a time, a rule which was in existence during the April-May lockdown. As a result, long queues were once again witnessed outside the mall. “When I went to purchase groceries, D-Mart told me to wait till crowd inside clears. I had to wait for almost two hours to get entry,” said customer Sadanand Sontakke. Several hotels and restaurants, too, have made seating arrangements that ensure social distancing, after the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) began taking action against owners for flouting Covid norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/malls-begin-to-restrict-customer-entry-to-ensure-no-overcrowding-101614260632612.html
25-02-2021||Other||SSC, HSC exams to be held offline; practicals in April 1st week, written papers 3 weeks after that||PUNE The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has made it clear that it is prepared to carry out the SSC and HSC exams offline, though if the present Covid spike continues, the board officials claim they have “plan B” ready.“The exam procedure will be the same as every year. There is no change as of now. Written HSC and SSC exams will be offline and the same will be applicable to practical assessments as well. We are keeping a close watch on the situation. If Covid cases increase and new restrictions are declared we have a plan B in place, which shall be revealed at the appropriate time,” said Dinkar Patil, chairperson, Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE). Schools and junior colleges following the MSBSHSE syllabus have been informed about the offline practical exams. “Practical exams are usually held three weeks before of the written exams. The board has issued the tentative time-table for the written HSC and SSC exams. According to that, practical exams should begin by the first week of April. Students will have to be present for the tests. Still we will follow every guideline and rule issued by the board,” said Devidas Golhar, principal, Marathwada Mitra Mandal College of Commerce. CBSE schools have also received instructions to hold practical examinations offline. “It has been made clear by the authorities that the practical exam of Class 10 will be held offline. Considering the current Covid situation, this plan may change. We are awaiting further instructions,” said Milind Ladge, managing director Aryan World Schools.However, parents are worried. “There is a lot of dilemma and confusion among parents. We insist that emphasis be given on minimum physical attendance. Covid positive cases are increasing. Outstation students are facing great difficulties to manage the situation. How will they manage the examination and the Covid restrictions?” asked Jaishree Deshpande, president, Parents Association of Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ssc-hsc-exams-to-be-held-offline-practicals-in-april-1st-week-written-papers-3-weeks-after-that-101614260392644.html
25-02-2021||Patna||Bihar saw 8-fold growth in budget size under both RJD and NDA: Tejashwi Yadav||Tejashwi Yadav, the Leader of Opposition in Bihar, Thursday sought to dispel the perception among a section of the people that the state's budget size increased eight times only under the NDA government and claimed that it had increased as many times during the 15-year regime of RJD, his party.Participating in a debate in the assembly on the 2021-22 Bihar budget in the assembly, Yadav said its size was ₹3000 crore in 1990 which increased to ₹24,000 crore, a growth of eight times, in 2005 when RJD was in power.Similarly the budget size increased from ₹24000 crore in 2005-06 to ₹2.11 lakh crore in 2019-20, again a eight fold growth under NDA rule in the the state, he said.RJD supremo Lalu Prasad, Yadav's father, was the state chief minister in 1990. Rabri Devi, his mother later donned the mantle till Nitish Kumar assumed power in the state in November 2005."Thus, it is established from the data that the state's budget size increased by eight fold during 15 year regimes of both RJD and NDA," he said.The growth was also the same for the union budget during the 2005-20 period, he said. It increased from ₹4.53 lakh crore in 2005-06 to ₹35 lakh crore in 2021-22.This fact nullifies the propaganda and perception that have been created that the RJD regime under Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi was 'Jungle Raj' and had nothing to do with development of the state, Yadav said.Claiming that the NDA government in thes state has been indulging in "jugglery of figures", the RJD leader said that Bihar had in fact witnessed decline of two per cent in revenue collection during 2005-06 to 2021-22.The state government could barely spend ₹70,000 crore out of the ₹2.11 lakh crore of the sanctioned budget expenditure for 2020-21, he said and wondered whether the Nitish Kumar government will be able to spend ₹1.43 lakh crore in the remaining one month of the current fiscal."This will lead to March loot," he alleged.Citing Transparency India International (TII) data, Yadav said Bihar ranks second in the list of most corrupt states of the country. As per the TII 75 per cent of work is done only after paying bribes to government departments.On the human development index front, the state ranked 32 during the Rabri Devi regime, but now is in the 36th position, Yadav, a former deputy chief minister said.Hitting out at the NDA government of Nitish Kumar, he said it per the 2021-2022 budget that it will provide 20 lakh employment opportunities but it has not explained how it will be done. THe NDA had also promised this during its election campaign for the 2020 state poll."Chief Minister (Kumar) says that he will never compromise on three Cs (crime, corruption and communalism). But he has reduced his party (JD-U) to a C grade party by compromising on his three Cs," he said.Continuing his criticism, the RJD leader said the state's finance minister Tarkishore Prasad's budget speech was "nothing but a bunch of lies" and there is no governance in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-saw-8-fold-growth-in-budget-size-under-both-rjd-and-nda-tejashwi-yadav-101614258082792.html
25-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi government announces key decision on electric vehicles, Kejriwal says every Indian is proud||The Delhi government on Thursday ordered all its departments, autonomous bodies and grantee institutions to replace there existing fleet of hired conventional fuel vehicles to electric vehicle. The order was issued by special secretary, finance of the Delhi government."It's history! Driven by the vision of CM @ArvindKejriwal to make Delhi the 'ELectric Vehicle capital', Delhi govt today became the 1st in the world, not just India, to mandate its entire hired car fleet to switch to electric WITHIN a deadline- 6 mths. @SwitchDelhi begins at home," Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia tweeted.It's history! Driven by the vision of CM @ArvindKejriwal to make Delhi the 'ELectric Vehicle capital', Delhi govt today became the 1st in the world, not just India, to mandate its entire hired car fleet to switch to electric WITHIN a deadline- 6 mths. @SwitchDelhi begins at home pic.twitter.com/e5Y20zFrhPHe also said that over 2,000 cars will be impacted by the decision and will transition to EVs in the next six months.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal hailed the decision. "This will go a long way in curbing pollution in Delhi. Delhi is fast becoming a modern city. Every Indian is proud of Delhi," he said on Twitter.This will go a long way in curbing pollution in Delhi. Delhi is fast becoming a modern city. Every Indian is proud of Delhi https://t.co/8M0UZeLuCfThe Delhi government had also launched a campaign on Tuesday to encourage private vehicle owners to shift to electric vehicles. The Dialogue and Development Commission (DDC) campaign was launched by Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot.This comes weeks after Kejriwal had launched the Switch Delhi campaign to spread awareness about the subsidies provided by the city administration on EVs. He had also said that Delhi government will change its fleet of hired cars to electric vehicles (EVs) within the next six months.The Delhi EV policy, announced in August last year, envisages that 25 per cent of all new vehicle registrations should be Battery Electric Vehicles (BEVs) by 2024.The policy gives a subsidy of ₹10,000 per kWh to the first 1,000 e-cars or electric four wheelers, with a capping of ₹150,000 per vehicle. A subsidy of ₹5,000 per kWh of the battery capacity up to ₹30,000 is also to be given on the purchase of each electric two-wheeler, auto-rickshaw, rickshaw and freight vehicle. To push people to shift to EVs, the policy also has a “scrapping incentive” for those who make the switch.The government is also planning to float a tender to set up the first 100 charging stations across the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-announces-key-decision-on-evs-kejriwal-says-every-indian-is-proud-101614255333487.html
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||Year on, demand to cancel cases against Covid-19 guideline violators in HP||Nearly a year since the nationwide lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19; there is growing demand to revoke the cases against people for violating pandemic guidelines. More than 2,500 people were booked under different sections of the Indian Penal Code and the National Disaster Management Act for offences ranging from jumping the quarantine period to not wearing masks or adhering to social distancing. Though the state government is undecided on the issue, it is learnt that the demand will come up in the budget session of the assembly, beginning on Friday. “The government booked many people for violating Covid-19 lockdown guidelines last year, but it’s strange that no action was taken against a frontal organisation that held a yagya (community prayer) in Shimla to ward off the virus. The prayer meeting was attended by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur when the pandemic was at its peak. In public interest, the government should withdraw the FIRs registered for such violations,” said Congress leader and Nadaun legislator Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu. Many among those booked for curfew violation are traders. One such shopkeeper from Chotta Shimla, Ankur Chadha, said: “I got a notice for opening my shop during curfew hours. The situation at that time was such that we couldn’t have shut shop as our daily customers were demanding the supply of essential commodities.” Most curfew violation cases in Kangra A total of 2,271 cases of curfew violation were registered in the 13 police districts of the state during the pandemic last year. Most of the cases were registered under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act. The curfew was imposed in March last year and continued through April and May, while night curfew remained in force as late as the beginning of this year. Police data shows that of the total curfew violation cases, the maximum of 355 were registered in Kangra district, which also happens to be the state’s biggest district in terms of population. As many as 301 cases were registered in Shimla district and 229 in Mandi, while 221 cases were registered in Kullu and 206 in the police district of Baddi. The least number of such cases was registered in the tribal Lahaul-Spiti district, where only eight instances of curfew violation were reported, while 62 cases were registered in Kinnaur. Ninety cases were reported in Hamirpur, which has the highest population density in the state. ‘Police implemented orders, up to govt now’ State director general of police Sanjay Kundu said: “The law will take its own course. The police had strictly enforced the government’s orders.” He said the police challaned nearly 48,000 people for not wearing masks and collected ₹2.26 crore as fine from them. When contacted, Kangra superintendent of police Vimukt Ranjan said the cases that were registered under Section 188 (curfew violation) of the IPC have been forwarded to the district magistrate as his permission is required to proceed further in such matters. The cases where more sections were imposed have been put up in court. “It is up to the government whether to withdraw or continue with the proceedings,” he said. Kangra district magistrate Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said the administration is in talks with the government on what should be the further course of action, particularly in the cases related to curfew violations under Section 188 of the IPC. 250 cases for violating quarantine norms At least 250 cases were registered against people who violated quarantine. Police data showed 209 cases were registered against people who jumped home quarantine and 41 against those supposed to be in institutional quarantine. The maximum of 73 such cases were reported in Kangra, 44 in Chamba and 26 in Mandi. No person jumped quarantine in Lahaul-Spiti, where the community had imposed strict quarantine rules besides the local administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/year-on-demand-to-cancel-cases-against-covid-19-guideline-violators-in-hp-101614253793052.html
25-02-2021||Dehradun||In Uttarakhand, police to reward brides who say no to booze at their weddings||The Devprayag police in Tehri Garhwal district of Uttarakhand has taken a noble initiative to discourage cocktail parties in the weddings in rural areas under its jurisdiction by rewarding brides who object to such parties at their wedding events.Under the initiative named Bhuli (sister in Garhwali language) Kanyadan, the brainchild of Devprayag station house officer Mahipal Singh Rawat, the police station will offer a reward of ₹10,001 to the bride for objecting to booze parties at her wedding functions. The reward money would be pooled in by the staff of the police station.Explaining the reason behind the initiative, Rawat said, "Of late it has been observed that people in the rural areas in the hills, just like people in the urban areas, are also organising cocktail parties which has now become a trend. It often causes arguments, quarrels and fights at weddings. To stop such things, I decided to take the step."Rawat said that the move will spread awareness against promoting alcohol during weddings which "was not always a trend in the weddings in hilly areas.""In weddings in hilly areas, it was more about celebrating culture and rituals with love and affection. But now that has been replaced with these cocktail parties which is not a good sign. We hope this initiative will curb the trend and people will focus more on celebrating the rituals and culture," he said.Also read: 'Money laundering charge established' - UK judge clears Nirav Modi's extraditionThe police officer informed that the cocktail parties have many implications on society, including unnecessary pressure on the economically weaker families to hold such events."It becomes a sort of societal pressure on poor families. They feel like others in the village, they should also hold such parties for their daughters' wedding. We hope the move will curb this. Rewarding the brides would set an example and make others feel that should not hold such parties to get the reward," said Rawat.To inform the village heads in the area, Rawat held a meeting with them a few days ago who too "appreciated the idea and promised their support to make it a success.""I held a meeting with about 20-25 village heads at police station premises wherein they all supported the idea and said they will urge the residents of their villages not to hold cocktail parties in weddings. This will also save many families which are being destroyed due to the menace of alcoholism," said Rawat.He added that the village heads have been asked to also verify the claims by the brides under the initiative to ensure they genuinely objected to booze and are not lying to get the reward money.Social activists have also appreciated the move saying it will help in curbing the practice in hills.Social activist Anoop Nautiyal said, "If a bride objects to cocktail parties in her wedding, then it will be a symbolic act with high impact on the society which could further motivate others to do the same."On the question of any possible discord by the bride's act he said, "it is unlikely to happen as such acts by women in Uttarakhand have led to significant changes and movements in the society in the past.""Also, it also important to stop the cocktail parties in weddings considering the present economic hardships," said Nautiyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/in-uttarakhand-police-to-reward-brides-who-say-no-to-booze-parties-at-weddings-101614250727903.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||Active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai up by around 64% in a fortnight||Active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai have gone up by around 64% over the last two weeks amid a surge in infections in the city, according to the health department data. The city reported over 1,000 daily cases almost after three months on Wednesday.Mumbai had 4,197 active cases on February 11. They increased to 6,900 on February 24. Over the last 10 days, the city has been reporting over 500 cases. It was earlier registering between 300 to 500 cases daily two weeks ago.Also Read | What led to Covid-19 rise? Centre deputes teams to 10 states for probeOn Wednesday, Mumbai reported 1,167 cases, crossing the 1,000-mark for the first time since November 28.Suresh Kakani, the additional municipal commissioner, has said they are hoping for the best and reactivating beds in quarantine facilities to ensure they are ready if the cases go up further. “At the same time, citizens need to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and not lower their guard.”Municipal authorities have cited resumption of local train services for all since February 1, increased gathering at weddings, social events, and non-compliance with Covid-19 appropriate behaviour among the reasons for the surge.Siddarth Paliwal, a physician said, a complete lockdown is not the solution, but the government can think of restrictions. “This may include tweaking timings for nightclubs, bars, etc. ...for now, the government should wait and watch for the next five to six days...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/active-covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-up-by-around-64-in-a-fortnight-101614251992891.html
25-02-2021||Delhi||State Bhavan canteens aka foodie’s delight: Heart of the state, back on a plate!||For food lovers wanting to explore cuisines from across India, saddi Dilli has loads to offer. Without worrying about the pandemic or crossing the city’s borders, head to these recently reopened state bhavans for economical, authentic regional fare! Of Khaman Dhokla, Khandvi With an assortment of dhokla, khichda, kadhi, halwa and even the option of Gujarati thali on the menu, this place is attracting denizens on all days of the week. “We are allowing walk-in guests, but as a mandatory precaution, we check everyone’s temperature at the entry. We clean the premises twice a day, to ensure safety of our patrons, and sanitisers and masks are compulsory for anyone to avail seating before we serve our delicious dishes,” says Ranjeet Verma, official posted at the canteen. Where: Garvi Gujarat, 25-B, Akbar RoadTiming: 12.30pm to 3.30pm and 7.30pm to 9.30pmBengali food, khoob bhalo! Mention Kosha Mangsho, Ilish to non vegetarians and Aloo Posto to vegetarians, and one is sure to start salivating! There’s also Bengali Special Thali, with the option of buffet and à la carte. You don’t have to worry about hygiene, as all servers wear masks, and sanitisation happens twice a day. Where: Bijoli Grill, Banga Bhawan, 3, Hailey Road, Connaught Place Timing: 12.30pm to 10pmCome to Goa...Yearning for a trip to Goa? The pandemic might pause your travel plans, but can’t stop you from experiencing some mouth-watering Goan delicacies in Delhi. Contactless menu here allows you to order coastal dishes with the help of a cheery staff. Ila, a city-based professional in judicial services, says, “I had been missing Goan Prawn Curry, Butter Garlic Prawn, and decided to come here.” Where: Viva O’ Viva, 14, Goa Niwas, Bir Tikendrajit Marg, ChanakyapuriTiming: Noon to 10pmNamma Karnataka Craving a fluffy dosa with chutney for breakfast? Look no further than the beautiful blackboard here, which features menu for the day and does away with the need for paper menus. “One day, my husband was craving piping hot sambhar. So we visited here early morning, and were so relieved to see that they’ve adequate distance between tables, and everyone follows social distancing,” says Seema Asthana, a resident of RK Puram. Where: Karnataka Food Centre, Delhi Karnataka Sangha Building, Sector 12, RK PuramTiming: 8am to 10.30pmSpicy, sassy, scrumptious A spot that’s usually on the radar of foodies has recently reopened the canteen that houses bhavans of two states, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. All those who miss the delectable idli, dosa, vada and sambhar are now heading back in full gusto. Rajani Jain, a Dwarka-based cooking instructor who recently visited here, says, “The premises have been renovated. The servers now have a uniform, there’s more space for dining, and the food remains as good as ever! I could spot a marginal increase in prices, but we are willing to pay that for food that’s available only here.”Where: Andhra Pradesh Bhavan and Telangana Bhavan, 1, Ashoka Road Timing: 8am to 10.30am, Noon to 3pm, 7.30pm to 10pmAuthor tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/state-bhavan-canteens-aka-foodie-s-delight-heart-of-the-state-back-on-a-plate-101614251387211.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||As Covid cases spike, CM threat of lockdown sees Mumbai events being cancelled||Hotels and banquet halls in Mumbai are reporting last-minute cancellations this week, said a hotels’ association. This comes in the wake Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray telling the authorities to put curbs on weddings and other such social functions because of the surge in Covid-19 cases in the state.Thackeray even warned that he would be forced to order another lockdown if people failed to comply with the Covid-19 guidelines. He also issued instructions that any banquet hall violating the guidelines be sealed.For social events, the state has mandated a maximum of 50 persons at a time in the banquet hall; they should be wearing masks along and maintaining social distance.But such strict guidelines and the fear of another lockdown have seen events like award functions and conferences also being postponed.The Hotels and Restaurants Association Western India (HRAWI), a Mumbai-based association of hotels, confirmed that hotels have reported a large number of cancellations this week. “People are not comfortable celebrating in such an environment and so, are cancelling their events. They also fear that a lockdown may be imposed,” said HRAWI senior vice-president Pradeep Shetty.Radisson Blu Mumbai International Airport Hotel has not been getting new bookings ever since the lockdown fear has gripped the city. “We had three conferences scheduled but they have been postponed by the organisers. In addition, we are not getting new bookings,” said hotel general manager Pankaj Saxena.Jay Shah, owner of Popular Hospitality, which manages seven venues in the city, said people are worried because of the lockdown scare. “The next two months are the peak seasons for weddings and people are not sure if they will even be able to hold their events. This has affected our bookings,” said Shah.Shiv Sena leader Vinod Ghosalkar cancelled his youngest son Saurabh’s wedding which was scheduled at Sahar Star Hotel at Vile Parle on February 28. Ghosalkar, who is the chairman of the repair board of Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority, booked 55,000 square feet Sapphire hall which could have accommodated 2,500 guests. Thackeray and the entire Cabinet was expected to grace this wedding.Ghosalkar said, “Based on Uddhavji’s appeal and the rising Covid-19 cases, I have decided to cancel the wedding.” The idea of capping the number of guests to 50 hasn’t gone down well with all. The Bombay Caterers Association spokesperson Lalit Jain said, “The very rule of maximum 50 people itself is ridiculous and it should be based on the size of the hall. We had hardly recovered from months of lockdown and this rule has ruined our businesses.” Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has intensified its drive against those stepping out without masks and also large gatherings. The civic body has also decided to shut Oval Maidan from Friday. Recently, it lodged an FIR against the parents of a newly-wed couple after it was found that they had breached the guidelines of 50 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-covid-cases-spike-cm-threat-of-lockdown-sees-mumbai-events-being-cancelled-101614250972672.html
25-02-2021||Other||Transgenders seek meeting with district authority to push for right to be “identified”||PUNE The transgender community in Pune is pushing for implementation of the provision in the Transgender Person (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019, which allows for a transperson to get an identification as a “transperson”. Sonali Dalvi, a city-based trans-rights activist who has been in the forefront of the fight, is hoping to get a meeting with the Secretary of District legal service authority (DLSA) to begin the process in Pune and effectively in Maharashtra. The Transgender Person (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019 was passed by the Parliament in November 2019. It acquired Presidential assent in December 2019 and was notified by the Law and Justice Ministry of India in January 2020. “I’m thankful to the Social Justice Ministry that has accepted 85% of our suggestions while bringing in the Trangender Person (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019. In other states, the certification process has begun based on affidavits submitted. It should begin for us too. We are going to meet the head of DLSA for it,” said Sonali Dalvi. Dalvi had raised strong objections to the rule about having a psychologist to certify whether a person is transgendered or not. The medical examination added a factor of doubt and resultant shame to it, she pointed out. The transgender community has long been demanding benefits like employment, opportunity to get admission in educational institutions, health benefits, In Pune, the community has been demanding a separate ward in Sassoon General Hospital dedicated to transpeople. The cause of a ward at Sassoon has garnered support from some progressive politicians, but has yet to see any documentation. The demand for public toilets for transpeople is also long-standing in Pune. “With the identification in place, we can at least ask for things like reservation, health benefits like money for sex reassignment surgery, and a seat at the table in other walks of life,” said Dalvi. In April 2014, the Supreme Court accepted transgenders as the third gender along with male and female. That was a major achievement for the community. How to register yourself as a transperson? A form is prescribed in the the Trangender Person (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019 under the title “Form-1” The form, with state emblem, will be issued at the District court of each of the states and districts Along with the form, a self-declaration/affidavit needs to be attached while submission The affidavit should be made on a non-judicial stamp paper of ₹10 and then notarised by a competent authority For successful completion of the form, a government issued identification will be required The IDs could be any one of the following: birth certificate, Aadhaar card, PAN card, voter ID, ration card, passport, bank passbook, MNREGA card,or caste certificate In case of a minor person, the parent of legal guardian can be the applicant There are extra sections in the form for those who have undergone sex reassignment surgery and want to register either as male or female||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/transgenders-seek-meeting-with-district-authority-to-push-for-right-to-be-identified-101614249652019.html
25-02-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to seek additional force from Uttar Pradesh for Mahakumbh security||To ensure fool proof security cover during Mahakumbh 2021, Uttarakhand government will seek additional police force and communication operators from Uttar Pradesh, which has successfully hosted a similar mega religious event—Magh Mela in Prayagraj during the pandemic, said officials.Kumbh Mela Force officials estimated the requirement of at least 1000 police personnel and 20 companies of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) from Uttar Pradesh during peak Mahakumbh phase between April 5 and 15, when two royal baths (Shahi Snaans) will take place.Officials felt that UP police’s experience in holding the Prayagraj Kumbh will come handy during the Haridwar Mahakumbh. In January this year, a team of officials from Uttarakhand visited Prayagraj to see how Magh Mela, the 57-day religious fair, was being organised in Corona times with a view to using the lessons for the management of Haridwar Mahakumbh.Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat will soon be meeting his UP counterpart Yogi Adityanath with the request. The requirement of additional security was discussed during a meeting chaired by Rawat in Dehradun on Wednesday evening.The Mela Force has also sought 100 communication operators from Uttar Pradesh. Three control rooms will also be made at three UP’s three districts of Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor and Saharanpur bordering Uttarakhand for effective sharing of information, intelligence and other fair-related communication.“Whether its security related, traffic update, traffic diversion, directives, or any intelligence input, speedy communication will be provided through these UP based control rooms," said assistant superintendent of communications, Kumbh Force, Mukesh Thakur.Also Watch:Women commando force becomes part of Uttarakhand police Mela Force inspector general of police Sanjay Gunjiyal said along with the Central paramilitary forces, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh police, the elite National Security Guards (NSG) commandos will also be deputed for Mahakumbh duty."By April first week, a full-fledged Mela Force will be deployed. Already, 12 companies of central paramilitary forces have arrived and by Maha Shivratri festive bath (March 11), it will be increased to 40 companies," said assistant superintendent of Mahakumbh Force, Surjeet Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-to-seek-additional-force-from-uttar-pradesh-for-mahakumbh-security-101614248506498.html
25-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi to face water crisis due to closure of Nangla hydel channel: Raghav Chadha||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice chairman Raghav Chadha said on Thursday that the Delhi government body had written to the Centre, Haryana government and BBMB (Bhakra Beas management board) urging them to postpone the repair of Nangal hydel channel. Due to the repair work, the water supply to Delhi will have to be stopped, which will lead to an unprecedented crisis in the national capital, Chadha said in the letter.The closure of Nangal hydel channel for one month for repair work is expected to affect a quarter of water supply of Delhi."The blind closure of the channel will affect supply of 232 MGD (million gallon per day) of water supply from the Beas river to Delhi for one month in March-April. It is 25 per cent of water supply in Delhi and could lead to an unprecedented water crisis and even law and order situation," he said.He also urged Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to convene a meeting of all the stakeholders to discuss the issue.Chadha added that the Delhi government is in constant touch with the Centre over the issue and hoped that the impending crisis will be averted.“This could lead to an unprecedented water crisis and even law and order situation,” Chadha said.Water flows from Bhakra dam which is in Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh downstream Nangal dam where it is controlled and released into the Nangal hydel channel. This channel later becomes Bhakra main line after Ganguwal and Kotla power plants. The Bhakra main line mostly supplies irrigation water to the state of Haryana and the power generated at Bhakra Dam is distributed among partner states of Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Chandigarh and Delhi.Earlier in February, water supply in parts of south, east and north-east Delhi was partially affected as silt and debris from the flash floods in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district increased turbidity in the Ganga river forcing Delhi Jal Board (DJB) to operate at reduced capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-face-water-crisis-due-to-closure-of-nangla-hydel-channel-raghav-chadha-101614245640123.html
25-02-2021||Bangalore||Sharath B Gowda, son of senior BJP MP, extends support to Congress in Karnataka||Sharath Bachegowda, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rebel and the independent legislator from Hosakote in Kolar district, formally extended support to the Congress party in Karnataka on Thursday, indicating a total shift away from his previous party, the BJP. The Congress chose to highlight the development amid the direct political headwinds being faced by the BS Yediyurappa government in the state.“I have decided to support the Congress for the development of Hoskote taluk and its people,” Sharath said on Thursday. As an independent, Sharath cannot formally join the Congress.Sharath is the son of BN Bache Gowda, a senior BJP leader and the sitting member of parliament from Chikaballapura, about 60 kms from Bengaluru. Sharath’s move is being seen by some as a setback for the ruling BJP, which seeks influence in the constituency for its long-term plans for the southern districts of Karnataka, where it has little political representation.Sharath unsuccessfully contested the 2018 assembly elections on a BJP ticket in Hosakote against N Nagaraju (MTB) of the Congress. However, he later defeated him as an independent candidate by more than 11,000 votes in December 2019 by-polls, necessitated by Nagaraju’s defection to the BJP along with several other MLAs from the Congress and the Janata Dal(S) just after the Lok Sabha polls. Sharath’s win was seen as a setback to the BJP, which hoped Nagaraju’s defection will help it expand footprints in Kolar district.Also Read: Prime accused in Karnataka quarry blast case arrested in Tamil NaduIndicating a 180 degrees turn in his political position, Sharath on Thursday criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Union government over issues like price rise, farmer agitation and the alleged lack of development.“I will continue to remain an independent in the assembly,” Sharath said, while adding that he will back the Congress. His supporters have joined the Congress.“People are knocking at the doors of the government. They are suffering and the only way to give them relief is to work together,” D K Shivakumar, the state Congress president said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/sharath-b-gowda-son-of-senior-bjp-mp-extends-support-to-congress-in-karnataka-101614243955962.html
25-02-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee rides electric scooter to protest against rising fuel prices||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday urged people across India to protest against hike in fuel prices, as she reached her office riding pillion on an electric scooter. “This (hike in fuel prices) is a very alarming situation. TMC has started a movement which would be extended across the state from Friday. I would urge everyone to hit the streets across the country,” she told media while sitting on an electric scooter outside the state secretariat. Minister Firhad Hakim rode the scooter, ferrying the chief minister from her residence in south Kolkata to the secretariat in Howrah. Both the leaders had a poster on fuel price hike hanging around their neck. “This is our protest against hike prices of petrol, diesel and LPG. There was a hike in LPG prices even last night and a cylinder now costs at least ₹800. Kerosene is unavailable the market. In Bengal, around ten million people depend on kerosene for cooking. The kitchen is the worst hit every time there is a hike in fuel prices,” she added. “Most of the people in our country work in the unorganised sector. They need at least two cylinders every month. If two cylinders cost them ₹1,600, what would they do? Even farmers, who run their tractors on diesel, are not being spared. Labourers are not being spared,” she said.She said she would use the electric scooter for her ride back home as well. The BJP sought to make light of the chief minister’s protest. “This is a unique ploy by Mamata Banerjee. The Centre has said that if petrol and diesel are brought under the purview of GST, fuel prices may drop by ₹10 to ₹15 in one go. State finance minister is the chairman of the GST council. Instead of riding a scooter, she should ask him to call a meeting of GST council and states, and take steps towards bring fuel under GST purview,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, BJP state vice-president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-rides-electric-scooter-to-protest-against-rising-fuel-prices-101614242752249.html
25-02-2021||Lucknow||No proposal to reduce tax on petrol, diesel: UP govt||There is no proposal to reduce tax on petrol and diesel as revenue is needed to ensure betterment of health services and other development works due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Uttar Pradesh government said on Thursday.Replying to Samajwadi Party (SP) member Narendra Verma during the question hour in the state Assembly, Cabinet Minister Satish Mahana said, "There is no proposal under consideration to reduce tax on petrol and diesel in view of the resources and financial requirements for improving health facilities and other developmental works keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic."Currently, consumers in Uttar Pradesh are getting diesel at a lower price than the states of Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Odisha, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Punjab and Uttarakhand, he said. Similarly, petrol is available at lower prices here as compared to Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Punjab, Orissa, Delhi, Uttarakhand and Chhattisgarh, he added.About the decrease in LPG prices, the minister said since the Goods and Services Tax (GST) came in force on July 1, 2017, the state has no right to reduce the tax. It is for the GST council to decide on it, he said.The opposition Congress and SP staged a walkout, saying the government was "anti-farmers, anti-women, and anti-common man".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-proposal-to-reduce-tax-on-petrol-diesel-up-govt-101614241613482.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||Hrithik Roshan’s statement likely to be recorded in case against Kangana Ranaut||The Mumbai crime branch is likely to record Bollywood actor Hrithik Roshan’s statement in connection with the case he registered against actor Kangana Ranaut in 2016 for alleged cheating by personation and identity theft, officers aware of the matter said.Roshan has accused Ranaut of harassing him by sending him hundreds of emails. After an initial probe, police recorded Ranaut’s statement after concluding that the emails were allegedly sent from her id, said a police officer. The officer said Ranaut has denied having sent emails to Roshan.Also Read | Kangana seeks quashing of FIR, tells court her tweets did not incite violenceThe officer said Roshan submitted his mobile phone and laptop, but nothing was found on the devices. The emails were allegedly sent in 2013 and 2014. In 2016, Roshan sent a legal notice to Ranaut, the officer said.The case was transferred to the Criminal Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the crime branch for further probe in December after Roshan’s lawyer, Mahesh Jethmalani, wrote to the Mumbai police commissioner complaining that there was no progress in the investigation of the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hrithik-roshan-s-statement-likely-to-be-recorded-in-case-against-kangana-ranaut-101614240952107.html
25-02-2021||Other||Godse admirer in MP joins Congress, says he was misled||A corporator, who was involved in building Nathuram Godse’s temple in Madhya Pradesh’s Gwalior and has been paying tributes to Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin on his birth anniversary for three years, joined the Congress in the presence of former chief minister Kamal Nath on Thursday.Congress leaders justified Babulal Chaurasiya’s induction saying they welcomed him as the party believes in forgiving and forgetting. “Chaurasiya was an active member of the Congress. He decided to return to the party...we welcomed him because our party leaders are like Rahul Gandhi, who has even forgiven the murderer of his father to give them a chance...” said Congress’s Gwalior lawmaker Praveen Pathak.Also Read | ‘No lockdown’: Shivraj Singh Chouhan assures workers amid Covid-19 spikeChaurasiya claimed the Hindu Mahasabha misguided him and forced him to attend programmes to pay the tributes to Godse.Bharatiya Janata Party leader Rajneesh Agrawal said they have nothing to do with Hindu Mahasabha and their leaders. “Now, the truth has come out that it was a Congressman who hatched the conspiracy to malign the image of BJP-led state government [by glorifying Godse].”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/godse-admirer-in-mp-joins-congress-says-he-was-misled-101614239991998.html
25-02-2021||Kolkata||CM Mamata Banerjee takes a scooter to Nabanna protesting against fuel prices||Mamata Banerjee, the chief minister of poll-bound West Bengal, on Thursday, travelled to the state secretariat, Nabanna, on an electric scooter in Kolkata as a mark of her protest against the rising fuel prices. Wearing a helmet, Banerjee also hung a placard around her neck against the price hike as she travelled the five-km-long journey from Hazra More to the state secretariat.Kolkata mayor Firhad Hakim was driving the battery-powered electric scooter while Banerjee was sitting at the back. "Modi government only makes false promises, has done nothing to bring down fuel prices," PTI quoted the Bengal chief minister as saying.The Trinamool Congress also took to Twitter to share pictures of Banerjee riding pillion. "When did you see the Chief Minister of a state standing by the side of the common people in this way! Honourable Chief Minister in protest of the skyrocketing price of petrol and diesel LPG," the party wrote in Bengali on Twitter.The prices for petrol and diesel remained stable on Thursday for the second consecutive day. The last hike in the prices of petrol and diesel was on Tuesday when the fuels prices rose by 35 paise.In Kolkata, the prices of petrol and diesel have been stable following the cut in value-added tact (VAT) by one rupee, announced by the state government earlier. Banerjee had also asked the Centre to withdraw the cess on petroleum products in view of the rising fuel prices.Meanwhile, Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das called for coordinated action by the Centre and the states to reduce fuel price. "There is a need for coordinated action between the Centre and states to reduce taxes because there are indirect taxes levied by both of them. We do realise that states and Centre have their revenue pressures and require high sums of money to enable the country and people to come out Covid-19 stress," he said while delivering the keynote address of the 185th foundation day celebration of the Bombay Chamber of Commerce and Industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cm-mamata-banerjee-takes-a-scooter-to-nabanna-protesting-against-fuel-prices-101614239263454.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: QR code must for darshan at Siddhivinayak temple on March 2||Shree Siddhivinayak Ganapati Temple Trust in Mumbai has laid down restrictions on 'darshan' on Ganesh Angaraki Chaturthi on March 2, due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state, reported news agency ANI.As per the new restrictions, no offline darshan will be allowed on the auspicious day without pre-issued QR codes. Darshan will be allowed against pre-issued QR codes between 8am and 9pm on March 2.“Shree Siddhivinayak Ganapati Temple Trust lays down restrictions on 'darshan' on Ganesh Angaraki Chaturthi on 2nd March, in the wake of rising Covid cases. No offline darshan allowed that day. Darshan allowed only on pre-issued QR codes, darshan only between 8am-9pm that day.” the update by news agency ANI said.Siddhivinayak Temple in Prabhadevi opened in November of last year after a hiatus of eight months due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 8,807 cases, the highest one day spike in four months. Mumbai, too, witnessed a jump in cases as it reported 1,167 infections in the past 24 hours, after a hiatus of 87 days. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a state cabinet meeting on Wednesday to take stock of the developing Covid-19 situation. The state had previously imposed restrictions on Shivaji jayanti celebrations in the wake of the rising tally of daily cases.On Wednesday, district authorities in Solapur and Sindhudurg districts enforced a night curfew between 11pm and 5am from February 25 till March 7. District authorities in Beed have taken the decision to shut educational institutions like schools and colleges till March 10. Only classes 10 and 12 will be allowed to attend physical classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-qr-code-must-for-darshan-at-siddhivinayak-temple-on-march-2-101614239068659.html
25-02-2021||Bangalore||Prime accused in Karnataka quarry blast case arrested in Tamil Nadu||A partner-owner of a quarry in Karnataka’s Chikkabalapur district was on Thursday arrested from Tamil Nadu’s Hosur two days after six people were killed while trying to allegedly dispose of illegally procured explosives on his orders, police said. GS Nagaraja, the accused, who is also a local leader of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, had been on the run since the blast. Police said that following a police raid on the quarry on February 7, Nagaraja ordered the removal of the explosives, which led to the blast on Tuesday. He has been booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and under the Explosives Act.Also Read | ‘Didn’t know what was in bag’: Driver who transported explosives before blastPolice have also detained Ganesh, an explosives expert from Tamil Nadu who worked for the quarry.Raghavendra Reddy, another partner-owner of the quarry, was arrested on Wednesday along with his four employees.Two police officers, Manjunath and Gopal Reddy, have been suspended pending inquiry for alleged dereliction of duty. Despite earlier complaints against the quarry owners for alleged illegal blasting and storage of explosives, the two officers did not act, people aware of the matter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/prime-accused-in-karnataka-quarry-blast-case-arrested-in-tamil-nadu-101614238072197.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||229 students contract Covid-19 in Maharashtra’s Washim||As many as 229 students at a residential school in Maharashtra’s Washim have tested positive for Covid-19 as the state battles an apparent second wave of infections, district health officer Avinash Aher said. Four teaching and non-teaching staffers have also been found to be infected, he added.“Necessary treatment is being given to the patients. Two doctors and other health workers have been deputed to treat the students...,” said Aher. He added almost all the students are asymptotic.Also Read | Travellers from 5 states may need Covid -ve reports to enter Delhi from SaturdayDistrict collector Shanmugarajan S visited the school and instructed the district health department to provide care to the students and school staff.“Assistant collector Vaibhah Waghmare has been appointed as the nodal officer to coordinate the health care,” he said.Ruling Shiv Sena lawmaker Bhavna Gawli runs the school.Washim was in the news when Maharashtra minister Sanjay Rathod visited the Pohradevi Temple there along with thousands of his supporters flouting the Covid norms. This prompted chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to order action and seek a report from the district police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/229-students-contract-covid-19-in-maharashtra-s-washim-101614234472195.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||Thane caught in traffic snarls due to overturned freight container||A freight container overturned at Mumbra bypass road in early hours of Thursday, resulting in massive traffic jams from Thane towards Nasik highway. The vehicle was removed around 10am but the traffic snarl continued impacting the peak hour traffic towards Panvel. Traffic from Nashik to Mumbai and Ghodbunder to Thane was also impacted as the long queues of vehicles from Nasik highway extended up to Ghodbunder road. There was bumper to bumper traffic on Majiwada bridge, overflowing till Cadbury junction."The accident of a container at Mumbra bypass occurred around 2:30am, although there were no injuries, it took a few hours to remove the heavy vehicle from the road. We made use of three Hydra cranes to remove the container. By 10 am all lanes were free and the traffic pile-up will reduce soon," said Sachin Gawde, inspector, traffic department, Thane.Also Read: Maharashtra: MMRC to develop Miyawaki forest in GoregaonAarti Salunkhe, resident of Vartak Nagar, was stuck at the Majiwada bridge for more than an hour on Thursday. "We had expected regular traffic at peak hour, but we were stuck for more than an hour at the Majiwada bridge with no place to move at all. We could not even think of changing route as there was bumper to bumper traffic," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-caught-in-traffic-snarls-due-to-overturned-freight-container-101614233659348.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: More than 200 students, teachers test positive for Covid-19 in Washim hostel||As Maharashtra is battling with the resurgence of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a new cluster emerged in Washim district after 229 students and three staffers tested positive at a hostel.As per reports, the school has been now declared as the containment zone. A total of 327 students from Amravati, Hingoli, Nanded, Washim, Buldhana, Akola reside in this hostel, news agency ANI reported. Some of these districts are among the worst-hit as they have been reporting a major share of total daily cases.Maharashtra is witnessing a surge in the daily covid-19 cases after maintaining a downward trend for months. As the daily number of cases is on the rise, the authorities are rallying to bring preventive measures while the state stares at the threat of the second wave.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageMaharashtra's Covid-19 tally reached 21,21,119 after it added 8,807 cases on Wednesday. It was the highest daily spike in more than four months. It had reported 8,142 cases on October 21 last year, after which the numbers had declined.The state had recorded 6,112 infections on February 19, 6,281 on February 20 and 6,971 on February 21. On February 22 and 23, the state had reported 5,210 and 6,218 cases. The death toll rose to 51,937 after 80 lost their lives due to the Covid-19.Meanwhile, the Centre announced the second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Wednesday. In this phase, people over 60 years of age and those above 45 of age with co-morbidities will be vaccinated.The Centre also gave nod to private vaccination centres to conduct immunisation drive. However, a price cap is yet to be decided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-more-than-200-students-teachers-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-washim-hostel-101614231705908.html
25-02-2021||Bangalore||WhatsApp used to coordinate riots in Bengaluru's DJ Halli: NIA charge sheet||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has alleged that the violence in Bengaluru’s DJ Halli, on August 11, 2020, was coordinated through a WhatsApp group. The NIA made the claim in its charge sheet filed on February 9.The agency claimed that a WhatsApp group “DG Halli 45” was actively organising the mob to gather in front of the two police stations.“Analysis of the WhatsApp group revealed that more than a hundred members were present in the said group during the riot and had hidden their identity… the WhatsApp group was used for spreading incriminating messages, images, videos, audio clips etc related to the incident to instigate people to assemble unlawfully in front of both KG Halli and DJ Halli police stations for participating in the violent activities,” the charge sheet read.It further added that 18 mobile phones used for recording text messages, videos, audios and photos of the incident and sharing the same on social media platforms, have been seized.The charge sheet also claimed that administratorsof the WhatsApp group and some members have been identified during the investigation.“Analysis of the mobile/WhatsApp data of the group also revealed that the movement and activities of many rioters during and after the events were coordinated through these groups,” NIA added.Reacting to the charge sheet, Afsar Kodlipet, a senior office-bearer of the SDPI in Karnataka, said: “This charge sheet is pre-planned and prejudiced. This is the same thing that happened in Delhi (the Delhi riots case) and this report is a copy-paste of the same report.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/whatsapp-used-to-coordinate-riots-in-bengaluru-s-dj-halli-says-nia-charge-sheet-101614231067893.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: MMRC to develop Miyawaki forest in Goregaon||The Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC), which is executing the 33.5km-long underground Metro-3 corridor, has entered into an agreement with the Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) for compensatory plantation using the Miyawaki method on a 3,000sqm plot near Inorbit Mall, Goregaon (West). An MMRC statement released on Wednesday said the drive will involve the plantation of 9,000 saplings of various indigenous species such as Kath, Neem, Amla, Bakul, Sita Ashok, Chinch, Arjun, Badam, etc. over a period of three months. FDCM will maintain the plantation for the next two years. Also Read | A decade on, Bombay HC grants ₹6.32 lakh compensation to family of custodial torture victimRanjit Singh Deol, managing director, MMRC, said, “We are pleased to initiate this huge plantation drive along with FDCM using the Miyawaki method to create a dense forest in a short span of time to safeguard our environment – adhering to our green policy.” The Miyawaki method, pioneered by Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki, aims at planting dozens of native species in the same area which leads to an increase in growth rate and density of the plantation. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has also decided to plant over 213,000 trees at 40 locations using the Miyawaki method as part of its urban forest project launched on January 26, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mmrc-to-develop-miyawaki-forest-in-goregaon-101614230871471.html
25-02-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka's Brahmin board to start calls for intra-caste unions soon||The Karnataka State Brahmin Development Board (KSBDB) is all set to open its online portal and other modes to invite applications for its contentious Maitreyi and Arundhathi schemes, which incentivise and promote marriages within the community.“We will call for applications from March 2,” HS Sachindananda Murthy, the chairman of the board, said.He said the board has just initiated systems through which tehisldars will visit the homes of applicants to verify their eligibility and economic credentials.Under the Arundhati scheme, around 550 poor women from the Brahmin community will be given ₹25,000 each for their marriage. Similarly, under the Maitreyi scheme, a financial bond of ₹3 lakh (over three years) will be created for about 25 women who marry Brahmin priests from poor backgrounds.Aditya Bhat, a resident of Adangadur village in Chikmagalur district, about 320 km from Bengaluru, is likely to be the first beneficiary of the Maitreyi scheme.“I had heard about the scheme and applied for it. The board took my wedding invite and asked me to apply for the grant after my marriage,” the 26-year-old, who has been practising priesthood for the last 10 years, said.He said his earnings fluctuate between ₹15,000- ₹20,000 per month to as low as ₹5,000 in lean and inauspicious periods. Bhat, who is part of a large joint family, owns about an acre of land where they grow areca nut, but the crop hasn’t fared too well due to diseases. He said the scheme would help with financial security for his future.So far, the government has identified two priests in the state.Both schemes, launched in January, have come under significant criticism from various quarters.The board was established as per the budget announcement of 2018-19 by the then HD Kumaraswamy-led Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S)-Congress coalition government with an outlay of ₹25 crore for both schemes and capital expenditure. It was registered on March 1, 2019 as a move to help the community, which accounts for about 4% of the state’s population.While the setting up of the board itself has been challenged in various forums, including the courts, the two schemes, in particular, have attracted criticism for re-engraving the idea and need for castes.“As the chairman of such a board, I have made schemes that incentivise and promote the development of the Brahmins as well as those who safeguard Brahminism and cannot push for inter-caste marriages and ask them to leave the community,” Murthy said. He reasoned that if the government promoted such a scheme, it would be wrong, adding that the sole purpose of creating such a board was for the promotion of a particular community.Karnataka’s caste-centric society is no different from the rest of the country, but the incentivising of intra-community marriage, experts say, goes against the stated goals of the governments—both state and Union—that boast about bringing in more social equality.The KSBDB has so far introduced five schemes, including providing competitive exam training to youths and cash incentives for higher education. Murthy said a total of ₹21.5 crore out of the total ₹25 crore has been earmarked for various schemes of the board so far.The initiation of systems and processes for the scheme comes at a time when there have been growing calls for reservation-related demands, including increasing allocations and change of categories by dominant and politically influential caste groups like Panchamasalis, Vokkaligas, Kurubas and Valmikis, among others.“The constitutional validity of the caste-wise development corporations, which are promoted by this government, and the very policy is under challenge,” Professor Ravivarma Kumar, former advocate general of Karnataka and senior counsel, said.The case against the formation of these caste-wise boards was filed in December and the government is yet to file its objections despite being granted four opportunities, Kumar said. The case was listed for Monday, but the government has sought more time and is expected to come for a hearing in mid-March.The BS Yediyurappa-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government has established a board for Brahmins, Marathas and a corporation for the Veerashaiva-Lingayats with an allocation of ₹500 crore.A report by Kumar, who served as chairman of the backward classes commission, in 2000 to incentivise promotion of inter-caste marriages, is yet to be implemented even though a survey was conducted in 2015 based on the commission’s recommendations, he said.Kumar also referred to the socio-economic survey — better known as ‘caste census, the first anywhere in the country since 1931 — which was carried out by the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government in 2015. The survey was seen as a move to challenge the dominant caste theory in Karnataka by the then chief minister, who had stormed to power with the support of AHINDA (Kannada acronym for minorities, backward classes and Dalits). But the findings are yet to be made public by Siddaramaiah or the two governments since then.Kumar said the government has access to actual and in-depth economic and social conditions on each and every caste group in the state but has “buried it” and pursued pushing its own agenda.Political analysts and experts on caste said the releasing of the report would antagonise dominant communities like Lingayats and Vokkaligas, who play central roles in the state’s politics with their close affiliations to all three major parties of the state—BJP, Congress and JD(S).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnatakas-brahmin-board-to-start-calls-for-intra-caste-unions-soon-101614229188245.html
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||Income Tax raids at Haryana MLA Balraj Kundu's homes, offices||The Income Tax department on Thursday conducted raids at Haryana’s independent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu’s residences in sector 14, Rohtak, Gurugram, his in-laws house in Hisar's Hansi, his two brothers’ houses in Rohtak and over 30 other premises of his close aides and relatives, officials said.A team of nearly 100 officials were searching the premises of Kundu and his relatives.Devender Singh, who looks after Kundu’s Rohtak office, said documents are being scrutinized and accused the government of targeting the opposition leaders for “political vendetta”.“The MLA is at his Gurugram residence and other members of his family are at Rohtak residence. We are cooperating with the IT teams but this seems to be a deliberate attack on Kundu for raising the farmers’ voices against the three farm laws,” he added.Former Zila Parishad chairman from Rohtak, Balraj Kundu contested the 2019 assembly election as an independent candidate after the saffron party denied him a ticket and pitched Shamsher Singh Kharkhara from the seat, but Kundu managed to defeat Shamsher Singh and also veteran Congress leader Anand Singh Dangi.Also Read: CM Khattar unlikely to accede to Vij’s demand for change of DGPAfter the BJP fell short of majority in Haryana, Kundu extended support to the BJP-JJP government. Later, he withdrew the support from the government, accusing former minister of state for cooperatives, Manish Grover, of indulging in corrupt activities and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar of not initiating a probe against Grover. He has been targeting Khattar on several issues.Kundu started a Rasoi at Tikri border for protesting farmers against the three contentious farm laws and has been taking part in Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikat’s mahapanchayats in Haryana. Kundu has been running nearly a dozen buses free of cost for girl students studying in various colleges in Rohtak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/income-tax-raids-at-haryana-mla-balraj-kundu-s-homes-offices-101614228334563.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||Man booked for instant divorce in Mumbai||The Mumbai Police have booked a man for allegedly divorcing his wife under the criminalised triple talaq practice minutes after his mother got pre-arrest bail in a dowry harassment case.Police said the couple, Ayub Aslam Shaikh and Heena Parveen Shaikh, got married in 2013. They added the man allegedly began harassing his wife for a dowry to buy a two-wheeler. The woman allegedly suffered a miscarriage as the harassment allegedly continued even as her mother bought him a two-wheeler. Also Read | Wife’s refusal to make tea no provocation for assault: Bombay high courtShaikh also allegedly demanded ₹5 lakh from his in-laws and mortgaged her ornaments before returning to Saudi Arabia where he worked.Shaikh was arrested for the harassment upon his return and spent 10-months in jail before his wife filed a domestic violence case against him. The woman has also accused Shaikh of remarrying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-booked-for-instant-divorce-in-mumbai-101614227031878.html
25-02-2021||Patna||Bihar university service commission chief nominated to WHO body||Dr Rajvardhan Azad, former chief and professor of ophthalmology at the All India Institute of Medical sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, and presently chairman of the Bihar state university service commission, has been nominated to the World Health Organisation (WHO) development group for vitreoretinal disorders, according to a WHO letter.“Due to your expertise in the area of vitreoretinal disorders, you have been nominated to join the WHO development group that will be responsible for inclusion in the package of vitreoretinal disorders and reviewing the resources required for their provision,” says the WHO letter sent to Azad.Vitreoretinal disorders are a group of eye conditions concerning the retina and the vitreous in the eyes. These structures can become damaged, often with age, and lead to eye problems that can affect the vision. Azad is the only member from India in the 11-member development group, which is part of the WHO vision programme (2019) and aims to facilitate integration of eye care within universal health coverage (UHC).Also Read: Bihar: Minister promises action against officers delaying land mutationAzad, who received the prestigious BC Roy National Award for eminent medical Teacher by Medical Council of India in 1987, is also advisor to Government of India for National Programme for Control of Blindness (NPCB). He was also the chairman of the national task force on ROP (retinopathy of prematurity).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-university-service-commission-chief-nominated-to-who-body-101614224075706.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||Wife’s refusal to make tea no provocation for assault: Bombay high court||Observing that the notion of patriarchy wherein a man treats his wife like property and can do as he wishes unfortunately still persists in the majority mindset, the Bombay high court rejected the appeal of a man who was convicted for assaulting his wife with a hammer which resulted in her death in 2013.The man who was convicted and sentenced to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment approached the court seeking reduction in his sentence on the grounds that the refusal of his wife to make tea for him resulted in grave and sudden provocation that made him assault her.However, the court held that as the man after assaulting his wife had wasted precious time in destroying the evidence before taking her to the hospital, there was no infirmity in the sentence and hence rejected the man’s appeal.Also Read | Bombay HC raps ACB Thane police for delay in FIR against contractorJustice Revati Mohite Dere, while hearing the appeal filed by 36-year-old Santosh Atkar against his conviction and sentence by additional sessions judge, Pandharpur, on July 1, 2016, was informed by advocate Sarang Aradhye that the man was sentenced for culpable homicide not amounting to murder under sections 304 (10-year rigorous imprisonment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 201 (2-year rigorous imprisonment for causing disappearance of evidence) of the Indian Penal Code.Aradhye submitted that as the conviction was based on the extra-judicial confession of the man and the trial court had discarded the witness of the daughter, and as the man had been in prison since 2013, the appeal seeking reduction of the sentence to the time he had already served in prison should be allowed.According to the complaint registered by the maternal uncle of the deceased woman on December 19, 2013, when he reached Vitthal Hospital, he was informed by the husband that he had assaulted his wife Manisha. The man repeated the same confession to the mother of the deceased woman. The police investigation revealed that the couple used to quarrel frequently.On the day of the incident, a quarrel ensued between the two and when the woman refused to make tea for him, he assaulted her with a hammer. Rather than rush his bleeding wife to the hospital, the man bathed her and cleaned the blood and took her to the hospital after an hour of the assault. The couple’s six year-old daughter was a witness to the entire incident.As the woman was not responding to treatment, the man was asked to shift her to Civil Hospital in Solapur. The woman who could not talk due to the assault succumbed to the injury at the hospital on December 25.After hearing the submissions, Mohite Dere observed that the daughter was a natural witness and the delay in recording the daughter’s statement which was recorded after almost 11-12 days of the incident was condonable as she must have been in trauma during the initial few days, hence it should not have been disbelieved at the time of trial.The bench also rejected the argument that the assault was a result of grave and sudden provocation as the woman refused to make tea for the man and observed, “It would not be out of place to observe that a wife is not a chattel or an object. Marriage ideally is a partnership based on equality. More often than not, it is far from that. Cases such as these are not uncommon. Such case, reflect the imbalance of gender – skewed patriarchy, the socio-cultural milieu one has grown up in, which often seeps into a marital relationship.”Referring to a study, “Man Who Mistook His Wife For Chattel” by Margo Wilson and Martin Daly, the court said, “This medieval notion of the wife being the property of the husband to do as he wishes, unfortunately, still persists in the majority mindset. Nothing but notions of patriarchy. Thus, the submission of the learned counsel for the appellant that the deceased by refusing to make tea for the appellant offered grave and sudden provocation, is ludicrous, clearly untenable and unsustainable and as such deserves to be rejected.”While rejecting the appeal, Mohite Dere observed that the conviction and sentence did not suffer from any infirmity and said, “The appellant not only assaulted his wife, but also after assaulting her, wasted precious and crucial time i.e. around one hour, in covering his act by destroying evidence, by wiping the blood from the spot and bathing Manisha before taking her to the hospital. If the appellant had rushed Manisha to the hospital, soon after the incident, possibly her life could have been saved and [daughter of the couple] would not have lost her mother.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wifes-refusal-to-make-tea-no-provocation-for-assault-bombay-high-court-101614224091073.html
25-02-2021||Patna||Bihar: Minister promises action against officers delaying land mutation||Bihar revenue minister Ram Surat Rai on Wednesday promised action against officers found deliberately delaying mutation of land beyond the 15-day timeframe in the state. Rai was responding in Legislative Council to leaders across party lines alleging land mutation process in the state to be tardy.The minister’s response was followed by a debate over RJD MLC Ramachandra Purbe’s allegation that the majority of land mutation applications, nearly 80,000 out of 1.50 lakh, were pending for disposal at 23 circle offices in Patna, leading to harassment of people. “Intermediaries are actually calling the shots in the mutation process,” alleged the RJD member.Supporting Purbe’s contention, Sanjeev Shyam Singh of the JD(U) said that the application for mutation of his own land was pending for disposal in Ara for the past eight-nine months. Another JD(U) member Neeraj Kumar said the web-based application, Parimarjan, meant to facilitate mutation was not working properly.Responding to the members’ concerns, the minister assured the house that he would personally look into the issue and take the officers, found guilty of delaying the process on one pretext or the other, to task.Poor spending on Smart City missionBihar deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad, who holds the charge of urban development department, assured the legislative council that the department will conduct a survey of dilapidated water pipelines in Patna and order their replacement to ensure safe potable water to residents.Also Read: Bihar board matric exam 2021 concludes, cheating cases reduced by 44%The assurance came following a short-notice question by Congress member Prem Chandra Mishra, who alleged that Patna residents were condemned to drink contaminated water owing to old, rusting and leaking pipelines. Mishra sought to know why Patna was ranked lowest on the Clean City parameters and CM’s home district of Bihar Sharif stood in 374th position in the cleanliness survey conducted by the Central government despite Patna’s selection under the Smart City mission.The deputy CM said that nearly ₹469.79 crore out of the total ₹896 crore allotted to Bihar, under smart city and Swachha Bharat missions, were yet to be spent. He said door to door collection had started in 3,351 out of 3,396 wards of 142 urban local bodies and solid waste management installations were being set up to ensure cleanliness of town areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-minister-promises-action-against-officers-delaying-land-mutation-101614222831293.html
25-02-2021||Delhi||Eight of 10 most polluted cities this winter were in NCR, UP: CSE study||Eight of 10 most polluted cities in the country this winter were located in the Delhi-NCR and Uttar Pradesh region, an analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) shows.The CSE’s study, the results of which were released after an extensive analysis of realtime data from cities in different regions to throw light on the difference between 2020-21 winter and the previous winter, has identified the Delhi-NCR as the most polluted cluster.While Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr and Greater Noida topped the list of most polluted cities in this region, Noida and Delhi were not far behind. Kanpur and Lucknow occupied sixth and ninth positions on the chart, according to the CSE analysis.Also Read | Most of northwest India sees summer-like temperatures“Winter is a special challenge when inversion, and the cool and calm weather trap and spike daily pollution. While the northern Indo-Gangetic Plains is the most affected, other regions also experience a rise, but with lesser intensity. But this year, even though the average level of PM2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) during summer and monsoon months was considerably lower than the previous year, due to the summer lockdown, the winter PM2.5 concentration rose in many cities across regions as compared to 2019,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, CSE’s executive director and the in-charge of research and advocacy.She further said, “This bouncing back of pollution, post-lockdown, unmasks the high impact of local and regional pollution. This demands quicker regional reforms to curb pollution from vehicles, industry, power plants and waste burning to curb the winter pollution.”This analysis by CSE took into account data from 99 cities across the country, where data availability for two consecutive winters meets the minimum criteria for 75% of days between October 1 and January 31.The analysis also showed that in Delhi, the levels of PM 2.5 showed a “stable trend”. Delhi, along with 14 other cities, showed a less than 8% change in pollution levels this winter season as compared to the previous winter.“This analysis has helped to understand the regional differences in winter pollution. Even though there is considerable regional variation, peak pollution episodes increased and synchronized within the regions during winter. At the same time, uneven rise across monitoring locations and contiguous cities pointed to the impact of local pollution,” says Avikal Somvanshi, programme manager at CSE’s urban lab team, sustainable cities programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/eight-of-10-most-polluted-cities-this-winter-were-in-ncr-up-cse-study-101614222470877.html
25-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi AQI slips into very poor zone; may improve from Friday||After staying in poor category for days, Delhi’s air quality slipped into the very poor zone on Thursday with the average hourly air quality index at 7am at 301. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi was 278 on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the average AQI was 250, also in the poor category. India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast said that there is a possibility of improvement in air quality from February 26, when the AQI is likely to come down to the moderate range.Delhi on Wednesday recorded the highest maximum temperature for the month of February since 2006, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) recordings.On Wednesday, the maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 32.5 degrees Celsius (°C), seven degrees above the season’s normal. The minimum temperature was 12°C, a notch above what is considered normal for this time of the year.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Delhi, Ghaziabad face heavy traffic during peak hoursBefore this, in 2018 and 2017, the day time temperatures had crossed the 32°C-mark in February. On February 23, 2018, the maximum temperature was 32°C, while on February 21, 2017, the maximum temperature had touched 32.4°C.Meanwhile, Delhi’s neighbouring cities haven’t fared any better in keeping pollution in check. The average air quality was recorded very poor in Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Faridabad while it was poor in Noida and Gurgaon, according to data issued by a government agency on Wednesday.Pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 also remained high in the air of the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).According to the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 is satisfactory, 101 and 200 is moderate, 201 and 300 is poor, 301 and 400 is very poor, and 401 and 500 is severe. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-aqi-slips-into-very-poor-zone-may-improve-fromfriday-101614222410999.html
25-02-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi, Ghaziabad face heavy traffic during peak hours||The Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu borders, where farmers are continuing their agitation demanding withdrawal of the three new farm laws, continue to be completely blocked for traffic on Thursday. The Delhi Police have diverted the traffic near these areas, which they say, may possibly lead to heavy traffic jams in parts of the Capital during the peak hours.Delhi Traffic Police officers said Delhi and Ghaziabad are facing heavy traffic jams in peak hours as the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border has remained completely closed. All the six lanes of Delhi-Meerut, NH-9 and NH-24 are closed because of the UP Gate border blockade and vehicles entering Delhi from Ghaziabad are being diverted to the alternate border routes such as Anand Vihar, Surya Nagar, Apsara, Bhopra, Loni, Kondli, Chilla, New Ashok Nagar, DND, and Kalindi Kunj, they said.However, they said, NH-24 road is kept open for traffic going to Delhi from Ghaziabad through Ghazipur roundabout. So, those entering Delhi from Anand Vihar, Surya Nagar or Apsara border may take a right turn from the Ghazipur roundabout and take NH-24 road from there to move towards south and central Delhi via Sarai Kale Khan and the Ring Road.“Also, commuters can take Vikas Marg after taking a right turn from under the Patparganj Industrial Area flyover from Anand Vihar-Ghazipur road. No traffic is being allowed on Delhi-Meerut expressway while NH-9 is kept open only during morning and evening peak hours when traffic remain heavy,” a traffic police officer said.Apart from the UP Gate border, Singhu, Tikri, Saboli and Piau Maniyari borders are also closed. Traffic police officials said that Jharoda and Auchandi borders are opened only during morning and evening peak hours while Lampur, Safiabad, Singhu school and Pall toll tax borders are open for traffic.As traffic is expected to remain heavy on GT Karnal Road, Outer Ring Road and NH-44, the traffic police have asked commuters to avoid these routes and take the alternate or diverted routes.Chilla border between Noida and Delhi remains open on both sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-ghaziabad-face-heavy-traffic-during-peak-hours-101614221570828.html
25-02-2021||Lucknow||35-yr-old held for attack on UP cousins||The Uttar Pradesh police have arrested a 35-year-old man for allegedly killing a five-year-old girl and severely injuring a seven-year-old after a failed attempt to rape the two cousins.“We have arrested one Anil alia Chameli Kanjad regarding the attacks on two minor cousins. The accused confessed that he lured the girls into the fields with a packet of biscuits to rape them. He attacked the girls with an iron rod when they began to cry,” Shahjahanpur superintendent of police said.The body of the five-year-old girl was found in the fields on Monday and the seven-year-old, who sustained several injuries, was found 100 metres away from the body. The condition of the seven-year-old is stated to be critical.An FIR under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) has been filed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/35yrold-held-for-attack-on-up-cousins-101614216382526.html
25-02-2021||City||Rajasthan to bring ₹3,500 crore health care scheme||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday announced to bring a Universal Health Care scheme worth ₹3,500 crore and a directorate for non-violence and peace in his budget speech.“For the first time in the country, we are going to implement universal health coverage in the state from next year at the cost of ₹3,500 crore,” he said, adding, that a Bill on Right to Health will be introduced in the assembly. Each family will get health insurance cover of ₹5 lakh per annum under the scheme. Gehlot said a separate agriculture budget will be presented from the next financial year. “The biggest challenge before us while making this budget was that despite the difficult economic conditions, there should be no shortage of resources for the development of the state. We are taking this resolution to mobilize economic resources...,” Gehlot said.Referring to the Covid pandemic, he said, “We have strengthened the health infrastructure in the state, turning this disaster into opportunities.” The CM also announced a Covid-19 package for the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rajasthan-to-bring-rs-3-500-crore-health-care-scheme-101614215177574.html
25-02-2021||Delhi||Daily Covid-19 cases up to 200 in Delhi||The Capital on Wednesday reported 200 new infections of Covid-19, the highest single-day increase in cases in 26 days, or since January 29, according to government data.The seven-day average of new cases (also known as the daily case trajectory of a region) now appears to be slowly inching up again — it now stands at 151, the highest in 20 days. For the week ending February 12, this number had dropped to an over 300-day low of 125 new cases a day.Though minor, this spurt in cases in the city is concerning as it comes at a time when at least five states across India — Maharashtra, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Chhattisgarh – have seen what appear to be the start of fresh waves of infections. To be sure, the increase in cases in these five states is much more significant compared to Delhi’s.The number of tests in the city, meanwhile, has seen a considerable dip from peak levels over the past few weeks. For the week ending Wednesday, 57,699 samples were tested every day in the city (56,168 on Wednesday itself), compared to the peak capacity of 83,151 average tests a day exhibited by the government for the week ending December 23, a month after the city brought its third Covid-19 wave under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/daily-covid-19-cases-up-to-200-in-delhi-101614210939860.html
25-02-2021||Delhi||Transport dept readies command centre to track govt buses in real-time||The Delhi transport department has built a command-and-control centre in Kashmere Gate to track and monitor all Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and cluster buses in real-time.The centre has been built at the interstate bus terminal (ISBT) in Kashmere Gate and will soon be inaugurated by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Wednesday after he inspected the facility.“Apart from the command-and-control centre (CCC) at Kashmere Gate, there is a disaster recovery centre, a data centre and separate viewing centres in all depots. The live footage can also be monitored by all depot managers. The CCC shall be manned 24 hours for real-time monitoring of all activities on buses,” Gahlot said.Each bus is now fitted with three cameras, GPS devices, 10 panic buttons, one display panel for the driver, hooter, strobe lights and 2 sets of two-way audio communication devices, one each for the driver and conductor.“All newly inducted buses and to-be inducted buses already have all these systems installed on them which will be integrated with the CCC at Kashmere Gate,” the minister said.All depot managers, drivers, conductors and marshals on board buses have completed their training related to the operation of the installed systems.Delhi currently has around 6,750 buses -- 3,760 DTC and 2,990 cluster buses-- as against the Supreme Court-mandated requirement of 11,000 buses.In case of an emergency, a passenger or driver or conductor can press the panic button. The alert will automatically be sent to the CCC at Kashmere Gate in real-time. The operator at the CCC will filter the alerts and forward the alert to the respective stakeholder such as police, fire and ambulance for a quick response with the GPS coordinates of the bus. An SMS and an email alert will also be sent to the authorities concerned in synchronization with these panic alerts, the government said in a statement.“The objective of the project is to ensure the safety and security of passengers, especially women passengers through IP-based CCTV surveillance cameras, panic button and GPS on the buses of DTC and those under the cluster scheme. After the inspection, I also held a meeting with transport officials to discuss issues related to the functioning of the CCC. I have instructed officials to submit a daily report about data monitoring and operation,” Gahlot said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/transport-dept-readies-command-centre-to-track-govt-buses-in-realtime-101614204584514.html
25-02-2021||Delhi||Govt introduces contactless tickets on all DTC buses||The Delhi government on Wednesday, for the first time since its inception, expanded its ambitious contactless ticketing service to all its Delhi transport corporation (DTC) buses. The ticketless scheme was introduced by the government in May-June last year during the lockdown in order to cut down on physical human interaction that increased the chances of spread of Covid-19.Passengers can make use of this service through the ‘Chartr’ app. Almost all the buses now have QR code stickers pasted on the back of each seat which can be scanned to make payment through the app. Several buses, though not all, also had posters explaining in Hindi how one should proceed with the online ticket purchase by using the app. HT hopped onto a few buses and , however, found that most passengers still preferred to pay cash and coins and take paper tickets.On Day One of the complete roll-out of the system, at least 1,601 contactless general tickets and 5,015 pink tickets -— the free tickets for women passengers — were issued till 10pm on Wednesday, government record showed.“Till 9pm, the total collection through online transactions of tickets was ₹18,829. As many as 114 daily passes were issued on Wednesday through the contactless ticketing system amounting to a total collection of ₹ 5,150,” said RS Minhas, deputy general manager (PR), DTC.He, however, said the service is currently being run on a trial basis with an aim to fix technical glitches or physical problems faced by passengers or the conductors. Delhi has at least 3,700 DTC buses and prior to Wednesday, the trials were going on only in 128 DTC buses.A similar trial run is also going on in the city’s cluster buses. A senior official of the Delhi integrated multi-modal transit system (DIMTS) limited said at present, trials of the contactless ticketing service is being carried out in 497 of the 2,990 cluster buses in the Capital.“The plan is to formally launch the contactless ticketing system in all the 6,750 state-run buses — 3,760 DTC and 2,990 cluster — from March,” a senior transport official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-introduces-contactless-tickets-on-all-dtc-buses-101614204329186.html
25-02-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: His mundane security job||There is no subtle way of putting it. Subodh’s day job looks terribly boring. He is stationed at a road barrier—a side-lane really—in a south Delhi neighbourhood, and all day long he makes the metal barrier slide on its wheels to open way for the approaching vehicles. “And not let any gaadi (car) enter from the wrong side, because this is a one-way road,” he points out.On the seemingly drab texture of his routine, he shrugs and says, “This is work... majboori (no choice)... I don’t think of jobs as boring or interesting, one just has to do it.”In his early 30s, Subodh has been working this 9-5 shift for three years. A native of Arwal in Bihar, this is his first and so far only job in the Capital. “I know it is not easy to get a duty in a city like Delhi, where so many people are looking for work. It actually was my elder brother’s job… he decided to return to our village to take care of our agricultural land, and he helped me get it so that it stays within the family.”Now a biker stops by, asking Subodh directions for an address, which he very politely explains in minute detail.With his arm instinctively holding onto the wheeled metal barrier, ready to slide as soon as another car appears, Subodh explains his arrival from his countryside home to this smoggy metropolis. “I wanted to see the world... to see how people live... to see how customs are in those big cities that one has only heard of and never been to.”Now another biker stops by, asking Subodh directions for another address, which he again explains in detail. Such interference recurs almost every other minute during the course of this meeting.In all, Subodh seems to be impressed with Delhi—“Very nice people, very good behaviour... society, very good... I myself have made many friends... some of them are in security line like me, some are in drivery (sic).”But Subodh doesn’t see himself in this city five years from now. “You can’t live here forever... I will go back to my village... that place has my family, my land, my mother, my father...”And now yet another biker stops by, asking Subodh directions for yet another address, which he again very patiently explains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-his-mundane-security-job-101614204008184.html
25-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Civic bodies stop taking event bookings for parks after NGT prohibits it citing environment loss||All three municipal corporations of Delhi have stopped taking event bookings for parks, including the Ramlila Ground, in the wake of a recent order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) citing environment loss to parks due to the holding of mass public functions such as cultural and religious events, weddings and political rallies.Civic authorities said they are exploring possibilities to “challenge” the order.The Ramlila Ground is a popular venue where major political rallies and religious programmes are organised. It is the ground where social activist Anna Hazare started the India Against Corruption movement in 2011.The NGT earlier this month had directed civic bodies to strictly enforce orders prohibiting weddings, cultural, commercial and other functions at parks. The order was issued while hearing an application that said wedding functions being held in west Delhi’s Vikas Puri Dussehra ground were flouting environment norms.According to civic officials, the bookings for parks and grounds are one of the important revenue sources of civic bodies and the move would adversely affect revenue generation of cash-strapped municipalities.Civic authorities projected a cumulative loss of around ₹3.5 crore a year to the three corporations.Municipal officials said prior to that order, as many as 129 parks and grounds across the three municipal bodies used to be booked for religious, cultural and political events throughout the year.Jai Prakash, mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said there are nearly 47 parks and grounds, including the Ramlila Ground, under its jurisdiction where public and cultural functions used to be organised, generating revenue for the civic body. The NGT order has put paid to bookings this month, he said.“This decision is going to adversely impact our revenue generation. We are eying a loss of around ₹1 crore to ₹1.2 crore a year. We are examining the NGT order and are taking legal advice on whether it can be challenged,” Prakash said.He has also directed the chief legal officer of the civic body to check if Ramlila Ground can be kept open for bookings as, being a ground, it does not fall under the category of “parks”.Similarly, bookings have been stopped at the 64 parks of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) and 18 parks of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC).Narendra Chawla, leader of the house in SDMC, said before granting permission to anyone to hold functions or events in SDMC parks, the civic body takes an undertaking from the applicant that the ecology of the park is not be disturbed, apart from which a maintenance charge is also realised from the applicant. “We always ensure that there is no permanent digging in the park and no garbage is left behind. There might have been violations in one or two cases, but imposing a blanket ban on all events at parks is not right. With this decision, we are going to witness a loss of at least ₹1.5 crore annually. We are exploring options on whether the order can be challenged,” Chawla said.Nirmal Jain, mayor, EDMC, said, “The civic body is already facing an acute financial crunch and this order will further limit our revenue generation resources. We are looking at a loss of at least ₹80 lakh annually if parks are not leased out for events.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-delhi-parks-to-be-booked-for-events-101614202924803.html
25-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal slams BJP over corruption in civic bodies||New Delhi: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of corruption and blamed them for the poor financial condition of the municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD) during a roadshow in north Delhi’s Bawana, where he also promised to sanction ₹100 crore for a sewer project in the area.Kejriwal, who is also the national convener of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), led two roadshows on Wednesday in Bawana and Shalimar Bagh campaigning for candidates of the party ahead of municipal bypolls in five wards scheduled on Sunday. Hundreds of AAP supporters participated in the roadshow navigating the localities in two-wheelers and trucks, playing music.“I got to know that people have been demanding sewer line in Bawana. It is my promise that I will sanction ₹100 crores for the sewer project here,” said Kejriwal. He added, “The AAP has been actively campaigning against the corruption by the BJP. The MCDs are in a shambles because of their corruption.”“Together, the people of Delhi have defeated Covid-19, the pandemic has created havoc in the lives of the people. We have elections on Sunday, you all must go and vote for AAP. How many of you receive zero electricity bills? 24x7 free electricity has happened only in Delhi. We have worked to make Delhi better in the last six years by improving schools, hospitals, availability of electricity, and water. It is your responsibility to make AAP victorious in the MCD, together we have to change the face of MCD.”While the AAP is in power in the Delhi government, BJP rules all three municipal corporations. Delhi goes to the municipal polls in 2022.The BJP dismissed the allegations as baseless.Delhi BJP general secretary Shri Harsh Malhotra said, “The AAP government has not done any development work in Bawana, Shalimar Bagh and several other areas. Their leaders were unavailable during the Covid-19 crisis. They will get appropriate response from the people of these wards in the bypolls on Sunday. The promise of ₹100 crore for sewer line at this point speaks volumes about the poor condition of these areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-slams-bjp-over-corruption-in-civic-bodies-101614195298189.html
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||CM Khattar unlikely to accede to Vij’s demand for change of DGP||Spelling out the correct legal position with regards to the appointment and tenure of the Haryana director general of police (DGP), the home department on Wednesday conveyed to its minister Anil Vij that as per Supreme Court directions the DGP should have a minimum and not maximum tenure of at least two years irrespective of his date of superannuation. The department has also conveyed that a 2018 amendment in the Haryana Police Act stating that the DGP shall have tenure of not less than one year extendable to one more year irrespective of his date of superannuation was rejected by the apex court on January 16, 2019 since it was not in consonance with its directions. The SC had also ruled that any legislation or rule framed by any of the states or the central government running counter to the directions shall remain in abeyance to the aforesaid extent. Vij on Tuesday had triggered a controversy by writing to additional chief secretary, home, to send a panel of officers to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) to be considered for the next DGP despite the fact that incumbent Manoj Yadava has over four years of service left. While Yadava completed two years on February 20, the state government on January 7 had extended his tenure till further orders. Doors of central posting open for Yadava Top officials said that once the minimum tenure of two years comes to an end, the state government has the option of deciding whether or not to continue with the incumbent DGP. “In Yadava’s case, his tenure has already been extended beyond February 20 till further orders. However, the department will still put up the file before the government to take a fresh call on this since the Home Minister has expressed an opinion,’’ officials said. Sources in the chief minister’s office said that chief minister, ML Khattar is unlikely to seek a replacement for Yadava, a 1988-batch officer handpicked by him for the top job. The officer had a 15-year stint with the Intelligence Bureau (IB) before he returned to his parent cadre. However, since the appointments committee of the cabinet (ACC) of the Central government on February 11 approved the empanelment of Yadava along with 28 other IPS officers for holding DG rank or equivalent posts at the Centre, it has opened avenues of an assignment in the IB and central paramilitary forces for the officer and he may seek central deputation sometime later in the year. ‘Only CM authorized to take a call on DGP’s posting’ “As per the Rules of Business, the authority to appoint or transfer IPS officials vested with the chief minister. As per section 28 of Rules of Business, all proposals for appointment and posting of IAS, IPS and Class I officers have to be submitted to the chief minister before the issuance of orders,’’ said an official. Officials said as far as the home minister’s observations on sending a fresh proposal to the UPSC, containing the names of eligible IPS officers for empanelment to the DGP rank, at least three months prior to the date of retirement of the incumbent DGP are concerned, such a measure is taken if an anticipated vacancy is arising due to the retirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cm-khattar-unlikely-to-accede-to-vij-s-demand-for-change-of-dgp-101614196129077.html
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||4 held with ₹29 lakh drug money, weapons in Amritsar||The Amritsar (rural) police on Wednesday arrested four persons allegedly involved in the smuggling of drugs and weapons from Pakistan.The police have also recovered ₹29.32 lakh drug money, a pistol of .32 bore (China-made) and two of its magazines (with 25 live rounds), 12 mobile phones and two foreign SIM cards (one of Pakistani and another of UAE).The accused have been identified as Gurjant Singh of Nathupur village, Sukhjinder Singh of Khayala village, Mehal Singh and Tehal singh of Lodhi Gujjar village. All the villages fall near the India-Pakistan border in Ajnala sub-division of the district.Police said the arrested men were in contact with Pakistani smugglers for the supply of drugs and weapons. They said lately, the accused smuggled a consignment of 6kg heroin from Pakistan, which was recovered by the Border Security Force (BSF) along the International Border near Kakkar village.A team comprising deputy superintendent of police (DSP-Attari) Gurpartap Singh Sahota, assistant superintendent of police (ASP-Majitha) Abhimanyu Rana and DSP-detective Gurinderpal Singh was working on the forward and backward linkages about the recovery of 6kg heroin that was seized by the BSF on February 16.One of the officials said they have nominated one more accused, kingpin of the racket, in the case, who is absconding. He said their preliminary investigation has suggested that the accused had cleared the consignments of nearly 25kg of heroin from the border in the past one month. He said, “January was very challenging for the BSF due to the fog when the visibility at the border had been reduced to almost zero, and the accused had taken the benefit of this.”DSP Gurpartap Singh said they have registered a case under Sections 21-22-25-27-27A-29-61-85 of the NDPS Act, 25-54-59 of the Arms Act and the relevant sections of the Foreign Act against the accused at Lopoke police station.He said their investigation to ascertain the backward and forward linkages of the accused was still on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-held-with-rs-29-lakh-drug-money-weapons-in-amritsar-101614195829764.html
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||Youtube channels have school pre-final question papers a day in advance||BATHINDA Ahead of the final examinations in March, chinks in the examination system of Punjab education department has come to the fore as question papers of the ongoing pre-final tests are appearing on the social media in advance. Officials said it was found that question papers and answer keys of almost all subjects for classes 6-12 of government institutes were landing daily on at least two Youtube channels. A student of a government school gets 10-20% marks in different subjects on the basis of an assessment of these examinations. Director general of education department Mohammad Tayyab confirmed on Wednesday that after getting complaints, due action is being taken. Punjab School Education Board (PSEB)’s controller of examination Janak Raj Mehrok said the top brass of the education department has given consent to lodge a police complaint. “These papers were set and sent to the schools by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT). PSEB deals only with final exams of the board classes. But it is a serious matter and the education department is initiating action to identify those behind it,” said Mehrok. Close monitoring of the said Youtube channels reveals that papers are uploaded 12-18 hours before the examination. One of the suspect channels was started on September 5, 2020, and it has 15.26 lakh viewers till Wednesday evening. As per the details mentioned on another Youtube channel, it has recorded 2.28 lakh views since its launch on February 16. Prima facie it seems to be a case where unknown persons are interested in monetising or earning money by inviting advertisers on the basis of views, says a department functionary. “There is no input that these preparatory question papers are being sold to students for money,” say sources. Classroom examination for class 6-12 started on February 15 till March 1. Uniform question papers for these classes are prepared centrally and dispatched to the school heads through email on the eve of the respective examination. School heads in various districts say the irregularities were detected even during the December tests but no action was initiated. “I was surprised to spot that most of the students attempted a couple of questions brilliantly which were not even discussed in the class. Later students admitted that they have easy access to all papers with answers on Youtube platforms,” said a biology teacher for class 12 at a government school. Another faculty member said the higher authorities were apprised of papers being ‘leaked’ on the social media platforms. “This is a mockery of the examination system and secrecy. Only school heads have access to the digital copy of these centrally prepared question papers. The authorities should revert to the conventional practice where questions are set by the schools independently,” said the head of another government senior secondary school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/youtube-channels-have-school-pre-final-question-papers-a-day-in-advance-101614195828425.html
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||Nodeep Kaur case: Haryana Police accuse her of extortion, inciting violence before HC||The Haryana Police have accused labour activist Nodeep Kaur of extorting money from industrialists in Kondli area of Sonepat and inciting workers during a protest on January 12, in which seven cops were reportedly injured.In a status report submitted to the Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday, the Haryana Police also denied that the woman activist was physically assaulted.The status report by Virender Singh, deputy superintendent of police (HQ), Sonepat, was submitted in response to suo motu plea initiated by the high court on February 12 on reports of illegal arrest of the labour activist. During interrogation she disclosed that she along with her associates Shiv Kumar and Sahil had formed the organization ‘Majdoor Adhikar Sangthan’ and they took brokerage from the labourers for providing them salary etc from the factory owners and extorted money from the owners, the police have claimed.Police say the first FIR was registered on December 28, in which there were allegations of extortion of money from the owner and gherao of his private industrial unit, in which Nodeep Kaur and Sahil are accused.On January 12 a unit in Kundli was gheraoed and staff manhandled by members of her group and here too complaint of extortion of money from the factory owner by activists under the garb of workers’ unpaid salaries were made, the report says adding that Nodeep Kaur was one of the agitators and she made a provocative speech during the protest saying that if police come to spot they will attack and beat them. Police reached the spot and tried to mediate but agitators got violent, which resulted in seven police personnel, including one woman constable, getting injured, the police told the court citing medical reports. Police have also given some videos to court, in which Kaur is purportedly shown inciting agitators and cops being beaten up.‘Took brokerage from workers’The court was further told on the day she was arrested and in her interrogation, she took names of Shiv Kumar, Sumit and Sahil as co-conspirators who along with her, took brokerage from labourers for providing them salary. Two FIRs have been registered for the incident of violence reported on February 12.On the allegations of physical assault, the police say, she was medically examined the same day. Thereafter, she was presented before chief judicial magistrate to seek her judicial remand and before the CJM too she did not make any allegation of assault, the court was told, adding that she was straightway taken to judicial custody and did not remain in police custody even for a day.“..false allegations are being made through a few social media platforms that ..(She was) falsely implicated and arbitrarily detained by the police. Further allegations (are being) made regarding her physical harassment in police custody as well in judicial custody. All these claims and allegations are baseless and have been refuted by district police,” the report says.The high court bench of justice Avneesh Jhingan, which took up the matter on Wednesday has deferred hearing for Friday in view of Haryana’s additional advocate general, Deepak Sabharwal seeking time for production of her detailed medical reports.Medical reports points to injuries on another activistThe medical report prepared by Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, on the court’s directions have pointed towards injury marks on the body of another activist Shiv Kumar, who is also accused in these FIRs.The medical examination was ordered upon a plea from his father Rajbir Singh, who had demanded that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe the three FIRs in question and medically examine his son outside Sonepat.The report says all the injuries are over two weeks old and were caused by a blunt object or weapon. He was lodged in Sonepat jail on February 2. The report says he has suffered two grievous injuries in the right foot and the nails of his left thumb and index finger show bluish black discolouration with tenderness. It also says there is possibility of his left foot and right wrist being fractured. As of injuries in lower limbs they are simple in nature, says the report, which in all lists seven injuries, further stating on psychiatric evaluation, he was suggestive of post-traumatic stress disorder-like symptoms and appeared sad and distressed with occasional crying spells.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nodeep-kaur-case-haryana-police-accuse-her-of-extortion-inciting-violence-before-hc-101614195768313.html
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||Behbal Kalan firing: Court allows SIT to procure CCTV footage of judicial complex||The district and sessions court on Wednesday allowed the special investigation team’s plea seeking CCTV footage of judicial complex, when suspended IG Paramraj Singh Umaranangal appeared in the court on February 19.On Tuesday, alleging that Umranangal had tried to influence witnesses and put pressure on prosecution agency, the special investigation team (SIT), probing the 2015 police firing cases, filed an application in the court of district and sessions judge Sumeet Malhotra for procuring the CCTV footage of the periphery of the court complex of February 19 between 11am and 12am for the purpose of investigation “as well as fair trail”.On February 19, Umranangal, along with other accused, appeared before the trail court at Faridkot in the Kotkapura firing case. SIT has claimed that during appearance, Umranangal came to the court complex with large number of persons in order to create pressure on the prosecution agency well as the witnesses which can be very much detected from the cameras installed from the periphery of the court complex.The session judge ordered to provide CCTV footage of the court complex to the SIT for investigation purpose. As per sources, a number of cameras installed in the court complex from where accused entered the court are non-functional, so their activity might not be captured. SIT withdraws protest petitionThe SIT had also urged the court to treat the present application as a protest petition of the prosecution and asked the court to take appropriate cognisance against accused by exercising the judicial power vested with the court. However, during the proceedings, the SIT withdrew its protest petition after court had objected it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/behbal-kalan-firing-court-allows-sit-to-procure-cctv-footage-of-judicial-complex-101614195648404.html
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||‘Morning wake-up call’ order leaves govt teachers sleepless||Ludhiana The heads of government schools, teachers and mentors are sleepless over a new task at hand — to give early morning wake-up calls to students, asking them to study. The idea is to motivate the students to study well and score better in the final exams, officials say.Senior education department officials will ensure that the teachers do the job diligently. For this, the district education department, Ludhiana, has forwarded state department’s nine-point proforma to the officials concerned who have to fill details such as name of the student called, class of the student, contact number of the student, the time of the phone call etc. The same proforma has also been sent to officials in SAS Nagar, SBS Nagar, Jalandhar and Kapurthala districts.The district education department has also sent an audio message to all the school heads, conveying that all teachers, principals, district and block mentors will make morning calls to students and will send the details through the Google form.The state education department move has irked the teachers and mentors. A lecturer of a government school, requesting anonymity, said, “I am teaching Class 12 and pre-board exams are going on. Most of time is consumed in conducting the exams and rest I spend evaluating answer-sheets. Once home, I have to interact with students online to clear their doubts.”A mentor, who wished not to be named, said, “We are visiting schools daily and clearing the concepts for the students. We are in touch with the students and conduct doubt-clearance sessions. It is not feasible to call them in the morning daily. This is an unnecessary task.” Ludhiana district education officer (secondary) Harjit Singh said, “As per the directions from the state education department, teachers, principals and district mentors will make wake-up calls to the students in the morning. The idea is to interact with the students and achieve Mission Shat Pratishat.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/morning-wake-up-call-order-leaves-govt-teachers-sleepless-101614195348709.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||Stagger work hours at Mantralaya, says Maharashtra chief secretary||A day after chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray directed Maharashtra chief secretary to work out shifts for Mantralaya officers and employees, the chief secretary issued an order on Wednesday, asking all secretaries of departments to adopt staggered working hours to avoid crowding and to follow social distancing norms. Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar stated in a letter that staggered working hours may be initiated by allowing employees to work on alternate days or three-day shifts or weekly shifts or staggered work hours. “In the wake of the growing number of Covid-19 positive cases in the city of Mumbai and the entire State. In order to facilitate the adherence to the norms of social distancing and to ensure avoidance of crowding, staggering may be initiated in the Mantralaya… The secretaries of the respective departments can decide on what form of staggering to adopt subject to maintaining all social distancing and other Covid-19 related protocols and also at the same time ensuring that work is not affected,” wrote Kumar in his letter. He also wrote that if the secretaries feel full attendance can be maintained without observing staggered work hours but while following all Covid-19 protocols, they can do so. Employee unions and former bureaucrats have welcomed the move to have flexible working hours. Former Maharashtra chief secretary Jayant Kumar Banthia said that the idea of staggered work hours was discussed for south Mumbai earlier, but did not materialise. He said, “I am happy that this has come from the very top and the Covid-19 situation has a role to play. Not just for Mantralaya but staggered work hours should be done for all offices in south Mumbai to prevent everybody from going to one geography at one time.” Banthia said that the options given by the current chief secretary are workable. “The mindset of the people needs to change on working hours. There could be challenges in having staggered hours, such as managing timings with ministers and secretaries. Ministers and secretaries also have to adjust to this. Even in staggering, there could be a few overlapping hours a day where all the staff is available for work,” said the 1977-batch officer of the Indian Administrative Service (IAS). Banthia was the chief secretary between May 2012 and November 2013.GD Kulthe, chief advisor of Maharashtra State Gazetted Officers Federation, said, “We are deliberating on these options and we are positive about it. It is possible to work out shifts on one of these options given. A decision is expected in a couple of days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/stagger-work-hours-at-mantralaya-says-maharashtra-chief-secretary-101614195288468.html
25-02-2021||Admission||DU likely to adopt combination of entrance test score and class 12 marks for admissions from this year||With the Central government likely to hold a common entrance test for admissions to undergraduate courses at all the central universities, starting this upcoming session, officials at Delhi University (DU) said they are ready to adopt it immediately in combination with the class 12 score of aspirants.The other two central universities in Delhi, the Jawaharlal Nehru University and Jamia Millia Islamia, are yet to take a call regarding any change in their admission process.Last December, the Union ministry of education constituted a seven-member committee to recommend modalities for the Central University Common Entrance Test (CUCET) for admission to undergraduate courses across central universities in accordance with the National Education Policy (NEP), 2020. The same month, higher education secretary Amit Khare also said a common entrance test for admission to all central universities will be implemented in 2021.DU vice-chancellor (acting) PC Joshi, who is also a member of the committee, said, “The modalities of CUCET will soon be finalised and it’s highly likely that it will be implemented from the upcoming academic session itself. DU is also ready to adopt it from this year onwards. We have already sent our proposal to the UGC (University Grants Commission) stating that we want a combination of CUCET and class 12 scores of students for admission to undergraduate courses,” he said.Joshi said the CUCET will be conducted online and will have two components -- an aptitude test and a subject-specific test. “DU won’t have a major issue in implementing CUCET. The National Testing Agency (NTA), which will conduct the test, has already been holding entrance exams for some of the undergraduate courses in DU over the past few years. Besides, we are planning to combine the CUCET score with the class 12 marks of students because we cannot make the Boards (CBSE, state board etc) redundant. We are yet to decide the weightage of these two components,” he said.DU currently follows the merit-based admission process for admission to all undergraduate programmes excluding nine courses for which NTA conducts entrance exams every year.“We are waiting for a nod from the education ministry before making a formal announcement,” Joshi said.In Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), officials said CUCET won’t make much of a difference since the university offers only 10 undergraduate courses in foreign languages. JNU registrar Pramod Kumar said, “The NTA is already conducting entrance exams for admission to these courses. So, it won’t be a major issue for JNU to adopt it. However, we are yet to finalise anything in this regard.”Jamia Millia Islamia registrar Nazim Hussain Jafri said the university is working on the modalities. “It’s going to be mandatory for all central universities and we will also adopt it. But we are yet to finalise our proposal. It will only be sent to the ministry after consulting our academic and executive councils. The education ministry is also conducting a conference this weekend to guide universities about CUCET,” he said.Presently, Jamia conducts its own entrance tests and interviews for admission to all courses.Meanwhile, some members of DU’s statutory bodies, the academic council (AC) and the executive council (EC), also said the varsity should have consulted them before taking any decision regarding admissions.“As per the university norms, the administration cannot send any proposal to the UGC or the ministry without consulting the statutory bodies. That is completely illegal. If the university continues to give weightage to class 12 marks, that won’t serve the purpose. The long process of document verification will still be there,” said Naveen Gaur, DU academic council member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/du-ready-to-consider-combination-of-test-class-12-marks-for-ug-slots-101614195033127.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||Three men kill transgender in Mumbai||A 38-year-old transgender was killed in Malad by unidentified men on Wednesday evening. According to Bangur Nagar police, the victim, Suresh Pujari alias Surya, was the head of the transgender community in Malad. The incident took place at 4.30pm on Wednesday when Surya was passing by Roomaniya Hotel at Malad and some unidentified men approached and attacked him, said police.Surya attempted to fight the assailants but one of them picked up a knife and slit his neck. Locals gathered after hearing Surya scream for help, following which the accused fled spot.The passers-by took Surya to a hospital and alerted Bangur Nagar police. A resident of Prem Nagar in Goregoan (West), Surya was declared dead on arrival.The police registered a case of murder and are on the lookout for the accused. Police officers said Surya’s gold chain and wallet was untouched, hence they suspect that the motive behind the murder was enmity.“The murder seems premeditated as Surya’s daily activities were known to the killers. We are, at present, scanning CCTV footages of the area and are recording statements of the passers-by who have only been able to tell us that there were three men,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/three-men-kill-transgender-in-mumbai-101614195048336.html
25-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt schools to assess students up to class 8 on the basis of worksheets this year||The Delhi government on Wednesday directed all its schools to assess students enrolled from nursery to class 8 on the basis of assignments and worksheets sent to them in both online and offline modes during the Covid-19 pandemic. Irrespective of their assessment, the students enrolled up to class 8 will be promoted to the next class, in accordance with a no-detention policy.The directorate of education (DoE), however, has not issued any guidelines for the city’s private schools. “Private schools will follow their own criteria to assess the learning levels among students up to class 8,” said a senior government official, not wishing to be named.With schools remaining closed for these classes since last March and classes being held online, government schools -- where a majority of students do not have access to smart devices and the internet -- are dependent on worksheets or assignments. These worksheets contain both notes and questions. Students can either access them on their class’s WhatsApp group, or parents can pick up hard copies from schools.In a notification issued on Wednesday, the DoE said, “Since no classroom teaching-learning has taken place at the primary and middle-school level, the formal mode of pen and paper assessment is replaced by assessment based on subject wise assignments/projects in all government and government-aided schools.”“All currently enrolled students from nursery to class 8 shall be promoted to the next class in the academic session 2021-22. However, the purpose of the assessment is to understand the impact of alternate learning approaches that needed to be adopted under the prevailing circumstances this year. Further, the data of this assessment will also help the DoE in determining the course content and learning strategies for the next session,” the DoE notification said.Under the no-detention policy, no student can be failed up to class 8.As per the DoE notification, students from nursery to class 2 will be assessed on the basis of the assignments they were given during the winter break and the responses to online or offline worksheets shared with them during the pandemic.Similarly, the assessment of students enrolled in classes 3 to 8 will be done on the basis of assignments and worksheets submitted by them during the pandemic and winter break. Also, another round of worksheets/assignments will be sent to these students between March 1 and March 15. In case students have no digital devices, assignments/projects to such students will be allotted in hard copy by calling their parents to school,” the notification added.Several private schools said they will also assess students on the basis of internal assessments and will also be conducting online exams. Alka Kapur, principal of Modern Public School, Shalimar Bagh, said, “All students up to class 8 will be promoted to the next class in view of the no-detention policy. But we will assess their learning levels on the basis of their internal assessments and final exams that the school will conduct virtually.”Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School, said, “The exams of students up to class 8 are currently on in the online mode. The school will also be assessing them on the basis of their internal exams and assignments. Everyone will be promoted to the next class.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nodetention-policy-to-remain-in-delhi-govt-schools-101614194575643.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||At 1,167, Mumbai sees second highest Covid-19 cases in a day||The city on Wednesday recorded 1,167 new cases of Covid-19, crossing the 1,000 cases mark for the first time since November 28, 2020 when Mumbai had reported 1,063 cases in a single day. The highest number of Covid cases reported in a day so far was 1,354 on October 28, 2020. With Wednesday seeing the second-highest number of cases reported in a single day, Mumbai’s Covid tally has now reached 3,21,699. The city also recorded four deaths from Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the toll to 11,458, with a case fatality rate of 3.9%. The number of active cases is 6,900 on Wednesday, up from 6,119 on Tuesday. Active cases were at 5,466 and 5,986 on Sunday and Monday respectively. The recovery rate is 94%. On Tuesday, Mumbai conducted 21,113 tests for Covid-19. So far, 3,185,334 tests have been conducted since the beginning of the outbreak. Barring the occasional dip, there has been a noticeable rise in the number of reported cases with over 700 cases being reported on most days of the past week for the first time since December 2020. On Sunday, there were 921 new cases of Covid-19, followed by 761 new cases on Monday. Last Saturday, Mumbai saw 897 new Covid-19 cases, and on Friday 823 new cases were reported. There were a handful of days in November 2020 when Mumbai had recorded over 1,000 new Covid-19 cases, with the highest on November 28 at 1,147 cases. Since then, the daily tally had not crossed 1,000 till Wednesday. The doubling rate of Covid-19 in Mumbai has drastically reduced to 294 days, compared to last week when it was 393 days on Friday and 417 days on Thursday. Doubling rate is time needed for the present number of cases to double. The average growth rate of Covid-19 went up to 0.24% on Wednesday, compared to last week when it was 0.18% on Friday and 0.17% on Thursday. On Tuesday, during a review meeting with municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to ensure medical facilities in the city were prepared to deal with a spike in reported cases. BMC will audit intensive care units (ICUs) and hospital beds with oxygen and ventilator facilities. The CM also reviewed BMC’s efforts to curb cases in the city. As of Wednesday, Mumbai has 13,119 beds for symptomatic or serious cases of Covid-19; 1,554 ICU beds; 940 ventilator beds; and 8,013 beds with oxygen points. Last Thursday, Chahal had directed BMC to tighten containment zones by sealing buildings with more than five cases of Covid-19. He also directed BMC to crack down on those who do not wear mask and/ or violate home quarantine rules if they are high-risk contacts of Covid-positive patients. Chahal said the number of clean up marshals should be doubled from 2,400 to 4,800, and the target for the number of people fined daily for not wearing face masks was raised from 12,500 to 25,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-1-167-mumbai-sees-second-highest-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-101614194928910.html
25-02-2021||Other||Thane BJP raises objections as mayor gets Covid vaccine||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporators in Thane raised objection on Wednesday after Thane Mayor Naresh Mhaske and Shiv Sena MLA Ravindra Phatak got vaccinated last week. BJP corporator Manohar Dumbre claimed that elected representatives have not been given permission by the state government to get vaccinated yet and the immunisation process has only been granted for healthcare and frontline workers across the state. However, Mhaske said, “We have followed proper procedure before getting vaccinated. All corporators and political leaders have been on the field even when the pandemic was at the peak. We shall continue to do so and help the citizens, and to do that, it is important that we be considered as frontline workers and get immunised. Moreover, we have done this after releasing a notice to all corporators within the civic body a month ago; many have registered on the CoWIN app. We have followed all protocols and taken the jab. We also want more frontline workers to come forward and get immunised. Through us, there will be more awareness in the society about the vaccination.” Dumbre said, “In the history of this city, there would not have been a mayor like Mhaske who has broken all rules and gotten himself and others from his party vaccinated by abusing his power. He not only got himself vaccinated but also conducted a photo session afterwards.” Thane civic officials were unavailable for comment on the issue and to explain the protocol related to vaccination. Mhaske said, “Dumbre was also one of those who got themselves registered for the vaccine. Despite registering, why is he pointing fingers at us who have gone through the same process to get immunised?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-bjp-raises-objections-as-mayor-gets-covid-vaccine-101614194688591.html
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||Sardool Sikander (1961-2021): ‘Roadways Di Laari’ comes to a grinding halt||Noted Punjabi singer and actor Sardool Sikander died on Wednesday at a Mohali hospital where was undergoing treatment for Covid-19. He was 60.Sikander, who had undergone a renal transplant in 2016, passed away at 11.55 am, sources at Fortis Hospital said. In a statement, the hospital later said Sikander was admitted on January 19 in “a very serious condition with complaints of low oxygen levels”.“Mr Sikander, who was diabetic, was recently treated for Covid-19. He had undergone renal transplant in 2016 and percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in 2003,” the statement said.“In spite of the best efforts of doctors and other caregivers at Fortis Mohali, his condition improved only marginally over the next 3-4 weeks. Due to his severely compromised state of health, his condition deteriorated again and had to be put on life support. Unfortunately, the patient breathed his last with his family at the bedside,” it further said.Sikander, regarded an icon in the Punjabi music industry, is survived by his singer-wife Amar Noorie, and music composer sons Sarang and Alaap Sikander. The untimely death of the singer led to condolences from various quarters, including fellow musicians, actors and politicians. The Punjab cabinet also condoled Sikander’s demise, with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh announcing that his government will clear the singer’s hospital dues of ₹10 lakh. Amarinder announced the decision after cabinet minister Charanjit Singh Channi informed him that the deceased’s family had no money to pay the bills, a Punjab government statement said.In a condolence resolution, the cabinet noted that with the demise of the legendary singer, the nation had lost one of its best-known Punjabi singers and the void left behind by him will be impossible to fill.Earlier, Amarinder took to Twitter and described him as a legendary singer and said he was “extremely saddened”.“He was recently diagnosed with #Covid19 and was undergoing treatment for the same. The world of Punjabi music is poorer today. My heartfelt condolences to his family and fans,” he said on Twitter. Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal also expressed his shock. “Saddened to learn about the demise of legendary Punjabi playback singer Sardool Sikander. A huge loss to Punjabi movie & music industry. Prayers for his family, friends & fans. May his soul rest in peace!” Sukhbir said in a tweet.Sikander, who acted in several Punjabi films, including “Jagga Daku”, initially came into the limelight with appearances on radio and TV during the early 1980s.His album ‘Roadways di Laari’ was an instant hit.Born at Kheri Naudh Singh in Fatehgarh Sahib in Punjab, Sikander belonged to the Patiala Gharana of music and his album “Husna de Malko” in 1991 sold over five million copies.He had several hit songs to his credit. These included “Sanu ishq brandi char gayi” and “Ek charkha gali de wich dha laya”. He also sang the track “Mari Koyal Ne Aisi Cook” in the 2003 Bollywood film “The Hero: Love Story of a Spy”.Punjabi singer Gurdas Maan remembered the singer as a melodious voice, life of the party and a friend like no other.Bollywood actor Ayushmann Khurrana shared Mann’s post on his Instagram story and wrote “Rest in Peace Sardool sahab.” Singer-composer Daler Mehendi said Sikander’s death was a “big loss to our family and music industry”.Actor-singer Diljit Dosanjh called the late singer the “pride of Punjabi music”.According to Bollywood music composer Vishal Dadlani, Sikander’s loss is “far too personal”. “A true pioneer, he was the soul of humility & a wellspring of music. My condolences to the family, esp. to my brothers @AlaapSikander & @SarangSikander1,” Dadlani said.Actor-comedian Kapil Sharma said Sikander had such a powerful voice that even a layman would sound melodious while singing his songs. Sharma said he was fortunate that Sikander visited his residence on the occasion of his daughter’s first Lohri. “All of us were happy, but we didn’t know it would be our last meeting. You’ll be missed a lot paaji. May God keep you close,” he added.List rites to be performed todayThe mortal remains of the Punjab singer were brought to his house in Bulepur as people from all walks of life, especially from the world of music and Punjabi cinema, kept converging at the house to pay their last respects. Sardool Sikander last rites will be performed at his native village in Kheri Naudh Singh in district Fatehgarh sahib on Thursday afternoon.Prominent among those who visited the house were singer and politician Mohd Sadique, Master Saleem, Daljit Kaur and Lehmber Hussainpuri.The family had recently shifted to a new house at Bulepur Road in Khanna.The couple, Sikander and his wife Amar Noori were last spotted together while attending a wedding in Khanna a few months ago. On January 30, the couple had celebrated their 28th wedding anniversary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sardool-sikander-1961-2021-roadways-di-laari-comes-to-a-grinding-halt-101614194628380.html
25-02-2021||Other||₹2-crore sand boa seized in Navi Mumbai, 1 held||A 40-year-old man from Bhiwandi was arrested by the police when he came to sell a sand boa snake at Kharghar on Tuesday. Police officers have seized the sand boa worth ₹2 crore from his possession. Santrunghna Mali, senior inspector from Kharghar police station, said, “We received information that a man had entered our area with a snake and was trying to sell it for ₹25 crore, saying that people get wealthy if they keep such snake at home. Our team immediately reached the spot and nabbed the suspect before he could flee. While checking his bag, they found the snake and arrested him.” The accused has been identified as Kishore Govind Patil, a mechanic by profession. “The accused said he was planning to start a hotel of his own by selling the snake. However, it is still not clear from where he got the snake. We are also trying to find out if he had sold such snakes in Navi Mumbai in the past,” Mali said. The police booked Patil under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Wildlife Protection Act. He was produced before the judicial court on Wednesday and has been remanded in police custody till March 1. 25 snakes abandoned Unidentified poachers abandoned 25 snakes including cobras and common sand boas behind a dhaba at Nandgaon on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway on Wednesday. Two cobras survived while two others died and the remaining snakes are yet to be found. Ganesh Dhangde, an animal activist from Manor, found the snakes and alerted the range forest officer A case has been registered.With inputs from Ram Parmar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2crore-sand-boa-seized-in-navi-mumbai-1-held-101614194508879.html
25-02-2021||Delhi||What women want: A safe retail experience while purchasing alcohol in Delhi||When Sanchi Sharma left her home to pick up some alcohol in outer Delhi’s Rohini last month, she could not have imagined the nightmare that was to follow. A 26-year old public relations professional, Sharma was hosting a house party in the front garden of her ground-floor home later that evening, and needed to make a quick beer run.The local government liquor shop was about three kilometres away, and she asked a friend to accompany her in the car because the store was located in a dingy, unlit lane, and daylight was fading. When they reached the Sector 10 store, they parked a little distance away and walked to the store, but found it packed with only men.“Despite the fact that the queue was very long and only had men, the shopkeeper saw us approaching and was kind enough to give our order first, out of turn,” she said.But as soon as they left the shop, two men left the queue and started following them on foot. “Scared, my friend pretended to be on a call with one of our male friends and kept talking, indicating that we are with some male friends who are waiting for us. Only after that did the men stop following us. We then ran towards our car and zoomed out of the area,” Sharma said.Across Delhi, women say they feel unsafe and uncomfortable while trying to purchase alcohol from vends located in grimy neighbourhoods packed with louts and drunk men. In many of these stores, groups of men jostle in front of window grilles, trying to shove each other out of the way to grab a bottle, making it difficult for women customers. In addition, pervasive stigma around women drinking alcohol and judgment from store staff strip any dignity from the experience of purchasing liquor.“The areas around liquor shops need to be more inclusive. At present, a usual Delhi liquor vend is invariably crowded where people have to push their way through a large group of men. I do not know why most of these shops are allotted in dingy deserted corners and in obscure locations, whereas it should be just the opposite. Liquor shops should be in well-lit market areas where there are several other economic and leisure activities happening,” said Kalpana Viswanath, co-founder and CEO of Safetipin, an enterprise using data and technology to help make cities saferA study done in 2019 by research firms Kantar and NFX digital found many of Delhi’s liquor shops were in a run-down condition and attracted an overwhelmingly male clientele. In addition, many shops were inaccessible by car, or had groups of men who shouted, jeered or laughed at women, making it tough for female customers to buy liquor in a safe and dignified way. “Women feel uncomfortable and unsafe purchasing alcohol from such outlets,” the study concluded.Garima Sud, a Jangpura-based blogger, agreed. The 33-year-old said she faced a dilemma of “morality” each time she stepped into the local liquor store. She first went to the store five years ago but even now, she had to remind herself that she was doing nothing wrong.“The whole environment near a liquor shop is so masculine that women start doubting if they have come to a place they aren’t supposed to be in….a female customer has exactly the same right to go to a liquor shop and buy items of her choice as her male counterpart in India. But, this dilemma that we are quietly made to confront is a violation of our right to freedom and free movement,” she said.Sud felt the discomfort was a product of the taboo surrounding women drinking alcohol, and a creation of social, cultural and government influences that required broad efforts to change. She pointed to photos and videos from May 4, 2020 when the government allowed liquor shops to open: Snaking queues of almost exclusively male customers lined up outside.Experts said the situation was similar at a majority of Delhi’s 720 liquor vends, of which 460 are government-run.For a while in between, however, things had become better. Beer and wine, if not hard liquor, was available at local grocery shops that could obtain special L- 12 or 12F licences,and could be bought along with your weekly household edibles, making it a comfortable and dignified purchase.But the administration’s 2019 decision to stop department stores from stocking beer and wine -- the government said many stores were violating licence norms -- particularly hurt women customers who are forced to go to shabby shops.Official data shows that at least 18 assembly constituencies have less than five vends, increasing crowding and making it especially tough for women to access quality liquor in a safe manner.Ankita Kumar, who works with an event management company and moved from Mumbai to Delhi two years ago, said a big drawback in Delhi was the absence of home delivery of liquor.“In Mumbai, alcohol is home-delivered and the delivery persons even bring POS machines along with them for payment through cards. One call and your order - be it one bottle or a bulk order - its delivered in 30 minutes maximum. But, in Delhi one always has to physically go to a shop and purchase alcohol,” said Kumar.According to Prince Singhal, founder of non-government organisation Community Against Drunken Driving (CADD), current trends indicate more women are drinking and unlike earlier, they are no longer dependent on male company to consume or procure liquor. “In Delhi, 40% of men and 20% of women (almost 1.5 million women) are alcohol consumers. The women’s alcohol market is expected to grow by 25% over the next five years. Also, weekend outings and mid-week celebration are enticing now due to discounts and offers,” he said.A survey by CADD in 2019 found 43.7% women between 18 and 30 consumed alcohol out of habit or desire to do so. The survey, which involved 5,000 female respondents in the city, also said 41.7% women between 31 and 45 consumed alcohol as an occupational requirement or because of social norms.The problem faced by women customers pushed Madhulika Bhattacharya Dhall to try and improve the alcohol purchasing experience. In 2015, she opened La Cave in south Delhi.“One of the primary reasons La Cave Delhi happened was because I always saw my friends either sending their driver or peon to buy liquor. They would never go to a liquor store because of the whole experience. Even a good bottle of wine is wrapped in a brown paper and lots of other layers, as if it is anything forbidden to buy. It’s the same thing we experienced with purchasing sanitary napkins until a few years ago,” Dhall said.“Nearly six years after opening La Cave, about 70% of my clientele is women,” she added.A dignified retail experience needn’t only be high-end, though. Dhall suggested even stand alone liquor shops could use better-lit interiors, train staff, and place merchandise in a way so that women customers don’t feel intimidated or uncomfortable.Liquor retailer Rohit Arora took a different approach. In 2015, he opened a separate section for women in his shop in east Delhi. “We have a woman salesperson to guide our customers. In that female-only section of our store, either only single women or couples are allowed. No male person is allowed to enter the space alone. The response has been pretty good,” he said.A Delhi government spokesperson said the issue of better retail experience for women was raised by a government-appointed expert committee. “The group of ministers formed to finalise the revised Delhi excise policy is closely examining all the suggestions that have come in. The Delhi government will ensure that retail experience of liquor is made more people friendly,” said the spokesperson.But the excise policy, reviewed by HT, doesn’t have any explicit provisions to improve the dignity of purchase, especially for women. It suggests increasing the number of vends, and better distributing them to avoid overcrowding. But, as experts point out, more focused efforts are needed to help Delhi’s women feel safe and comfortable while purchasing a drink.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/what-women-want-a-safe-retail-experience-101614194220928.html
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||Mehraj rally: Delhi Police made no effort to arrest Lakha, says Punjab Police||Chandigarh A day after Republic Day violence fugitive and gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana addressed a gathering in Mehraj village of Bathinda and disappeared, Punjab Police claims that there is no official communication from the Delhi Police about his ‘wanted’ status. “Till date, the Bathinda police neither have any official (written or verbal) communication from the Delhi Police regarding Lakha being wanted in the Republic Day violence case nor that there is a reward of ₹1 lakh for information leading to his arrest. How could we arrest him at a rally attended by hundreds of his supporters,” a top Punjab Police functionary said. Another senior police officer, who was personally monitoring the situation, said Delhi Police also follows Punjab Police rules and there is Form 12 which, as a rule, is shared with the police of the state a wanted person belongs to or is hiding, but that didn’t happen in this case. Form 12 has information about the fugitive concerned, he said. “But no such communication has been made so far with the Bathinda police by any of the police stations of the national capital,” a senior police functionary privy with the developments said. Lakha, 45, belongs to Sidhana village of Rampura-Phull sub-division in Bathinda district. Another senior Punjab Police official added that Bathinda police had no information regarding the presence of Delhi Police officials in the district to nab Lakha and there was no question of Punjab Police could have detained or arrested him on their own. “To arrest a person wanted in other states, a set-procedure is followed where the team of the state police where the case is registered comes with the arrest warrants or the case files. Delhi Police team was not in Bathinda and no such effort was made on their part on Tuesday to nab Lakha,” the police functionary said. Notably, Lakha on February 21, had also posted a live video on Facebook announcing to address a rally in Mehraaj village of Bathinda. At the rally on Tuesday, Lakha dared the Delhi Police to arrest him and also warned chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to not let Punjab Police assist Delhi Police in nabbing those accused of R-Day violence. Punjab Police also clarified that since the case against Lakha has been registered in the national capital and the gangster-turned-activist is not wanted in any case in Punjab, only Delhi Police have to take initiative to arrest him. Other accused in the Republic Day violence case were arrested as per the due procedure, the officer said. The Punjab government, meanwhile, has raised doubts over the sincerity of the Delhi Police in nabbing Lakha. “As Mehraj rally was mainly organised by the Sikh radicals, delay in Lakha’s arrest could be part of the strategy to expose hardliners’ support to farmer agitations,” said a senior Congress MLA. As per intelligence officials, around 10,000 persons attended the rally that included Lakha’s aides in Rajasthan where he had been active as a gangster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mehraj-rally-delhi-police-made-no-effort-to-arrest-lakha-says-punjab-police-101614194449496.html
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||Wives sent abroad for spouse visa disown Punjabi grooms back home||In the craze of settling abroad and earning in foreign currency, young Punjabi grooms are ending up being cheated and abandoned by their wives on whom they spent lakhs of rupees to send abroad on study visa, in the hope of getting a spouse visa later.Around 30 such men have now approached an NGO named ‘Abbnhi Welfare Society’ in the district, and also the police, to seek help in suspending passports of their wives. Some of them have managed to get FIRs registered against them.These men sponsored expensive education of their wives, who had scored the required band on The International English Language Testing System (IELTS) and also had the profile to match their desired country’s specification. The men, or their families, also paid a hefty fee on procuring a study visa for the women. The men’s wait for a spouse visa, however, has stretched indefinitely. Their wives have not contacted them since leaving, in some cases for over a couple of years.Satwinder Kaur, who runs the NGO, said usually women approached them as victims and just a week ago, they have started helping grooms. “These grooms had spent between ₹17 lakh and ₹35 lakh on study, visa filing process and other expenditure for their wives. They have lost the money and the visa is unlikely,” she added.Harwinder Singh, 21, of Ferozepur, said, “I got married to a Ludhiana-based girl on January 15, 2018. I had spent at least ₹35 lakh on her admission in Canada and other expenditure. Later, she started fighting and arguing with me on minor issues. In July 2019, I heard that my wife is staying with another person in a live-in relationship in Brampton. I lodged a complaint against her and a case of cheating was registered at the Ghall Khurad police station on February 3, 2020.”Ghall Khurd police station SHO Judgepal Singu said: “The victim’s wife is living in Canada and we cannot take action against her here. But we have filed a chargesheet against her in the local court.”Jaswinder Singh, 27, of Barnala, said in his complaint, “When I did not find any government job here, despite being masters in political science and holding a B.Pharmacy degree, I decided to go to Canada. I married a Moga-based girl with 6.5 band in IELTS in 2019. I spent ₹18 lakh on sending her to Canada on a study visa. After reaching Montreal, she stopped contacting me. I have lodged a complaint against her with the district police.”Jaswinder said even before approaching the NGO, he met other victims so as to bring them on common platform to get justice. Kripa Shankar Saroj, additional chief secretary, NRI affairs, said, “In most incidents, women get cheated by their NRI husbands. There is no specific policy for grooms who have been cheated by their wives. All such grooms who have been cheated can contact the department or me. We will help them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wives-sent-abroad-for-spouse-visa-disown-punjabi-grooms-back-home-101614194328709.html
25-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt notifies modalities of doorstep delivery of ration, cardholders may opt in or out every fiscal||The Delhi government has notified the policy document that prescribes the modalities of the doorstep delivery of ration scheme, meant for the 1.75 million ration cardholders in the national capital.According to the notification document, the scheme will be optional, and beneficiaries of the existing TPDS (targeted public distribution system) may choose to enroll for the scheme or continue under the existing TPDS. Those who are not opting for the scheme shall continue to get their ration as per the existing mechanism and price.“Beneficiaries will be able to exercise the option in the beginning of every financial year,” the document, notified on February 20, said.On January 25, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said the scheme will be operational by March.A senior government official, on condition of anonymity, said, “For the full implementation of the scheme, some more documents concerning modalities of processing charges, additional fee, etc., will have to be notified.”The scheme document elaborated the entire process and said foodgrains will be collected from the food corporation godowns by agencies empanelled by the government and sent to mills where wheat will be processed into flour and packed. Similarly, there will be units for cleaning and packing of rice as well. The packets will be delivered to fair price shops and from there, they will be further delivered to residences of beneficiaries who opt for the scheme.The beneficiaries will have to register the receipt of the ration with their fingerprints on the biometric-based electronic point-of-sale (e-POS) machines, which the agencies entrusted with doorstep delivery will carry. The entire operation -- from the godown to the doorstep --- will be monitored via CCTV cameras, GPS-fitted vehicles, e-POS logs, etc, said the document.Delhi has 1.75 million ration cardholders, which translates to 7.16 million beneficiaries. Of the total ration cardholders, 1.51 million are covered under the priority household category of the National Food Security Act, 2013, while 0.17 million are covered under the priority state household category, and the remaining 0.07 million come under the Antyodaya Anna Yojana, show government records.While those under the first two categories are entitled to 5 kilos of foodgrain a month, those under the third category are entitled to 25 kilos of wheat, 10 kilos of rice and a kilo of sugar every month. These items are distributed to them through 2,010 fair price shops that are currently functional across the city.The doorstep ration scheme was cleared by the Delhi cabinet in March 2018 but could not be rolled out because of legal and administrative issues. In July 2020, the cabinet gave fresh approval to the project.Shailendra Kumar, president of Delhi public distribution system welfare association, said, “In other states, provision for doorstep delivery is limited to elderly beneficiaries, people with disabilities and other vulnerable groups. The Delhi model will force fair price shops out of business and that will lead to unemployment. The government should be more considerate in this regard.”Saurabh Garg, secretary of the Delhi-based Sarkari Ration Dealer Sangh, echoed similar concerns: “By binding a beneficiary for one full financial year, it also deprives the person of the option to discontinue after a few months. What if beneficiaries have to go to villages and collect the ration there under the central government’s one nation one ration card policy?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-notifies-rules-for-doorstep-ration-delivery-101614193876369.html
25-02-2021||Delhi||Okay with reopening Nizamuddin Markaz for religious purposes, Delhi govt tells HC||The Delhi government on Wednesday told the Delhi high court that it is agreeable to reopening the Nizamuddin Markaz premises for religious purposes, after a plea was filed by the Delhi Waqf Board to open the building, which was kept “out of bounds” since March 31, 2020, after several people who attended a Tablighi Jamaat congregation there contracted the Covid-19.Advocate Rahul Mehra, standing counsel for the Delhi government, told Justice Mukta Gupta that many of the foreigners who had attended the congregation in alleged violation of social distancing last year have either been acquitted or have been discharged.He said the trials of the remaining people might take time and the court may pass appropriate orders to resume religious activities on the premises since all places of worship were allowed to reopen last June itself.The submissions were made on the plea by the Delhi Waqf Board, through advocate Wajeeh Shafiq, who had sought that the entire premises, including the masjid, madrassa and hostel, be allowed to be opened.The petitioner said the police can make necessary arrangements to take photographs, prepare sketches, among others, to collect any evidence for the criminal case registered in the alleged violation of social distancing norms at the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz.On Wednesday, the Centre, represented by solicitor general Tushar Mehta, said the Union should be made a party to the petition. This was not opposed by senior advocate Ramesh Gupta, appearing for Waqf Board.The court sought the response of the Centre, Delhi government and the city police after the petitioner said it had given a representation to the authorities on February 16 but no action was taken on it yet.The matter would be now heard on March 5.On March 31, the Delhi Police lodged an FIR against several persons, including the cleric and foreign delegates, on a complaint by station house officer of Nizamuddin police station for holding a congregation of Tablighi Jamaat followers in alleged violation of social distancing norms put in place to contain the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/markaz-may-now-reopen-delhi-govt-informs-high-court-101614193224239.html
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||PEC not to lower grades for poor attendance till July 31||Punjab Engineering College (PEC) has waived attendance-based lowering of grades for all students till July 31. Attendance of 75% is mandatory at PEC and students who don’t meet the requirement are penalised. During the last meeting of the PEC senate, it was proposed, “Keeping in mind the Covid situation and government’s instructions to not force students to attend the classes, it is proposed that the rule regarding lowering of grades based on attendance may be waived for all the students, till July 31 , 2021.”PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi, said, “The institution will waive attendance requirement for students till online classes are being conducted and the situation does not normalise.”Lowering of grades based on attendance for PEC students was also waived last year. There are over 3,000 students enrolled in undergraduate and postgraduate courses at the institute.Conduct survey to estimate demand for data science course: SurveyAs the institution is planning to offer a course in data science, which is proposed to start from the 2020-21 session, the senate members were of the view that a detailed proposal is required for this programme, which may be prepared after taking feedback from stakeholders and industry. It has also been suggested that a survey be conducted to estimate demand for the programme.The PEC senate has also recommended professors Siby John and Uma Batra as new members of the board of governors (BOG) of the institution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pec-not-to-lower-grades-for-poor-attendance-till-july-31-101614193309916.html
25-02-2021||Delhi||Man shoots himself dead at Defence Colony home||An 81-year-old man allegedly shot himself dead with his licensed pistol at his home in south Delhi’s Defence Colony on Wednesday morning, the police said. The octogenarian, a former diplomat, left behind a one-page note in which he expressed his unhappiness over age-related health issues and wrote that he did not want to live, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said the police received a call at 7.25am that a person had shot himself at his house in Defence Colony and needed an ambulance. A police team immediately reached the house and rushed the injured man to a nearby hospital, where he died during treatment.“The elderly man had some health issues for which he underwent treatment at a private hospital for nearly a month. He returned home after being discharged from the hospital on Tuesday evening. He left behind a suicide note,” said DCP Thakur.According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, 2,526 people killed themselves in Delhi in 2019 and of them, 825 ended their lives because of family problems. A total of 130 suicides were due to mental health issues, critical and prolonged illness, etc.“Loneliness, health issues, lack of support system and financial crisis are some major reasons behind suicides. Instead of talking about these reasons, we should focus on the need for a support system comprising family members, friends, relatives, neighbours, residents’ welfare associations (RWAs), and others. Such a support system will play a major role in preventing such deaths,” said psychiatrist Samir Parikh, who is the director of Fortis National Mental Health Programme.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialists. Helplines: Fortis Stress Helpline: 8376804102, Sumaitri: 01123389090, Snehi: 01165978181, Sanjeevani: 01124311918/01124318883.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-shoots-himself-dead-at-defence-colony-home-101614192973085.html
25-02-2021||Delhi||Travellers from 5 states may need Covid -ve reports to enter Delhi from Saturday||People arriving in Delhi from five states that have reported a surge in daily Covid-19 infections may be asked to provide a negative RT-PCR test reports from Saturday, senior government officials privy to developments said.The issue was taken up in a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting on Monday in the wake of steady rise in cases in Maharashtra, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Chhattisgarh, and greater curbs and checks were discussed, the people cited above added.An official order, however, was not issued till Wednesday night.“Any passenger arriving in Delhi via private or state-run buses, flights or trains may have to show a negative RT-PCR test report on their arrival in the Capital. The test report will have to be conducted not before 72 hours from the time of the person’s arrival in Delhi,” a government official said, asking not to named.It was discussed that the directions may come into force “after midnight on February 26 and stay in operation till March 15”, the official added.Airport and railway officials on Wednesday said they were yet to be informed about any such rule.Like all the Covid-19 hit states, Delhi too had travel restrictions in place. While domestic flight operations resumed in Delhi from May 25 after the nation-wide lockdown was announced on March 25, the Delhi government resumed its inter-state bus operations as late as November 3, 2020. For international flights, all passengers from the UK, Brazil, South Africa, all European countries and the Middle East arriving at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport compulsorily have to undergo an RT-PCR test. However, they need not mandatorily undergo institutional quarantine. As per the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) given by the ministry of health and family welfare dated February 17, passengers from these high-risk countries can get their tests done at the airport before proceeding for home quarantine. Transit passengers will, however, have to wait for six hours until their reports are out.Meanwhile, some of these affected states have themselves announced restrictions that amount to at least a partial lockdown in an attempt to curb the surge, even as the Centre rushes teams there to deal with a sudden spike in infections.The lockdowns and the restrictions of travellers hark back to the first half of 2020 when most states put stringent measures in place amid the first Covid wave. With cases beginning to decline from October, most states relaxed these. Now, with a second wave threatening to break out, many are reimposing them.On Monday, the Maharashtra government announced a complete lockdown in Amravati district and restrictions on assembly of people in Akola, Washim, Buldhana and Yavatmal districts. Earlier this week, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has imposed restrictions on marriages, public functions and gathering at public places across Mumbai.Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Uttarakhand have made negative RT-PCR tests mandatory for travellers from Maharashtra. Maharashtra, meanwhile, requires travellers from Gujarat, Delhi-NCR, Goa, Rajasthan and Kerala to show negative RT-PCR tests.Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said the city administration must regulate or closely check passengers coming from states where Covid-19 cases are on the rise again.“It is especially important now because of the multiple new variants of the virus that are now emerging. Most of the new strains spread rapidly even as they may not be as severe in terms of the infection caused to the body. But some form of regulation of incoming passengers is required. On Wednesday itself, Delhi’s active cases spiked by at least 80, which could well be the start of a new gradual spike if precautions are not taken in time,” he said.A Delhi government spokesperson said the decision was taken by the DDMA and an order not he same is awaited by the authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/travellers-from-5-states-may-need-covid-ve-reports-to-enter-delhi-from-saturday-101614192666220.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||A decade on, Bombay HC grants ₹6.32 lakh compensation to family of custodial torture victim||A decade after an 18-year-old from Hingoli district died due to police brutality, Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the state government to pay a compensation of ₹6.32 lakh to the wife and parents of the deceased.The bench of justice TV Nalawade and justice MG Sewlikar held that the deceased, Begya Pawar, died due to injuries sustained by him while in custody of Risod police in Washim district, and therefore his family was entitled to compensation.The bench took ₹4,000 as notional monthly income of the deceased and accordingly fixed the amount of compensation that his family was entitled to at ₹6.32 lakh. The bench has directed the state government to deposit the amount with the court in six months with liberty to the government to recover the amount from the erring police personnel after fixing their liability.On May 9, 2011, a team of eight police personnel led by inspector Madhav Dhande attached to Risod police station had picked up the deceased from his house and also apprehended Raju Pawar from his field. They were apprehended on the suspicion of preparing for a dacoity.Next morning, Pawar was found dead in police custody. The post-mortem report exposed brutal police torture, revealing that the deceased had sustained 44 injuries, including several fractures. It further stated that he died due to shock and haemorrhage owing to multiple contusions and multiple fractures.Following a complaint lodged by the father of the decreased, a case was registered against nine policemen. The then deputy superintendent of police investigated the case and came to a conclusion that Pawar died due to police brutalities.In this backdrop, wife and parents of the deceased had moved HC seeking compensation of ₹25 lakh for loss of their dear one.On Tuesday, HC partially allowed their petition and held that they were entitled to compensation if ₹6.32 lakh.“The factual matrix clearly indicates that the action of respondents No. 5 to 13 was in clear violation of Article 21 of the Constitution of India, which provides that no person shall be deprived of his life and personal liberty without due process of law” said HC. The bench added that in the case at hand, Pawar was arrested in blatant violation of Constitutional provisions. “Therefore, his fundamental right to life and personal liberty was taken away without due process of law. The subsequent event shows that B summary was filed (to close the dacoity case against the deceased) and it was sanctioned by the magistrate having jurisdiction. This clearly shows that the petitioners are entitled to compensation,” the bench added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/a-decade-on-bombay-hc-grants-6-32-lakh-compensation-to-family-of-custodial-torture-victim-101614192889612.html
25-02-2021||Other||IIT Mandi incubation hub giving push to startups: Jai Ram||IIT Mandi Catalyst, a technology business incubator, is providing a great push to startup businesses, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said during the 12th Foundation Day function of the premier institute at its campus in Kamand, Mandi, on Wednesday.He said the incubator has received more than 1,000 applications and is already supporting 140 startups by providing funding of ₹3.50 crore for clean energy, environment, healthcare, agriculture, enterprise management, biotechnology, education and manufacturing etc.The CM said that since its inception, IIT Mandi has made unprecedented development while its alumni have excelled in their respective fields.Thakur said the state government was committed to strengthen the institute in every way possible.He said that having research projects worth more than ₹100 crore was an outstanding achievement by the institute.“It is heartening to know that IIT Mandi was coordinating with premier institutions and universities across the world under its International Academic Extension Programme. So far, over 50 students have participated in the programme in various universities of the world,” he said.Apart from this, Thakur said the Tehri Kamand road would be improved and upgraded to benefit the students and faculty members of the IIT.The CM also inaugurated “Technology Innovation Hub” developed with an investment of ₹110 crore. He released a book “Scaling the Heights: An Institutional Biography” on the occasion as well.He distributed faculty, staff and students awards during the event.MoU signed for landslide monitoring An MoU was also signed between the district administration and the IIT in the CM’s presence for development and deployment of a landslide monitoring system in Mandi.Mandi MP Ram Swaroop Sharma said it was a matter of pride that the IIT had made a special name by undertaking research in various fields.IIT Mandi director Prof Ajit Kumar Chaturvedi listed various achievements of the students and faculty of the institutions on the occasion. He said the startup scheme of the state government has given a huge boost to the incubation plans of the institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iit-mandi-incubation-hub-giving-push-to-startups-jai-ram-101614192828220.html
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to begin road repairs in March||Even though the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) is ready to start the repair works of city roads, the bumpy ride is unlikely to get better this financial year. With the rise in temperature, the civic body will start the recarpeting of roads in the first week of March and might take at least three months before completing the work pending for the last two years.While MC is yet to even take up the road works for this year (2020-2021), it will attempt to complete the pending recarpeting for the previous year (2019-2020) when it starts the work next month. Dedicated funds released by the UT administration for the purpose are still to be fully utilised by the MC.MC chief engineer Shailender Singh said, “We will start the road recarpeting and repair works from the first week of March.”The MC engineering department has prepared a list of roads, which are to be carpeted, but is yet to sort them priority-wise. “The MC engineering department, along with contractors, are finalising the sector-wise priority plan. Contracts have already been given, and the work will be started as per this plan,” the chief engineer said.Residents rue bumpy ridesFor more than two years now, the condition of roads under the MC jurisdiction has been consistently deteriorating. While residents continued to suffer because of the poor road quality, civic body officials resorted to blame game, be it fund crunch, Covid-19 lockdown, or adverse season.Jagpal Singh, Sector-35 RWA president and FOSWAC adviser, said, “It has been nearly eight years since the roads in the entire sector were recarpeted. They started the work last year on two roads here, but stopped it abruptly. It was mostly just a patchwork. Then the quality was so poor that the roads have started deteriorating.”SK Khosla, general secretary, welfare association, MIG-I houses, Sector 40, said, “The condition of roads in our sector is one of the worst in the city. Most of the roads are in bad shape. Even those which were recarpeted only a few months back, like the V-5 road, are again in the need of repair.”Residents also wonder why MC is slow in starting the road repair works. “Even though weather has become conducive, the civic body is still sitting idle. MC officials say that condition of all city roads would be improved by June this year, but with this pace it is unlikely to happen,” Khosla added.Uncertainty over funds in coming financial yearIn the coming financial year too, problems with road maintenance similar to those in the past few years, are likely to be experienced.Even though the civic body has planned road works worth around ₹80 crore for financial year 2021-2022, it is not clear as to how it would fund these works. MC will start the financial year with a deficit of ₹670 crore with not enough funds to even meet its routine expenses like salaries. The revenue expenditure for the coming financial year at ₹1,197 crore is more than the total funds ( ₹971 crore), which the MC estimates to get.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-to-begin-road-repairs-in-march-101614192768264.html
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||Two private hospitals roped in for next vaccination phase in Chandigarh||Two private hospitals in Chandigarh have been roped in to administer the Covid-19 vaccine in the next phase that kicks off on March 1.“Healing Hospital in Sector 34 and Landmark Hospital in Sector 33 have been named in the list of private centres shared by the central government with us on Wednesday evening. We will contact the two hospitals on Thursday,” said UT health director Dr Amandeep Kang.The Centre on Wednesday announced the second phase of vaccination for people above the age of 60 and those aged above 45 and having comorbidities. They can get the vaccine shot at both government and private institutes.The first phase, which kicked off on January 16, covered health and other frontline workers, who were vaccinated only at government hospitals in Chandigarh. However, in neighbouring cities of Mohali and Panchkula, private hospitals had also been roped in.While the vaccine will continue to be free at government hospitals, private ones will charge an amount that will be announced by the health ministry. Meanwhile, the UT health department is preparing to increase the city’s inoculation capacity, even though further guidelines regarding registration of beneficiaries and other modalities are awaited. The present daily capacity stands at around 7,000 at six government health institutes. “We have been told that the government is working on the online portal for the next phase. We are awaiting detailed directions,” said Dr Kang. “More vaccination sites will be set up at health and wellness centres. Community centres might also be put to use. We are in the process of identifying such places, but more than the capacity, it is the response of residents that matters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-private-hospitals-roped-in-for-next-vaccination-phase-in-chandigarh-101614192708183.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||Sitaram Kunte, Praveen Pardeshi top contenders for the post of Maharashtra chief secretary||Additional chief secretary (home) Sitaram Kunte and Praveen Pardeshi are believed to be the top contender for the post of chief secretary (CS) of the state government, after the retirement of the incumbent Sanjay Kumar on February 28.Kunte was in the zone of consideration when Sanjay Kumar was appointed as CS in June last year.Kunte was believed to be the top contender for the post after his batchmate Praveen Pardeshi, took up responsibility as a global program coordinator at the United Nations Institute of Training and Research (UNITR) in Geneva, Switzerland in August last year. However, Pardeshi joined the state services recently. This would lead to the close fight between both the 1985 batch of the Indian Administration Service (IAS) officers.If appointed as chief secretary, Kunte or Pardeshi will get nine months in office before retirement on November 30, 2021.“Contrary to the precedent which has been established over the last few years, the incumbent CS will not be given an extension. He has not asked for an extension and did not move into the official bungalow of the CS opposite Mantralaya after taking charge. Kumar is vying for the post of chairman of the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission, which fell vacant due to the retirement of Anand Kulkarni,” said an official from Mantralaya.A senior official from the chief minister’s office said that one of the ruling parties is in favour of appointment of Pardeshi as the next CS. Pardeshi was allegedly unhappy after he was shunted from his post as Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner in May last year. He opted for the international deputation within months of his transfer. The change in the senior state administrative posts is also expected to lead to a reshuffle of bureaucrats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sitaram-kunte-praveen-pardeshi-top-contenders-for-the-post-of-maharashtra-chief-secretary-101614192653438.html
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||MC to take over waste collection across Chandigarh on March 1||The Chandigarh municipal corporation will start door-to-door collection of segregated waste across the city from March 1.The decision came on Wednesday after cart-based garbage collectors started signing the memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the civic body. Now, the corporation expects to get their greater participation in manning its twin-bin vehicles.“We will be starting garbage collection through MC vehicles in southern sectors from Monday (March 1). The MoU will be signed by all door-to-door waste collectors by the end of this week,” said MC commissioner KK Yadav. The project was launched in the northern part of the city on December 23 last year, with the MC deploying its 93 vehicles in Sectors 1 to 30. It had also deployed 99 vehicles for villages and some commercial areas of the city.The MC General House on February 15 approved modified terms of the MoU, days after the Door to Door Garbage Collector Society gave its consent to sign it. Most demands of the collectors, including sharing of user charges, life insurance, welfare fund and disbursal of income generated through sale of usable dry waste among them, have been incorporated in it.More manpower to address teething problemsEarlier, of 1,342 garbage collectors in the city, only 609 had enrolled with the MC and just 147 started working on its vehicles as helpers and drivers when the drive was launched. Not getting adequate number of collectors, the MC had to depute its outsourced sanitation workers as drivers. It also failed to pick garbage from the doorsteps as collectors remained non-cooperative.Residents also complain that vehicles don’t come at a fixed time and even skip their beat on some days. There are also cases of both the garbage collectors and MC vehicles coming to collect garbage, resulting in confusion among residents.“With more manpower to assist the MC, most of these issues would be resolved in the coming days. Timings of the vehicles would also be fixed in consultation with resident welfare associations. A toll-free phone number will be provided for residents to register their complaints,” said an MC official, privy to the development.The civic body will also start adding user charges to the water bill in the areas where it starts garbage collection. It has already declared that instead of garbage lifters, it would be collecting user charges in Sectors 1 to 30. Residents who fail to segregate dry and wet waste at source will also be fined. The rates and penalties have already been notified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mc-to-take-over-waste-collection-across-chandigarh-on-march-1-101614192651750.html
25-02-2021||Other||Cong gears up to corner Jai Ram govt in HP budget session||The Himachal assembly’s budget session, which will begin from February 26, is expected to be a stormy affair with the opposition Congress all set to take on the Jai Ram Thakur-led Bharatiya Janata Party government on a slew of issues, including its Covid management.The Vidhan Sabha is reassembling after seven months as the winter session, which was slated for December 7, was called off due to the surge in Covid cases.The decision to call off the winter session had not gone down well with the Congress, which had accused the state government of running away from the issues facing the common man amid the pandemic. The grand old party has also been accusing the Jai Ram government of mishandling the Covid situation in the state, post the imposition of the countrywide lockdown. “The state’s financial health is in doldrums. Its debt burden has crossed over ₹61, 0000 crore, and the current government has borrowed ₹12,000 crore from the Reserve Bank over the last three years to pay the salaries of its employees and carry out development works. But it is still harping on the support from the Union government,” said leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri. The Congress is also likely to raise the issue of farm bills passed by the Centre. “The farmers’ issue is not just confined to the Centre; it is also a state subject as it affects the rural economy and Himachal largely runs on agriculture and horticulture. So, we will raise the issue in the Vidhan Sabha,” said senior Congress leader and five-time legislator from Shillai, Harshwardhan Chauhan.BJP to counter Cong attack with its recent victory in panchayat pollsThe saffron party is likely to cite the outcome of the recently concluded panchayat polls to counter the Congress attack. The BJP had claimed landslide victories in elections to block samitis, panchayats and zila parishads. BJP had formed zila parshads in all districts barring Kullu and Shimla, where Congress wrested the top slots of Zila parishad chairperson and vice-chairman’s posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cong-gears-up-to-corner-jai-ram-govt-in-hp-budget-session-101614192650224.html
25-02-2021||Delhi||Max temperature in Delhi touches 32.5°C — highest in 15 years||Delhi on Wednesday recorded the highest maximum temperature for the month of February since 2006, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) recordings.On Wednesday, the maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 32.5 degrees Celsius, seven degrees above the season’s normal. The minimum temperature was 12 degrees Celsius, a notch above what is considered normal for this time of the year.Before this, in 2018 and 2017, the day time temperatures had crossed the 32 degrees Celsius mark. On February 23, 2018, the maximum temperature was 32 degrees Celsius, while on February 21, 2017, the maximum temperature had touched 32.4 degrees Celsius.According to IMD, this was the warmest February day in at least the last 15 years, when the city had recorded day temperature of 34.1 degrees Celsius.IMD scientists warned that the temperature was likely to soar further in the coming days. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that there is a possibility that the maximum temperature could touch 33-34 degrees Celsius in the next two days.“The temperatures are already hovering in the 31-32 degrees Celsius range, there is definitely a chance that the mercury could rise by a few points and reach 33-34 degrees Celsius. Whether it will break the 2006 record remains to be seen,” Srivastava said.He also explained that February this year has been recording higher than normal temperatures throughout and this was primarily because of fewer active western disturbances and clear skies; that has led to sunlight hitting the surface uninterrupted.“Generally, in the month of February we get around six active western disturbances. But this year, Delhi last saw an active western disturbance was on February 4. This prolonged spell without a western disturbance has led to clear skies, causing heating of the ground,” Srivastava said.Meanwhile, the air quality remained in the ‘poor’ zone on Wednesday. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi was 278. On Tuesday, the average AQI was 250, also in the ‘poor’ category.IMD forecast said that there is a possibility of improvement in air quality from February 26, when the AQI is likely to come down to the ‘moderate’ range.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/max-temperature-in-delhi-touches-32-5-c-highest-in-15-years-101614192300955.html
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||Mercury touches 31°C in Chandigarh||The mercury breached 30°C mark for the first time in February in at least past 13 years, with maximum temperature recorded at 31.1°C in Chandigarh on Wednesday.As much as seven notches above normal, it is expected to touch 32°C on Thursday. With some rain likely on Friday, respite might be in the offing at the weekend.According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), which had data dating back till 2009 readily available, the previous highest temperature in February was 29.6°C, recorded in 2009 and 2016. The all-time record was set way back in 1954, when maximum temperature reached 32.8°C on February 20.In fact, at the observatory located at the Chandigarh airport, maximum temperature stood at 32.8°C on Wednesday, equal to the all-time record. However, IMD considers readings taken at its observatory in Sector 39 for the weather bulletin and forecast.“The temperature has gone higher than normal owing to weak western disturbances (WDs) in the region this year,” said Surender Paul, director, IMD, Chandigarh. “Whatever WDs have come have been more active in the hilly reaches of Himachal Pradesh and brought snowfall there, but led to only partly cloudy weather here.”Paul said amid intense sunlight and clear skies, maximum temperature can go as high as 32°C. “However, it is too early to say whether the coming months, and for that matter this summer, will also record higher than normal temperatures,” he said.Meanwhile, light rain up to 10mm is expected due to WDs on Friday. It is likely to bring back maximum temperature to 20s by Saturday.While maximum temperature went up from 28.9°C on Tuesday to 31.1°C on Wednesday, minimum temperature went down from 13.3°C to 11.6°C owing to clear skies. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 29 and 32 degrees while minimum temperature will remain between 12 and 14 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mercury-touches-31-c-in-chandigarh-101614192288100.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||CM Uddhav Thackeray under pressure to act against Maharashtra minister||A day after Shiv Sena minister Sanjay Rathod, who is mired in controversy surrounding the death of a 22-year-old woman, emerged in public view after a fortnight in Washim district and attempted a show of strength, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is under pressure to act against the party minister. The leader of the Banjara community emerged at the community’s Pohradevi temple in Washim district on Tuesday. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar is reportedly displeased with the entire episode. Sena leader and its chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut on Wednesday indicated that the chief minister was considering if any action should be taken against the minister, although the reason cited was flouting Covid-19 norms. Rathod attended the state cabinet meeting and later was summoned by Thackeray to Varsha, the CM’s official residence. Party insiders present at Varsha, however, said there was no discussion on Rathod’s controversy. Speaking to reporters, Raut said, “I don’t know if Pawar saheb is upset with the issue… The chief minister of Maharashtra has already ordered action in the case of flouting of rules where thousands had gathered. The CM is strict with regards to law and rules. He would not spare even if it is one of his own. If somebody has flouted the rules, the law will take its course.” According to NCP leaders, Pawar was more upset with the crowding and show of strength at the Poharadevi temple in Washim during Rathod’s visit. “I am not aware if Pawarsaheb expressed his displeasure over the episode, but the chief minister has already ordered action for the crowding at Poharadevi temple. Rathod has resumed his official work. He will represent his department in the budget session starting from Monday,” said NCP leader and minority minister Nawab Malik. Congress leaders, too, have expressed their displeasure over the entire episode, but have tried to maintain distance from it, saying it is an internal matter of the Shiv Sena. “We do not want to be associated with such matters, as our party has no tolerance for such cases. This has been second such case after Dhananjay Munde’s controversy over allegations by a woman,” said a Congress leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cm-uddhav-thackeray-under-pressure-to-act-against-maharashtra-minister-101614191928139.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||Marina, water taxis and more: Mumbai Port Trust signs MoUs worth ₹7,510 crore||Ahead of the ‘Maritime India Summit’ 2021, the Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) has signed 13 different Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) /agreements worth ₹7,510 crore to boost water transport and tourism in the city. In a press conference on Wednesday, MbPT chairman Rajiv Jalota said that MoUs worth ₹12,000 crore more are in the pipeline.The agreements include starting water taxis from the domestic cruise terminal (DCT) in south Mumbai for ₹75 crore, introducing harbour cruise tourism for ₹15 crore, developing a Marina for ₹370 crore, and shipbuilding and allied activities for ₹1,300 crores among other agreements.In talks for decades now, MbPT is looking at starting water taxi services from south Mumbai to Belapur and Nerul soon.“We are looking at starting the services soon. Initially, we will start with 10-50 seater vessels, following which it can be increased as per the response,” said Jalota. The plan also includes services to Rewas and Kashid. A senior official from MbPT said that the charges would range between ₹300- ₹400. “The idea is that it should be in a similar range as normal taxis, otherwise people would not prefer water transport,” the official said.MbPT is also planning Mumbai’s first marina for 300 yachts at an 8.02 hectares land near the DCT. Jalota also said that MbPT will complete the Mumbai international cruise terminal project by the end of this year. MbPT aims to transform Mumbai into a cruise tourism hot spot catering to 15 lakh cruise passengers by the end of 2030.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the virtual India Maritime Summit to be held between March 2-4. Jalota said that the summit would prove to be a powerful platform to explore business opportunities in the maritime sector. Around 20,000 delegates from 40 countries are expected to take part in the summit, which will look at different themes like shipbuilding, repairs and recycling, inland water transport, coastal shipping, tourism among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/marina-water-taxis-and-more-mumbai-port-trust-signs-mous-worth-7-510-crore-101614191577988.html
25-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police arrest 4 in card cloning racket||The Mumbai crime branch on Tuesday arrested four more accused, including two store managers, in connection with the card cloning racket busted by unit 9 last week. A total of eight people have been arrested in the case and 181 debit cards, nine skimmer devices and one card reader have been seized. The accused allegedly duped several people by cloning their debit and credit cards. Police are still ascertaining the volume of the fraud committed by the gang.The four arrested have been identified as Amarjit Rajbhar, Wahid Mohammad Ayub Khan, Vivekanand Shinde and Saif Shaikh. Rajbhar worked as a manager at a branded garment store in Andheri (West), while Shinde worked as the manager of an ice cream shop in Pune. During the investigation, police learnt about Khan’s role to identify shop managers and provide them with skimmers and card readers, while Shinde and Shaikh withdrew money using the cloned debit and credit cards. The activities of the racket came to light when a bank official approached unit 9 of the crime branch about several customers being duped by fraudsters.Police acted on the information and arrested four accused on February 17, including the mastermind Mohammad Faiz Chaudhary, 27. The other accused were Yashwant Gupta, 23, Azaruddin Ansari, 23, and Ishtiaq Jamal Khan, 22, all residents of Goregaon and Jogeshwari. Chaudhary had allegedly given skimmer devices to several stores or shop managers so they could copy people’s debit and credit card details when they paid for items at the shops. Gupta worked at a Powai-based hotel as a manager and was provided with a skimmer device by Chaudhary.Gupta cloned the customers’ cards, while Ansari and Khan used to travel in Pune and Satara to withdraw money from the cloned cards, added police. The store managers were tasked by Chaudhary to secretly swipe the customer’s credit and debit cards in the card reader and noted down the PINs entered by the customer. Chaudhary paid ₹500 to the store manager for the details of each card.After collecting the data from the store managers, Chaudhary then uploaded it onto blank cards and sent other members of the gang to withdraw money in other cities like Pune and Satara, to avoid suspicion, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-arrest-4-in-card-cloning-racket-101614191576317.html
25-02-2021||Other||Night curfew leaves theatre platforms and cinema halls in Pune empty, again||The return of night curfew has put a stop to holding of cultural programmes and theatre events again. After the state government’s go-ahead to reopen theatres and multiplexes from November 5, 2020, with 50 per cent capacity, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) restricted public movement from 11pm to 6 am from Monday (February 22). The administration imposed fresh restrictions to check the spread of Covid following a reported spike in positive cases in the city. Play producers have either cancelled the shows or rescheduled it to the afternoon slot. Some have even postponed the events till March 7. Bhagyashree Desai, producer of Marathi writer Ratnakar Matkari’s popular play ‘Blind Game’, cancelled three scheduled shows in Pune and one in Mumbai this week. “It is impossible to hold the late-night show with curfew time restrictions as it will be inconvenient for artists, backstage workers and audience. I am not going to schedule any show till next month,” said Desai, who is also founder of Rasik Mohini production house. “We had bookings for Saturday and Sunday in the slot of 9.30 pm-12.30 am at Balgandharva Rangmandir. Now it stands cancelled. As political programmes are not held during the late-night hours, theatre directors book the slot,” said Sunil Mate, incharge, cultural programmes and auditoriums, PMC. Some programme coordinators have rescheduled the show to afternoon slot. “The show ‘Ayushyavar Bolu Kahi’ was scheduled to be conducted on Friday night at Balgandharva Rangmandir. It will now be held at Yashwantaro Chavan Natyagruha at 5 pm on Saturday. The show of the play ‘Yada Kadachit’ has been shifted to Sunday afternoon (Yashwantaro Chavan Natyagruha) from Saturday night (Balgandharva Rangmandir),” said Sameer Hampi, SH Enterprises. “We were hoping that theatres would get permission to operate full house from March 1, but the spike in cases has left us back to square one. Already hit by the lockdown, the night curfew restriction is another blow to the industry,” said Desai. Book launch and award distribution events have also been postponed in the light of uncertainty. Sunil Mahajan, whose group Samvad organises cultural events in the city, said, “It is not feasible to organise an event in the evening and wind it up before the curfew timings. Many residents prefer to remain indoors before the night curfew timings to avoid any confrontation with implementing agencies. Hence, I have postponed the scheduled events till March 7,” said Mahajan. Only a few multiplexes have reopened post easing of lockdown norms. “As no single screen has reopened yet, so we are anyway not affected by the night curfew restrictions,” said Arvind Chaphalkar, partner, City Pride multiplexes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/night-curfew-leaves-theatre-platforms-and-cinema-halls-empty-again-101614186467044.html
25-02-2021||Other||FIR filed against PCMC mayor’s son for flouting Covid norms||A first information report (FIR) has been registered against Jawahar Dhore, son of Usha Dhore, mayor of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation for flouting Covid restrictions. Dhore had organised a Miss Pimpri- Chinchwad beauty pageant at the Ramkrishna More Hall in Chinchwad, on February 22. Norms regarding social distancing and mask were not followed during the event. A case has been registered under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code at the Chichwad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fir-filed-against-pcmc-mayor-s-son-101614186107130.html
25-02-2021||Other||Covid restrictions in Pune dist impact wedding plans||It was a tough decision for Akshay B and his family to change the timing and venue of his wedding, after the Pune district collector imposed several restrictions on public gatherings and night curfew between 11 pm and 6 am.“Earlier we had booked a huge lawn for our wedding scheduled on February 28 (Sunday), at 7.15 pm, which we have cancelled. We had invited 500 guests for the reception, but after the new restrictions were announced we had to reschedule the plan,” he said.Amid the rise in Covid cases, strict restrictions are in place in the Pune district, along with curbs imposed on public gatherings. At a wedding a maximum of 50 per cent of hall capacity is allowed, with a ceiling of 200 people. Also, a permission letter from the local police is a must.“Now, we have rescheduled the date and changed the venue to a comparatively small hall at Kothrud. Only 100 guests including close relatives are invited and “Muhurat” is rescheduled to 11.30 am,” said Akshay.Similarly, Vikas Rajput, a resident of Hadapsar, who has rescheduled the wedding plan of his daughter after the new restrictions were announced, said, “My daughter’s wedding is planned on February 27 and we have called around 200 guests. But we have divided the guest list into three parts, 75 guests are invited between 7 to 8 pm, 75 between 8 pm and 9 pm slot and remaining between 9 pm to 10 pm.”“We did this so that all safety norms can be followed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-restrictions-in-pune-dist-impact-wedding-plans-101614185987073.html
25-02-2021||Other||Pune district’s active cases cross 10k mark||Pune district on Wednesday crossed the 10,000-mark of Covid active cases after 1,473 fresh positives were reported, according to the state health department. The district had last breached 10,000 Covid active cases on February 2 (13,487 positives), which dropped to 9,123 active cases on February 3. With 10,427 active cases, Pune tops the state in terms of active cases. The new high of fresh cases took the final tally to 4.03 lakh, of which 3.85 lakh have recovered, 8,093 declared dead due to the infection and rest are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. Pune tops in terms of active cases followed by Mumbai (6,900) and Thane (6,552) at third spot. The city reported 755 new cases which took the progressive count to 206,192 and with one new death reported the death toll went up to 4,567, PCMC reported 408 new cases which took the count to 100,710 and one death was reported which took the count to 1,328 and Pune rural 310 new cases which took the count to 96,880 and, with two deaths reported, the toll went to 2,149. PMC logs 128% vaccination In terms of vaccination, the district saw 57% vaccination on Wednesday as out of the 9,400 targeted beneficiaries, 5,370 got vaccinated, including 3,791 frontline workers (FLW) and 1,579 health care workers (HCW) who got their first dose. Not a single adverse effect following vaccination was reported during the day. Also, 1,626 health care workers got their second dose and completed their vaccination course. PMC recorded the highest vaccination with 128% as 3,830 beneficiaries got vaccinated as opposed to 3,000 targeted beneficiaries while PCMC reported 32% targeted beneficiaries got vaccinated of the 1,600 targeted and Pune rural reported only 21.5% vaccination as 1,032 beneficiaries got vaccinated of the 4,800 targeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-s-active-cases-cross-10k-mark-101614181667593.html
25-02-2021||Pune||Govt medical colleges, hospitals to appoint biomedical engineers||The state government on Tuesday (February 23) issued orders to the Directorate of Medical Education and Research, Mumbai, to appoint a biomedical engineer at every government medical college and hospital dedicated to Covid services.These biomedical engineers would be responsible to provide technical support in case of any mechanical or electrical problems with critical medical care equipment like ventilators, oxygen supply mechanisms and others. The engineer would also help in installation and other repair works.This is the first time such a post is being created for medical colleges and the decision is being made amid a rise in Covid cases.During the pandemic, the district administration rushed to purchase multiple critical care equipment which was not only expensive but crucial as many lives were dependent on them.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Zilla Parishad, said, “These equipment are critical as they save lives and a delay of minutes could be the difference between life and death. The biomedical engineer would be available dedicated to the hospital.”“ Many times the machine is past the warranty period or even if it is within the period the manufacturer is unable to send their representative and so the engineer would be able to provide help within the required time,” he said.To tackle the pandemic multiple equipment were purchased through the PM cares funds and corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds and no contract was made for repair and maintenance works for some machines.For maintenance of these machines, a biomedical engineer would be appointed on a contractual basis for about 120 days. The engineer would be responsible to ensure that the facilities run smoothly like ventilator and oxygen supply and that they are serviced properly. The engineer would inspect the machines daily and update the head of the concerned department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/govt-medical-colleges-hospitals-to-appoint-biomedical-engineers-101614181666715.html
25-02-2021||Other||NHAI, Pune traffic police seal illegal entry, exit points on highway near accident-prone Navale bridge||In a bid to bring down the number of accidents and put in place precautionary measures, the Pune traffic police along with the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) is reviewing and sealing the illegal entry and exit points, referred to colloquially by police as “punctures”, on the highway going towards the service road near the Navale bridge chowk on Katraj – Dehu road bypass.At least ten people have died, and many reported injured in accidents on this stretch in the last three months.Taking cognizance of these accidents NHAI along with Pune traffic police undertook multiple safety measures such as installing rumblers, bringing down the speed limit and even a police chowky has been set up nearby.“For the last two months, we are focusing on every safety aspect of this stretch near the Navale bridge. We conducted a survey and fixed the loopholes. Installing signage boards, rumblers and other safety works were done here,” said Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police (traffic).“Now we are in the process of studying the illegal exit and entry points on this stretch and sealing it, but we need public support as well,” he said.“We will also be working on the issue of illegal encroachments on the service road with the help of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and NHAI,” added Shrirame.Ramesh Vidhate, secretary, Sinhagad Road Residents Forum, said, “We have received multiple complaints about illegal entry and exit points and encroachment on the service road near Narhe, Ambegaon and Wadgaon areas on the highway. People, especially the two-wheeler riders directly enter the highway from these small entries which is risky.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nhai-pune-traffic-police-seal-illegal-entry-exit-points-on-highway-near-accident-prone-navale-bridge-101614179446607.html
25-02-2021||Other||Scrutinise progress on development works before clearing bills: Pune civic body commissioner||The civic body chief has issued an order to scrutinise progress on development works undertaken during the pandemic last year before clearing bills of contractors.Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner Vikram Kumar has issued an order regarding the same on Wednesday.As per state government directives civic bodies were allowed to spend only 40 per cent of budgetary allocation on priority works in the last year. The state had also instructed a finance committee to keep a tab on wastage of money. The committee included the additional commissioner, zonal commissioner, and chief financial officer.The then PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad had delegated power to the finance committee to take decisions to sanction development works as per the requirement of corporators.After the annual budget for the financial year, 2021-22 was drafted the new commissioner decided to scrap the financial committee.Ulka Kalaskar, chief accounting officer, PMC, said, “As per state government’s directives, the corporation had formed a committee during the pandemic to keep a tab on development works. It had approved ₹450 crore for works undertaken in civic limits.”Suresh Jagtap, additional municipal commissioner, said, “Commissioner has scrapped the committee, as last year’s financial period is almost over and a new budget is drafted.”Kunal Khemanar, additional municipal commissioner, said, “Last year the committee approved works suggested by corporators at ward level. Most of the work was related to road concretisation and repair, constructing retaining walls, footpaths among others.”“Now officials have been ordered to scrutinise the development works, check before and after pictures and then pay bills to contractors,” he said.During his tenure, Gaikwad had decided to give preference to essential work such as water supply, drainage work, health and road maintenance work. After Gaikwad was transferred, the corporation announced an amenity scheme for property tax to increase revenue, and the corporation collected around ₹487.97 crore. After that, the corporation decided to sanction ward level work suggested by corporators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/scrutinise-progress-on-development-works-before-clearing-bills-pmc-commissioner-101614176806494.html
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana ex-Cong MLA faces trial in defamation case by IPS officer||Rewari additional sessions judge Rakesh Kumar Yadav has summoned former Congress legislator Jai Tirath Dahiya to face trial in a defamation case filed by Indian Police Service officer Bharti Arora, the then director-principal of Motilal Nehru Sports School (MNSS) at Rai in Sonepat in May 2017.Booked under Section 500 (defamation) of the Indian Police Code, Dahiya, who represented Rai in the assembly, was granted bail upon furnishing bail bonds worth ₹30,000 with a surety of the same amount. The court has fixed March 22 as the next date of hearing for pre-charge of evidence of the complainant.Passing the order on February 22, Yadav said, “The court has minutely gone through the contents of complaint and record produced by the complainant with regard to allegations and the same constitute prima-facie commission of offence under Section 500 of the IPC. The court is also of the opinion that at the time of summoning the accused, if prima-facie evidence is available on record, it is not necessary in each and every case to see the record meticulously and threadbare. In this case, the complaint has been filed with regard to an offence under Section 500 of the IPC in which the reputation harm pertains to a public servant and therefore, examination of the complainant and witness is dispensed with. The court comes to the conclusion that prima-facie facts alleged in the complaint and supported by records are sufficient to summon the accused to face trial for commission of offence.”Vivek Tanwar, the special prosecutor for the complainant, said Bharti is an outstanding police officer. “The harm caused by Dahiya to her reputation is irreversible. It was a deliberate attack on a public servant,” he said.The Haryana governor granted sanction to Arora to launch the prosecution under Section 199 (2) for filing a complaint under Section 202 of the CrPc and appointed Tanwar as special prosecutor for filing the case on her behalf on November 10, 2017.The complainant alleged that Dahiya’s defamatory statement, which was published in two vernacular dailies harmed her reputation in 2017.When contacted, Dahiya said he had levelled allegations against Arora on the basis of an audit report carried out by the finance department and he had apologised to her two days ago after the CAG reports gave her a clean chit.The conflict had started in 2017 after Dahiya levelled allegations of irregularities in the purchase of sports items in the Rai sports school. Arora served a legal notice on him, accusing him of a vilification and slander campaign against her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-mla-to-face-trial-in-defamation-case-by-ips-officer-101614175187131.html
25-02-2021||Other||SPPU’s research centre likely to be set up at AIT, Pune||The Savitraibai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has expressed intension to set up a research centre at the Army Institute of Technology (AIT), Pune. Nitin Karmalkar, vice-chancellor, SPPU, said, “The new education policy includes research, innovation, holistic education, interdisciplinary education, among others. We have to encourage students to take up research, as well as pursue the education of their choice. AIT focuses on the all-round development of its students and promotes research and entrepreneurship and so I would like to offer to set up SPPU’s research centre at AIT, Pune.” Karmalkar was addressing the gathering at AIT’s 27th foundation day as the chief guest on Wednesday. The function was held in a hybrid mode, with many guests and award recipients joining online. During the event, he spoke about the essence of the new education policy and its impact on higher education institutions like AIT. He recalled the day when India was a global centre of learning with great universities like the Nalanda, Takshshila and Vikramshila, where multidisciplinary choice in education was the key to the success of its students. AIT conferred the lifetime achievement award to Padmashree Dr Raman Gangakhedkar, ex-head scientist, epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research, for his outstanding contribution in the field of epidemiology especially during the onset of the Covid pandemic in India.Two AIT alumni of the 2000 batch Baljeet Singh and Praveen Prakash, co-founders of startups mTatva and Simbo.ai, were jointly awarded the successful entrepreneur award. Dr Gangakhedkar who attended the function online praised the culture of social entrepreneurship at AIT, its academic progress and the several student achievements. He said, “If given an opportunity, I would love to be reborn as a student in an institute such as AIT.” Brig Abhay Bhat, director, AIT, presented a brief review highlighting the achievements and progress of AIT made in the previous year. He elaborated on how academic, co-curricular and extra-curricular activities were conducted by faculty and students despite the constraints and adversities imposed by the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sppus-research-centre-likely-to-be-set-up-at-ait-pune-101614173986372.html
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||Man arrested after wife, daughter found dead in house||Police arrested a man after his wife and 10 -year-old daughter were found dead at their rented house in Rohtak on Wednesday morning.Sandeep, who works as a lab assistant at Murthal University in Sonepat has been arrested, said deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Gorakh Pal.“Sandeep confessed to killing his wife and daughter over a family dispute. He murdered his wife after hitting her on the head and strangulated his daughter on Tuesday night. He fled after committing the murders,” the DSP said, adding that the police will seek his remand when Sandeep is produced in court on Thursday. City police station in-charge Rajesh Saini the family’s domestic help found the woman and her daughter dead when she reported for work in the morning. The complainant, the 35-year-old victim’s brother said the accused had been harassing her for dowry since they got married in 2006.The couple’s son had gone to his native village with his grandfather four days ago. The bodies were handed over to the victims’ family after conducting an autopsy at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS). The accused has been booked under Section 302 (murder) and 498-A (harassment) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-daughter-found-dead-in-house-in-rohtak-101614150226331.html
