26-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt may restrict train travel for general public again in Mumbai||Maharashtra government is considering imposing restrictions again on the local train commuting on suburban trains in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) amid the upsurge in the cases in the region over the last two weeks. The decision is likely after a review of the cases in the next few days and the state government may either reduce the allotted time slots for the general public or completely revoke the permission allowing people working in essential services only.Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said on Friday that the state government was thinking of rescheduling the train timing in the wake of the rising cases. “We will not completely restrict the general public from commuting on the train, but will reschedule the timings,” he said.Experts and state officials are of the opinion that suburban train travel is one of the reasons behind the spike in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and neighbouring areas, in the past few days. Since the suburban train services were reopened for the general public during non-peak hours on February 1, an average of three million commuters has been travelling by the same. Crowded trains are being seen as one reason behind the spike.According to the officials from the state government, the review is expected to be taken next week. “It is true that the crowding in local trains is one of the reasons for the upsurge in the Covid-19 cases in the MMR. The number of passengers in all three lines has increased four times after the general public was allowed to travel in local trains from February 1. The state government either revoke the permission given to the general public completely or reduce the allotted time slot reduce the crowding in the locals,” the official said requesting anonymity.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in his televised address last Sunday, had said that the decision over the lockdown will be taken in eight days after reviewing the situation of the Covid-19 cases spread.The state government allowed the general public to travel in non-peak hours excluding 9am to 12 pm and 4pm to 9pm from February 1. This resulted in around 3.3 million passengers travelling every day on three lines in local train services. 2 million passengers travel by Central Railway and 1.3 million passengers travel by Western Railway.Before the general public was allowed, the trains travel was restricted to the workforce from essential and emergency services and women travellers in stipulated time slot. The footfall of these passengers in local trains till February 1 was 8 million. Women commuters were allowed to travel from October 21 last year between 11am and 3pm and after 7pm.The cases in MMR rose to 1976 on February 25 from 1075 cases two weeks ago on February 10. “The crowding in the trains is one of the reasons for the rise in the cases. Passengers travelling from Thane, Kalyan-Dombivali, Vasai-Virar, Navi Mumbai may lead to the spread across the MMR,” said an official from the health department.Presently, the Central Railway operates 1685 local train services while the Western Railway operates 1300 local train services.Before lockdown was imposed in March last year owing to the coronavirus outbreak, the Central Railway operated 1,774 train services and the Western Railway operated 1,367 train services.Railway authorities have stated they have not received any proposal from the state government regarding the suspension of trains. “We have not received any proposal from the state government regarding the suspension of local trains,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway.Passenger associations have stated that they would protest along with commuters if train services are suspended. “The reason for the increase of coronavirus cases are not just local trains. There has been no direct link and if the state government decides to suspend the train services we will protest against the same on the railway tracks. Local train operations are important for the economy.” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-may-restrict-train-travel-for-general-public-again-in-mumbai-101614364020940.html
26-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body starts admissions for 10 new CBSE schools||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has started pre-primary to Class 6 admissions for its 10 newly opened CBSE schools across the city from Thursday. “Admissions will be open until March 17. Similarly, the two new schools started under the CBSE and ICSE boards last year, will admit students in junior KG this year,” said an official from the state education department. Parents can apply either online on the BMC’s official portal or offline through the schools. The civic body has set up help desks at each school to help parents with the application process. In case the number of applicants exceeds the number of seats, the BMC will draw a lottery for allotting the seats. In 2020, the civic body had started a CBSE school in Poonam Nagar Jogeshwari and an ICSE school in Mahim’s Woolen Mill municipal school. To attract more students to BMC schools, it has now opened two schools in P north ward (Malad) and one each in G North (Dadar), F North (Matunga- Sion), K west (Andheri-Jogeshwari), L (Sakinaka, Chandivali), N (Ghatkopar), M East (Chembur), S (Vikhroli) and T(Mulund). The schools will begin classes for Junior KG to Class 6 in the first year and then go for gradual progression. Students will be given free education in these schools. Sainath Durge, a member of BMC’s education committee said that the schools have been getting a good response. “Many parents want good schools in English medium but cannot afford the high fees charged by private schools. The initiative would help give quality education to children from the low -income groups,” he added.In 2020-21, there were nearly 7 applications for every seat at the newly opened CBSE School at Poonam Nagar municipal school run by the BMC in Jogeshwari east. The civic body’s first ICSE affiliated school- the Woolen Mill Municipal School in Mahim, received 343 applications for 320 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-starts-admissions-for-10-new-cbse-schools-101614363780703.html
26-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 4 airlines to start flight operations from T1 from March 10||Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) will re-open its operations from Terminal 1 (T1) for domestic flights from March 10. Since the advent of the nationwide lockdown in March 2020, operations at T1 were suspended temporarily and was consolidated through Terminal 2. From midnight of March 10, Go Air, Star Air, Air Asia and Trujet will resume their domestic operations from Terminal 1. For Indigo, most of its flight operations will be managed from Terminal 2, however, the base flights will operate through Terminal 1.The airport spokesperson said, “For safeguarding the health and safety of all passengers travelling via the airport, CSMIA is re-opening its Terminal 1 (T1) for domestic flight operations with effect from March 10. Upholding the safety of the passengers, the resumption of services via T1 is a step further in ensuring that social distancing is strictly followed.”Adhering to a high level of safety and hygiene standards, the airport operator said it will open all the lounges, retail and food and beverage (F&B) for the convenience of passengers. All modes of transport to and from will also be made available.“The airport will ensure that measures such as stringent screening of passengers and personnel, regular sanitisation and disinfection, mandatory compliance of wearing face masks and other necessary PPE will be implemented at T1. The terminal will also promote social distancing through measures such as re-arrangement of seating, installation of plexiglass to minimize face-to-face interactions amongst others at the terminal. Hand sanitisers have been strategically placed through the premise and passengers are encouraged to use contactless payment facilities available at the terminal,” added the spokesperson.GoAir too announced air services from the city’s domestic terminal. The spokesperson said, “Effective March 10, GoAir will shift its entire domestic flight operations in Mumbai to Terminal 1 (T1). We will continue to carry out the enhanced cleaning procedures to ensure the health and safety of our customers and employees..at airports, we will continue to regularly disinfect the check-in kiosks, gate areas, check-in counters and ticketing counters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-4-airlines-to-start-flight-operations-from-t1-from-march-10-101614363600594.html
26-02-2021||Mumbai||February sees highest number of travellers in three months: Report||In the third week of February, India has witnessed 24,700 check-ins, reveals a report by RateGain, a leading provider of software as a services (SaaS) product that helps travel and hospitality companies with revenue and brand engagement. According to the report, the current week of February is seeing higher check-ins than Christmas, when India’s recovery crossed 116%. In contrast, December and January recorded 21,363 and 19,029 check-ins. The bookings surged in Goa for both February 15 and February 22 by over 20% after it had dipped in January. The cities that saw a spike due to Valentine’s day and wedding season, were Jaipur, Shimla, Mumbai, Pondicherry, Ludhiana, Chandigarh, and Delhi. However, Udaipur saw the highest amount of engagement in India on Facebook.The report states that Indians of all age groups have begun moving out of cities, filling flights to almost 100% capacity in domestic destinations as international travel which was mostly restricted to UAE. According to RateGain, India’s recovery was above 100% for all the weeks of December. “It was observed that Indians booked last-minute travel during the end of December and the first week of January. Popular destinations such as Goa, Shimla, and Jammu still figured in the top 10 destinations for the first month of 2021,” read the report.“ In the new normal, the Indian millennial travellers would play a critical role in the recovery of the region and therefore this recovery is not only encouraging for the domestic hotel industry but also for neighbouring Asian markets that rely on China and India to drive their tourism markets.” Kamesh Shukla, executive vice-president and head, Asia Pacific Middle East Africa (APMEA), RateGain said. “Inspired by travel taken by their family and friends, people continued to travel to tourist destinations such as Goa, Shimla, and Jammu two weeks after the New Year, emphasising the role that social media is now playing in the recovery of the industry,” he added.Highlighting the top social media trends, the report said hotels in the Maldives were ten times more engaged on social media in the last quarter of 2020 after it opened its corridor to India. “Indian hotels saw their highest surge in engagement during November, due to a surge experienced by hotels in Mumbai, as they received their guests during the long Diwali weekend for staycations. Hotels in Mumbai drove the most engagement on Facebook and Instagram, almost 150% higher than the average engagement received by hotels in other cities. The Bangalore industry witnessed the least engagement from Indian travellers. Goa which was the most booked destination in December and had the most check-ins in December and January, saw three times higher engagement during November on Facebook.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/february-sees-highest-number-of-travellers-in-three-months-report-101614363487083.html
26-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai university may miss NAAC grade yet again in upcoming academic year||This March will mark four years since the University of Mumbai’s (MU) National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) grade lapsed. It is unlikely that MU will receive a grade before the start of the next academic year. It has been almost six weeks since MU submitted its self-study report (SSR) to the NAAC committee, but there has been no response from the officials. “We have officially finished submitting every last document required by the grading committee and are currently waiting to hear from them about the team which will conduct a physical visit to our campus,” said a senior official from MU. Once the SSR is submitted, a peer team from the NAAC committee visits the university to verify the details submitted in the application. Thereafter, the committee takes around six months to announce the new grade for the university. This means the NAAC grade is impossible for the current academic year or the beginning of the next academic year. “We were sure of a peer team visit in mid-February, but with rising Covid-19 cases in the city as well as around the country, it looks like the physical visit will be delayed until further notice,” said the MU official. The official added that while it took time to put together the documents required for the application, by December 2019, the varsity had submitted the Institutional Information for Quality Assessment (IIQA) and the same was approved by the apex grading body. The process for SSR, however, got delayed as MU was shut for at least six months in 2020 due to the pandemic. The IIQA is a document recording the university’s compliance with the criteria and policies of the NAAC committee. SSR is a form of self-evaluation to identify strengths and rectify deficiencies. NAAC accreditation is a performance indicator for higher educational institutes and is mandatory for funds from Central agencies. The university had a ‘Grade A’ score from NAAC in 2012. However, the score expired in March 2017 after MU failed to apply for re-accreditation in time. “The fact that the university sat on the re-application process in 2017 itself was a big mistake, but not having managed to complete this process for almost four years now is unacceptable. Several students have suffered over the years and we hope the problem ends soon,” said Vaibhav Narwade, a senate member of MU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-university-may-miss-naac-grade-yet-again-in-upcoming-academic-year-101614363360608.html
26-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees 256 fresh Covid cases, highest single day spike in 35 days||The Capital saw its highest single-day rise in Covid-19 infections in 35 days on Friday, adding 256 fresh cases of the infection. The city has seen the number of daily new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections inch up gradually, with over 200 cases being recorded for three days on the trot now, a spurt that comes as some states in the country — Maharashtra, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Chhattisgarh — have seen what appears to be the start of fresh waves of the infection.Further, Delhi’s Covid-19 test positivity rate has also increased gradually over the past few days, hitting 0.41% — the highest recorded in the Capital since January 29. Friday’s positivity rate was nearly double the 0.22% recorded in the city two weeks ago. Delhi conducted 62,768 tests, as per Friday’s bulletin, of which 41,775 used the gold standard RT-PCR method, while the rest used the rapid antigen method.The seven day average positivity rate – calculated on the basis of the number of tests and cases over the last seven days – has also increased to 0.30%, up from 0.24% last week and 0.21% the week before that. Experts regard the positivity rate as a crucial metric to gauge the spread of an infection. To be sure, the World Health Organization recommends a rate below 5% for two weeks for an infection to be considered under control. Delhi has not touched this number in its positivity rate since December 2, when it recorded 3,944 new infections.“I hope I am wrong, but the positivity rate has almost doubled in the last two weeks. The speed at which the positivity rate has increased leads me to believe that we might again see an increase in the number of cases like it is being seen in other states like Maharashtra. Now, we need to trace the areas from where the new cases are being reported and probably look at pre-emptive containment,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS), who headed Delhi government’s first expert committee on strategies to control the spread and manage Covid-19 cases. The fewest cases in a day was reported on February 16, when the city added just 94 new infections. The number of tests in the city has also gone down from its highest capacity of over 80,000 tests a day. This month on average 58,231 tests were conducted each day in the city. The proportion of the more accurate RT PCR tests has, however, increased to over 64%. Dr Sarin had also suggested that people living in regions reporting increase in cases be immunised as quickly as possible. However, Delhi has seen a decline in the number of immunisations, with just over 13,000 people getting the shot on Friday as compared to the highest of over 27,000. “The numbers have gone down because fewer people are coming in; there is a need for more motivation. Those who were motivated already took their first shot last week,” said a senior district level officer. Delhi, like much of the country, will not have immunisations on Satuday and Sunday as India transitions to CoWIN 2.0 that would allow people to self-register for vaccination. Government experts have also been stressing hard on not getting complacent, and to continue following Covid-19 appropriate behavior. “We have seen in other countries, wave after wave after wave, so we cannot afford to drop our guard just yet. There is a large percentage of population that is still susceptible so we must strictly follow Covid-19 appropriate behavior such as wearing a mask, maintaining physical distancing, avoiding large gatherings as far as possible, and observing hand hygiene among other things,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, in Union health ministry’s Covid briefing earlier this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-256-fresh-covid-cases-highest-single-day-spike-in-35-days-101614361740799.html
26-02-2021||Noida||Niti Aayog lauds Noida girl’s painting, shares on social media||NOIDA: If you were to visit Deepshikha De’s house in Sector 75, one of the first things you will notice are the colours and the brush strokes. All of 11, the young girl has won accolades for her art from several countries. On Wednesday, one more feather was added to her cap as the Niti Aayog shared one of her paintings on its official Twitter handle, calling it “inspirational”.A student of class 6 at DPS Noida, Deepshikha is a keen observer and an accomplished artist, say her teachers. Kamini Bhasin, the principal of the school, said that in 2018, the student participated in the Annual International Painting Competition organised by NASA on the topic ‘Miss You My Dear’. “She is a child prodigy. It makes us proud that her painting was selected for the cover page of their 2019 calendar. She also stood first in the international category of the 22nd State Fish Art Contest, organised by Wildlife Forever, US,” she said. “Painting comes naturally to me. Apart from my mother’s help, I have never taken professional coaching,” says the 11-year-old.The elder of the two children of software engineer Debojyoti and homemaker Sarmishtha, Deepshikha’s accomplishments include two awards each from NASA, United Nations, UNESCO and Peace Pals International. Besides, she bagged the second prize in a painting competition organised by the National Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasting. “My daughter has so far won 23 awards from the ministry of environment, two each from the ministry of power and ministry of culture. Besides, the National Human Rights Commission has also awarded her. Apart from these, she has many awards from the ministry of information and broadcasting, ministry of ayush, ministry of small, micro & medium enterprises, ministry of earth sciences, government of Gujarat, government of Odisha, the CSIR and IEEE,” her father said. For Sarmishtha – who introduced her daughter to the world of colours when she was only two – Deepshikha never gives up. “If she starts a painting, she’ll not eat or drink till she finishes it. I’ve just introduced her to fine arts like any Bengali mother does,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/niti-aayog-lauds-noida-girl-s-painting-shares-on-social-media-101614361679625.html
26-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police arrest 27-year-old for rape during his wedding event||Juhu police on Friday arrested a 27-year-old man during his wedding ceremony at Madhubani, Bihar, for allegedly raping another woman.According to the police, the accused Mohitkumar Bale Ram was absconding since August 2020 in connection with the rape case.On August 26, a 29-year-old woman had filed a rape complaint against the accused, said Shashikant Mane, a senior police inspector.Mane added that the accused and the woman had been living together in an apartment in Juhu since June. The survivor in her statement claimed that the accused who worked in a showroom befriended her and two were in a relationship for three months, during which, the accused raped her under the pretext of marriage.“As soon as the lockdown restrictions were lifted, the accused fled to his village,” said Mane. Following this, the woman approached the Juhu police and registered a case of rape against him.The police officers said that when they began tracing his phone, they noticed that the accused had been changing locations. On Wednesday, a police team traced his phone to Madhubani, following which, the police arrested him.“After we reached, we saw that a marriage function was going on. On searching the place and showing his photo around, we noticed that the accused was dressed in the groom’s outfit and it was his marriage underway,” said Mane.After some resistance from the locals, the Juhu police arrested Ram with the help of the local police and brought him to Mumbai on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-arrest-27-year-old-for-rape-during-his-wedding-event-101614361620274.html
26-02-2021||Delhi||Winds keep Delhi mercury from breaking February record, temperature to dip this weekend||Strong winds came to the rescue of Delhi’s residents, keeping the city’s temperatures from soaring on Friday. India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said while the forecast for Friday showed that the mercury levels were set to peak and break the record for the highest temperature to ever be recorded in February, strong winds during the day kept the temperatures a notch short of that mark. On Friday, the maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, considered the official marker for the city, was 33°C, seven higher than the season’s normal. But the minimum temperature touched 15.2°C, three above normal, and the highest recorded this season.IMD recordings show that apart from three days, this February has seen temperatures three to four degrees higher than the season’s normal. This has primarily been because of fewer western disturbances that have impacted the city this month, which has kept the skies clear and thereby allowed uninterrupted sunlight during the day. Met officials said that the city will witness a slight respite from the heat on Saturday. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre said strong winds will help Saturday’s mercury drop by one to two degrees. He also explained that the minimum temperature on Friday rose as a result of the high day time temperature recorded a day before. On Thursday, the maximum temperature recorded in the national capital was 33.2 degrees Celsius, the highest in February since 2006. “On Friday, the wind speed touched 25kmph for a while in the afternoon, which kept the maximum temperature lower than what was forecast. The wind speed will be on the higher side on Saturday too,” Srivastava said. He added that the temperatures will fall further from Sunday. “Wind directions are changing from Sunday and there is also a forecast of an active western disturbance passing over Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. These states are experiencing rain and snowfall and the winds coming from these states will bring cold winds, which will lead to this drop,” said Srivastava. Meanwhile, the air quality on Friday also improved marginally but stayed in the ‘poor’ zone. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi was 229. On Thursday, the average AQI was 298, also in the ‘poor’ zone. Union ministry of earth science’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said that an increase in wind speed and boundary layer height is forecasted for Saturday and this is likely to influence AQI positively. “The AQI is forecasted to stay well within the ‘poor’ category on February 27 and February 28. Though ventilation is favourable for better AQI, an increase in mineral dust contribution is expecting in the coming days as the winds are from dry desert regions,” the Safar forecast read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/winds-keep-delhi-mercury-from-breaking-february-record-temperature-to-dip-this-weekend-101614361559629.html
26-02-2021||Noida||Noida: Traffic cops get high-speed bikes to chase violators||Noida: The traffic police department have formed a team of five mobile marshals who will be equipped with high-speed motorcycles to chase and fine traffic violators in the Gautam Budh Nagar district. Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police, (traffic) Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the traffic police personnel are mostly deployed only at certain locations which might leave room for violators to escape. “We have found that some violators try to speed up when officials signal them to stop. There have also been instances when violators mock the police personnel after escaping from the spot. In such cases, the mobile marshals will be able to chase the violators and fine them,” he said.Saha said that as of now, the traffic police have 20 high-speed motorcycles. “We have selected five marshals who will randomly visit different traffic crossings and issue fines to the violators,” he said. Officials of the team will be deployed from 8:30am to 8:30pm, with some intervals.The DCP traffic said that they had conducted a trial for this new system from February 6 to 25 during which the five traffic marshals issued 3.408 challans to violators. “At least 2,050 challans were issued for riding two-wheelers without helmets, 1,067 for wrong parking and 291 for wrong-side driving. The initiative worked well and hence we formally launched it on Friday,” Saha said.Earlier this month, the Noida traffic police had set up a Road Safety cell, which has a dedicated team of eight officials, including one traffic inspector, one sub-inspector, and two head constables to coordinate with different departments as well as civil society members. Saha said that the cell will be deployed at two traffic spots in Noida on Saturdays.Last year, the district traffic police issued a total of 4.96 lakh penalties worth a total of ₹17.9 crore, out of which ₹3.43 crore were realised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-traffic-cops-get-high-speed-bikes-to-chase-violators-101614361499549.html
26-02-2021||Other||No gunshot wounds on man who died during R-Day : Delhi, UP cops tell HC||New Delhi The Delhi and Uttar Pradesh police on Friday told the Delhi high court that the 25-year-old farmer, who died after his tractor overturned during the protesting farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day, had not suffered any gunshot wounds.The police of the two states have made the submission based on the post-mortem and X-Ray reports, given by the District Hospital at Rampur in UP, which prima facie states that “there was no gunshot injury in the body of the deceased”.The report by the police of the two states comes on a plea by the deceased farmer’s — Navreet Singh— grandfather that had contended that his grandson had sustained a gunshot injury to his head. The police said that according to the post-mortem report, the young farmer died due to a head injury as a result of the accident .The Delhi Police, represented by Delhi government standing counsel Rahul Mehra and advocate Chaitanya Gosain, has also relied upon the footage collected from CCTV cameras located at the incident spot on Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg -- where the young farmer died — and said that the man was driving the tractor at high speed and the vehicle overturned after hitting some barricades.It said that the footage also shows that the police personnel were running away from the speeding tractor and that none of them fired upon the vehicle or the driver.The Delhi Police has also said that CCTV footage further indicates that the protestors did not take the injured Navreet Singh to any nearby hospital and instead they attacked the ambulances that reached the site after hearing about the accident. They kept the body on the road for five hours and then spread rumours that he was killed in police firing.The UP police, in its status report, have stated that no FIR has been registered by it in connection with the death as claimed by the petitioner.“It is further submitted that the videography of the post-mortem or original X-Ray plates — which are medico-legal documents — cannot be given to the family of the deceased by the medical department,” it has said in its report.The petition, filed through advocates Vrinda Grover and Soutik Banerjee, has sought a court-monitored SIT probe into the death of the young farmer.The high court on Friday listed the matter for further hearing on March 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-gunshot-wounds-on-man-who-died-during-r-day-delhi-up-cops-tell-hc-101614361444107.html
26-02-2021||Delhi||Minor girl kidnapped from near Kalyanpuri three days ago murdered, body found in Modinagar fields||The body of a nine-year-old girl, who was kidnapped from east Delhi’s Khichripur three days ago, was found in the sugarcane fields of a village in Modinagar, near Ghaziabad, on Friday morning, the police said, adding that the autopsy has ruled out sexual assault. Four alleged kidnappers, who live in the same neighbourhood as the girl’s family, have been arrested in connection with the kidnap and murder. The arrested persons were identified by their first names -- Johnny alias Shiva, the key suspect, his cousin Naresh, Kailash and Tarun. “In the kidnapping and murder case of Kalyanpuri, four persons have been arrested and the weapon of the offence has been recovered,” said deputy commissioner of police (east) Deepak Yadav.Police said the four had kidnapped the girl, who was playing outside her home, to demand a ransom from her family. Shiva lured her to a van after promising her a ride. The other suspects were already in the vehicle. They took her to a village in Modinagar and were planning to call the girl’s family to demand a ransom for her safe release. However, when they learnt that the police had leads that could end in their arrest, the men panicked and allegedly killed the girl by smashing her head with an iron rod, the police said.“They killed the girl and threw her body in the sugarcane fields. The body was recovered after the interrogation of the arrested suspects,” the officer said.As news of the girl’s murder spread through the neighbourhood, violence broke out by evening, with several people pelting stones at police personnel, alleging that the police had not taken the kidnapping complaint seriously and it was their laxity that led to her murder. A couple of police vehicles were damaged in the stone pelting. At least three persons were detained for the violence while police presence in the neighbourhood was intensified to maintain law and order.The girl’s murder also took on a political colour, as one of the wards in the area is going to municipal by-polls on Sunday. Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) legislator from Kalkaji Atishi said, “Despite having CCTV footage, the Delhi Police could not save the missing girl, even though there was heavy police presence in the area when BJP leaders came here to campaign for the municipal by-polls. People of Delhi, especially Dalits, feel unsafe because the Delhi Police is incapable of protecting their lives.”A senior Delhi Police officer, who did not want to be named, said it was a blind kidnapping case and the investigating team had been trying to gather leads from the day the case was registered.“The CCTV footage helped us get some leads about the suspects but their whereabouts were not known as they had switched off their cellphones. We searched the key suspect’s house and found the box of his newly purchased mobile phone. Through its IMEI number, we found that the phone’s last location was Modinagar. But by the time we could arrest him and the other three suspects, they had already killed the girl,” the officer said.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “It is a sad incident, our sympathies are with the bereaved family and we will meet them soon. We urge political parties not to politicalise such a sad incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/minor-girl-kidnapped-from-near-kalyanpuri-three-days-ago-murdered-body-found-in-modinagar-fields-101614361439536.html
26-02-2021||Noida||Three men in auto gang-rape GB Nagar woman in Hapur||Three unidentified men allegedly gangraped a 30-year-old woman on Wednesday night shortly after boarding an auto-rickshaw from Ghaziabad to her home in Gautam Budh Nagar.Police said the survivor told them that she was taken to Hapur, 20 km from Lal Kuan from where she had boarded the vehicle, and raped. The men allegedly robbed her of her phone and cash before releasing her early on Thursday morning. No arrests had been made till press time.Police said the woman worked at a mall in Ghaziabad’s Indirapuran and was heading home at around 8.30 pm. As per her routine, she boarded an auto-rickshaw to reach the Lal Kuan intersection at around 9.15 pm from where she took another auto-rickshaw.This second auto-rickshaw had three other passengers, police said quoting the survivor. “Then after one got off, the two others overpowered her,” said a police officer familiar with the case.The vehicle then allegedly moved to Masuri in Ghaziabad.“They stopped the auto-rickshaw at the Lal Kuan flyover for a brief moment during which they gagged me and people sitting behind (the men who boarded) told the driver to turn on the music system ... at the scene of crime, they raped me one by one,” the woman’s police complaint read.The alleged scene of the crime was a spot near a canal in Hapur close to Ghaziabad border. Superintendent of police [SP] (Hapur) Neeraj Kumar Jadaun said he visited the scene of the crime and collected evidence.“At around 11.30 pm they took me to the main road and waited for a bus but passing buses did not stop. Thereafter, they made me board an auto-rickshaw back to Lal Kuan,” the woman’s complaint read. Police said that the driver dropped her at Masuri from where she approached the local police station.“We received a call at around 3.30am on Thursday from control room in Ghaziabad about the incident. We immediately registered an FIR under IPC section 376D (gangrape) based on her complaint. We formed three teams to trace the three unidentified men who she estimated to around 30 years of age,” said Hapur SP Jadaun. Police said they estimate the crime took place between 10 pm and 11.30 pm. The woman was taken to a hospital for medical treatment and examination, said police.“After the woman reached us, we inquired into the matter and alerted our counterparts in Hapur. We have also formed a team to help in the investigation,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural), Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-men-in-auto-gang-rape-gb-nagar-woman-in-hapur-101614361381612.html
26-02-2021||Other||Court asks police to ensure fair probe in Deep Sidhu’s case||New DelhiA Delhi court on Friday said that police are not supposed to collect evidence only to prove the guilt of the accused but rather to bring a true picture of an incident, as it directed the city police force to look into the issues raised by Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu in his plea seeking a fair investigation. Sidhu, who was arrested by the police for alleged role in inciting people to resort to violence at the Red Fort on Republic Day, had moved court seeking to include all videos and other materials on record which allegedly proved his innocence. His plea had sought directions to the police to conduct a fair and impartial investigation in the case.On Friday, the court asked the police to look into the issues raised by the accused through his counsel Abhishek Gupta.“Police officials are directed to investigate on the points as mentioned in the application made by the complainant to unearth the truth…..“The IO (investigating officer) is duty bound to conduct proper investigation in the matter in a fair and impartial manner. He is not supposed to collect the evidence only to prove the guilt of the accused, rather he has to bring the true picture before the court,”Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gajender Singh Nagar said in his order.The court, however, added that appropriate action may be taken and appropriate sections may be added if Sidhu was trying to mislead the investigation by fabricating false evidence.During the hearing, advocate Abhishek Gupta, appearing for Sidhu, told the court that Sidhu was not an instigator of the incident at Red Fort, as alleged by the police.“There is no video of him calling the people to gather at Red Fort. He did not indulge in any kind of violence taking place at Red Fort. He was only a peaceful protestor,” Gupta claimed. He further contended that Sidhu was staying at a hotel in Murthal from where he checked out at 12 pm on February 26 and left for Delhi only after checking out.“The CCTV footage of the hotel, which was in working condition, checkout bill showing the time/payment details, as online payment was made, be obtained to ascertain this... Further, the car navigation system installed in the Ford Endeavor car used by him which is in police possession would also show the route taken by him to reach from Murthal to Red Fort along with timings and time taken in the same,” he submitted.He further said Sidhu reached the area around Red Fort only around 2 pm, which can be proven by his phone location and by that time a huge crowd has already gathered at the spot. He claimed there was CCTV footage of the Red Fort in which Sidhu can be seen helping the police by requesting the crowd to leave the rampart where they were trying to hoist the flag.Additional Public Prosecutor Rajiv Kamboj, appearing for the police, opposed Sidhu’s plea saying the accused cannot guide the police to conduct investigation in a particular manner.The court had on February 23 sent Sidhu to judicial custody in the case. Police had earlier alleged he was one of the main instigators of the violent incidents at the Red Fort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/court-asks-police-to-ensure-fair-probe-in-deep-sidhu-s-case-101614361380843.html
26-02-2021||Other||Kejriwal arrives in Surat to a hero’s welcome: You people did a miracle, he tells residents||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal arrived in Surat to a victor’s welcome on Friday, with hundreds of people cheering him on as he took out a road show to thank the people of the diamond city for electing his party as the chief opposition party in the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC).In the recently concluded civic body polls, the AAP won 27 of 120 seats in the Surat Municipal Corporation in its debut appearance, thereby emerging the principal opposition party against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which won 93 seats. The Congress and other parties could not open their account in the municipality.Amid allegations by some AAP winners that the BJP was trying to make them defect, Kejriwal cautioned his party workers and said, “The BJP will try to poach you by pressure or by luring you. But stay united and inform the party if you receive such a call from the BJP.” Kejriwal, whose party had scored a zero in the state in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, was visiting Gujarat for the first time in seven years. He had stayed away even during the campaigning for the local body polls, and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had managed the party’s campaign.Addressing a massive gathering in Surat on Friday, Kejriwal said, “Aapko Surat ki janta ney vipaksh ka kaam diya hai, unki (ruling BJP) naani yaad dila dena, ek bhi galat kaam mat hone dena (People of Surat have chosen you as the opposition party, don’t allow any corruption in the civic body).” “The entire Gujarat should know that we have arrived and won’t brook any illegal activities. People of Gujarat should know that a different politics is happening in Surat,” he said.Kejriwal said the entire country was discussing the AAP’s entry into Gujarat, especially in Surat. “Logon ne kamaal kar diya (You people did a miracle),” an elated AAP chief said, as hundreds cheered him.Although his party won only 27 seats, Kejriwal’s roadshow in Surat was like a veritable victory procession. For AAP, as he himself said, opening an electoral account in Gujarat, a BJP stronghold, was in itself an achievement. Kejriwal had a word of caution for his party workers to remain grounded and not get complacent. He said, “It is common that people who get elected develop an ego. But I am pleading with you not to have an ego and continue to introspect. Always treat people who approach you for help with respect because nobody wants to get insulted.”He asked the elected councillors to open an office in their locality and if they could not afford to do so, to open one at their residence. Kejriwal said, “Even if anyone calls you at 2am, remain available to them and try to help them,” he said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kejriwal-arrives-in-surat-to-a-hero-s-welcome-you-people-did-a-miracle-he-tells-residents-101614361379652.html
26-02-2021||Other||Andhra govt seeks to affiliate Venkateswara College with Andhra University; students and teachers hold protest||The Andhra Pradesh government has written to the Union ministry of education seeking to disaffiliate Sri Venkateswara College, Delhi, from Delhi University (DU) and affiliate it with the Andhra University (AU) in Visakhapatnam. Both teachers and students of DU have objected to move and said they will not allow attempts to alter the present status of Venkateswara college.According to an official from the Andhra Pradesh(AP) chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy’s office, the CM had written a letter to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on February 12. Reddy’s letter said, “The Sri Venkateswara College in Delhi is managed by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), which also manages the famous Lord Venkateshwara temple on Tirumala Hills. The TTD manages the college through a governing council, headed by the chairman of the TTD Trust Board, which nominates 10 of the 15 members of the council. It plays an active role in the management and growth of the college.”The Andhra chief minister has proposed that his government will amend the AP Universities Act, 1991, to expand the power of affiliation of Andhra University so that Sri Venkateswara College may be affiliated with it. This would facilitate greater access to higher education in Delhi for students from Andhra Pradesh, Reddy said. “There is a need for seats in that college to be made available to students from the state,” he said in the letter. Citing University Grants Commission(UGC)’s 2009 rules that barred state universities from operating colleges beyond their respective state’s jurisdiction, Reddy wrote in the letter, “I request the Central government to direct UGC under Section 20 of the UGC Act to exempt AU from clause (b) of the UGC and allow it to affiliate Sri Venkateswara College, as an off-campus in New Delhi, thus paving the way for students of AP to access quality higher education in Delhi.”Officials at the Venkateswara College said they have not received any communication either from their management or the Andhra government yet. DU spokesperson and dean of colleges Balram Pani said, “The Andhra government has not written anything to DU in this regard as yet. A state university cannot operate colleges outside their state; so there is no possibility of the merger of a DU college with AU or any other state university.”Sri Venkateswara College, which was established in 1961, comes under the south campus of the Delhi University.The staff association of Venkateswara College held a protest on the college premises against the development on Thursday, while a group of students protested on the campus on Friday. The teachers also submitted a memorandum to the college authorities saying, “Any move to affiliate to any state /another university will result in drastic changes in salary, employment tenure, and service conditions of employees that shall adversely impact the academic quality of the institution and also bring untold misery to their lives...The staff association resolves to remain firmly as a constituent college of the University of Delhi.”Students also started a campaign on Twitter with hashtags, #Venky_belongs_to_DU and #GobackAU. “It’s like taking someone’s identity. Students take admission to Sri Venkateswara College because it is affiliated with DU. If they wanted to take admission in AU or any other state university, they would have gone there,” said Naveen Kumar, a student of the college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/andhra-govt-seeks-to-affiliate-venkateswara-college-with-andhra-university-students-and-teachers-hold-protest-101614361380293.html
26-02-2021||Other||Ludhiana man beaten to death by landlord on suspicion of theft||Suspecting him of stealing ₹1,000, a man beat up his tenant to death with a stick in Gagan Nagar of Daba area on Friday. The victim, identified as Vijay Mourya, 30, was a labourer. Hailing from Uttar Pradesh, he had been living in the city for the past two years in a rented accommodation owned by the accused, Gabbar Singh, 50. On Thursday night, neighbours heard ruckus in Gabbar’s house and found him fighting with Vijay. Gabbar was accusing Vijay of stealing ₹1,000 from his pocket. They intervened and diffused the altercation before returning home. In the wee hours of Friday, they again heard noises and on rushing out, saw Gabbar beating up Vijay with a stick. They said he did not stop assaulting his tenant till he stopped responding. As he tried to flee on noticing Vijay unconscious, neighbours nabbed him and handed him over to the police.“By the time we were informed, Vijay was already dead. His landlord has been booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. The family of the victim have been informed about the incident,” said inspector Mehma Singh, station house officer (SHO), Daba police station.The accused will be presented in court on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-man-beaten-to-death-by-landlord-on-suspicion-of-theft-101614361020282.html
26-02-2021||Noida||Covid-19: UP makes testing of those coming in from Maharashtra, Kerala mandatory||NOIDA: Taking serious note of the rising number of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in the country, particularly in Maharashtra and Kerala the Uttar Pradesh government has issued detailed guidelines for visitors coming in from these two states, in which testing and quarantine upon arrival mandatory has been made mandatory. According to the letter issued by Amit Mohan Prasad, the additional chief secretary (health), all those coming in from Kerala and Maharashtra are to be tested itself through rapid antigen kits at the airport, railway or bus stations itself after their arrival, after which they will be tested via RT-PCR kits. . The letter adds that the travellers will be put under quarantine, either at home or medical facilities, till the result of their RT PCR test comes through, after which they will be advised a week’s quarantine as precaution.“Those tested Covid-19 positive will be immediately sent to mandatory home or facility quarantine and their RT-PCR testing will also be done. The chief medical officers and surveillance units of all districts will properly disseminate this message to all public places, prominently. In case of any emergency, the urban and rural vigilance committees will intimate the matter to their surveillance units of their districts concerned immediately. The concerned officials will keep a close watch on the Covid situation and continue testing, tracking and treatment in an aggressive manner,” the letter stated.Gautam Budh Nagar Suhas LY confirmed that he had received the advisory issued by the government. “I’ve asked all surveillance units and health officials to keep a strict vigil on all people coming in from both these states and conduct their testing,” he said.Meanwhile, as many as 3,062 healthcare workers (HCW) in Gautam Budh Nagar district out of the enlisted 3,502, who had received their first shot of the vaccine against Covid-19 on January 29, received their booster dose on Friday. Besides, 34 frontline workers (FLW) and 18 healthcare workers – whose names were recently uploaded on the Co-WIN app, were also vaccinated.District vaccination officer Dr Neeraj Tyagi said that 609 healthcare workers, who had missed their second dose on earlier sessions, were also inoculated on Friday, across the 46 inoculation booths at 24 health centres in the district. “All of the total 3,743 beneficiaries were administered the Serum India Institute’s (SII’s) Covishield on Friday. It was an open session where both FLWs and leftover HCWs could get vaccinated, including those from other districts. Their data, however, will be added to their respective districts,” he said. He further said that all backlog beneficiaries, who had received their first dose on January 16, 22 and 28, have now started coming to the inoculation centres to get their booster dose. “During Friday’s drive, no adverse event following immunization (AEFI) was reported. The AEFI is any untoward medical occurrence which follows immunisation and reflects consequences for immunisation coverage and disease incidence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-up-makes-testing-of-those-coming-in-from-maharashtra-kerala-mandatory-101614360959557.html
26-02-2021||Mumbai||Family of gangster Iqbal Mirchi declared fugitive economic offenders||The special court for trying offences under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) has declared the wife and two sons of Iqbal Mirchi, an aide of gangster Dawood Ibrahim, as fugitive economic offenders (FEO).While declaring Mirchi’s wife Hajra Memon, and their two sons Junaid Memon and Asif Memon as FEOs, special judge AA Nandgaonkar said that their properties in India and abroad are directed to be seized by following due process of law. The court said that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) is allowed to further add to the list of their properties if, over time, they find any property owned by either of the three.ED has so far provisionally attached assets worth around ₹798 crore, linked to the family in India and abroad, under the provisions of PMLA.The agency can begin the confiscation of these properties with the permission of the court.ED had on December 4, 2020, approached the special court to declare the three as FEOs, as they had failed to respond to warrants issued against them and have not returned to India despite repetitive summons and warrants.Before declaring them as FEOs the court had issued summons, asking the three to appear before the court on February 16. However, they failed to appear. “The absence of the accused before the court forced me to proceed against the accused in view of section 11 (3) of the FEO Act,” the court said on February 16.The agency had initiated a money laundering case against Mirchi and his family on September 26, 2019.Officers of the central agency had also arrested five accused persons, including Dewan Housing Finance Corporation’s (DHFL) Kapil Wadhawan, Dheeraj Wadhawan and Humayun Merchant, in that case.ED’s probe has revealed that DHFL had allegedly extended loans to a firm, Sunblink Real Estate Pvt Ltd, which purportedly routed money to Mirchi.Mirchi died in the United Kingdom (UK) in August 2013.DHFL came under ED’s scanner when the agency was examining properties linked to Mirchi in Worli. Three properties have already been attached by ED under the PMLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/family-of-gangster-iqbal-mirchi-declared-fugitive-economic-offenders-101614360900086.html
26-02-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC extends interim relief to Kangana Ranaut, her sister till March 10||The Bombay high court (HC) has continued the interim protection against coercive action for actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel, regarding a first information report (FIR) against them for alleged hate posts on Twitter. The court was informed that the documents filed by the complainant and the police in the HC, to oppose the petition filed by Ranaut and Chandel for quashing the FIR, were different from the documents submitted before the metropolitan magistrate court at Bandra, which ordered the registration of the FIR against the sisters on sedition charges.HC has called for the documents and posted the hearing of the actor’s petition for March 22.A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing Ranaut’s petition, was informed by advocate Rizwan Siddiquee that the complainant, Munawwar Ali Sayyed, had not followed the procedure for lodging complaints as stipulated in the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). Siddiquee submitted that Sayyed had approached the magistrate court without informing the nearest police station or the higher police authorities. It was submitted that the magistrate had not taken cognisance of the same and had ordered the registration of the FIR in haste and without application of mind. He added that the documents placed before the HC were not the same as the ones submitted to the magistrate. However, advocate Rizwan Merchant for the Sayyed, submitted that a complaint had been sent to the deputy commissioner of police (DCP) of the said zone, after which his client approached the magistrate. He, however, added that there was some problem in the printing of the date on which the complaint was addressed to the DCP. Siddiquee refuted the argument, stating that he had got the records of the case from the magistrate court under the Right to Information (RTI) Act and it did not have the complaint sent to the DCP, as stipulated under section 153(3) of the CrPC, but the same was submitted before the HC. After hearing the submissions, the court observed that the magistrate should have taken note of whether proper procedure was followed and said that as Ranaut had raised a dispute on the documents submitted before HC and the magistrate, it wanted to scrutinise the documents and hence, called for the records from the magistrate court on or before March 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-extends-interim-relief-to-kangana-ranaut-her-sister-till-march-10-101614360780283.html
26-02-2021||Noida||Farmers plan cycle march from Kanyakumari to J&K||While farmer leaders are taking up panchayats and rallies in different states to garner support for their protest against the Centre’s farm laws, a group of youngsters are cycling to different protest sites at the Delhi border to rope in volunteers for a “cycle march” from Kanyakumari to Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). They said they already had about 60-70 volunteers for the march to spread awareness on the laws and the protest to interior parts of the country. “There is a lot of understanding among the farmers across the country, but they need to know more. Marching on is not be feasible and with high fuel cost these days, even vehicles are not practical. So, we decided to for bicycles,” said Vikas Chaudhary, a farmer from Shamli in Uttar Pradesh who conceived the idea. He said the volunteers included students, retired servicemen and even the elderly, all with an agriculture backgroundHe said the group begin their march from Kanyakumari on March 12 and the journey to cover over 3500 km is likely to take them six months. Their teams are in the process of arrangements at different villages and also speaking to social and religious organisations for arranging of meetings with farmers. “We have people aged 17 years to 85 years who have joined us. We met during the protest at different borders. For instance, we have 70-year-old man who travelled from his hometown in Ludhiana to Singhu border on his bicycle. He is one of the senior most members of our group now,” said Chaudhary. “We know it will be difficult, but we are willing to do it for the cause. Our farmers are in the third month of their protest while braving cold and now they will have to face scorching summers ahead,” said Akshay Chaudhary, a 22-year-old from Kaithal in Haryana who is pursuing his graduation in Yoga studies in Delhi. The group of cyclists visited the UP Gate protest site on Friday and also met farmer leaders of the farmers’ committee at the UP Gate. “Their proposal will be put forward before the Samyukt Kisan Morcha committee. Once the discussions take place about the ‘cycle rally,’ our committee will extend all possible help for them,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, member of the UP Gate farmers’ committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmers-plan-cycle-march-from-kanyakumari-to-jk-101614360539441.html
26-02-2021||Noida||Five held for robbery at cigarette godown||Greater Noida: A day after an office-cum-warehouse in Site IV was robbed of cigarette packets worth ₹25 lakh, police on late Thursday night arrested three persons, including a former employee of the warehouse, in the case after an encounter. Police have also apprehended two minors from the Beta 2 area in connection with the robbery.According to police, three of the suspects received bullet injuries in the encounter while two minors were apprehended unhurt. Besides the stolen cigarette packets, three countrymade guns, three live cartridges, three used cartridges and one knife were recovered from the possession of the suspects, police said.The suspects were identified as Kapil, 25, the former employee, Rohit Thakur, 23, and Rohit, 24, and two minors aged 16 and 17, all residents of Ghodi Bacheda village in Dadri. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that the five suspects had barged into an office-cum-godown in Site IV area on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday and fled with 12 cartons of cigarettes worth ₹25 lakh. The criminals had also stabbed the 33-year-old security guard, Sunil Rai, for putting up resistance to the robbery. Pandey said that Sector Beta 2 police formed a team and launched a search for the suspects. “On Thursday night, We received information that the five suspects were planning to dispose of the stolen items. The police team conducted a raid and the three suspects were arrested after encounter. They received bullet injuries. Two minor suspects were also apprehended unhurt from the mini truck,” he said. The three injured suspects were sent to district hospital for medical treatment. Later, they were produced in court on Friday and sent to jail, while the two minors were sent to the juvenile home. Police said that Kapil had worked at the same warehouse one year ago. Since he knew the details, he planned to conduct the robbery with his accomplices, they said.The office-cum-warehouse is owned by Rakesh Jain, the distributor of a leading cigarette brand in Greater Noida. On Thursday he had said that the five suspects entered the premises after jumping the boundary wall and tied the security guard’s hands and legs with a rope, and fled with the goods. A case was registered against five persons under Section 397 (robbery/dacoity with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) and Section 342 (wrongful confinement).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/five-held-for-robbery-at-cigarette-godown-101614360299962.html
26-02-2021||Noida||Yamuna Expressway authority’s team visits Medtech Zone in Vizag||Greater Noida: A five-member team of the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) led by its chief executive officer Arun Vir Singh on Friday visited the Andhra Pradesh Medtech Zone (AMTZ) in Visakhapatnam to understand the requirements for the proposed medical device park project in Sector 28 along the Yamuna Expressway. Authority officials said that the detailed project report (DPR) of the medical device park is likely to be ready by March this year. AMTZ is one of the largest medical devices manufacturing parks in the country. The Yeida team visited testing labs, research departments and other units at AMTZ to learn more about a medical device manufacturing park that will benefit in developing the proposed park in Sector 28, the officials said.Yeida has roped in the Kalam Institute of Health Technology (KIHT), Visakhapatnam, to prepare the DPR for this project.“KIHT has almost finished the DPR and soon will share it with us. We may get the DPR by March-end. Our visit to AMTZ will help us in understanding the medical device manufacturing project’s requirement and how we can make the best one. Our visit will also help us finalise the DPR as per the demands of the market,” said Yeida CEO Singh.The team discussed about the technology and requirement of funds for the development of a medical device park with AMTZ head Dr Jitendra Sharma, said the officials.“We have requested Dr Jitendra Sharma to help us develop the proposed medical device park and he agreed for the same,” said Singh.In November last year, Yeida had earmarked 350 acres of land for the medical device park in Sector 28 and sent a proposal to the state government. The state government has in-principle approved the project that will create jobs and boost growth in the region, said the officials, adding that the authority is expecting ₹5,250 crore investments in this project.Yeida is also likely to come up with a plot scheme in the proposed medical device park, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/yamuna-expressway-authority-s-team-visits-medtech-zone-in-vizag-101614360299377.html
26-02-2021||Noida||Yeida says it resolved all land-related issues with farmers||Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) on Friday said it gave residential plots and resolved all issues with those farmers who gave their land to it.According to the authority, 6,076 farmers from 29 villages around the Yamuna Expressway had given their land for it to develop the region.It will execute the registry of the plots by the end of March and farmers will get possession by the year end, said officials.“We have made a list of all 6,076 farmers who are eligible to get residential plots against their land. Now we will publish the list in newspapers and also put data on our website for public verification. In a week’s time we will make sure that the list is error-free,” said Arun Vir Singh. chief executive officer of Yeida.Established in 2001, the authority is responsible for the development of the 165 km Yamuna Expressway and the urban zones along this six-lane link between Greater Noida and Agra. Among the projects that are under the authority are the Noida international airport, proposed Film City and proposed Electronic City. The authority also plans to develop industrial zones.Farmers of Bhatta, Parsaul, Mirzapur and Fatehpur among others are also happy with the allotment of these plots.“We were apprehensive whether the authority will allot these plots or not because in neighbouring Noida and Greater Noida many farmers are yet to get plots. We are happy that we get allotment letters,” said Mukesh Bhati a farmer from Mirzapur village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/yeida-says-it-resolved-all-land-related-issues-with-farmers-101614360239508.html
26-02-2021||Noida||45-year-old killed in Ghaziabad while trying to resolve fight between two brothers||Ghaziabad: A 45-year-old man was allegedly gunned down on Friday morning when he tried to intervene in a fight between two brothers at Kallugarhi locality falling under the jurisdiction of Masuri police station. Police said that there was an altercation between Mohammad Shahbuddin and his brother Riyazuddin since Thursday night, and the issue continued till Friday morning when the incident took place. The deceased, also named as Shahbuddin, was their neighbour, police said.Police said they have registered an FIR and teams are searching for 25-year-old suspect Mohammad Khalid, who is son of Shahbuddin (one of the two brothers). “Riyazuddin’s wife had left home and went to her parents’ house a couple of days ago and he blamed his brother Shahbuddin for it. The two brothers had a fight on Thursday night when the victim, who is also their maternal uncle, pacified both of them,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural). However, an altercation started again between the two brothers on Friday morning and Shahbuddin arrived yet again to sort out the matter. The incident took place around 11.30am outside the house of two brothers, police said. “Mohammad Khalid, son of Shahbuddin (who was fighting his brother), brought a countrymade weapon and in the scuffle, it went off. The shot hit victim Shahbuddin who had come to resolve the fight. He suffered critical injuries and was rushed to a hospital where he was declared dead. Suspect Kahlid fled soon after the incident and our teams are searching for him,” Raja said, adding that the suspect was trying to aim at his uncle, but the gun went off during the scuffle and the shot hit the victim. Police said that based on a complaint given by victim’s family, an FIR under IPC section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) was registered against Khalid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/45yearold-killed-in-ghaziabad-while-trying-to-resolve-fight-between-two-brothers-101614360240159.html
26-02-2021||Pune||Standing committee approves ₹246 cr for ward-level works||The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has approved Rs246 crore for ward-level works. The decision was taken on Friday. Elected members from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have been allotted ₹2 crore each, and corporators from the opposition parties received Rs1 crore each. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, members not able to carry ward-level works. The municipal commissioner had given orders to do only 40 percent of such work. As the situation improved and one month remains before the financial year ends, the standing committee approved the diversion of this Rs246 crore. Members can now do work in their wards. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/standing-committee-approves-rs-246-cr-for-ward-level-works-101614360001091.html
26-02-2021||Pune||Pigeon feeding raises health concerns amidst bird flu cases||In the wake of isolated cases of bird flu, serious questions are being raised over Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) inability to take action against those feeding pigeons. Citizen groups maintain that feeding the birds is an offence and fines must be recovered. They said that pigeon dropping could pose bird flu risk. A person cannot feed birds from a flat’s balcony creating nuisance due to droppings and filth for other occupants in a residential society, the Supreme Court had directed in 2019 and refused to interfere with an order restraining a woman from feeding birds from her balcony flat in a high rise building in Mumbai. According to medical practitioner Dr Suhas Divte, pigeon dropping is a serious threat to public health. Currently, citizens especially grain merchants are feeding pigeons which sometimes behave like a predator. “Pigeon feeding must be banned, and culprits punished,” he said. The dried and disintegrated bird dropping disperse over a wide area due to wind causing allergic and other hygiene problems, said social worker Danish Khan of Mohammadwadi. Dr Prakash Wagh, assistant medical officer (veterinary), PMC said, “When bird flu cases were reported, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had sent samples of pigeons to the state government’s animal husbandry department centre in Aundh. All tests were negative. We have been getting complaints from residents on pigeon nuisance.” The official said that the civic administration has put a ban on feeding pigeons at Rasth peth chowk to check the bird menace. “Staff are posted at certain places to stop public from feeding pigeons, though as per the Solid Waste Management rule, there is provision to impose fine for feeding pigeon,” he said. Meanwhile, PMC health chief Dr Ashish Bharti said that the solid waste management department handles the complaints related to pigeon menace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pigeon-feeding-raises-health-concerns-amidst-bird-flu-cases-101614360000488.html
26-02-2021||Pune||Lawyer moves court to register criminal case in death of woman linked to politician||An advocate in Pune has filed a private complaint with the Pune Cantonment Court, seeking to register a criminal case in connection with the death of a woman who died by suicide on February 7. Currently, no case has been lodged by the Pune city police, the petition stated. Advocate Bhakti Rajendra Pandhre (24) from the Legal Justice Society, filed the complaint through lawyer Vijay Thombre, seeking direction under the 156 (3) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), citing that the Pune police have refused to act on complaints. “She died under suspicious circumstances and her death has generated lot of media attention. Many audio clips are also going viral on social media, which feature the names of many prominent persons. However, the death is not being thoroughly probed and the accused can destroy the evidence related to death at any time,” the petition states. The petition has chiefly demanded registering of an FIR and an investigation into allegations against persons accused in the case. The court will conduct a hearing in the matter on March 5 BJP leader Chitra Wagh held a press conference on Thursday and accused the Pune police of not investigating the case. The woman was a native of Parli Vaijnath in Beed district and according to the police report is suspected to have died after jumping from the first floor of the Heaven Park building in Mohammadwadi. An case of accidental death has been registered at Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lawyer-moves-court-to-register-criminal-case-in-death-of-woman-linked-to-politician-101614359999390.html
26-02-2021||Pune||Six youth nabbed; 12 juveniles detained for spreading terror in Nana peth||The Pune crime branch has arrested six youths and detained 12 juveniles in a conflict in law in connection with a murderous bid on the life of a youth in Nana peth on Feb 21, 2021. According to the crime branch, a gang of over 20 youths comprising grownups and juveniles barged into the saloon in Nana peth where they assaulted a youth and attempted to kill him with a chopper. The youth managed to escape from the scene even as the attackers claimed that they were in search of a person named “MK” and threatened him with dire consequences if found. The gang which was armed with choppers raised their hands in the air brandishing the sharp chopper and said that they were “bhais of Nana peth” and whoever will try to cross their way will be hacked. The gang then went in the direction of Peru gate and left the scene. In the meantime, the shopkeepers downed shutters in the area fearing the armed youths who had strayed into the area with the intention to spread terror and fear amongst the citizens, crime branch officials stated. Sunny Vinod Mahapure (19), a resident of Katraj has lodged an FIR in connection with the incident after which Rishikesh Jalinder Kamble (21), Prateek Yuvraj Shinde (18), Yash Sanjay Chavan (20), Swaraj Nilejay Wadekar (20), Vaibhav Nitin Shahpurkar (20) and Devidas Babasaheb Galphade (22). The complainant runs a saloon and tattoo shop near Hatti Ganpati where the gang arrived and enquired about “MK”. They assaulted his cousin and left the place issuing dire warnings to all those present inside the premises at that time, the complaint stated. Meanwhile, the police have invoked IPC sections 307, 323,143,147,148,149,506 and 427 against the accused. Also, the relevant sections of the Arms act and criminal procedure code have been invoked against the accused. The crime branch has recovered four choppers from the accused. The city police are going all out to curb the rising incidents of youths taking law in their hands to spread terror in the respective localities. Vehicle vandalism is particularly being investigated by the crime branch while the recent incident of gangster Gajanan Marne’s rally has kept the city police on its toes where all efforts are being undertaken to ensure that criminals do not find it easy to scare the citizens. The crime branch officials were assisted by the local police station in nabbing the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/six-youth-nabbed-12-juveniles-detained-for-spreading-terror-in-nana-peth-101614359941686.html
26-02-2021||Pune||Joint charity commissioner restricts sale of 24-acre Bhairavnath temple trust property||Joint charity commissioner of Pune SM Bukke has issued an interim order restraining Shri Bhairavnath Devasthan trust to not alienate its property worth crores located at survey No 24 in Mohammadwadi. Four trustees were allegedly trying to dispose of the property without the knowledge of the charity commissioner. Rajkiran Bandu Salve and Balu Dadu Dolas, interested persons in the affairs of the trust had filed an application before the charity commissioner under section 41E of Maharashtra Public Trust praying to grant an interim temporary injunction prohibiting the respondents from creating third party interests, alienation, and sale of suit property. The applicants have made Jaysingh Nivrutti Jagdale, Nivrutti Sitaram Jagdale, Dr Sumanchand Shah, Raj Kishorlal Chaddha, Baban Gorakh Ghule, deputy superintendent of land records, Haveli, deputy commissioner (property management division) PMC and Haveli tehsildar as party in the case. The application stated, “The respondent hand in glove with malafide intention filed an application measuring/surveying the trust’s land which is in survey No 24 and accordingly moved a proposal for plotting/layout before the land records/city survey authority and this overt act was done towards improper alienation of the trust’s property and respondents acted against the interests of the trust. Therefore, there is every danger to the property of the trust. Therefore, respondents are restrained from improper alienation of trust’s property and also restrained from taking active participation in the administration of the trust.” The order stated, “The respondent number one are hand in glove with respondent number three and four with malafide intention filed an application of measuring/ surveying of the trust land survey no 24 admeasuring 10 H=18 R. It is a devasthan inam class III land. The respondent number two and four moved the proposal of plotting /layout before the land records authority/city survey officer. The respondent number one to four is trying to dispose of the trust property. Therefore, the applicants moved the main application for a temporary injunction under section 41E of MPT act and vide this application Exh two prayed for ad interim a temporary injunction prohibiting the respondents from creating third party interest, alienation, sale of suit property.” “The respondents one to 10 or whosoever it may be are hereby restrained by the ad-interim injunction from causing damage to the suit property and creating third party interest, alienating, disposing of the suit property survey No 24 admeasuring 10 H =18 R situated at village Mohammadwadi Pune until further order. Respondents six to nine are hereby restrained from executing any transaction or making any order till disposal of the main application. The applicants to comply under order 39 rule three of CPC,” the joint charity commissioner in his order stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/joint-charity-commissioner-restricts-sale-of-24-acre-bhairavnath-temple-trust-property-101614359940913.html
26-02-2021||Pune||Smart footpath project on FC road sees daylight, but pedestrians continue to fight for space||After missing several deadlines, the Fergusson College smart footpath project has swung in service and made business easy for vendors, but it has still failed to serve pedestrians. While walking from Good luck chowk to Agriculture college on the right-side footpath, a major portion is occupied by vendors selling clothes and other accessories. When HT visited the spot, the daily commuters and shop owners claimed that no action from the PMC anti-encroachment department has been taken on roadside vendors in the past one month. “If you visit the spot in the evening, you will see a number of vendors seated in line selling various things. You cannot even walk on the footpath. I have not seen an anti-encroachment vehicle in the last 10 days taking action on these vendors,” said Nikhil Rana from Chat House at FC road. Madhav Jagtap from PMC who heads the anti-encroachment department was not available as he did not reply to several calls and messages. “Many private hotels are using footpaths as part of their property and allowing customers to stand and have coffee. They have also put umbrellas in front of their hotels, and no one acts, said Rohit Salve, a regular visitor. Harshad Abhyankar, director, Save Pune traffic movement said, “There should be a dedicated space for hawkers on the footpath and space for pedestrians, bicycles since hawkers are even found on road where there is no footpath.” Dattatray Ramchandra Langhe, divisional encroachment officer said, “Every three days we conduct an encroachment drive on FC and Jangli Maharaj road. These vendors keep on coming even after we conduct drives. The number of vendors have gone down in the past and we are taking strict action against them.” More things to come up The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will take one more month to complete a few more things on the FC road stretch. “At Goodluck junction where Kalakar kata has been constructed, the PMC will be adding one mural painting. Near the police ground, we are also making one play area for children and it will take one more month. The footpath work is completed,” said Dinkar Gojare, superintendent engineer of PMC’s road department. Smart footpath The smart footpath work began two years ago in May 2018. The entire stretch on which the footpath construction work was undertaken is 2.5 kilometres starting from Goodluck chowk to Agriculture college. The project includes the building of a footpath on the left flank up to five metres, a cycle track and three metres on the right flank. The cost of the project is ₹25 crore that includes parking lots on both sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/smart-footpath-project-on-fc-road-sees-daylight-but-pedestrians-continue-to-fight-for-space-101614359940211.html
26-02-2021||Pune||PMC floats tender for river rejuvenation project||The Pune Municipal corporation had published the tender for the Mula-Mutha river rejuvenation project which is getting executed with the help of JICA (Japan International Co-operation Agency). On January 27th, 2021, union minister for road transport Nitin Gadkari held a review meeting for Pune city’s river rejuvenation project which is being funded by the Japan International Co-operation Agency (JICA). Gadkari instructed the PMC to float the tender by February end. He even instructed the Central government officials to give all necessary permission that is required to kickstart the project. PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “We have received almost all clearance from the Central government. Now, the PMC started the tendering process. The PMC would start the project work on the ground very soon.” Maharashtra irrigation minister Jayant Patil, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, mayor Mohol, standing committee chairman Rasne and municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar were present for the meeting with Gadkari. Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “As the cost of the previous tender was inflated, it got cancelled. The Jalshakti mantralaya gave permission to scrap the project. As the project cost was high it got scrapped earlier and took a long time. Now, I am not aware of the estimated cost but whatever excess amount that was approved by the JICA would need to be paid by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-floats-tender-for-river-rejuvenation-project-101614359879993.html
26-02-2021||Pune||Main entrance gate at Pune railway station opened, passengers relieved||Passengers will find it easy to travel through the Pune railway station as the railway division has opened the main entrance gate through the ramp which was closed since lockdown last year. HT reported about the issue on January 31, as daily thousands of passengers were facing difficulties to enter the station premises in order to board the train. Due to the countrywide lockdown, the passenger train operations were stopped, then gradually in the unlock process train operations started and now it is increasing. As the entrance was barricaded, there was huge traffic congestion and jams seen outside the Pune railway station main chowk daily. The passengers and commuters in the area were repeatedly demanding that the main entrance gate be opened up immediately.“The entrance gate was closed from the ramp entry gate earlier, as the number of passengers was less. Now, the passenger movement has also increased and after taking a review of the increasing train operations and passenger footfall this entry gate has been opened for the public now,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson. Before the Covid-19 pandemic, around 200 trains were in operation from Pune railway station daily with more than two lakh passengers traveling. After the unlocking process, train operations resumed from May 2020, slowly the number of train operations started increasing from the Pune railway station. At present, around 100 train operations are undertaken daily with over 40,000 passengers traveling from the Pune railway station. The Pune railway administration has made an entrance for the train boarding passengers from the front side of the station, where the main entrance gate with a ramp road is located. Now as it has opened, passengers can directly go inside the station premises without congestion, earlier they had to enter the station premises from two small entry gates for vehicles. The arriving passengers left the station premises from the second exit gate which is on the other side of the station towards Raja Bahadur Mill Road. “As the main entrance gate from the ramp road is now opened for passengers, we are relieved. I missed the train once due to the traffic jam on this road stretch, as the gate was closed, and long queues of vehicles were stranded. Now, vehicles coming to drop passengers easily go from this gate straight inside the station and other vehicles go from the road,” said Niranjan Waghmare, a passenger who regularly travels to Mumbai by train for his business-related work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/main-entrance-gate-at-pune-railway-station-opened-passengers-relieved-101614359879409.html
26-02-2021||Other||Lodhi Club polls in Ludhiana: 16 in fray for 8 posts, 2 elected unanimously||With no member filing nominations on the last day for the Lodhi Club elections on Friday, as many as 16 members are in fray for eight posts of the executive committee.Two members—Mohanjeet Kaur as cultural secretary and Neeti Gupta as lady executive member—have been elected unanimously.As per the nominations filed with the returning officer, CA Nitin Nahajan and Dr Gaurav Sachdeva are contesting for the post of general secretary, Kanwaljeet Singh Dang and Jogesh Gupta for vice-president, Sachin Goyal and Jagatvir Singh Bittu for bar secretary, and Munish Gupta and Vishal Garg for the post of finance secretary.Dr Avinash Jindal and Nishit Singhania filed nominations for the post of mess secretary, Ram Narain Sharma and Vibhor Garg for sports secretary, Dr Sarju Ralhan and Amrit Bhambri for joint secretary, and Rajiv Gupta and Chander Mohan Mittal for the post of executive member.The club has been divided into two groups—Mahajan group and Sachdeva group. Sachdeva, who is the current vice-president has challenged current general secretary Mahajan for the post of general secretary this time.Scrutiny of nominations will be held on February 27 and the final list will be displayed. February 28 has been fixed as the date for withdrawal of nominations. The contestants will be allowed to address the members in the club on March 5 and elections will be held on March 7. The elected members will have a tenure of two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lodhi-club-polls-in-ludhiana-16-in-fray-for-8-posts-2-elected-unanimously-101614359040040.html
26-02-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee questions rationale behind conducting Bengal polls in 8 phases||Trinamool Congress supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday questioned the rationale behind holding the West Bengal Assembly elections in eight phases and scheduling polls in some districts on more than one day.She also attacked the Election Commission and alleged that the poll panel scheduled the election dates keeping in mind the BJP’s demands.“The district of South 24 Parganas is a TMC stronghold, hence elections have been scheduled there on three days. Has this been done on the directions of Amit Shah and Narendra Modi? Is it that after wrapping up the elections in other states they want to play a month-long game here?” she said soon after election dates were announced.Also read: Maharashtra records over 8,000 fresh Covid-19 cases again, 1,035 cases in MumbaiLeft Front chairman Biman Bose echoed her remarks and said, “Why should it be part 1, part 2? I don't know the reason behind part 1 and part 2. I have known elections since 1958.”South 24 Parganas, which Banerjee cited as an example, is a TMC bastion with Diamond Harbour being the Lok Sabha constituency from where TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, who also happens to be the chief minister’s nephew, won the 2019 polls.“Elections in West Bengal have never been held in eight phases. The maximum was seven in 2016. In 2011 and 2006, they were held in six and five phases respectively. Earlier, large districts such as Kolkata, South 24 Parganas and North 24 Praganas were held in two phases. But this time South 24 Parganas has been broken down into three phases and most of the districts have been broken down into two phases including Nadia, Howrah and Hooghly,” said a senior poll panel official.“I welcome the ECI's decision. But why only half of some districts are going to polls on one day and the other half in another phase? It should have been continuous so that force mobilisation and election machinery could have moved together,” said Banerjee.The ECI on Friday announced that Assembly elections in West Bengal would be held in eight phases – the longest till date in the state - starting from March 27. In at least 11 districts, the polls would be held on more than one day. The election in South 24 Parganas would be held in three phases.“If elections can be held in Bihar and Assam in three phases, then why are they being held in eight phases here? Who will be benefitted? The ECI should be more rational,” she said.The BJP hit back saying that it was Banerjee who used to demand seven to eight-phased polls before the TMC came to power.“Before she came to power in 2011, Banerjee had been demanding publicly that without a seven to eight-phased poll, elections can’t be held in a free and fair manner in Bengal. But now that she is certain that her party would be defeated, she is crying foul,” said BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya.Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said that it is not a big jump as in 2016, elections were held in seven phases. Even though there were six phases, the first phase was divided into two parts resulting in seven phases.“Never in the past have elections been held like this where elections in 11 out of the 23 districts are being held in more than one phase,” said Robin Deb, senior CPIM leader.With elections approaching, frequent clashes between the TMC and the BJP have been reported over the past few months. While the BJP claimed that more than 130 party workers have been killed in the TMC’s regime, the TMC claimed that many of the BJP workers who have been found dead died by suicide and were killed in internal clashes.Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, leader of the Congress party in the Lok Sabha, said, “The law and order situation in West Bengal has touched the rock bottom. We apprehended massive violence in the run-up to the polls and on the election days. We are happy that polls would be held in eight phases. People should be allowed to cast their votes freely without any fear.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-questions-rationale-behind-conducting-bengal-polls-in-8-phases-101614358125082.html
26-02-2021||Mumbai||4 airlines to resume domestic operations from terminal 1 of Mumbai airport||Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) will resume operations from Terminal 1 (T1) for domestic flights from March 10. Since nationwide Covid-19 lockdown in March 2020, operations at T1 were suspended temporarily and were consolidated through Terminal 2.From midnight of March 10, four airlines - Go Air, Star Air, Air Asia and Trujet - will resume their domestic operations from Terminal 1. For Indigo, most of its flight operations will be managed from Terminal 2, however, the base flights will operate through Terminal 1.The airport spokesperson said, “for safeguarding the health and safety of all passengers travelling via the airport, the CSMIA is re-opening its Terminal 1 (T1) for domestic flight operations with effect from March 10. Upholding the safety of the passengers, the resumption of services via T1 is a step further in ensuring that social distancing is strictly followed.”Also read: Maharashtra records over 8,000 fresh Covid-19 cases again, 1,035 cases in MumbaiAdhering to a high level of safety and hygiene standards, the airport operator said it will open all the lounges, retail and food and beverage (F&B) outlets for the convenience of the passengers. All modes of transport to and from will also be made available.“The airport will ensure that measures, such as stringent screening of passengers and personnel, regular sanitisation and disinfection, mandatory compliance of wearing face masks and other necessary protocols are implemented at T1. The terminal will also promote social distancing through measures such as re-arrangement of seating, installation of plexi-glass to minimize face-to-face interactions amongst others at the terminal. Hand sanitisers have been strategically placed through the premise and passengers are encouraged to use contactless payment facilities available at the terminal,” the spokesperson added.GoAir too announced air services from the city’s domestic terminal. The spokesperson said, “Effective March 10, GoAir will shift its entire domestic flight operations in Mumbai to Terminal 1 (T1). We will continue to carry out enhanced cleaning procedures to ensure the health and safety of our customers and employees. At airports, we will continue to regularly disinfect the check-in kiosks, gate areas, check-in counters and ticketing counters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/4-airlines-to-resume-operations-from-terminal-1-of-mumbai-s-csmia-101614353713758.html
26-02-2021||City||Athlete Hima Das appointed deputy superintendent in Assam Police||Internationally acclaimed sprinter Hima Das was officially appointed deputy superintendent (DSP) in Assam Police on Friday.Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal handed over the appointment letter to the athlete at a programme held in Guwahati where 597 newly recruited sub-inspectors (SIs) were also inducted into the force.Das’s appointment was decided by the state cabinet earlier this month as part of the government’s integrated sports policy to honour sportspersons, who win medals in international meets, with jobs in government departments.Also read: No Covid-19 vaccination on February 27, 28 as Co-Win app gets upgradeDas, who is known as the Dhing Express, after the place of her birth in Assam, won a gold medal in 400 m at the IAAF U20 World Championships in 2018 as well as several other medals in Asian Games and other events.“I had a dream since childhood that one day I’ll join the police force. Today it has come true. I thank the state government, chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and other members of the cabinet for this honour. This move will inspire me and other sportspersons,” she said.In his address, CM Sonowal said that the state government decided to adopt the sports policy to make sports a promising career option for the youth. He hoped that Das' appointment as the DSP would inspire youngsters to pursue sports more sincerely.The appointment of SIs to Assam Police had got mired in controversy after the question paper of the written test got leaked. It led to the arrest of several people, including a sitting SP and a retired IPS officer. The exam that was postponed after the leak had to be conducted again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/athlete-hima-das-appointed-deputy-superintendent-in-assam-police-101614349694847.html
26-02-2021||City||Veteran CPI leader D Pandian dies in Chennai||Veteran Communist Party of India (CPI) leader, D Pandian, 88 died in Chennai on Friday. He was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Wednesday with sepsis and hypoglycemia. He was on life support.The two-time former MP and Tamil Nadu state secretary of CPI breathed his last at 10.05 am.A fiery orator and writer, Pandian was born in 1932 Usilampatti near Madurai. He was among those who were seriously injured in the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi in 1991 in Sriperumbudur where he was meant to translate the former Prime Minister’s speech.Pandian had voiced for the release of the convicts in the case who have been imprisoned for close to three decades. He had written to Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit in 2018 for their release on humanitarian grounds.Also read: Election results of 5 states on May 2; Bengal to see 8-phase electionsPurohit condoled his death. “With a political span covering nearly many decades, his contribution to the development of Tamil Nadu will remain unforgettable,” said Purohit in a statement.Several leaders, cutting across political lines, expressed sadness of Pandian’s demise including chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami, opposition DMK leader MK Stalin and expelled AIADMK leader VK Sasikala.Pandian was the editor of Jana Sakthi, a Tamil daily of the CPI. He was elected to the Lok Sabha from the north Chennai constituency in 1989 and 1991 representing the CPI. He is survived by two daughters and a son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/veteran-cpi-leader-d-pandian-dies-in-chennai-101614346358154.html
26-02-2021||Mumbai||Threat letter to Mukesh Ambani calls bomb scare ‘trailer’||Mumbai: A letter found inside an SUV abandoned with 20 explosive gelatin sticks around 600 metres from Reliance Industries Limited chairman Mukesh Ambani’s house on Thursday called the scare a “trailer”. It said next time, the explosive material would be in an assembled form, people aware of the matter said.The letter addressed to Ambani and his wife, Nita Ambani, and written in broken English was found in a bag of Mumbai Indians, an Indian Premier League team owned by the Ambanis. The police have formed two teams to investigate the matter.Also Read | Explosive, threat letter found in a car near Ambani house in Mumbai“Two explosive detector Labrador dogs of BDDS [bomb detection and disposal squad]–Oscar and Moti–detected suspicious explosives and alerted their handlers. The bomb squad personnel were then called in and they scanned the articles found in the vehicle. They identified these as gelatin. The material was taken out and moved to a safe place, following standard procedures. In all, 20 gelatin sticks were found,” said a police officer, who did not wish to be named.The people cited an initial probe and said the explosive material was purchased from Nagpur and a team has been sent there. They added the SUV was stolen from Mumbai’s Vikhroli around a week ago and another number plate was put on it. A police complaint regarding the stolen car was filed around the same time.The second number plate belongs to one of the cars of Mukesh Ambani’s security convoy, the people said. They added several other number plates were found inside the vehicle. An attempt to erase the chassis number was also found to have been made. “It is clear that the perpetrators had done a proper planning and collected details of the Ambanis’ security,” said a second police officer, requesting anonymity.Police suspect it could also be a case of well-planned mischief as they have not found a terror angle yet. The Anti-Terrorism Squad is also probing the case and a Quick Response Team, and several commandos have been posted outside the Ambanis’ house.Mumbai Police spokesperson Chaitanya Siriprolu said a case has been filed under the Indian Penal Code and Explosive Substances Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/threat-letter-to-mukesh-ambani-calls-bomb-scare-trailer-101614344038812.html
26-02-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Praddesh HC tells state govt to hold local body polls at earliest||The Madhya Pradesh High Court has asked the state government and the Election Commission to hold civic and panchayat bodies elections at the earliest.As the state government as well as the Election Commission had reached consensus on the issue, the process should be expedited, the Indore bench of the HC said in an order on Thursday.The order copy became available on Friday.A division bench of Justices Sujay Paul and Shailendra Shukla disposed of petitions filed by former corporator from Indore Bharat Parakh and Tolaram Gamad from Dhar district.The petitioners claimed that the delay in holding elections was a violation of Constitutional provisions.These elections are pending for over a year."It is agreed that these writ petitions may be disposed of by directing the respondents to expedite the process of election of municipal bodies and Panchayats...and hold the elections as early as possible," the HC said.The replies of the State Election Commission and State Government indicated that they had agreed on readiness to hold elections, the court noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-praddesh-hc-tells-state-govt-to-hold-local-body-polls-at-earliest-101614343824242.html
26-02-2021||Dehradun||Not joining BJP': U'khand leader says she'll file case against rumour-mongers||Indira Hridayesh, leader of opposition in Uttarakhand Assembly, on Friday said she will file a defamation case against those spreading rumours that she is joining the BJP.In a media briefing in Haldwani, she rubbished the rumours and said that she is in a very important position in Congress and would never leave the party."Whatever I am today is just because of Congress. Currently, I hold the post of the leader of opposition which is the biggest post in the opposition in the state legislative Assembly. When Congress was in government, I did parliamentary work," she said.Also read: Election results of 5 states on May 2; Bengal to see 8-phase electionsHridayesh said BJP leaders are feeling scared that they might lose in elections, they are therefore spreading such rumours."I have not spoken to anyone, nor has anyone spoken to me. It is a rumour and it is wrong. If someone spreads it further, I will file a defamation case against that person”.A few months back, she had also claimed that several BJP MLAs are in touch with her intending to switch sides which was the reason for the derogatory remark by BJP state president Bansidhar Bhagat against her. She had said, "I still stick to my words that several BJP MLAs are in touch with us to switch sides. However, welcoming them in the party would be the decision of the party high-command".Amid the furore over the incident, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had offered an apology to Hridayesh on Twitter."Respected Indira Hridayesh ji, I am very upset today. Women are very respectable to us. I personally apologise to you and all others who are saddened like me," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/not-joining-bjp-u-khand-leader-says-she-ll-file-case-against-rumourmongers-101614342125474.html
26-02-2021||Other||Ludhiana youth dies of suspected drug overdose; boss, her son booked||A woman and her son are facing a case of culpable homicide after her 26-year-old employee died due to suspected drug overdose at her office-cum-house in Azad Nagar on Wednesday.According to police, the victim, Parkash Singh, alias Nannu, was unmarried and had studied till Class 10. He was working for the woman, a financier, for the past few years and handled collection of payments.The victim’s father, Lakhvir Singh, 52, of New Satguru Nagar, complained to the police that the woman, Reeta Rani, who is in her 50s, used to harass her son at work, due to which he wanted to quit the job.“On Wednesday, my younger son, Rajvir, visited Rani’s office, where Parkash told him that she was not allowing him to go home. Rajvir visited him again in the evening and was shocked to find Parkash lying unconscious on the floor. He informed me and we rushed him to the hospital, but he could not survive,” the complainant added.He alleged that before breathing his last, Parkash revealed that Rani, her son, Ajay Kumar, and another woman had injected something into his veins, causing him to collapse.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Meet Ram, the investigating officer in the case, said the mother-son duo’s aide had been identified as Poonam of Friends Colony, Jassiyan Road.All three have been booked under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at the Daba police station. The ASI said the victim’s autopsy was conducted at the Ludhiana civil hospital and viscera samples were sent to the forensic science library in Kharar for further examination as it was suspected that he died due to drug overdose.More sections could be added in the FIR once the cause of death became clear, which could take several weeks, the investigating officer added. Meanwhile, police have launched a manhunt for the arrest of the three accused.The victim is survived by his parents, a sister and a brother.Second such case in a weekIn a similar case on February 18, a 45-year-old hosiery trader was found dead due to suspected drug overdose at a hotel in Bhadaur House, two days after he had checked in with an Italy-based NRI.Police had arrested the NRI on charges of culpable homicide after establishing that he had left a day before the victim was found dead in the hotel room, where syringes, a lighter and cigarettes were discovered. The viscera report in this case is also awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-youth-dies-of-suspected-drug-overdose-boss-her-son-booked-101614342238878.html
26-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt warns clubs, hotels against using liquor bottles without 2D bar-code||The Delhi government's excise department has warned clubs, hotels and restaurants of strict action if they are found serving alcohol to customers from liquor bottles not bearing 2D bar-code.The move comes after it was found during an inspection that bars at some establishments were using liquor and beer bottles which did not have 2D bar-code and those that were not readable.In an order, Deputy Commissioner Rajeet Singh said this practice has been viewed "very seriously", adding that the absence of 2D bar-code on the bottle will be treated as "non duty paid liquor" and action will be taken.An official said a bar code shows that this is excise duty paid liquor and also indicates that liquor being served and sold to people is not spurious.There are over 1,000 hotels, clubs and restro-bars in the national capital which have an excise license to serve liquor to their customers.Singh directed all these establishments to paste 2D bar-code with a cello tape to ensure that it does not get destroyed while servicing liquor from the bottle by the bar staff."The absence of 2D bar-code on the bottle will be treated as "non duty paid liquor" in the licensed premises and necessary action as deemed fit as per the Delhi Excise Act 2009 and Delhi Excise Rules, 2010 will be initiated against delinquent licensee," he said in the order issued on February 23.During the COVID-19-induced lockdown last year, the excise department had allowed restro-bars, hotels, and clubs to sell their stock of beer expiring by July 15 to liquor shops on several occasions in a bid to minimise their financial losses.The shelf life of beer is around six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-warns-clubs-hotels-against-using-liquor-bottles-without-2d-barcode-101614340030838.html
26-02-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan-Dombivli civic body seals 17 buildings, brings in stricter curbs||At least 17 buildings in Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) limits have been sealed on Thursday. This follows the directives from the civic commissioner to seal buildings with more than five positive cases.The daily positivity rate of Covid-19 cases in KDMC limits has increased by 4.78 per cent since last week. The positivity rate, which was 3.57 per cent on February 1, is now 8.35 per cent as per the civic health department.Similarly, the rate of active cases has also gone slightly up by 0.85 per cent, following which stringent measures are being implemented.As per the KDMC, if a building has five Covid patients at a time, the building will be sealed, while movement of people in those buildings will be restricted for 14 days.“We have sealed 17 building in Katemanivali, Vijaynagar in Kalyan (E), Agra Road in Kalyan (W) and Thakurli 90 Feet Road in Dombivli (E). We have done the bamboo barricading like before and also put a notice asking people to restrict movements. We will also keep a watch on them,” said a KDMC officer.The active cases rate, which was 1.20 per cent on February 1, is now 2.05 per cent. As per the KDMC records, the active cases that were 728 on February 1 have gone up to 1,424 on Thursday.On Thursday, the civic body recorded 166 new cases, the highest in the last 10 days. The cases crossed 100 since February 17. Earlier, the daily cases were less than 100 since first week of February.The recovery rate of the civic body is 96 per cent and the death rate is 1.92 per cent.“Most of the new cases are cluster cases with 4-5 persons from a family infected. A majority of them are from residential buildings. We have set up eight testing camps where cluster cases are reported,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.Dombivli (E) has the highest number of Covid cases with 18,497 followed by Kalyan (W) with 18,277 cases. On Wednesday, one new positive case of Covid was reported from Krantinagar slum in Dombivli (E). Following this, the civic body conducted RT-PCR tests on 25 residents and two more tested positive.“We had plans to send all the slum residents to quarantine centre one by one, but most of them were reluctant to go. We have managed to send the three patients to institutional quarantine while the entire entry and exit points of the slum have been sealed to restrict movement,” said Panpatil.The KDMC conducts around 1,700-1,800 tests daily out of which 60 per cent are antigen tests.“After doing the antigen test, if a symptomatic person is negative, we are doing their test by RT-PCR too to ensure detection of every single case,” added Panpatil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyandombivli-civic-body-seals-17-buildings-brings-in-stricter-curbs-101614336718439.html
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Politics behind I-T raids at Meham MLA’s houses, offices||Even as the income tax (I-T) teams were busy digging out clues about hidden wealth or financial irregularities of firebrand Meham MLA Balraj Kundu and his associates, the I-T raids have given a new momentum and direction to political activity in Haryana.Kundu, 50, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rebel and first-term independent MLA, has been a thorn in the flesh of the BJP. Whether inside Vidhan Sabha during assembly sessions or outside, Kundu, known for deep pockets, has carefully crafted his image as that of an honest politician involved in philanthropic activities.Kundu, who is into the business of roads and building construction spread in West Bengal, is one of the richest legislators of Haryana. His declared wealth as per his 2019 assembly poll affidavit is ₹141 crore.Political watchers in the region say that Thursday’s I-T raids conducted at over 30 premises of Kundu and his relatives in Rohtak, Gurugram, and Hansi (Hisar) by a team of nearly 100 officials were clearly aimed at digging out anomalies, if any, from the records I-T teams seized during the day-long search.“This material evidence generated from the I-T raids will help his opponents to retaliate and dent Kundu’s self-created clean image. Clearly, the I-T raids are aimed at taming Kundu,” a veteran political observer said.And the raids have been conducted when the MLA, a known critic of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, has been openly pumping his resources to support the current farmers’ agitation that has already pushed the BJP in Haryana on the back foot.Also, the I-T raids are set to give more fire power to the principal opposition party the Congress ahead of what is likely to be a stormy Budget session beginning on March 5 in which, Congress will move a no-confidence motion against the ruling BJP-JJP coalition government.In the 90-member House, the party position is: BJP 40, JJP 10, Congress 30, independents seven, HLP one and two seats (Ellenabad and Kalka) vacant. The BJP-JJP government, hence, is comfortably placed even if there is a floor test.After BJP retained power in the October 2019 assembly polls with the help of 10 JJP MLAs, Kundu was one of the independent MLAs who supported the government.But his animosity with former BJP minister Manish Grover, who had to bite the dust in the assembly polls, was at the root of hostilities between Kundu and CM Khattar.The Meham MLA, in the last Budget session, was pressing for an independent probe into the alleged corruption by Grover.But Khattar gave clean-chit to Grover. Since then, Kundu has been pointing accusing fingers at Khattar’s clean image for having shielded Grover.TIMING OF RAIDS BEING QUESTIONEDA lament commonly aired Thursday was about the timing of the I-T raids.According to Dadri independent MLA, Sombir Sangwan, if the raids at Kundu’s premises were in retaliation to the Meham MLA raising farmers’ voices in that case “it is a painful move.”“If the I-T department has found some irregularities in the business activities of Kundu, they can investigate,” he added.Former education minister and Jhajjar MLA Geeta Bhukkal (Congress) said the I-T raids were in line with the BJP government’s policy of browbeating rivals who raise their voice against them.“The BJP government has been doing everything to throttle the voice of public and the Opposition,” she alleged.Endorsing these views, Anant Ram, a Bhiwani-based political observer, said the public perception about the raids at Kundu’s premises is that it’s the result of “political vendetta.”“Kundu,” he said, “withdrew support to the government after the CM did not accept his demand to hold probe against Grover.”“He is a businessman. These raids, it appears, may only help Kundu politically,” Ram said.Rohtak-based political analyst Satish Tyagi linked the raids with “political vendetta”.“The raids at two dozen places cannot be a routine exercise. Sadly, it has become a norm in our country to conduct raids at Opposition leaders’ premises. These raids will only prompt Kundu to hit out at the Haryana CM,” Tyagi said even as Kundu, who was at his Gurugram house, kept mum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/politics-behind-i-t-raids-at-meham-mla-s-houses-offices-101614335882059.html
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||HP assembly session off to stormy start, 5 Cong MLAs suspended||The budget session of the Himachal Pradesh assembly got off to a stormy start in Shimla on Friday with belligerent opposition Congress legislators interrupting governor Bandaru Dattatreya’s address and surrounding him as he left the House, leading to the suspension of five MLAs for the entire session. Speaker Vipin Parmar placed leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and four other Congress members Harshwardhan Chauhan, Satpal Singh Raizada, Sunder Singh and Vinay Kumar under suspension for the session. Trouble started soon after the governor began his address at 11am with Agnihotri interrupting to claim that Dattatreya had skipped a major portion of his speech and had chosen to stay mum on inflation, unemployment and other concerns of the state. This led to an argument between treasury and opposition benches. Parmar tried to pacify both sides but in vain. Amid the sloganeering, he adjourned the House till 1pm and announced that the governor’s speech should be considered read. Scuffle between MLAs outside Vidhan Sabha, too The acrimony continued outside the House with Congress MLAs raising slogans against the BJP government and blocking gate number one used by the Speaker. A scuffle ensued between the ruling and opposition members as they surrounded the governor’s car. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and Parmar were seen trying to ensure a safe exit for Dattatreya. Later, Agnihotri said that the governor’s address was a “bundle of lies”. “There’s nothing in it. Not a word on inflation, unemployment and issues concerning the state. It’s for the first time that the state governor could not complete his address in the House and ran away,” he said. He claimed that Asha Kumari, the lone Congress woman legislator at the spot, was manhandled by ruling party members. CM meets ministers, security staff before House called again Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur met ministers and security personnel and for the first time in the state, the House was called again after being adjourned for the day. The Speaker said that after adjournment, the House was summoned again under Rule 346. No one from the opposition was present. Besides the chief minister, state parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj along with the Speaker described the incident as shameful. The treasury benches sought strict action against the opposition members who stopped the governor from leaving after his address. “The opposition members have attacked the Constitution. This is their tradition,” said Bhardwaj. “This is a criminal act,” the chief minister said, moving a resolution under Rule 319 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Himachal Assembly, seeking the suspension of the five Congress members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-assembly-session-off-to-stormy-start-5-cong-mlas-suspended-101614332998176.html
26-02-2021||Lucknow||Tent city to come up on sandy Ganga bank in Varanasi on the lines of Konark||The ancient pilgrim city of Varanasi, that is witnessing a host of developmental activities, including the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, will have a tent city on the sprawling sandy eastern bank of the Ganges, opposite the iconic city ghats, offering serenity and tranquillity to foreign and domestic tourists, said officials.If all goes well, the tent city is likely to be ready by October 2021 and will stay for three to five months, after which it will be dismantled and then reassembled the following year. It will come up along a five-kilometre stretch of the river on the lines of the nature camps at Konark in Odisha, according to officials familiar with the matter.It is not possible to keep the tent city going in the monsoon due to the flooded banks. The duration of the tent city will more or less coincide with the tourist season. The arrival of foreign tourists begins in Varanasi in large numbers from the last week of September.Around a month ago, a team of officials visited the Konark nature camps on the instructions of Varanasi divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal to collect details, ranging from setting up the camps or tented accommodations and their management. They submitted a detailed report.Agarwal said, “Instructions have been given to the tourism department officials to prepare the DPR (detailed project report) of the tent city as soon as they can so that further steps to materialise the project can be taken.”Agarwal also held a meeting with officials of the tourism department around a week ago.A monitoring committee and a technical-cum-executive committee for setting up the tent city have been constituted by the divisional commissioner. The monitoring committee is chaired by divisional commissioner and the executive-cum-technical committee by district magistrate Kaushalraj Sharma.Sharma said, “We will hold a meeting with officials of different departments and experts to chart out a complete plan for the tent city. Experts will give their suggestions on facilities in the tented accommodation, security arrangements and duration of the tent city, (whether) it should be for three months or five months.”These suggestions will be incorporated in the DPR which is likely to be ready by the first week of April.The tent city is likely to have 500 beds and be equipped with electricity supply, water supply, a washroom and a bio-toilet each. Roughly, each tent accommodation will be 200 to 300 square feet in area. There will be three types of tents — deluxe, semi deluxe and normal, the official added.Under the guidance of the district administration, the department was planning to develop the tent city in public private partnership (PPP) mode, said regional tourism officer (Varanasi) Keertiman Srivastava.Tenders will be floated to select a firm for developing and running the tent city, said the divisional commissioner. The tender was likely to be floated in the first week of June, said a senior official.After selection, the firm, in coordination with the tourism department, will develop the tent city under the supervision of the monitoring committee. It is to be decided whether the company will pay bills for water and electricity supply and other facilities to be provided by the municipality and the rent for the land to be provided by the district administration or if it will share revenue from the project, with the potential to generate direct and indirect employment for 4,000 locals.The divisional commissioner hoped the tent city will help give a fillip to the tourism industry in Varanasi by attracting foreign tourists in large numbers and domestic tourists in sufficient numbers, enabling all of them to enjoy the scenic view of the ghats while sitting in their tents at night.Also Read: BJP chief Nadda to be in Varanasi on two-day visit beginning Feb 28Rahul Mehta of the tourist welfare association said the tent city will attract those foreign tourists who wanted to spend most of their time along the Ganga, sitting silently for hours and watching the river flow calmly.In 2020, around 10 lakh domestic tourists visited Varanasi in January, February and March. In addition, around 70,000 foreign tourists visited Varanasi before the last week of March last year. After the Unlock phase began in June, over a lakh domestic tourists visited Kashi till December, according to people familiar with the matter in the tourism department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/tent-city-to-come-up-on-sandy-ganga-bank-in-varanasi-on-the-lines-of-konark-101614331582203.html
26-02-2021||Lucknow||Man tries to deposit fake notes into his bank account, detained||Fake currency notes in the denomination of ₹500 having a face value of ₹80,000 were recovered from a man in Uttar Pradesh's Sant Kabir Nagar district while he was trying to deposit them into his bank account, police said on Friday.The accused, Abdul Hakim, tried to deposit the currency notes at the SBI branch in Dishes police station area on Thursday when the cashier got suspicious of the cash and informed the police.The man was detained and the currency notes were sent to the bank in neighbouring Basti district for detailed investigation, police said, adding it was later confirmed that the notes were fake.SP Kaustubh said police are investigating the matter and action would be taken against those found responsible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/man-tries-to-deposit-fake-notes-into-his-bank-account-detained-101614330537372.html
26-02-2021||Lucknow||Cops in UP’s Deoria told not to use ‘indecent’ songs as caller tunes||Police personnel in Deoria district of Uttar Pradesh have been told to be cautious while selecting caller-tunes, which, if undignified, can give out the wrong impression about the police force to the caller, said senior police officials on Thursday.Deoria superintendent of police (SP) Sri Pati Mishra confirmed having issued the circular cautioning police force after coming across indecent caller-tunes on mobile phones of police officials. He said undignified caller tunes gave a wrong impression about the police force to the public when phoned for assistance. He issued the detailed circular in this regard to all circle officers and police stations in-charges on Wednesday.Also Read: Woman returning home after work raped near GhaziabadHe said the circle police officers and police station in-charges have been asked to strictly comply with the instructions and counsel their subordinates to ensure no undignified caller tunes were used. Mishra said cops were told to instead select tunes that created the image of a disciplined police force. He warned of strict action if any police personnel’s caller tune was found to be indecent.A Deoria police official, privy to the developments, said the SP had issued this circular after coming across indecent Bhojpuri songs as caller tunes on mobile phones of some policemen. He said no woman was likely to feel comfortable when calling the cops if they had such caller-tunes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cops-in-up-s-deoria-told-not-to-use-indecent-songs-as-caller-tunes-101614329612627.html
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana high court grants bail to labour activist Nodeep Kaur||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday granted bail to labour activist Nodeep Kaur who was arrested in Kundli on the Delhi-Haryana border on January 12.Kaur had been demonstrating in solidarity with farmers, who have been protesting against the Central government’s three contentious agricultural laws for three months now.However, the police have accused her of extorting industrialists for money and inciting workers during the protest. The police said that on January 12, a unit in Kundli was gheraoed and its staff was manhandled by members of Kaur’s group. A complaint was lodged against the activists for allegedly extorting the factory owner for money on the pretext of providing workers their unpaid salaries. The police accused her of making provocative speeches during the protest that resulted in clashes and injuries to seven police personnel, including a woman constable. Kaur was arrested the same day. “The high court has granted bail to Nodeep Kaur,” her counsel Arshdeep Singh Cheema said. The detailed order is awaited. Kaur had moved the high court, seeking bail on February 22. Also Read | Co-accused in Nodeep Kaur case has multiple injuries: Medical reportThree first information reports (FIR) were registered against her, one on December 28 and two on January 12. She has already got bail from the lower courts in cases related to two of the FIRs.The high court order paves the way for her release from judicial custody. The FIR dated December 28 was also registered under sections of the Indian Penal Code for causing hurt, criminal intimidation and rioting on a complaint regarding a private industrial unit being gheraod by some workers.In the complaint, the unit’s owner alleged that the workers misbehaved with him and tried to extort him for money. Activist alleges assault, but police deny charge In her plea, Kaur alleged that she was framed and physically assaulted by the police. Her counsel argued that the FIRs revealed a larger conspiracy and that the criminal cases were slapped against her because she was trying to mobilise labourers in Kundli’s industrial units to join the farmers’ protest against the three new controversial farm laws. Haryana Police denied that Kaur was assaulted. Police said that during her interrogation, she admitted that she and her associates, Shiv Kumar and Sahil, had formed an organisation called Majdoor Adhikar Sangathan, and had taken “brokerage” from labourers to get them their salaries from factory owners, and then extorted the owners for money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-grants-bail-to-labour-activist-nodeep-kaur-101614329038018.html
26-02-2021||Patna||Patna eyes better swachhta ranking after finishing last in 2020||In an effort to improve Patna’s ranking in the Swachh Survekshan 2021, Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) is looking to engage residents using mobile application Swachchata-MoHUA for addressing city’s sanitation-related issues.“Residents can register 23 types of cleanliness and sanitation related grievances like unswept roads, uncollected garbage, non-functional public toilets, open manholes and overflowing or clogged septic tanks among other things. They can also upload photograph and video along with their complaints as supporting evidence. The app aims to establish better coordination between the residents and civic body,” said municipal commissioner Anand Sharma, asking Patna residents to register their sanitation-related grievances on the app.The civic body has also beautified flyovers, public walls and slums with paintings and illustrations based on themes like Covid-19 awareness, cleanliness, recycle, waste segregation etc, apart from renovating public toilets.As per PMC officials, the cleanliness survey evaluates on the basis of direct observation, citizen engagement and certification for 1,500 points each, while service-level progress is awarded 2,400 points.In 2020, Patna scored 1552.11 out of 6,000 points with zero score in certification category. PMC stood last among all 47 urban local bodies in the country with over 10 lakh population.Also Read: Bihar- Sacking of senior cops sought after sub inspector killed in shootoutPMC’s public relation officer Harshita, said, “We are likely to perform better in this cleanliness survey as we already have ODF+ certificate to enhance points. We have put in efforts for beautification, sanitation and waste segregation to improve city’s cleanliness standards.”Residents can vote for their city through MoHUA official website till March 31, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-eyes-better-swachhta-ranking-after-finishing-last-in-2020-101614327985018.html
26-02-2021||Other||Woman returning home after work raped near Ghaziabad||Three unidentified men allegedly raped a 30-year-old woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hapur district after abducting her from an auto while she was returning home in Gautam Buddha Nagar after work from Ghaziabad late on Wednesday, a police officer said. The woman works at a jewellery showroom.Also Read | Bombay HC cites lack of evidence, acquits man convicted of rape, murder of childThe three men in the auto took her and raped her 20 km away in Hapur district. “The crime scene is about 5-10 metres inside the jurisdiction of the Hapur district... we immediately registered an FIR [first information report] under IPC [Indian Penal Code] Section [related to] gang rape [376 D] based on her complaint... We have formed three teams and trying to trace the three men believed to be aged around 30,” said Hapur police superintendent Neeraj Kumar Jadaun.Police said the woman is a single parent of a 10-year-old. “On our part, we have also formed one team to help in the investigation,” said Iraj Raja, Ghaziabad (rural) police superintendent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-returning-home-after-work-raped-near-ghaziabad-101614326217937.html
26-02-2021||Mumbai||Viral auto driver Desraj: Will fund my granddaughter’s education now||Even at 74, Mumbai auto driver Desraj’s will to fend for his family, after the untimely demise of his two sons, is inspirational. And his story tugged at the heartstrings of social media netizens; many of whom have donated to help him raise a whopping ₹24 lakh! “Maine kabhi nahi socha tha meri life aise change ho jayegi,” says Desraj, adding, “I’m very happy, and grateful to everyone who helped me and my family.”Desraj’s story recently went viral on social media, when shared by Humans of Bombay. He lost both his sons in a matter of a few years, which made him become the sole breadwinner of his family of seven members. To add to his woes, his financial resources drained further when his wife fell sick. When his heart-wrenching story was shared on social media, his story prompted a concerned citizen to start a crowdfunding initiative to help this auto driver. “I had come to Mumbai with my father, who worked at a hotel. I’ve seen extreme poverty; itne paise life mein nahi dekhe. I drive all day, earn only ₹10,000 a month, and am used to living in my auto,” says the auto driver, who had to sell off his house to pay for his granddaughter’s education, and move his family to his relative’s place in Himachal Pradesh. What does he plan to do with the money now? “I could only teach my daughter till standard X. I want my granddaughter, Diya to study as much as she wants. I can now provide for her. She is very happy and hopes to pursue BEd. She’ll be the first graduate in the family! I can now pay for her tuition so that she can prepare for her higher education. She will appear for her 10th boards this year, and doesn’t have to worry about anything now,” says Desraj, adding, “I know women today are facing many problems, and an uneducated woman faces even more problems. I want my granddaughter to stand on her own two feet, absolutely independent.”Hailing from Himachal Pradesh, the auto driver is now in a capacity to buy a house of his own. But, does he wish to continue living in Mumbai? “I’ve been away from my wife for years because I had to earn, and sent her money back home. Now, she wants me to go back to her. Vo keh rahi hai bohot saal alag reh liye, ab ghar ajao. But for me, Mumbai is also like home. People and even kids here call me Papaji... it warms my heart. I might stay here for a while and then head home. But I’ll continue coming to Mumbai. I’ve been here for almost three decades; can’t leave just yet,” he says. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/viral-auto-driver-desraj-will-fund-my-granddaughter-s-education-now-101614323340146.html
26-02-2021||Other||Slam dunk: Playing and thriving among the giants of NBA basketball... Why height isn’t sole deciding factor for hoop dreams||Consider the following reality: In a sport where there is a one in seven chance of making it to the highest competitive level if you are a 7-foot tall American male, the player who achieved the distinction of being the first to receive a $200 million contract is a player that is generously listed at 6 feet, 3 inches tall. This begs the question – in the modern world of position-less basketball, how much does height really matter? Additionally, what skills do the players not born with the naturally genetic trait of height master in order to succeed and have long careers at the highest level of professional basketball in the NBA?In a sport where the goal is 10 feet above the ground, it would make sense and be logical that height would be the primary trait prioritised and correlating with success.While certainly true in some regards, there is no ceiling (literally) on the potential of players who are highly skilled, regardless of their size. With the popularity and rise of three-point shooting in today’s NBA, the impact that players who aren’t height outliers can still have on the game is clearly obvious through players like Damian Lillard and Stephen Curry. The superior skill level of these players is clearly on display as they have become proficient in attempting shots from further and further ranges, skewing the spacing and range of defenses designed to contain them. Defenses are so thoroughly stretched out by the shooting ability of these relatively diminutive (both players are generously listed as 6 feet, 3 inches tall) players, that it results in open space for their teammates to score easier baskets with them on the court. So, it is therefore obvious that elite 3-point shooting skill is one way in which players that are closer to six feet tall can compensate for what they lack in height when compared to their much taller counterparts. There are many players throughout history that have not possessed height who thrived in the NBA. The name Isaiah Thomas comes to mind, referring to two different players, each of whom possessed similar intangible qualities that helped them thrive in this league of giants. While lacking extreme height, the Isaiah Thomas of the Detroit Pistons teamed with Joe Dumars to form one of the most feared backcourt combinations of all time, winning two championships for the Pistons during their heyday as the “Bad Boys”. The “other” Isaiah Thomas, drafted in the current era, embodied many of the similar intangible qualities of determination, focus, and toughness, shown during the long list of accomplishments he achieved during his (potentially still ongoing) NBA career. These two examples reflect the importance of intangibles in basketball success, despite any lack of extreme height. Another physical trait that can compensate for lack of height is the “length” or “armspan” of a player. In fact, as was explored in an earlier piece on the evolution of NBA talent selection, many players are drafted based on having superior length for their position rather than solely for being tall. As three-point shooting continues to space out offenses further and further, defenders with the length to shrink the court become a priority. In fact, the combination of quickness and length in a player continues to be prioritised as teams seek to gain a competitive advantage. An example of a first-ballot Hall of Fame player with below average height, but elite length and quickness is Dwyane Wade. From these examples, it is evident that height is certainly not the only factor that can influence success in basketball. It is certainly possible to compensate for a lack of height in other ways such as skilled three-point shooting and dribbling ability, along with length and the intangible qualities of toughness, mental resilience and leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/slam-dunk-playing-and-thriving-among-the-giants-of-nba-basketball-why-height-isn-t-sole-deciding-factor-for-hoop-dreams-101614323156856.html
26-02-2021||Kolkata||CBI, ED raid Kolkata businessmen, others in coal smuggling scam||CBI and Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials were raiding multiple places in Kolkata and other parts of West Bengal in connection with the multi-crore coal smuggling scam on Friday morning. Multiple teams of the CBI reached Bansdroni in south Kolkata and raided a businessman’s house and office following allegations that kickbacks used to reach the businessman, who in turn used to invest the money.Simultaneously, multiple teams of the ED were also conducting raids, including at a chartered accountant’s office in central Kolkata and in Asansol-Durgapur, which is a coal belt.It is alleged that illegally mined coal, worth several thousand crores of rupees, was sold in the black market over several years by a racket operating in the western parts of West Bengal where the Eastern Coalfields Limited runs several mines. The BJP has been alleging that the money from the sales was whitewashed through shell companies and siphoned into the funds of the ruling party. The BJP has also alleged that the main beneficiary of the scam was Abhishek Banerjee.Earlier this week, the Central Bureau Investigation questioned chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Abhishek Banerjee’s wife Rujira Banerjee in connection with the same case. Abhishek Banerjee’s sister-in-law Menaka Gambhir was also questioned.The two prime accused in the coal smuggling scam – Anup Majhi alias Lala and TMC youth leader Vinay Mishra are now absconding. Mishra has also been named in a cattle smuggling case, which the CBI is probing.Must Watch: ‘TMC says one thing in Delhi, does the opposite in Bengal’: Owaisi lashes outFollowing the two scams, the BJP has sharpened attacks against TMC leaders targeting Abhishek Banerjee. Abhishek, however, has brushed aside charges and said publicly that he would walk to the gallows if corruption charges were proved against him.Elections are round the corner and the BJP, which has made deep inroads in the state in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, was now targeting to win more than 200 seats out of the 294 assembly seats in poll-bound Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cbi-ed-raid-kolkata-businessmen-others-in-coal-smuggling-scam-101614321198135.html
26-02-2021||Lucknow||AMU student goes missing, cops trace location to Delhi||A final year Bachelor of Arts (BA) student from the department of foreign languages at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) went missing on Tuesday afternoon, said university officials. A missing case was registered at Civil Lines police station following which, a police team was sent to Delhi to look for the missing student.“Ashraf Ali, 22, is from a village in Araria district of Bihar and is a final year student of Bachelor of Arts (BA) course. He was residing here in SS Hall South at Aligarh Muslim University,” said Prof Mohd Waseem Ali, proctor, AMU.“He went missing since Tuesday around 3pm and was last seen by his colleagues and friends in Aligarh’s Shamshad Market but did not return to his room. His mobile was switched off since then. It was put on for merely 50 seconds on Tuesday and Wednesday night,” said the proctor.“Family members of the student have been informed. It has been a matter of concern and with every passing day, the matter is becoming complicated,” said the proctor.Also Read: Uttar Pradesh a priority state for Australian investment: Envoy“It has come to our knowledge that the missing student was moved by road to Delhi,” said Kuldeep Singh Gunawat, superintendent of police (SP), Aligarh.“We are in contact with the family members and have interacted with his friends in Aligarh. A police team has gone to Delhi to trace the student,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/amu-student-goes-missing-cops-trace-location-to-delhi-101614319505444.html
26-02-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC cites lack of evidence, acquits man convicted of rape, murder of child||The Bombay high court’s Aurangabad bench has acquitted a 34-year-old man sentenced to death for raping and murdering a child in 2017, saying a special court convicted him without conclusive evidence and cross-examination of the witnesses.In its order on February 11, the high court said it was anguished by the insensitive way in which the prosecution went about the trial. It rapped the presiding officer for failing to bring forth witnesses or evidence necessary for reaching the correct conclusion.Also Read | Refurbished cell at Arthur Road jail awaits high-profile inmate like Nirav ModiThe man was convicted on the basis of circumstantial evidence and eyewitness accounts. During the trial, the police informed the special court that it had recovered a nylon rope used to kill the child from the man’s home. The police also claimed to have recovered a lungi near the child’s body that allegedly belonged to the man’s father.The police told the trial court that two witnesses had seen the child with the man. They submitted statements of labourers, who worked with the man in Karnataka, saying he was tense and silent. Sudarshan Salunke, the man’s lawyer, said the special court failed to notice missing links in the chain of circumstantial evidence. He submitted the conviction was based on assumptions and inferences and relied on uncorroborated evidence as the medical report also did not indicate that the minor was raped.The rope and lungi were also not tested and that sniffer dogs had lost the trail when they reached the man’s village.“...we do not find such evidence before us which would convince us that it was this accused and no other person who can be said to have committed the crime. The chain of circumstantial evidence is broken...” the high court said. It granted the benefit of the doubt to the man while setting aside the special court’s conviction. “...we are indeed disturbed by the manner in which the prosecution has investigated the crime, collected evidence and conducted the trial in a most insensitive manner,” the high court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-cites-lack-of-evidence-acquits-man-convicted-of-rape-murder-of-child-101614319017194.html
26-02-2021||Other||Revisit decision on culling of birds: HC suggests to Maharashtra dist||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has asked the authorities to consider all aspects before deciding to cull thousands of birds in poultry farms in Nandurbar district of Maharashtra amid the bird flu scare. At the same time, the court refused to intervene in the petition filed by two farm owners challenging a February 12 order passed by the authorities directing them to cull their birds and destroy the eggs. They called the decision arbitrary by stating that their own farms were at least a kilometre away from the affected ones.Representing the farm owners, advocate SP Brahme informed the division bench of justices SV Gangapurwala and Shrikant Kulkarni that repeated tests were conducted on their farms but all of them turned out negative. “In such a scenario, the authorities could not have directed culling of the birds as the possibility of infection spread was nil,” said Brahme. He added that said poultry farms were sealed on February 4 and samples were also taken for testing on February 17 and a report was awaited. Also Read | Bird flu confirmed in Maharashtra’s Palghar, says deputy collectorReferring to the Prevention and Control of Infectious and Contagious Diseases in Animals Act, 2009, Brahme drew the attention of the bench to the fact that culling of the infectious birds or animals was a last resort and it was contemplated only for infected ones and not for other birds. He added that declaring a 2.5km radius as infected area would mean losses to the petitioners.Opposing the petition, assistant government pleader PK Lakhotiya submitted that 21 poultry farms around that of the petitioners were infected with bird flu. He added that farms within a distance of 2.5 km from infected poultry farms were declared infected zone and up to 10 kms was declared as surveillance zone. Disposing of the petitions, the bench said, “The authorities certainly would benefit from advice of the experts in the particular field and the authorities would be guided by the same. The court cannot substitute its views in place of the experts’ views.” The bench added that the authorities may revisit the decision of culling birds. “After considering all the aspects of the matter, may proceed with such steps as would appear to be proper for the spread of infection. The decision would solely rest with the authorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/revisit-decision-on-culling-of-birds-hc-suggests-to-maharashtra-dist-101614318477386.html
26-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 55-year-old man killed in a hit-and-run in Vasant Vihar||A 55-year-old man who worked as a domestic help was killed after an allegedly speeding Mercedes car hit the scooter he was riding in south Delhi’s Vasant Vihar late Thursday. The errant driver fled the mishap spot leaving his car behind. Vasant Vihar police have registered a case of rash and negligent driving causing death and efforts are on to nab the errant driver. Also Read | Delhi: At least 80 prisoners out on ‘emergency parole’ fail to surrender“The person who was driving the Mercedes is also from the Vasant Vihar neighbourhood. We have identified him and efforts are on to catch him,” said deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh.Police said the mishap took place around 11.45pm. They identified the man who died on the spot as one Antony Joseph. Investigators are trying to ascertain the exact sequence of events leading to the mishap and are scanning footage from CCTV cameras installed around the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-55-year-old-man-killed-in-a-hit-and-run-in-vasant-vihar-101614318357200.html
26-02-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Three exotic birds stolen from Kolkata zoo||Three exotic birds, seized by the Border security Force (BSF) from smugglers along the Indo-Bangla border and sent to the Kolkata zoo, were stolen on Thursday. “Three keel-billed toucans, which were handed over to us by the BSF last year, were stolen. We have lodged a police complaint and an internal enquiry has been initiated,” said AK Samanta, director of Kolkata Zoo. On Thursday morning, zoo authorities noticed that the enclosure where four keel-billed toucans were kept had been cut open and three of them were missing. “The three were kept in separate cages inside the aviary as they were undergoing treatment. One was free and was sitting on top of a tree trunk inside the aviary,” said Samanta. Also Read | Mamata Banerjee rides electric scooter to protest against rising fuel pricesKeel-billed toucan is a colourful Latin American bird and the national bird of Belize. It has a huge beak, almost one third of its body size. In the grey market, a pair can fetch more than ₹10 lakh. Preliminary investigations revealed that the miscreants had used a bird-catcher made of a stick and cloth to catch the birds. They then used a 15-foot-tall ladder kept in the zoo to climb the boundary wall and flee. “There were at least two security guards within 50 metres of the aviary. There was, however, no CCTV camera in that area,” said Samanta. In August 2009, at least eight marmosets were stolen from the Kolkata Zoo. Later, seven were recovered a one person was arrested from Chattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-three-exotic-birds-stolen-from-kolkata-zoo-101614315177111.html
26-02-2021||Patna||Bihar: Sacking of senior cops sought after sub inspector killed in shootout||Inspector general of police (Tirhut zone) Ganesh Kumar visited Kuari Madan village under the Majorganj police station in Bihar’s Sitamarhi district on Thursday, a day after a sub-inspector was killed in a shootout between a police team and criminals in the village.There was heavy police deployment in the village and everyone bound for the village was frisked. Media persons were not allowed to come close to the encounter site.Speaking to reporters after his visit, IG Kumar ruled out involvement of liquor smugglers in the incident. “It appears the shoot-out took place during the raids to catch some of the criminals wanted in cases of murder, extortion and other offences,” he said, adding that a team led by superintendent of police of Sitamarhi has been set up to probe the matter.The IG faced the ire of the local residents, who were demanding the removal of some senior policemen, including the station house officer (SHO) of Majorganj police station, for their alleged patronage to criminals and the liquor mafia in the area.Rakesh Kumar Singh, former block pramukh (elected head of a block), reportedly told the IG that the life of sub inspector Dinesh Ram could have been saved had SHO Rajdeo Prasad acted swiftly. “Prasad and another SI, Raja Khan, with their firearms in their hands, stood as mere spectators when the gun battle broke out,” Singh told the IG.Also Read: Bihar saw 8-fold growth in budget size under both RJD and NDA: Tejashwi Yadav“Nothing has been done by the SHO to stop illegal activities in the village. It shows his involvement in patronising the criminals and the liquor mafia,” Singh alleged before the IG.Meanwhile, mortal remains of the slain sub-inspector were consigned to flames on Thursday near his native village Sarsaula under Lakhaura police station of East Champaran after a guard of honour was accorded by the police. “His dependent would be provided all possible help,” said Navin Chand Jha, superintendent of police (SP), East Champaran.Motihari MLA and sugarcane minister Pramod Kumar said, “A statue of the slain police officer would be set up at his native place as a mark of respect for him.” Dinesh Ram is survived by two children and wife Kiran Devi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-sacking-of-senior-cops-sought-after-sub-inspector-killed-in-shootout-101614314826074.html
26-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi: At least 80 prisoners out on ‘emergency parole’ fail to surrender||At least 80 prisoners, who were granted emergency parole last year at the beginning of the pandemic to decongest prisons, are currently on the run, officials said.Prison officials said they will write to the Delhi Police with a list of names of all prisoners who had failed to return after the end of their bail period. Several jail officers, who did not wish to be named, said that among the 80, there are many murder convicts who were supposed to surrender this month. Also Read | Centre opposes petitions for same-sex marriage“The process of surrendering began on February 6. The prisoners had to surrender at Mandoli jail and quarantine there before their transfer to their respective jails. Officials at Mandoli have reported that there at 20-30 prisoners from each sub-jail, who have not yet surrendered. We had chosen Mandoli jail as the surrender point so that even if a prisoner was Covid-19 positive, the infection could be detected early before they are allowed to mingle with other prisoners,” said a jail officer.As one of the first measures to decongest jails and ensure social distancing at the start of the pandemic, nearly 1,000 prisoners were released on “emergency parole” in April last year. The three jails in Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini collectively hold over 18,000 prisoners. Apart from the 1,000 prisoners, those who had a clean record in prison; were not arrested in terror crimes or cases registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation were also released on interim bail. With the three prisons holding more than the sanctioned strength of prisoners, a high-powered committee of judicial officers, Delhi government and prison department had stressed upon the need to decongest the prison complex. Officials at the three jails have also been on high alert since the pandemic began and several jails in Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh reported a high number of Covid-19 cases. This was the first time that so many prisoners were released on parole.The prisoners were originally supposed to surrender after eight weeks, but the surrender date was extended multiple times as Covid-19 cases kept rising till November last year. Finally, the surrender process started on February 6, during which jail authorities noted that many prisoners had refused to return.One such prisoner, who had been declared absconding was convict Shamshad Khutkan alias Rahul, 31, convicted in the 2010 Dhaula Kuan gangrape case. Khutkan, who was serving life imprisonment in the infamous case, was among those released last year on parole. Khutkan was to surrender on February 20, but went on the run. A police team arrested him on February 22 (Monday) after a shoot-out in north Delhi. Police said that Khutkan refused to turn himself in and was arrested with a pistol, which he used to fire at the police team on Monday. Delhi Police on Monday said that Khutkan was involved in at least 12 robberies in the last two months.A second jail officer said that apart from the 80 who are on the run, there are many elderly prisoners who have informed the prison department that they are waiting till the Delhi high court decides on a plea about the surrender of prisoners above 65 years. A city lawyer has filed a plea requesting the high court to extend the parole for all elderly prisoners. “There are a few elderly ones, who are in touch with us. We cannot call them absconding.”Sandeep Goel, director-general of prisons, Delhi, said, “At this stage, it will not be proper to estimate the number of prisoners who have not returned. The process of surrender is still on. We will be informing the concerned police station if prisoners fail to return.”Till date, Delhi prisons have reported two deaths due to Covid-19. At least 350 prisoners and officials were infected with the Sars-CoV-2 virus but have recovered. Apart from testing new prisoners before they mix with other inmates behind bars, the prison authorities are also conducting regular tests within the prison complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-80-prisoners-on-parole-fail-to-surrender-to-be-declared-fugitives-101614313257006.html
26-02-2021||Lucknow||Women’s Day: UP govt to launch Covid vaccination campaign for women above 60||On International Women’s Day on March 8, the state government will launch a special campaign for Covid-19 vaccination of women above 60 years of age. The decision was taken during a high-level meeting on economic self-reliance of women as part of the Mission Shakti scheme organised under the chairmanship of additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi and chairperson of State Women’s Commission Vimla Batham in Lucknow. Awasthi said a programme would be organised at the State Women’s Commission office auditorium on March 10 to felicitate women who had achieved success by launching their own business, enterprise or venture. The participants would be informed about the success stories of the women entrepreneurs. Women working in various institutions in Lucknow would be invited to the programme, he said. Also Read | ‘UP CM Covid Care Fund received 412 crore till July last year’: CM AdityanathOn the directive of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the Mission Shakti campaign was launched in the state to provide a safe environment to women, curb crime and ensure that women benefitted from the various schemes launched by the state government, he said. Awasthi directed the officers to ensure that women were able to make use of the facilities provided by the medical and other departments, and to review the progress of the schemes. Effective measures should be taken to make women economically independent by making available the benefits of government-run schemes on priority basis, Awasthi said. He directed the officers to pay special attention to the programmes run under the Mission Shakti campaign. Chairperson of the State Women’s Commission Vimla Batham said a work-plan would be prepared by the commission for the empowerment of women. The plan would be implemented in coordination with all the state government departments. The commission has decided to launch awareness campaigns in the 28 districts in the first phase on March 3 to enlighten women about the various schemes launched by the state government. The commission would also organise programmes on March 4 in women / co-educational colleges run at tehsil / block-level in rural areas. An online registration for various governments schemes would be done for eligible women, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/womens-day-up-govt-to-launch-covid-vaccination-campaign-for-women-above-60-101614311276855.html
26-02-2021||Lucknow||No ‘ghar wapsi’ for farmers till farm laws are repealed: Jayant Chaudhary||Defying the ban on holding a large gathering, the leaders of Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) held a 'kisan panchayat' (a farmers congregation) in Sampurnanagar in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district on Thursday. RLD national vice president Jayant Chaudhary hit out at the Central government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi while addressing hundreds of farmers at the panchayat and claimed that farmers will not end protests unless the three contentious farm laws were repealed."If the government felt the farmers would retreat during summers or wheat harvesting season, it was mistaken. ...There will be no 'ghar wapsi' for farmers till the three anti-farmers laws are repealed,” Jayant said.Ravi Verma, national general secretary of Samajwadi Party and former Kheri MP and Congress leader Saif Ali Naqvi also shared the stage.Chaudhary also attacked Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh and alleged that the ruling party leaders were making a “mockery” of the farmers’ agitation with no sympathy shown to their “rightful” demands. Referring to PM Modi’s ‘andolanjeevi’ jibe on the “culture of protests”, he said, the statement indicated an insensitive approach of the government towards farmers.Jayant claimed that the agitation against the farm reform laws was the first grassroots movement of the farmers which was above any caste and creed and any attempt to divide the farmers will prove futile.Farmers have been protesting at the different borders of the national capital since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. They claim the laws will take away the ‘mandi’ system and the minimum support prices (MSP), guaranteed by the government for their produce, and also make them vulnerable to exploitation at the hands of the corporate. The government has, however, termed the laws as necessary reforms needed to unlock the sector’s potential for modernisation and growth while increasing farmers’ income.Also Read: Farmers union writes to President demanding end to 'repression' on protestersChaudhary said when Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the chief minister of Gujarat in 2011, he had written a letter to then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, demanding a law to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) to the farmers. “Now, when Modi is the PM, he has no intention to fulfil his own old demand,” Jayant said.Hitting out at Yogi Adityanath, the RLD leader said, “Around three and a half years back, Yogi government formed a Kisan Samriddhi Ayog but not even a single meeting of the Ayog had taken place so far.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-ghar-wapsi-for-farmers-till-farm-laws-are-repealed-jayant-chaudhary-101614310516383.html
26-02-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh a priority state for Australian investment: Envoy||Australian high commissioner Barry O'Farrell said on Thursday that according to Australia's India economic strategy, Uttar Pradesh was a priority state and infrastructure development, education and agriculture were the focus areas for Australian investment in the state. O’Farrell met UP chief secretary RK Tiwari in Lucknow on Thursday, according to the chief secretary.Tiwari apprised O'Farrell of various facilities and incentives available to investors in Uttar Pradesh and underlined that UP jumped many places to be ranked second in the country on the ease-of-doing-business rankings."The state has adequate necessary infrastructure, land, water, power and skilled manpower, which is conducive for investment. A lot of work is going on in the state in the medical and health sector as well. There are a lot of investment opportunities in UP in food processing, transport, agriculture, medical and health, education, cooperatives, logistics and warehousing," said Tiwari as quoted in the statement.He highlighted that the state had several expressways and more were coming up to improve connectivity for commerce and general commute. Tiwari also pointed out that UP has already established six nodes under the Defence Corridor for encouraging setting up of defence manufacturing industry and necessary facilities were being made available.Uttar Pradesh aims for a gross state domestic product (GSDP) of $1 trillion in the next five years and has underlined the need to encourage organisational restructuring, focused policies and rules-based effective governance, faster decision making process and improved accountability to achieve the task.Also Read: 'Tandav': Allahabad HC denies anticipatory bail to Amazon Prime's Aparna PurohitTiwari also shared the strategy adopted by the state for Covid-19 management, which had received praise from several quarters.O'Farell also tweeted about his meeting with UP chief minister Yogi Adtiyanath and said they discussed how to deepen economic engagement, particularly on roads and infrastructure, water and skills development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-a-priority-state-for-australian-investment-envoy-101614308802622.html
26-02-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders remain shut, traffic diverted||With Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) in east Delhi and at least six borders in outer Delhi closed for the past three months due to the ongoing farmers’ protests, motorists travelling between Delhi-Uttar Pradesh and Delhi-Haryana continue to face traffic congestion. As Delhi Traffic Police and their counterparts in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana have diverted the traffic to alternative border points, movement of vehicles remain slow on these routes, especially during the morning and evening peak hours when office-goers travel.Also Read | Transport, trade unions call for ‘Bharat Bandh’; farmers’ unions to joinAll the six lanes of Delhi-Meerut Expressway, NH-24 and NH-9 are closed at the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad border as the agitating farmers have occupied the roads and the routes are heavily barricaded to stop the farmers from entering Delhi. As a result, traffic between Delhi and Ghaziabad has been diverted to alternative routes, causing snarlsThe Delhi Traffic Police have advised motorists travelling between Delhi and Ghaziabad to use EDM Mall, Anand Vihar, Kondli, Surya Nagar, Apsara, Bhopra and Loni borders and avoid the Ghazipur border route. They can also enter Delhi through Noida. Those coming to Delhi from Ghaziabad, Vasundhara and Vaishali are advised to take the Anand Vihar (Maharajpur) border and take a left on the road towards Ghazipur roundabout from where they can use the NH-9 and NH-24. The other route they can take is the EDM Mall border from where they can either use the Ghazipur Mandi roundabout and access the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, NH-24 and NH-9 towards Delhi, or they can move towards the road leading to the Ghazipur roundabout and further on. According to the traffic police, Singhu, Tikri, Jharoda, Mangesh, Harewali, and Dhansa borders connecting Delhi from Haryana are also completely closed due to the farmers’ agitation. The alternative borders such as Auchandi, Lampur, Safiabad, and Palla toll tax are open for traffic and people travelling between Delhi and Haryana may take these routes to reach their destinations. The Delhi Traffic Police have asked motorists to avoid Outer Ring Road, GT Karnal Road and NH-44 as traffic remains heavy on these routes. For updates on closed borders, diversions, traffic jam and alternate routes, people can visit Delhi Traffic Police’s Facebook and Twitter handles apart from directly calling their helplines +91-11-25844444 or 1095.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-key-delhi-borders-remain-shut-traffic-diverted-101614309116653.html
26-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s temperature to rise further, air quality continues to remain poor||Delhi’s pollution levels continued to remain in the poor category on Friday, with the hourly average air quality index (AQI) at 7am recording 253.Central Pollution Control Board data showed that the overall AQI on Thursday was 298, also in the poor zone. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast said that the air quality is expected to improve from Saturday. Meanwhile, Delhi’s temperature is also expected to rise further on Friday, according to IMD.Also Read | Most of northwest India sees summer-like temperaturesIMD recordings showed that the maximum temperature at Safdarjung weather station on Thursday, which is the official marker for the city, was 33.2 degrees Celsius, eight degrees above the season’s normal. This was the warmest February day in Delhi since 2006.The minimum temperature also touched 13.4 degrees Celsius, a notch above what is considered normal for this time of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-temperature-to-rise-further-air-quality-continues-to-remain-poor-101614308096670.html
26-02-2021||Mumbai||229 students at Maharashtra school test positive for Covid-19||By Pradip Kumar MaitraAs many as 229 students at a residential school in Maharashtra’s Washim district have tested positive for coronavirus disease, district health officer Avinash Aher said on Thursday.Four teaching and non-teaching employees at the school have also been infected, Aher said, adding that the area has been declared a containment zone.“Necessary treatment is being given to the patients. Two doctors and other health workers have been deputed to treat the students,” the official said. He said that almost all the students are asymptomatic.The development has come amid a spate of cases in the state. On Thursday, more than 8,000 cases were recorded in the state.With 8,807 cases on Wednesday, Maharashtra recorded over 8,000 cases after a gap of over four months. It reported 8,142 cases on October 21 last year, after which the numbers witnessed a decline.On Thursday, district collector Shanmugarajan S visited the school and instructed the district health department to provide care to the students and the school staff. “Assistant collector Vaibhah Waghmare has been appointed as the nodal officer to coordinate the health care,” he said.In a related development, the chief priest at the Pohradevi temple in the district, including 11 others also tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday.The priest was present during Maharashtra forest minister and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Rathod’s visit to the temple earlier this week. Rathod visited the temple on Tuesday, along with nearly 25,000 of his supporters after the opposition in the state sought his arrest over his alleged role in the death of a 22-year-old woman.Shanmugarajan said that the priest and five of his family members tested Covid-19 positive. “We have set up testing camps near the temple to detect coronavirus infection among the temple staff and nearby villagers, particularly those who had attended the temple on Tuesday when the minister visited there,” the collector said.Taking serious note of the gathering, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed the district administration and police officials to immediately take action against those who flouted Covid-19 norms.While offences were registered against around 10 people, no action was taken against Rathod, said WHO. “We are trying to identify others in this connection and will certainly book them,” Shanmugarajan said.The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state has banned all gatherings of more than 50 people with strict action against people not adhering to the social distancing norms.With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/229-students-at-maharashtra-school-test-positive-for-covid19-101614302638598.html
26-02-2021||City||North MCD gives ‘legal status’ to new temple in Chandni Chowk||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Thursday unanimously passed a proposal to grant “legal status” to the makeshift Hanuman temple that has come up on the central verge of the Chandni Chowk main road, and demanded that the structure now be made permanent at the spot. The proposal will now be sent to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and the state government for approval.“Residents of the area have put up a temple on the central verge so that traffic is not blocked. There are 18 transformers on the central verge, and it has enough space so the Hanuman temple can be set up on the central verge permanently,” the House proposal read.“The proposal will be sent to L-G Baijal to ensure that the temple is not harmed by any authority. We will also send the proposal to the Delhi government’s religious committee for the final approval, so that the temple can be granted legal status and is not removed. We have done our part. Now, it’s the Delhi government’s turn to approve it,” North Delhi mayor Jai Prakash said.Delhi government and PWD spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/north-mcd-gives-legal-status-to-new-temple-in-chandni-chowk-101614300909300.html
26-02-2021||Delhi||North MCD proposal: An EV charging station, battery swap point every 3km||North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Thursday approved a proposal to set up e-charging and battery swapping stations for electric vehicles (EVs) at every three kilometres. This comes months after the Delhi government notified the Delhi electric vehicle policy, 2020, to reduce air pollution and to kick-start the economy by spurring demand.The Delhi government aims to register at least five lakh EVs in Delhi in the next five years for which it decided to set up EV charging stations at every 3 kms.On Wednesday, the north MCD became the first of the three civic bodies in Delhi to endorse the guideline mandated under the EV policy. Maximum number of EV charging stations will come up in areas under north MCD. Cumulatively the three corporations – North (127), East (93) and South (75) – will develop 295 public e-charging stations across the city in the next one year.The North MCD proposed the plan earlier this month during the presentation of its budget for 2021-22. It was approved by the corporation’s standing committee on Wednesday. Civic officials said that the move will not only help in reducing air pollution but also generate revenue.Three weeks ago, the Delhi government floated a tender to set up 500 EV charging points at 100 locations across the city.A senior official of the north corporation said that as per the new building bylaws, it has now become mandatory to reserve 20% of total parking space for electric vehicles in bigger building projects.The official said people are still hesitant to buy e-vehicles because of lack of charging infrastructure.“Our aim is to bridge this gap. We aim to provide at least one charging and battery swapping station — where charged battery can be replaced with an empty one — in an area of three square kilometres so that people having an electric vehicles do not face problems,” the official said.He added that the work on this project is likely to be started next year. “Initially e-charging stations will be set up in 127 municipal parking sites and slots for electric vehicles will be reserved there. If we receive good response, we will set up more such stations at other public places,” the official said.Delhi currently has 72 operational charging stations.Mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation Jai Prakash said setting up of e-charging infrastructure will take nearly a year’s time as modalities are yet to be fixed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/north-mcd-proposal-an-ev-charging-station-battery-swap-point-every-3km-101614300722191.html
26-02-2021||Delhi||All depts will make EV switch by Sept: Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia||In what deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia termed a “historic move”, the Delhi government on Thursday mandated all its departments, companies and subsidiary agencies to shift from fuel-based hired cars to electric vehicles (EVs) within a time frame of six months.With this, the Delhi government will create a hired fleet of at least 2,000 electric cars within six months, which will be used by its departments and agencies.The order, signed by special secretary (finance) Prince Dhawan, directed all government departments, autonomous bodies and grantee institutions to make a shift from their existing hired petrol/diesel/CNG vehicles to EVs through a lease/hiring model within a time frame of six months. Dry lease/wet lease model has been encouraged by the government for the same, the order stated.Sisodia said the move will make Delhi the “EV Capital” of India. “The Delhi government today (Thursday) became the first in the world, and not just India, to mandate its entire hired car fleet to switch to electric within a deadline of six months. We hope that this decision will inspire cities and governments around India and the world to tackle pollution and climate change with the seriousness and urgency that it deserves,” he said.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the move will go a long way in curbing pollution in Delhi. “Delhi is fast becoming a modern city. Every Indian is proud of Delhi,” he tweeted.The Delhi EV Policy, 2020, which was rolled out on August 7 last year, mandates that the city administration shifts its entire fleet of cars to EVs.Thursday’s order stated that the state transport department will be the nodal agency to monitor the progress of the transition. “It will also be necessary for all departments to produce monthly action reports on the transition by the fifth of every month to the nodal department,” the order said.On February 4, Kejriwal through a digital press conference, had launched a new eight-week long campaign called “Switch Delhi”, to spread awareness about the subsidies provided by the city administration on buying EVs and also set a deadline of six months for the government to shift its hired fleet of cars to EVs.The Switch Delhi campaign aims at informing, encouraging, and motivating the people of Delhi to switch from polluting vehicles to zero-emission EVs. While the first two weeks of the campaign focused on promoting two and three- wheeler owners to switch to EVs, the third week targeted four-wheeler vehicle owners to adopt EVs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/all-depts-will-make-ev-switch-by-sept-delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-101614300268572.html
26-02-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: An oasis with a cab seat||Here’s a place to briefly escape from all the negativity.This refuge is by a busy road, on a pavement in south Delhi’s Panchsheel Park. The seat is... an ambassador car, the yellow cab often identified with Kolkata. Actually, it’s just the front of the cab; its middle portion lopped off and a nice cushiony seat fitted into it (which could as well be the back-seat of the same cab). Here you sit, quietly watch the traffic go by, while beside you the pavement is decked up with inspiring inscriptions like this one—“Our prime purpose in life is to help others. And if you can’t help them, at least don’t hurt them.”This street infrastructure is perhaps the kind of installations the city desperately needs in these times. A place for strained citizens to sit, catch a breath and get their mind relaxed by cooling words. Cold water is also available, in earthen matkas, or pots, to quench the summer thirst. Indeed, this spot is first and foremost a point to help oneself to free drinking water. Which in itself isn’t a novelty. In summers, charitable-minded house owners of upscale neighbourhoods, like Panchsheel Park, often keep cold water coolers or matkas for pedestrians outside their gigantic gates. But this water point is more elaborate. Nobody needs to hire Sherlock Holmes to find out the person behind this facility. His mobile number is displayed prominently, including his website, matkaman.com.A Panchsheel dweller, Alagarathanam Natarajan has occasionally been written about for setting up water pitchers in the area. But nobody has celebrated the extraordinary designing and layout of this drinking point. It’s so funky, so unusual, that one can imagine it has been shoplifted straight out of some art installation fair.The whole setup seems to be modelled after a motor car. The aforementioned sayings are inscribed in metal bars, which lie fitted among an assembly of machines you might find in a car. There’s also an array of speedometers. But the most startling eye-catchers are the stands for the matkas—they look like red metallic pipes swirled into a spring-like formation. This afternoon one of the pitchers is empty and has been turned upside down.Now, a pedestrian arrives, with his young son, and together they sit down on the car seat, watching the speeding cars go by. It’s a fun sight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-an-oasis-with-a-cab-seat-101614300019425.html
26-02-2021||Delhi||Riots, markaz wounds still raw, Chauhan Banger gets ready to vote in civic bypolls||Two-hundred metres away from the Jafrabad Metro station, where stone pelting between the pro- and anti-CAA later snowballed into riots in northeast Delhi, campaigning for the municipal bypoll in the Chauhan Banger (ward no. 41E) is on in full swing.While the candidates of three main political parties are focusing on local issues such as mending broken roads, building a new library, addressing parking problem, improving sanitation service, riots and the crackdown on the members of the Tablighi Jamaat for attending a congregation at the Nizamuddin Markaz in violation of the rules imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic also find frequent mention in the conversations.Chauhan Banger with 40,000 voters is one of the five municipal wards where bypolls are scheduled on February 28. The bypoll was necessitated in the ward, as the sitting AAP councillor, Abdul Rehman, won the assembly election from Seelampur last year. Most of the people here are Muslims employed in household industries and run small mechanical workshops.Although no violence was reported during the February riots from Chauhan Banger, locals recall the horror and fear which had gripped the area for days. Imamuddin Khan. 41, a resident of the ward, said, “We all were scared and didn’t step out for two days. I have been living here for nearly three decades, but I never saw such tension among people in the area.”Some residents feel that the riots may have a bearing on the election outcome. Maulana Mohd. Daud Amini (58), rector of Madrasa Babul Uloom in Jafrabad, vividly remembers the events preceding the violence. Amini said, “There was an anti-CAA protest near this [Jafrabad] Metro station. Though no violence was reported, but there was an atmosphere of fear as police took a few young men for questioning.”He alleged that Muslims also had to bear of the government’s action against the congregation at the Nizamuddin Markaz. Over 2,300 people were evacuated from the Markaz and taken to quarantine centres. Amini said, “The way the Markaz issue was handled, the community felt targeted. It is the poor people who bore the brunt of the incident. The fruits and vegetable vendors from the community found it difficult to earn their livelihood during the lockdown. The community is hurt as it was vilified. Though it has been a year, the two incidents are still fresh in minds of people.”AAP candidate Mohd Ishraq Khan, a former MLA from Seelampur, said, “There is anger in the community. People talk about it when we meet them.”Khan is pitted against Zubair Ahmad, son of Congress veteran and five-time MLA from Seelampur, Mateen Ahmed, and BJP’s Mohd Nazir Ansari, a local party worker who has been actively working with the minority wing of the party for over two decades.Zubair said the Muslim community was angry over the way riots and the Markaz incident were handled. “While we are focusing only on development issues in our campaign, these issues do come up. The area needs sanitation services. The situation of essential services in the area has gone from bad to worse,” said Zubair, whose main promises include setting up a library and improving sanitation services in the area.Ishraq Khan dismissed the allegations of the government “mishandling the riots and Markaz” issues. “Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal visited the riot-affected areas and the government made all efforts to provide immediate relief to the victims. The Congress has no relevant issue to talk about.”Hitting out at Zubair, Khan said, “His father represented the Seelampur constituency for over two decades, but he didn’t do anything. It is only after the AAP came to power that new schools and medical facilities were constructed here.”The AAP is going all out to retain the ward, which it won in 2017. Environment minister Gopal Rai, who is also AAP’s Delhi unit convener, recently campaigned in the area. The new state Congress team has been working hard to revive the party and hoping for a favourable outcome. The BJP, which has never won any municipal election from this ward, is banking on the central government schemes such as PM-UDAY for giving ownership rights to residents of unauthorised colonies to garner support. Mohd Nazir Ansari said, “Our focus is just on development. The area has been ruled by Congress and AAP in the past but look at the conditions here. The Centre has announced several schemes for housing, better employment, ease of doing business, etc. We are telling people about it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/riots-wounds-still-raw-chauhan-banger-gets-ready-for-bypolls-101614299235957.html
26-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi court grants bail to 16 accused in violence at Singhu border||A sessions court on Thursday granted bail to 16 accused in connection to the incident at Singhu border in which the SHO of Alipur police station Pradeep Paliwal was stabbed during stone-pelting between the protesting farmers and some local residents on January 29. At least two people, including a police official, were injured in the violence.Additional sessions judge Shivani Anand granted bail to the 16 accused, stating injuries suffered by other police officials were superficial except those on the body of SHO Alipur.The court also said that the prosecution has failed to show as to why it did not seek the police remand of the accused despite arresting them.The judge also said that name of the accused would have been mentioned in the FIR, if the accused were overpowered from the spot.The police contended that though the names of other accused persons could not be mentioned initially in the FIR but police officials have properly identified the offenders in their statement.Meanwhile, a Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to a Class 12 student suffering from Bipolar disorder, arrested in connection to the violence at Nangloi Chowk during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day, saying that he was a young man with clean antecedents and has already been in custody for 29 days.Bipolar disorder is a mental illness that brings severe high and low moods and changes in behaviour.Additional sessions judge Samar Vishal granted bail to one Gursewak who was arrested for allegedly hitting the police barricades and police vehicles while driving a tractor, noting the “tender age” of the accused.The police alleged that the accused tried to run over the police personnel deployed at Nangloi Chowk and sped towards Peeragarhi.The judge said the acts of the protestors/ rioters cannot be condoned, however, the guilt or innocence of the accused is a matter of trial and nothing cannot be said about it at this stage.In an another case related to Nangloi violence, the judge granted bail to one Daljinder stating that the accused was just 22-year-old and does not have any criminal record.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-grants-bail-to-16-accused-in-violence-at-singhu-border-101614298965508.html
26-02-2021||Delhi||Toolkit accused Shantanu Muluk gets safety from arrest till March 9||A Delhi court on Thursday granted interim protection from arrest to Pune engineer Shantanu Muluk, an accused in the toolkit case, till March 9 in continuation of the 10-day transit bail given to him by the Bombay high court on February 16.Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana said no coercive action would be taken against Muluk, who along with climate activist Disha Ravi and Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob, was booked for sedition for alleged formulation, editing and dissemination of the toolkit document related to the farmers’ protest against the three new farm laws.The police have alleged that Ravi, Muluk and Jacob allegedly created an online toolkit intending to help a section of protesting farmers. According to the police, the toolkit was a sinister design to defame India and incite unrest.The police registered a case on February 4 for sedition, promoting hatred among groups and criminal conspiracy under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) after the Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg tweeted the toolkit while expressing her support to the protesters.On Thursday, public prosecutor Irfan Ahmed, appearing for the police, sought seven days to file their reply on the anticipatory bail plea and assured the court that the Investigating officer (IO) did not intend to take any coercive steps in the meanwhile.He also told the court that Muluk’s repolies to the police questions were inconsistent and full of contradictions.Advocate Vrinda Grover, counsel for Muluk, told the court that her client should not be arrested as he has been joining investigation whenever he has been called by the investigating agency.Noting the submissions of the police, the court said that no “coercive actions” will be taken against the accused and posted the matter for next hearing on March 9.In his plea filed through advocate Akram Khan and Sarim Naved, Muluk has said that he merely created the toolkit with information on the agitation, which was then edited by others without his knowledge.The application further said there was “absolutely nothing” in the toolkit that advised doing anything unlawful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/toolkit-accused-shantanu-muluk-gets-safety-from-arrest-till-march-9-101614298361713.html
26-02-2021||Delhi||Police submit 3rd charge sheet in Delhi riots case||The Delhi Police special cell, in their third supplementary charge sheet on the conspiracy behind the north-east Delhi riots, submitted an animated video which they stitched together from the footage of 36 CCTV cameras located in different parts of Chand Bagh area to show that the riots were orchestrated and not spontaneous.Using the footage from each camera, police have made an attempt to show the court how on February 24, locals were mobilised between 11.30am and 1.30pm, given weapons and told to gather on the Wazirabad main road to attack police personnel. Police said it was on this road that the mob had beaten to death head constable Rattan Lal.Using the presentation, which shows residents from each lane arming themselves with stones and weapons, and then reaching the Wazirabad main road to attack the police teams, police have attempted to show that the acts of violence were not “spontaneous”.The presentation also showed a map of the Chand Bagh area, with 36 pins marking out the locations of the CCTV cameras, installed by the Delhi government, from which the footage was collected before they were destroyed.At the end of the presentation, police also showed a video of how each camera was later smashed, or covered by cloth, or its lens turned upside down by rioters to ensure that no one was captured on tape.HT has learnt that one such camera installed in one of the lanes of Chand Bagh, shows a man carrying a sword and walking with a mob carrying sticks.The same man was captured by cameras in multiple areas and he is seen walking towards the spot where head constable Rattan Lal and other police personnel were attacked.Police have also placed on record the footage of women handing over weapons and rods to menfolk. A rioter is also seen breaking a ladder and handing out the wooden pieces to locals.The court is likely to hear the matter on Monday.At least 53 persons were killed and 581 injured in the riots last year, which was allegedly triggered by a clash between supporters of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and those opposing it. It later snowballed into a Hindu-Muslim violence that raged between February 23 and 27.The local police, crime branch and the special cell (anti-terror unit) are jointly probing the riots cases. Police registered 755 cases, of which 697 were probed by the local police, 57 by the crime branch and one by the special cell.The special cell is probing the role of several prominent anti-CAA protesters in allegedly orchestrating the riots. The special cell has claimed that the riots were not spontaneous but was planned by persons such as student leaders Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, local politicians Tahir Hussain and Ishrat Jahan, JNU student Sharjeel Imam, and activists Umar Khalid and Khalid Saifi.They have been arrested and charged under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Police have already filed two other charge sheets against these persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-submit-3rd-charge-sheet-in-delhi-riots-case-101614298207304.html
26-02-2021||Delhi||Water crisis looms as Nangal channel gears up for repairs||The closure of Nangal hydel channel will cause an “unprecedented water crisis” and even a “law and order” problem in Delhi, Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha said, urging the Centre, the Haryana government and Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) to postpone the repair of the water channel scheduled to commence on March 25.Delhi receives at least 232 MGD (million gallons per day) water through the Nangal channel, which helps meet the city’s 25% water requirement, which is estimated to be 935 MGD.“The blind closure of the channel will affect supply of 232 MGD (million gallons per day) of water supply from the Beas River to Delhi for one month in March-April. It is 25% of water supply in Delhi and could lead to an unprecedented water crisis and even create a law and order situation,” Chadha said in his letter to the Centre.Chadha said during summers, Delhi’s water requirement shoots up to 1,000 MGD-1,200 MGD and urged Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to convene a meeting of all stakeholders to discuss the issue at the earliest.The senior AAP leader added that the Delhi government is in constant touch with the Centre over the issue.Being a landlocked city, apart from water of the Beas, Delhi also relies on water from rivers Yamuna and Ganga and groundwater aquifers for its water needs. However, the Nangal hydel channel is among the biggest suppliers of water for the city. Chadha warned that if the channel is shut off, the water supply to the President’s residence, the Prime Minister’s house, the Supreme Court, the Delhi high court, the National Green Tribunal and the embassies will also be hit.Shalabh Kumar, DJB member (water supply), said the shutdown of the channel has been proposed from March 25 to April 24, for the cleaning of the spill gates of Bhakra and Nangal dams.“The Punjab government is also asking for a complete closure of the channel because this is a lean period for irrigation for them. They are saying that the channel should be completely closed because a portion of a canal near Nangal in their state is currently lying in a dilapidated condition and they want it to be repaired,” Kumar said.He said that the DJB is also in talks with the Haryana government to ensure an alternative source of water.“But the problem is that there is no alternative sources, because during summers the flow of Yamuna is also less. If the work is postponed to monsoons, we can draw additional raw water from the Yamuna (Western Jamuna Canal) to meet the drinking water requirements for Delhi,” Kumar added.Sanjay Shrivastava, the chairperson of the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMS), however said that the channel will not be completely shut off.“The supply might be slightly affected for such routine repair work, but this channel cannot be completely shut off. The water supply in Delhi will not face any severe impact,” Shrivastava said.Water flows from Bhakra dam, which is in Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh, downstream to the Nangal dam where it is controlled and released into the Nangal hydel channel. This channel later becomes Bhakra main line after Ganguwal and Kotla power plants. The Bhakra main line supplies irrigation water to Haryana and the power generated at Bhakra Dam is distributed among Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Chandigarh and Delhi.The Haryana government did not respond to requests for a comment on the issue.“The Nangal channel is a major source of Delhi’s water and there is no doubt that if such a shortage of supply occurs people will extract more groundwater. There is also not enough notice that Delhi can work towards reducing its demands. The agencies should consider that such closure should happen around winters or monsoon when the demand for water is comparatively less,” said Manu Bhatnagar, water expert and principal director, natural heritage division, Intach||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/water-crisis-looms-as-nangal-channel-gears-up-for-repairs-101614297848465.html
26-02-2021||Bhopal||Man who worshipped Godse joins Cong; ‘now Gandhian’, says party||The induction into the Congress of a former municipal corporator who built a temple dedicated to Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin Nathuram Godse has stirred a political controversy in Madhya Pradesh.The Congress on Thursday inducted Babulal Chaurasiya into the party in the presence of former chief minister Kamal Nath.Hitting out at the Congress, Bharatiya Janata Party leader and state home minister Narottam Mishra said: “This has revealed the double standards of the Congress party. Congress party leaders use the name of Father of Nation Mahatma Gandhi for votes only like they use the name of BR Ambedkar and Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel during elections only.”Defending the party’s decision, Congress’s Gwalior MLA Praveen Pathak said: “Chaurasiya was an active member of the Congress. He decided to return to the party...we welcomed him because our party leaders are like Rahul Gandhi, who has even forgiven the murderers of his father to give them a chance...”Chaurasia himself admitted that he had been associated with the Congress in the past.“Now, the truth has come out that it was a Congressman who hatched the conspiracy to malign the image of the BJP-led state government [by glorifying Godse],” BJP leader Rajneesh Agrawal said.In 2017, Chaurasiya, who contested the 2015 Gwalior Municipal Corporation election as an independent candidate, built a temple dedicated to Godse. He was with the Hindu Mahasabha at the time. Indeed, as recently as 2020, he appeared in events supporting Godse.Following his induction into the Congress, Chaurasiya said he had been misguided by the Hindu Mahasabha. “The leaders of Hindu Mahasabha showed some fake books to me about Godse. But recently, I realized my mistake and left the organization,” he said .The Hindu Mahasabha contested this and said Chaurasiya was expelled three days ago.“How was it possible to misguide a person for six years? He was associated with the Hindu Mahasabha for the past six years. We have videos of his speeches in which he was seen praising Godse. Recently, we came to know that Chaurasiya used to take money from a local Congress MLA for sending people from his ward to Congress party political rallies. We removed him from the organisation three days ago after serving a show-cause notice to him,” Hindu Mahasabha national vice president Jaiveer Bhardwaj said.Chaurasiya’s induction appeared to create a divide in the Congress state unit as well.Senior party leader Manak Agrawal said: “It is wrong to welcome an admirer of Godse in the party. I don’t know the reason why he has been allowed to join the party but we will surely oppose this decision.”Former state Congress chief Arun Yadav tweeted saying he was ashamed of the induction. “Bapu hum sharminda hai…Mahatma Gandhi Amar Rahe (Bapu, we are ashamed…Mahatma Gandhi Long Live),” he tweeted.A political analyst from Gwalior, Jayant Singh, said: “Congress is trying to regain lost political ground in Chambal and Gwalior division. They are looking for Independent leaders, who have the support of common people, for local bodies’ election. Chaurasiya contested the election independently in 2015 and won with a good margin. He is very popular in his ward. To win, the party leaders are ready to ignore the fact that he was a part of an organisation which hates Gandhi and Congressmen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/man-who-worshipped-godse-joins-cong-now-gandhian-says-party-101614294606580.html
26-02-2021||Delhi||Only AAP capable of challenging BJP across states, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of corruption and claimed that the AAP is the only party capable of challenging the BJP across states.“The Aam Aadmi Party has been in government for the last six years in Delhi. We have taken all measures to develop Delhi, improve schools for your children, improve hospitals for your families, made the bus rides free for women, and provided free electricity to the people of Delhi,” said AAP chief Kejriwal at a roadshow in Trilokpuri.The chief minister on Thursday participated in roadshows in Trilokpuri, Seelampur and Kondli localities, campaigning for party candidates ahead of municipal bypolls in five wards of Delhi scheduled on Sunday. Delhi goes to municipal polls in 2022.Kejriwal said, “The Aam Aadmi Party is the only party to challenge the BJP across the nation. The AAP is the only party to contest against BJP in all states.You must have heard about the municipal election results in Surat. We have emerged as the principal opposition to the BJP.”Earlier this week, the AAP won 27 seats in the Surat municipal corporation.Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said people are not happy with the AAP government in Delhi. “It is because of the AAP that people in most parts of Delhi get unclean water, government schools and hospitals are in shambles, so are roads.”Delhi Congress vice-president Mudit Agarwal said, “Kejriwal has abandoned the people of Delhi. He is scared of the Congress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/only-aap-capable-of-challenging-bjp-across-states-says-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-101614294281969.html
26-02-2021||Delhi||Maximum temperature in Delhi jumps to 33.2°C, may rise more||Delhi on Thursday recorded a maximum temperature of 33.2 degrees Celsius, a slight jump from Wednesday’s 32.5 degrees Celsius, and looked on course to break the record for the highest maximum temperature notched in the month of February in the last 15 years.India Meteorological Department (IMD) recordings show that the maximum temperature at Safdarjung weather station, which is the official marker for the city, was 33.2 degrees Celsius, eight degrees above the season’s normal. The minimum temperature also touched 13.4 degrees Celsius, a notch above what is considered normal for this time of the year.On Wednesday, the maximum temperature was 32.5 degrees Celsius, seven degrees above the season’s normal and the minimum temperature was 12 degrees Celsius.Before this, in 2018 and 2017, the day time temperatures had crossed the 32 degrees Celsius mark. On February 23, 2018, the maximum temperature was 32 degrees Celsius, while on February 21, 2017, the maximum temperature had touched 32.4 degrees Celsius. According to IMD, this was the warmest February day in at least the last 15 years. The warmest February day was recorded in 2006, when the day time temperature had reached 34.1 degrees Celsius, Met officials said.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that the maximum temperatures could rise further on Friday and reach around 34 degrees Celsius. He also said that there is a possibility that this time the record for the highest February temperature is broken.“The maximum temperature is likely to touch 34 degrees Celsius. Maybe the difference would be of a few points,” Srivastava added.He also explained that February this year has been recording higher than normal temperatures primarily because of fewer active western disturbances and clear skies; that has led to sunlight reaching the surface uninterrupted.“Generally, in the month of February we get around six western disturbances, but this year the last time Delhi got an active western disturbance was on February 4,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/maximum-temperature-in-delhi-jumps-to-33-2-c-may-rise-more-101614293906715.html
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Sardool Sikandar laid to rest at ancestral village||Noted Punjabi singer-actor Sardool Sikandar (60) was laid to rest at his native Kheri Naudh Singh village in Fatehgarh Sahib on Thursday. Hundreds of people, including singers and actors, attended the funeral. His body was brought to his native from Khanna where Sardool was residing with his wife Amar Noorie and two sons for past three decades. Village sarpanch Rupinder Singh gave a chunk of his land to Sardool’s family for the burial. “Sardool had brought fame and name to the village. It is our responsibility to bid him respectful adieu,” said the sarpanch, who owns 10 acres of land. He added that he is willing to give more land if the family wanted to construct a memorial at the burial site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sardool-sikandar-laid-to-rest-at-ancestral-village-101614282475907.html
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records hottest February day in 15 years, rain relief likely today||With the maximum temperature climbing to 31.6°C on Thursday, Chandigarh recorded its hottest February day in 15 years, as per the records available with the India Meteorological Department (IMD). However, relief is in sight as rain up to 20mm is likely on Friday evening.The last warmest day in the month was recorded on February 23 in 2006, when the temperature had gone up to 32°C. The all-time highest was way back in 1954 when the mercury was 32.8°C on February 20. “Fewer Western Disturbances are primarily behind this sudden rise in temperature. The relatively cleaner air in the city may have also played a part in keeping it warmer. Pollutants, especially particulate matter, reflect sunlight, causing cooler days,” said Surender Paul, director, IMD, Chandigarh.He added that a weak Western Disturbance was likely to bring in rain from Friday evening onwards. “If the weather turns cloudy in the early afternoon, the maximum temperature may reduce, else it may go up to 32°C due to warmer winds blowing in the city,” Paul said.While dry weather will return on Saturday, another spell of western disturbances will affect the region in the first week of March.Over the next three days, the day temperature may hover between 32°C and 28°C, while the night temperature will remain around 14°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-records-hottest-february-day-in-15-years-rain-relief-likely-today-101614281096442.html
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Child rights panel recommends online exams for nursery to Class 8 students||Ludhiana The chairman of Punjab State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (PSCPCR), Rajinder Singh, has recommended online examination for students from nursery to Class 8. A letter in this regard was sent by the commission to the secretary, school education, on Thursday. Since Covid cases are again showing a slight surge in Punjab, the commission received phone calls and email from parents and students, requesting that exams should be conducted online as a precautionary measure.The commission has also written to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) to give online and offline options for students of classes 9 and 11. It is stated in the letter that pre-board and board examinations of classes 10 and 12 may be conducted in classrooms with strict compliance of standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the ministry of health and family welfare and director general of health services. Commission’s deputy director Rajwinder Singh Gill said, “In the last four days, we have received emails and phone calls from parents and students regarding the classroom exams. Taking note of their concern, we have written to the secretary, school education, suggesting the online option.” He said another letter was sent to district education officers (secondary and elementary) across the state, urging them to form teams and appoint nodal officers in schools and circulate their contact numbers among the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/child-rights-panel-recommends-online-exams-for-nursery-to-class-8-students-101614281095142.html
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||History-sheeter Shera, two aides held with heroin, guns in Amritsar||AMRITSAR The anti-drug special task force (STF) of the Punjab Police on Thursday arrested history-sheeter Shamsher Singh alias Shera of Khekra Kalan village in Gurdaspur district and two of his aides from near the Majitha road by-pass. Shera was allegedly involved in heroin and weapon smuggling and facing nine criminal cases, including one registered under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, police said. The police also recovered 360gm heroin, two country-made pistols and 9 rounds from their possession. Police identified the other two accused as Neeraj Kumar of Gopal Nagar and Subeg Singh alias Bunty of Shekhupura in Amritsar. Police said the heroin was delivered to the accused on the instruction of some criminals lodged in Amritsar central jail. Addressing a press conference, deputy superintendent of police (DSP), STF border range, Vavinder Mahajan said they got a tip-off that Shera and his two aides were coming towards the Majitha road by-pass. “Barricading was laid and the accused, who were in a Hyundai Verna car, were arrested. During questioning, the accused told us that they were in contact with some people in jail. We will bring their contacts in jail on production warrant,” he said. He said more recoveries are expected after thorough questioning of Shera. A case under relevant sections of the NDPS Act and the Arms Act has been registered against the accused at the STF’s Mohali police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/historysheeter-shera-two-aides-held-with-heroin-guns-in-amritsar-101614280736334.html
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Health workers’ vaccination wraps up in Chandigarh with 43% coverage||The 41-day exercise to inoculate healthcare workers on priority ended on Thursday, with Chandigarh performing poorly on the coverage ratio amid reluctance towards the Covid-19 vaccine.The city falls among the league of four states and UTs with coverage for first dose less than 50%. Placed third among them, Chandigarh has achieved vaccination coverage of 43%, followed by Puducherry at 33.7%.Now, the second phase of the vaccination drive for people aged over 60 and those above 45 with comorbidities will begin on March 1. A meeting between the Centre and states on operational details of the next phase and covering the remaining health workers is scheduled on Friday. A few healthcare staffers will be immunised on Friday as their entries were recorded in the online registration platform on Thursday evening. Drive to provide the second dose will continue as per the schedule of the first jab. Meanwhile, frontline workers will continue to receive the vaccine till March 6. Comprising staff from the police and municipal corporation, the drive for frontline categories began on February 3 and has so far covered 35.6% of the targeted beneficiaries.“The fact remains that the exercise is totally voluntary. We cannot force the beneficiaries to get the vaccine. A decision on whether there should be an incentive for those who got the shot will be taken during the war room meeting after consultation with the respective department heads,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida.Lukewarm response worrisomeThe low turnout among the priority groups can also cast its shadow on the upcoming phases, particularly when the city is seeing a resurge in the daily infections and new strains of the virus are surfacing. The number of daily cases has almost doubled in less than a week. On Thursday, 49 people tested positive against the 28 on February 21.“The steady upward trend, coupled with low vaccination coverage, is a matter of concern. The health workers have been hesitant as evident from the statistics. The numbers are increasing to some extent now, but are still far from encouraging,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research.In a press statement on Thursday, the institute said with mask use down and mobility up, Covid-19 cases had accelerated and in one week, there had been a 100% increase in bed occupancy.Dr GD Puri, chairman of the Covid-19 management committee at PGIMER, said, “For a few months, the numbers had been decreasing consistently and had been stable over the recent weeks. However, the trend has reversed, with the cases again rising on a daily basis. There has been a surge in admitted patients at PGIMER, from 30 to 57 in a week, a 100% rise in positive cases at PGIMER.”He said frontline warriors should be the role models for society instead of falling prey to misconceptions and rumours regarding the efficacy, safety and side effects of the vaccine. “In fact, who knows more than the healthcare workers about how deadly Covid-19 is?” he added in the PGIMER statement. In an order on February 22, UT senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal had warned of disciplinary action against any police personnel not turning up for vaccination as per the list. He had tasked the unit in-charges with ensuring compliance. However, he did not elaborate on what the disciplinary action will entail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/health-workers-vaccination-wraps-up-in-chandigarh-with-43-coverage-101614280735156.html
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||JEE Main Day 3: Exam was easier than previous years, say students in Chandigarh||Engineering aspirants who appeared for JEE Main on Thursday (Day 3) said the exam was easier compared to previous years. Karam Chand, a native of Kaithal, said, “There were many calculation-based questions from physical chemistry which was unexpected. Otherwise, the paper was relatively easy.”Yuvraj Singh Tomar from Jalandhar said he was able to finish well in time. “The exam was formula based and the questions were very straightforward.” Nanya Miglani from Chandigarh also said the exam was concept based. “Maths was surprisingly easy and will be scoring,” she said. Meanwhile, attendance continued to stay over 90% at centres in Chandigarh. The last exam in the February cycle of the JEE Main will be held on Friday. After that, the exams will be held again in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jee-main-day-3-exam-was-easier-than-previous-years-say-students-in-chandigarh-101614280317634.html
26-02-2021||Education||Jamia Millia Islamia opens for some students||Jamia Millia Islamia on Thursday allowed research scholars of engineering and natural sciences departments to return to campus from Monday for laboratory work, subject to approvals from the varsity authorities concerned.In a circular issued on Thursday, the university said, “Research scholars of the faculty of engineering and technology, and faculty of natural sciences and its associated centres are being allowed to use the laboratory facilities of their concerned departments and centres on seeking prior appointment and permission from the respective deans of their faculties through their research supervisors with effect from March 1.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/jamia-millia-islamia-opens-for-some-students-101614280072785.html
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Paying 30% cess on hiked water tariff a bane for Chandigarh residents||In addition to paying a hefty water tariff, which was hiked by 200% in September last year, residents must now also pay a sizable sewerage cess.In the latest bills received by city residents, the 30% cess charges imposed by the municipal corporation on the water tariff have increased manifold. For instance, a resident of Sector 16, who used to pay ₹700 as sewerage cess, has to pay ₹1,538 now, more than twice.The sewerage cess was introduced in June 2019, but with the recent water tariff hike, the real burden of the cess is being felt for the first time.Terming the imposition of the cess as arbitrary, advocate and legal analyst Anil Malhotra of Sector 16 said, “Section 399 of the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, as applicable to Chandigarh, in Part B allows by-laws to be made relating to water supply, drainage and sewage disposal under 26 specified heads. However, none of them authorises or warrants levy of sewerage cess. Hence, the UT by-laws are beyond powers of the MC, unwarranted, unfounded in law and have no legal basis of levy.”After the MC General House had passed a resolution to the effect in 2018, the MC had notified in 2019 a sewerage cess of 30% of the water charges.In September 2020, the UT administration had notified a hike between 50% and 200% in water tariff depending upon the category of user and water consumption level. After facing a public outcry and criticism from the opposition, however, the MC General House had passed a resolution in October, asking the administration to withdraw the notification and stick to the existing rates till the pandemic lasts. The resolution was then sent to the administration for its approval.“Even though MC officials say that the increase in water tariff ranges between 39% to 184%, it is much more because of the sewerage cess,” said RK Garg, president, Second Innings Association.“Earlier it (cess) was fixed at ₹10 per water connection, then it was increased to ₹60. But fixing it at 30% of water charges is too steep. The MC should reverse it to fixed charges,” added Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paying-30-cess-on-hiked-water-tariff-a-bane-for-chandigarh-residents-101614280255618.html
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Former MP Tanwar launches Apna Bharat Morcha||Fifteen months after he quit the Congress citing serious internal contradictions and existential crisis in the party, former MP Ashok Tanwar on Thursday launched Apna Bharat Morcha, a socio-political platform.“I am presenting this platform as an alternative to Congress and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). There is a lot of frustration among Congress and BJP workers. Many want to leave these parties provided there is a better alternative,” he said.Having remained in political wilderness for all these months, Tanwar said that the Morcha will be an agent of positive changes and a platform to give voice to the voiceless.“Our focus will be on overall and inclusive development of the country. Our slogan is ‘Nai Soch, Nai Disha, Aur Nai Rajneeti.’ (New Thinking, New Direction and New Politics!),” he said in New Delhi after the formal launch.When asked that past experience show that regional political outfits have a poor success rate, Tanwar said when people are with you, there is nothing challenging. “Ours is a socio-political platform of the people and for the people,” he said.Most regional outfits such as Bansi Lal’s Haryana Vikas Party (HVP), Bhajan Lal’s Haryana Janhit Congress (HJC), Gopal Kanda’s Haryana Lokhit Party (HLP) and Venod Sharma’s Haryana Jan Chetna Party (HJCP) have limited to no success at all in electoral politics of Haryana.While HVP had managed to form government with the BJP’s support in 1996, it had collapsed in 1999 and later merged into Congress in 2005. HJC also came a cropper and merged into Congress. Kanda and Sharma’s outfits are virtually non-starters.The only credible exception is Om Prakash Chautala’s Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) and its offshoot, the fledgling Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) which can claim to have tasted some success.Tanwar, a former state Congress chief, was sent packing after the 2019 Lok Sabha debacle where all 10 Lok Sabha seats in Haryana were won by the BJP.He had later held a protest outside the Delhi residence of Congress chief Sonia Gandhi against distribution of party tickets for the Haryana assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-mp-tanwar-launches-apna-bharat-morcha-101614280254467.html
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||HC seeks details of criminal cases against MPs, MLAs from trial courts, govts||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday sought requisite information about criminal cases against MPs and MLAs in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.The HC also sought similar details from the district and sessions judges with stages of trials to ensure their speedy disposal.The order was passed by the bench of justice Rajan Gupta and justice Karamjit Singh during resumed hearing of a suo motu plea initiated upon apex court orders on monitoring trials against MPs and MLAs (sitting or erstwhile).The court also asked that an officer of the rank of inspector general of police (IGP) be deputed by respective authorities to assist court and asked registry to list case on a date when it can be taken up through physical hearing.During the hearing, the amicus curaie, senior advocate Rupinder Khosla told court that as per information supplied by the registry, only two cases are pending before the HC but added that he can get fresh report to ensure that no case pertaining to MPs or MLAs has been left out of the list.Khosla had also pointed out that information may also be required from the Centre, Central Bureau of Investigation, Enforcement Directorate and other central investigating agencies as the apex court order talks about the trial of all criminal cases.The court though observed that as all sessions’ judges have been asked to furnish case details, same can be provided by them. Before the apex court it had come to light that 35 criminal cases are pending against Punjab legislators including 21 cases against sitting MPs or MLAs. In Haryana, 42 lawmakers are facing criminal cases including 11 sitting and 31 former MPs and MLAs. The HC initiated the proceedings on February 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-seeks-details-of-criminal-cases-against-mps-mlas-from-trial-courts-govts-101614280134491.html
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||HC notice to Haryana on plea seeking panchayat polls||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday put the Haryana government on notice on a plea seeking panchayat polls.Last panchayat polls were held in January 2016 and the election process to elect new members in panchayats, panchayat samitis and for zila parishad had to be completed by February 23.The plea has been filed by one Davender Singh and four others from Jind on which response has been sought by March 25.The plea states that most of the population in Haryana is living in villages and its people manage day to day affairs on village and community levels through traditional village institutions, which highlights importance of these polls. “The government has failed to undertake the process of election to be completed before expiry of the term and administrators have been appointed which is going against the mandate of the Constitution,” the plea states.“The Constitution itself mandates that election be held within stipulated period but by appointing administrators and dissolving panchayats, the whole structure of a local self governance is sought to be defeated by the government,” the plea says.It demands that the government be directed to hold elections as its decision of delaying it is “arbitrary, unreasonable and against the spirit of the Constitution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-notice-to-haryana-on-plea-seeking-panchayat-polls-101614280074631.html
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||No coercive action against ex-cricketer Yuvraj till further orders: HC to Haryana||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday asked the Haryana Police to not to take any coercive action against former Indian cricketer Yuvraj Singh in a criminal case registered in Hisar district earlier this month on allegations of making casteist remarks.The HC bench of justice Amol Rattan Singh, while acting on a plea seeking quashing of the FIR, has sought response by March 26. “Court has directed that no coercive action be taken against the petitioner,” said, Vibhav Jain, who appeared along with senior advocate Puneet Bali. A detailed order from the court is yet to be released.The FIR was registered on February 14, eight months after Yuvraj had apologised for the “unintentional remarks” made during an Instagram live video in April 2020.The FIR was registered on complaint of one Rajat Kalsan of Hansi under Section 153 A (promoting enmity) and 153B (assertions prejudicial to national-integration) of the Indian Penal Code and the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes Prevention and Atrocities Act 1989.“The remark was misunderstood and was widely shared on the social media, triggering outrage. The petitioner is a victim of gross prosecution and harassment meted out by the complainant who has initiated malicious prosecution,” the plea stated, adding that the live session happened in April 2020 and in June the video started circulating with allegations that the cricketer disrespected the Dalit community as he addressed two of his colleagues as “Bhangi”.An apology was issued on June 5, but complaints were filed against him, the latest one resulting in an FIR on February 14, the plea states, adding that all this was done in an attempt to harm his reputation.“The petitioner addressed his colleagues in a friendly manner but conveniently the issue was portrayed as an act in violation of the SC/ ST Act,” the plea states.“In the FIR, there is neither any averment of either promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion/ race/ place of birth residence/ language etc or doing any acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony. Hence, the Sections invoked deserve to be set aside,” the plea states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-coercive-action-against-ex-cricketer-yuvraj-till-further-orders-hc-to-haryana-101614279954434.html
26-02-2021||Gurugram||244 species spotted on Big Bird Day||At least 244 bird species were recorded from Delhi and the National Capital Region on the Big Bird Day 2021 held on February 21, the result of which was released on Thursday.Last year, birders recorded 253 species from Delhi-NCR. In 2019, 247 species were sighted while in 2018 the count was 237.Big Bird Day is an annual event, organised at the onset of spring when birders observe and record different species. The event started in 2004.This year, the Grey-headed fish eagle was spotted at the Okhla Bird Sanctuary, making it the fourth sighting ever of this bird in NCR. According to the report, some other interesting sightings from NCR included Grey-winged blackbird, Tickell’s thrush, Great crested grebe, Greater White-fronted Goose and Spotted crake among others.Speaking on the marginal decrease in the number of bird species recorded this year, Nikhil Devasar, founder of Delhi Bird Foundation which organised the Big Bird Day, said, “One of the reasons for the low count this year could be because we are still in a pandemic and lesser number of people were able to come out this year to record birds.”He added that unusually high temperatures during the past few days may also have caused the lower species count this year.On Wednesday, Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 32.5 degrees Celsius -- the warmest day in February in the past 15 years. On Thursday, it was 33 degrees with meteorological scientists predicting further increase on Friday.Birds such as Red-crested pochard, Dunlin, Lesser Black-backed Gull, Black-necked Stork, Grey-headed fish eagle, Peregrine falcon were sighted at the Okhla Bird Sanctuary. At the Budhera Water Treatment Plant in Gurugram, birds such as Great crested grebe, Black-necked grebe, Spotted crake, Eurasian Curlew, Jack Snipe and Great Bittern were spotted.At Dhanauri Wetlands near Noida, birders spotted Red-crested Pochard, Black-necked Stork; Desert Wheatear was sighted at Mangar Bani in Faridabad and at Kheda Jhanjhrola. Hume’s Lark (Hume’s Short-toed Lark) was also sighted at Kheda Jhanjhrola in Haryana.Pankaj Gupta, a birder from Delhi Bird Group said, “We recorded fewer species of birds this year, but the number of birds was not less as compared to previous years. The dip in the number of species could be due to various reasons such as lack of water near Sultanpur and Nafajgarh, prime areas for bird sighting. This year, the Sultanpur Bird Sanctuary was also closed on the day of the count due to Covid-19 protocols, so we could not go there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/244-species-spotted-on-big-bird-day-101614279266363.html
26-02-2021||Dehradun||Teen gets online task to 'kill someone', goes missing after attacking woman||A 17-year-old schoolboy, studying in class 12 in Uttarakhand's Dehradun, went missing after allegedly attacking a woman with a knife. According to police, by attacking the woman, he was completing a task given to him on an online chatting platform by his chat partner.The attack on the woman took place on Monday evening in the Nehru Colony area of Dehradun. The boy has been missing since then. His parents lodged a complaint about him going missing in the Patel Nagar area of the city where the family lives. The boy's link with the online platform came to light after police officials went through his mobile phone on Wednesday during the probe. He had left his phone at home before running away.Yogendra Singh Rawat, senior superintendent of police, Dehradun said, "The Nehru Colony police, while probing the assault case, checked his mobile phone during which it came out that he was involved in chatting with a stranger on an online chatting platform named Discord where he was given the task of attacking a person."Rawat said in the chat, the stranger had written, "Task- To kill someone, to suicide or to disappear."Also read: Pakistan stays in FATF ‘grey list’, given June deadline to implement action plan"It is really worrisome that children are falling into such online traps wherein sometimes they often become the target of online bullying, blackmailing and even threatening. Out of fear, these children often do such acts like in this case," said Rawat.He said the police are constantly trying to find him.Another police officer, who did not wish to be named, said, "He was last seen near Paonta Sahib in Himachal Pradesh which suggests that he might still be there. Police are trying to find him as soon as possible."He added, "Meanwhile, the woman who was attacked is undergoing treatment in hospital. She had sustained serious wounds in her neck and torso."Experts are of the view that such incidents happen due to the growing communication gap between children and their parents.Mukul Verma, a Dehradun-based psychiatrist, said, "Parents need to monitor the online activities of their children to check what sort of platforms they are accessing. They also need to talk to them more to reduce the communication gap which is pushing them more into mobile phones."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/teen-gets-online-task-to-kill-someone-goes-missing-after-attacking-woman-101614279357187.html
26-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Transporters to join nationwide strike; essential supply won’t be affected||The Bombay Goods Transport Association (BGTA) will participate in Bharat bandh by keeping their goods vehicles off the road on Friday. Around 1670 truckers are expected to go off the road. However, movement of vehicles carrying essential goods will not be impacted because of the bandh. The strike is called by the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) against Goods and Service Tax (GST), rising fuel prices and introduction of e-invoice in place of e-way bill.“BGTA has been petitioning the government on various issues of transport industry, mainly on issues of un-practicable e-way bill under GST and unviable pricing policy of diesel. Our office-bearers have also been meeting government officials regularly to explain their problems. However, no resolution or respite has been provided. Ministers concerned are not making themselves available for any direct interaction with us,” said Jai Kumar Gupta, president, BGTA.A statement issued by BGTA said that increase in diesel price has made it impossible for transporters. “Transport Industry is a fully neglected lot by Government of India. Ever increasing diesel price has made it impossible for transporters to honour their contracts with customers. Transportation rates cannot be flexible as per daily changing diesel rates. The non-uniformity of prices across nation also makes it difficult to compete fairly,” read the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-transporters-to-join-nationwide-strike-essential-supply-won-t-be-affected-101614279534619.html
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Row over DGP’s extension: Vij quotes tenure policy orders to defend his stance||Defending his move to seek a new director general of police (DGP), Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Thursday said that incumbent DGP Manoj Yadava was repatriated by the central government for a period of two years as per the tenure policy for IPS on central deputation.Vij had on Tuesday written to additional chief secretary, home, seeking a proposal containing names of IPS officers to be sent to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for consideration as the next DGP.“I have asked the department to start the process of preparing a list of IPS officers. According to a letter by the Union home ministry, Yadava was deputed for a period of two years. Since he has completed two years, the process to prepare a proposal needs to be started,” he said.However, the minister said that till the time some new arrangement is made, Yadava will continue as the DGP.Yadava assumed charge as state police chief on February 21, 2019.The Union home ministry had on February 20, 2019, placed the services of Yadava, who was posted in the Intelligence Bureau (IB), at the disposal of Haryana government for a period of two years from the date of joining the post or till further orders whichever is earlier.As per paragraph 6.6 of the tenure policy, hardcore officers of the IB can be deputed to serve with state governments for a period not exceeding three years.Officials said orders extending the tenure of the present DGP were issued on January 7 and the concurrence of the MHA is also being taken.“The decision to appoint a new DGP can only be taken by the chief minister as per the Rules of Business. As per Section 28 of the Rules of Business, all proposals for appointment and posting of IAS, IPS and Class I officers have to be submitted to the chief minister before the issue of orders,’’ officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/row-over-dgp-s-extension-vij-quotes-tenure-policy-orders-to-defend-his-stance-101614279474597.html
26-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Another admission round likely for FYJC aspirants||Even as Maharashtra education department conducted seven rounds of admissions for the first-year junior college (FYJC), it is might have to hold another round as several students are yet to be admitted in colleges. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), around a hundred students are without a seat even as colleges started classes in January. “We have been getting queries from students asking if admissions will restart soon. We took down the contact details of such students and have also asked them to keep checking the portal for updates,” said an official from the deputy directorate in Mumbai. Officials said among those who are yet to get a seat, the number of students who failed to finalise a college is high. “Students kept waiting till the end and did not take the colleges allotted to them. This left them without a seat,” said an official. Dattatray Jagtap, director of secondary and higher secondary education in state, said, “We have conducted too many rounds so far. It is unfortunate that students are still not able to fix their preferences. We will have a discussion and see if another round is a possibility.” There are over 97,000 vacant seats in colleges across MMR after seven admission rounds. In first-come, first-served round, students claim seats against vacancies in the portal on designated date and time. Once students claim a seat, they can confirm it in the given college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-another-admission-round-likely-for-fyjc-aspirants-101614279294937.html
26-02-2021||Mumbai||Refurbished cell at Arthur Road jail awaits high-profile inmate like Nirav Modi||Cell number two in Barrack 12 of Arthur Road jail which was refurbished in June 2019 has been maintained by the jail authorities in the proper condition anticipating a high-profile inmate such as fugitive diamond trader Nirav Modi, a prime accused in ₹13,600-crore fraud at Punjab National Bank.On Thursday, Modi lost his bid to avoid extradition from the UK to India to face charges that he was involved in a ₹13,600 crore fraud at Punjab National Bank when district judge Samuel Goozee ruled in London that the jeweller has a case to answer before Indian courts.Jail authorities said that the 300-square feet cell has been made to provide its inmate the facilities of a well-equipped apartment with French windows for ensuring ventilation and outside view, a toilet and shower with round-the-clock water supply. For a soothing effect, the walls of the cell have been painted white.According to SN Pandey, who retired as director general of prisons two days ago, the cell has been maintained as it is since 2019. “The cell had been renovated also keeping in mind the security of the inmate,” said a jail official. Barrack 12 of the prison is a located in high-security area of the jail, in a two-storey building on inner side of the Arthur Road jail. It has two cells each on the ground and first floors. Each cell is meant to be shared by three inmates, but sources said cell no. 2 on the first floor of the barrack was made only to house high-profile inmates such as Nirav Modi and liquor Baron Vijay Mallya. Jail officials said each cell in barrack 12 has an attached toilet and an isolated courtyard for the inmates to stroll, keeping in mind the high threat to the occupants of the cells. A cushion and pillow — considered luxury in jails — will also be provided to inmates, said jail officials.Ceiling fans are placed high on the ceiling to ensure inmates cannot reach it. Besides, the cells are under round-the-clock CCTV surveillance with guards posted inside and outside the barrack.Video-conferencing facility has also been provided in the barrack to produce the inmates before courts through virtual mode whenever required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/refurbished-cell-at-arthur-road-jail-awaits-high-profile-inmate-like-nirav-modi-101614278994563.html
26-02-2021||Other||This Feb was the hottest in 50 years for Ludhiana||With an average temperature of 27°C, the district recorded its hottest February in 50 years, as per the meteorological department of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU). The normal temperature for the month usually hovers around 21.2°C.This year, even the minimum temperature witnessed a rise of 1.3°C, met officials said.Sharing details, head of the department of climate change and agricultural meteorological of PAU, Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu said the district recorded a temperature of 30.2°C for three consecutive days, starting from February 23, the highest recorded for these days since 1970.The previous high for February 23 (29.5°C) was recorded in 1973 while for February 24 (29.4°C), it was in 2001. For February 25, the previous high was in 2006 when 29.5°C was recorded.She said the difference between the maximum and minimum temperature of 12°C recorded during the beginning of the month has increased to 17°C.She said for nearly three days, the temperature has remained way above normal due to which residents are experiencing sultry conditions. While the normal temperature for this time of the month is 21.2°C, for past three days, the temperature has shot up by almost nine degrees, added Dr Sidhu.Temperature to rise furtherHe said light rain is expected on Friday due to western disturbance in Kandi area of Hoshiarpur, Ropar, and Gurdaspur. “However, this respite will be temporary as the mercury is set to rise next month as well,” said Dr Sidhu.Dr Sidhu said climate change and reckless cutting of trees and burning of fossil fuels is the reason behind the sudden shift in weather. “There transition of weather is supposed to be a gradual process. What we are currently witnessing is unusual. Till January, we experienced intense winter but now, the temperature has suddenly risen,” observed Dr Sidhu.Foggy morning was a unique phenomenon:She said the recent phenomenon of foggy mornings was due to high-moisture level in the atmosphere. She said that unlike in the past, skies remained clear in the month of February this year. Due to snowfall in higher reaches, the cold-wave brought a lot of moisture with it. “Further, we have witnessed a huge variation in the maximum and minimum temperature due to which the air carrying moisture used to get locked and we had witnessed massive fog during the morning hours,” said Dr Sidhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/this-feb-was-the-hottest-in-50-years-for-ludhiana-101614278874844.html
26-02-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC’s dairy shifting project hits another roadblock as gram sabha denies giving land to govt||Two days after principal secretary of the local bodies department, AK Sinha visited Gorsian Kadar Baksh village in Sidhwan Bet area over the proposal to shift city-based dairy units to the village, a meeting of gram sabha was held in the village wherein a resolution was approved denying transfer of panchayat land to the government. With this, Ludhiana MC’s project to shift over 500 dairy units outside the municipal corporation (MC) limits has once again hit a roadblock. The project to shift the dairy units from Haibowal and Tajpur road dairy complexes has been hanging fire for a long time. This will also have a cascading effect on the ₹650-crore project initiated by the state government to clean Buddha Nullah. The seasonal stream cannot be made pollution-free as long as dairy waste and cow dung is dumped into it. While the authorities say they have been working for around two months to shift the dairy units to Gorsian Kadar Baksh, the village residents say the administration never took their consent before chalking out the proposal. The high powered committee formed by the local bodies department had finalised the site for shifting of dairy units.Gorsian Kadar Baksh sarpanch Jagdev Singh Deol said, “The administration never took our consent. We have around 400 acres of panchayat land in the village and the administration is seeking 200 acres for establishing a dairy complex. The gram sabha has decided that we cannot hand over the land as over 100 families in the village have taken the land on contract from the panchayat, and are dependent on it for livelihood.” “The gram panchayat gets an annual revenue of around ₹1.10 crore from the land which has been given to farmers on contract basis and we take up development works with that amount. After the officials visited the village on Tuesday, over 300 out of 550 voters in the village came together to complete the quorum of the gram sabha on Thursday and we have approved a resolution that the land will not be given to the administration for shifting of dairy units,” said the village sarpanch while adding that a copy of the resolution will be sent to the deputy commissioner’s office, MC and Punjab chief secretary’s office. An MC official, requesting anonymity, said that as per the rules, they cannot oppose the gram panchayat’s resolution and the deputy commissioner’s office should intervene in the matter. Despite repeated attempts, Mayor Balkar Sandhu was not available for comments. Meanwhile Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma said that he has not received anything in writing from the villagers till now and he cannot comment on the issue before he receives anything in writing.Earlier, National Green Tribunal (NGT) had also directed the authorities to shift the dairy units situated on the banks of Buddha Nullah in view of the pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-s-dairy-shifting-project-hits-another-roadblock-as-gram-sabha-denies-giving-land-to-govt-101614278695375.html
26-02-2021||Mumbai||MVA may ignore Governor Koshyari’s order, delay Speaker’s election||Though Maharashtra Governor BS Koshyari has asked the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government to hold an election for the vacant post of Assembly speaker, the government may delay this process, opting instead to continue with the deputy speaker conducting business in the house. The ruling coalition is likely to convey this to the Governor soon and remind him about the appointment of the 12 names recommended for the legislative council. The nominations for the legislative council are pending with the Governor since November 2020, when the names were submitted to Koshyari. The budget session of the state legislature begins from March 1. After Nana Patole resigned on February 4 to become Maharashtra Congress chief, the post of Assembly speaker is up for election. The election will require a show of strength by MVA and reveal the number of members of the legislative assembly (MLAs) who are with them. If the ruling parties fail to win the election, the government will collapse. MVA got 169 votes in the house of 288 in November 2019. This time round, MVA has been planning to get about 175 votes but with the surge in Covid-19 cases, attendance is expected to drop. MLAs may have to undergo mandatory testing before the session begins. “At least four of our ministers have tested positive [for Covid-19] over the past week. If more legislators are found infected before the session, the situation won’t be good. In such a scenario, holding an election for the post of the speaker will cause unnecessary embarrassment,” said a Shiv Sena minister on condition of anonymity. “We have a deputy speaker who can conduct business in the absence of the speaker. In Madhya Pradesh, which is a Bharatiya Janata Party [BJP]-ruled state, the deputy speaker has been running the house for more than a year now,” the minister added. With the Governor having asked the state to elect the Assembly speaker last week, the MVA government is expected to send a reply informing the Governor that the election would be held at an appropriate time. “We will also remind him about the appointment of the 12 names recommended by the state Cabinet for nomination to the legislative council. The posts are lying vacant since November 2020, depriving the recommended leaders. If the Governor is so keen on parliamentary procedures while asking about the election to the post of speaker, he should first follow it,” the minister said. This is expected to lead to more friction between Raj Bhavan and the MVA in coming days and may be intensified by the BJP in the Opposition. BJP leaders have been questioning MVA over issues like cutting the budget session short; allegations of corruption against forest minister Sanjay Rathod; disconnection of power supply to domestic consumers; farmers’ issues, and more. Leader of Opposition and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said the state government is using Covid-19 to avoid contentious issues. “While all political events are being held without any hurdles, why is the budget session being cut short to 10 days? Why is the state government scared to debate on issues of interest to the people and corruption cases against ministers? The business the government has planned for the session is not according to the rules and hence we walked out of the business advisory committee [BAC] meeting today,” Fadnavis said on Thursday. Held on Thursday, the BAC meeting was to decide on the duration of the session and was attended by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, Fadnavis and other Opposition leaders like Pravin Darekar. The state government has decided to hold the session between March 1 and 10. The budget will be presented on March 8. “In the wake of the upsurge in the Covid-19 cases, the session has been curtailed to 10 days. There will be debate on the budget for two days after it’s presented on March 8. There is no question of running away from debate, the walkout staged by the Opposition was after the BAC meeting got over,” said parliamentary affairs ministers Anil Parab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mva-may-ignore-governor-koshyari-s-order-delay-speaker-s-election-101614278574761.html
26-02-2021||Kolkata||Yogi Adityanath to visit Malda next week to boost BJP’s Bengal prospects||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will visit Malda in West Bengal on Tuesday to participate in a ‘Poribortan Jatra’ and hold a rally in the key district. This comes in a bid to create space for the party in the region where tribals hold power in some seats and whose leaders are being wooed by the BJP.West Bengal is likely to go to polls in April-May and of the 12 Assembly segments in Malda district, tribal voters determine the outcome in about 4 segments, BJP leaders said.Adityanath’s visit will happen days after BJP chief JP Nadda launched the ‘Lokkho Sonar Bangla’ (revival of Bengal's golden days) campaign aimed at stopping the Mamata Banerjee-led ruling Trinamool Congress government from coming to power for a third consecutive term.Ahead of UP CM's visit, BJP cadres started connecting with tribal farmers in Malda. His itinerary is still being drafted and could include religious stopovers at important places of worship.Also read: Pakistan stays in FATF ‘grey list’, given June deadline to implement action plan“Of the seats in Malda with heavy tribal presence, the CPM had won two and the Congress one in the 2016 Assembly polls. The two CPM MLAs have since defected to the BJP. Several important MLAs and ministers of the Mamata government have joined the BJP and I won’t be surprised if more from the ruling party or the CPM defect to the BJP after Yogi ji’s rally,” a BJP leader said.UP’s deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and UP BJP general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal have already been tasked with the Bengal campaign. Maurya, an OBC leader, is connecting with the OBC and the Dalit voters in Bengal while Bansal has been working out the organisational dynamics in the state where the BJP feels its political connect has been growing.This will be Yogi’s first visit to Bengal since the 2019 Lok Sabha polls when the BJP did very well and one where his visits kicked up a storm after BJP claimed his chopper was not allowed to land in the state. Chief minister Adityanath subsequently visited Bengal through Jharkhand and held a rally in Purulia targeting the Mamata government.“West Bengal has always been close to our hearts. Our ideologue Syama Prasad Mookerjee hailed from there. And, people having tried all options there, now have hopes from the BJP,” BJP's Harish Chandra Srivastava said.“Yogi’s visit will have an impact in the poll-bound state. Over the years, the BJP’s graph has been growing in Bengal. In 2011, the party contested 289 out of 294 Assembly seats and failed to open its account after garnering a meagre 4.06 per cent votes. But, its graph has been going up in Bengal since then. In the 2016 Assembly polls, the party won three seats and raised its vote share to 10.06 per cent and in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, it surpassed even its own expectations winning 18 of the 42 seats from the state with a vote share of 40.64 per cent,” he added.“Remember in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, our vote share of 40.64 per cent was just behind ruling TMC’s 43 per cent vote. We won 18 seats and the TMC won 22 seats. Naturally, the TMC is rattled by our growing popularity and the attack on our leaders and cadres only proves that it’s the ruling party which is now feeling the heat,” Srivastava said.The 18 seats that the BJP won in the 2019 general elections include Malda North, a BJP leader said explaining why the party has decided to get Yogi to begin launch a campaign from this district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/yogi-adityanath-to-visit-malda-next-week-to-boost-bjp-s-bengal-prospects-101614277813496.html
26-02-2021||Delhi||Venky students worry, protest against change in college affiliation proposal||Ongoing talks of the possibility of shifting the affiliation of Sri Venkateswara College (Venky), from Delhi University (DU) to Andhra University (AU), and the recent news of the proposal has taken the students and teachers of the college by storm. Reportedly, the professors and students were neither informed nor consulted about this development and heard it via social media and news channels. As a result of this, most classes in Venky were cancelled on Thursday, followed by a dharna organised in the college from 10am to 4pm where teachers protested peacefully against the proposal.Venky students find the development unfair and are in a state of worry regarding since they feel their identity as a DU alumni is at stake. “If our college’s affiliation changes, the move will clearly rob us of the very reason we took admission to the college — to be a part of the prestigious institution that is DU,” says Sameer Ahmed Siddiqui, a second year student of BSc (Hons). Echoing a similar sentiment, Divya Goyal, a first year student of BCom (Hons), adds, “Whenever I tell someone I am in Venky, I feel a sense of pride. But when I think things might change, it’s scary. Our batch might still be a part of DU, but think how immensely it will affect our placements!”The students have been holding an online protest and plan to create ‘Twitter storms’ with #Venky_belongs_to_DU and #VenkyIsDU to oppose the proposal and bring attention to the issue. Some members of Delhi University Students Union (DUSU) have organised an online protest along with the presidents of the student union of Miranda House, Sri Aurobindo College and Venky. And scores of students have started tweeting and participating in the online protest, making the hashtags trend on Twitter. Shubham Chaudhary, executive counsellor of DUSU, says, “We are all flabbergasted at the sudden development and deliberation. We don’t know what will happen next but if the issue remains unsorted or if the affiliation changes, we will switch to a physical dharna from the online mode. Venky was always a part of DU and we can’t imagine it otherwise.”Students across various colleges have formed protest groups on social media and are circulating an appeal to raise a voice and take a stand regarding retaining affiliation of Venky to DU. Mukul Malik, a final year student of Sri Aurobindo College expresses support to the students of Sri Venkateswara College, saying, “It doesn’t matter if it’s my college or not. We can’t imagine South Campus without Venky and we all are in shock. Freshers from Venky have been reaching out to us, and asking what they must do when their whole career is at stake because of probable affiliation change of their college. Their family members are distressed. How can you be a DU student and suddenly become a student of a different university within a span of few days?”The sudden uncertainty regarding the future affiliation of the college has garnered a distressing response from the faculty as well. “This move will dilute everything Venky stands for. It has a history, name and a present. Students come to the college because it’s part of DU,” says a senior professor on condition of anonymity. Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/venky-students-worry-protest-against-change-in-college-affiliation-proposal-101614277494483.html
26-02-2021||Other||9 held for issuing bogus toll receipts at Khed-Shivapur plaza||The Rajgad police on Thursday arrested nine people for issuing bogus toll receipts to commuters passing through the Khed-Shivapur toll plaza on the Pune-Satara highway.The police have seized 30 receipts totalling ₹5,700, two mobiles, computers and two printers used to prepare bogus receipts.The arrested accused have been identified as Sudesh Prakash Gangawane, Akshay Tanaji Sanas, Shubham Sitaram Dolare, Sai Laduram Sutar, Hemant Bhate, Dada Dalvi, Satish Margaje, Sanket Jaiwant Gaikwad and Ajay Kashinath Chavan.A complaint in the matter was lodged by commuter Abhijit Babar.Babar in his complaint stated that he was on his way to Satara on February 16 when the toll booth employees charged him ₹190 and on February 20 while returning he was charged ₹130 by issuing bogus receipts.The complainant along with police staff went to the concerned toll booth and verified the authenticity of the receipt and it was found that the receipts were bogus.Police inspector Sandeep Ghorpade of Rajgad police station, said, “A case under cheating and forgery has been registered and nine people are arrested. Prima facie it is a case of issuing bogus receipts.”Mauli Darwatkar of Khed Shivapur Toll Naka Hatao Committee, said, “This is a serious issue and both the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the private contractor handling the toll are completely negligent towards this issue. There is a need to conduct an audit so that the facts of the case are brought to light.”Suhas Chitnis, director, NHAI, said, “I am not aware of the issue. Speak to Amit Bhatia, head, Reliance Infrastructure -Pune Satara highway- regional (western region). ”“We are not aware of such an incident. We have an internal system to investigate this type of malpractices,” said Bhatia.Pune rural SP Abhinav Deshmukh ordered the local crime branch to take action.The police have lodged an offence under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) 467, 468, 420 and Section 47.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/9-held-for-issuing-bogus-toll-receipts-at-khed-shivapur-plaza-101614272873451.html
26-02-2021||Other||Pune’s temperature touches 35°C; IMD forecasts rise in temperature in first week of March||The day temperature in the city has touched the season’s highest as the maximum temperature at Shivajinagar was recorded at 35 degrees Celsius on Thursday.The minimum temperature was recorded at 17 degrees Celsius.In Pashan and Lohegaon the maximum temperature was recorded at 34 degrees Celsius and 35 degrees Celsius respectively.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune, the temperature will rise in the coming days.“We will see fluctuation in the day temperature in the coming days and there are good chances of temperature rising as we approach the first week of March,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather IMD, Pune.In the coming days till March 3, the sky will be clear during the day time.The rise in day temperature has been noticed in February on a few occasions as in 2019 days temperature in February increased up to 37.5 degree Celsius.“Looking at the topography of the city there are always chances that the temperature may rise and that is the one reason for an increase in day temperature from last week of February,” added Kashyapi.The other parts of Maharashtra also saw a rise in day temperature with Akola and Bramhapuri recording the highest day temperature in the state with 37.9 degrees Celsius. In Madhya Maharashtra, Solapur was the hottest at 37.4 degrees Celsius.“In Vidarbha, temperature increases from last week of February and the same trend has been noticed this year as well and along with the day, the night will also be warmer in the parts of Vidarbha going ahead,” added Kashyapi.“Dry weather is expected in most parts of Maharashtra in the coming days,” added Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punes-temperature-touches-35-c-imd-forecasts-rise-in-temperature-in-first-week-of-march-101614270174104.html
26-02-2021||Other||Senior journalist Sada Dumbre passes away||PUNE Senior journalist Sada Dumbre passed away on Thursday, due to a Covid infection, said his family members.Dumbre is survived by his wife, a son and daughter. He was editor of a weekly magazine for over two decades and wrote on various topics.Dumbre was also head of the Board of Studies at Savitribai Phule Pune University.He was 72. Dumbre had 36 years of journalism experience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/senior-journalist-sada-dumbre-passes-away-101614270173319.html
26-02-2021||Other||Mixed response to 9-metre road widening proposal in Pune city||The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC’s) decision to widen city roads from six to nine-metre has received a mix response.The civic body plans to widen 323 roads in the city in the first phase. These roads are mainly from Kothrud, Shivajinagar and Parvati assembly constituencies and other areas in the city.PMC’s decision is likely to affect residents who are living beside small roads and mainly people who live in bungalows.Prashant Waghmare, city engineer, said, “We are currently in the process of collecting suggestions and objections for the same. I can’t give the exact number of objections that we have received.”As many properties on six-meter roads are old properties, some of them were willing for redevelopment, but they were not able to do it earlier as they were not getting enough FSI (floor space index). Even developers were not coming forward as they were not benefiting from the deal.Hemant Ranse, chairman, standing committee, said, “The standing committee had approved the proposal to widen 323 roads in the first phase. We would check the response from the concerned stakeholders and then make a decision.”Avinash Joshi, a resident of Sahakarnagar, said, “ We are happy with the existing roads. If the roads are widened the traffic would increase and even commercial activity. If there is no demand from citizens, why PMC is forcing road widening in the name of redevelopment.”Sushil Zende, a resident of Bibwewadi, said, “We are not getting additional area for redevelopment, so our society is unable to be redeveloped. It would be better if we get benefits of the nine-meter road widening project.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mixed-response-to-9-metre-road-widening-proposal-in-pune-city-101614265192968.html
