28-02-2021||Noida||GB Nagar admin gears up for third round of Covid-19 vaccination||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has prepared a list of over 424,000 beneficiaries aged 60 years and above through the electoral roll for the third phase of vaccination drive. Besides, people above 45 years of age with co-morbidities will also be covered in the third phase, but they need to self-register on the updated version of the Co-Win 2.0 app, officials of the district health department said on Sunday. As many as 220 vaccination booths in 26 hospitals, including private facilities, have also been identified for the third phase, the officials said, adding that the vaccination for phase 3 is likely to begin on March 4 in the district. GB Nagar chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that it is expected that the state government will issue detailed guidelines about the third phase of inoculation on Monday. “We’ll prefer to having vaccination sessions on those days, when there will be no other health programmes. For covering maximum number of beneficiaries, the health department has prepared a list of beneficiaries for the third phase with the help of the latest electoral roll in the district,” he said. Ohri also said that everyone in the district, who have completed 60 years of age, are included in the list of beneficiaries for the third phase. “The third phase will cover all the 4,24,555 beneficiaries in different sessions within a fortnight. As soon as the dates of vaccination for these beneficiaries are announced by the government, we will begin the process of registration, in which the addresses and mobile numbers of the beneficiaries will be updated,” he said. The GB Nagar vaccination officer, Dr Neeraj Tyagi, said that the district health department is also looking for the patients among the listed beneficiaries, who are under treatment for other ailments in different hospitals of GB Nagar and other neighbouring districts. “The third phase of inoculation can begin with the booster dose session for the beneficiaries of first and second phase on March 4 or 5. It is also possible that sessions will be increased in the third phase,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gbnagar-admin-gears-up-for-third-round-of-covid-19-vaccination-101614536957036.html
28-02-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad identifies two govt hospitals for third phase of Covid vaccination||Ghaziabad: For the third phase of Covid-19 vaccination that begins on Monday, the Ghaziabad health department has identified two government hospitals in the district where vaccine doses will be provided free of cost. Health officials said that one private hospital also came forward and procured the vaccine from the department. However, people willing to get vaccinated will have to pay ₹250 per dose at the private facility, they said.The officials said that citizens can also walk in at two of the government hospitals -- the district women hospital and Sanjay Nagar combined district hospital -- and also at the private facility -- Yashoda Hospital at Kaushambi -- to get vaccinated.The health department said that the “soft launch” for the third phase of vaccination will cover citizens aged 60 years and above and also those aged 45 years and above but having co-morbid conditions. They added that people can pre-register their choice of vaccination centre through the updated version of Co-Win 2.0 app and will be able to get date and time schedule. “Apart from pre-registration that will begin on Monday, citizens can also walk in at two of our government hospitals and also other private hospitals who are procuring vaccine doses from the health department. Any citizen (belonging to the third category) can register or walk-in and produce documents before he/she gets opportunity to get vaccinated,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad. “The third option is vaccination through mobilisation in which our health-care staff will mobilize people, primarily in rural areas, to reach their nearest centre and get the vaccination done. We have sent 100 doses each to the two of our government hospitals where vaccine will be given free of cost. Besides, Yashoda Hospital at Kaushambi has procured 100 doses of Covishield from the health department. More private hospitals are likely to procure vaccine in coming days,” Gupta said. He said that Covishield is initially sent to the three hospitals as one vial contains 10 doses, while one vial of Covaxin contains 20 doses. “So, Covishield has low wastage rate. The private hospitals will pay up for purchase of a vaccine dose at the rate of ₹150 and they will charge a maximum of ₹250 per dose from their customers,” Gupta added. Yashoda Hospital at Kaushambi confirmed that it received 100 doses of Covishield and vaccination will start on Monday. “People can come with documents either through walk-in or after registration through the Co-Win 2.0 app. The staff at our centre will verify their documents based on age criteria laid down by the government and also their documents (prescriptions by doctors) in case they have co-morbidities,” said a spokesperson of the hospital.To simplify the process of registration, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has come up with Co-Win 2.0 app. The beneficiaries will consist of citizens who will attain the age of 60 years or more as on January 1, 2022. The other group consists of citizens who are aged or will attain the age of 45 years to 59 years as on January 1, 2022 and have any specified comorbidities. “The private hospitals will include all hospitals empanelled under the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS), the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna (PMJAY) and hospitals empanelled under the health insurance scheme(s) of the state government. In Ghaziabad, we have 26 private hospitals under PMJAY and about 50-60 under the CGHS scheme,” the CMO said. The district has already completed the final mop-up round for first category (health-care workers) and for the second category (front-line workers).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-identifies-two-govt-hospitals-for-third-phase-of-covid-vaccination-101614536896972.html
28-02-2021||Mumbai||Ruling MVA vs Opposition BJP: Maharashtra budgets for a face-off in session||In the backdrop of a bitter tussle between the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the budget session of the state legislature beginning Monday is set for face-off. The stage is set with the resignation of forest minister Sanjay Rathod in connection with a woman’s suicide due to the pressure mounted by the BJP. The two sides are already at loggerheads over various issues, which will be reflected in the 10-day session. The state’s budget will be presented on March 8. On the eve of the session, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray trained guns on the BJP and the Centre on issues ranging from the goods and services tax (GST) dues to compensation for floods in Maharashtra. The Opposition, meanwhile, has formulated a strategy to target the MVA government on corruption, financial condition of the state, Covid response and agriculture, etc. Thackeray, while addressing a press conference on Sunday evening, took on the BJP leadership in the state and asked why they were not protesting against fuel prices and demanding pending dues from the Centre. “They have showed agony and rage on electricity bill, but why not the same for petrol, diesel and LPG prices? Why are there no protests? When Modi government came in 2014, the petrol was priced around ₹71. Now it has crossed ₹100 in some states. They have increased cess in fuel and this sum goes to the Centre’s kitty and it is not for the states.” The chief minister said the state is yet to receive compensation for the flooding in Vidarbha and Nisarg Cyclone in 2020. He added the state is yet to get GST dues worth over ₹29,000 crore. “We are yet to get ₹29,291 crore towards GST dues. The Nagpur division flooding and June cyclone compensation of ₹4,720 crore is also pending.” Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis alleged there was corruption in Covid management, IPS and IAS transfers, etc. Fadnavis said the Shiv Sena skipped Vinayak Damodar Savarkar’s birth anniversary following pressure from the Congress. “The CM did not offer tribute to Savarkar. They didn’t say a word on Twitter,” he said. “First, they should understand which is Savarkar’s death anniversary and which is his birth anniversary. The ones who don’t know this difference are levelling allegations against us, this is laughable,” Thackeray said, in response, adding, “Merely levelling allegations without any proof has become a trend. They said there was corruption in Covid management. The Dharavi model has been lauded across the world, but they are making fun of our Covid warriors by doing this, even as they felicitate them. I have never seen such a two-faced Opposition party,” Thackeray said. Thackeray also said the BJP leadership in Maharashtra should take up the Maharashtra-Karnataka border dispute with the Centre and Karnataka government. Fadnavis on Sunday said the Opposition is united with the government on the issue. “If they are indeed with us, they should take up the issue with the Centre and in Karnataka, where there is a BJP government. In the past five years [between 2014 and 2019], when they were in power in the Centre and state, why didn’t they solve this matter? Today, the state government has taken an aggressive stance to solve it. If we come together, we can give justice to people from the border areas,” Thackeray said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ruling-mva-vs-opposition-bjp-maharashtra-budgets-for-a-face-off-in-session-101614536838659.html
28-02-2021||Noida||Apartment owners’ association imposes ‘security’ fee over tenants, residents protest||GREATER NOIDA: Around 150 residents of 16th Avenue, Gaur City 2 in Greater Noida West on Sunday staged a demonstration against the apartment owners’ association (AOA), demanding immediate recall of the decision to impose a security fee on tenants.The tenants alleged that the AOA is arbitrarily charging ₹5,000 from tenants and will charge ₹7,000 from new ones who come to live there.“The decision to levy security fee is an effort to divide on the basis of owners and non-owners and to extort funds. We are paying maintenance for every service; why we should pay this arbitrary security fee now, which has no legal basis,” said Amit Goswami, a tenant in society for a year.At least 150 tenants have started a signature campaign under which they handed over a letter to the AOA asking it to recall the decision. There are 1,710 units in the society out of which around 50% are occupied by tenants.“Only 59 flat owners in their general body took this decision on February 14, 2021 without any legal ground on this. If they do not take back this decision we will write to the district magistrate, Greater Noida authority and other top officials for help,” said Suresh Verma, another tenant.According to new order, a new tenant will have to pay move-in charge of ₹7,000, which includes ₹2,000 non-refundable and Rs5,000 refundable fee. The security fee is being imposed as ‘Excessive Resource Utilization’ by tenants in the society. Even if an old tenant changes a flat within this society, then also the security fee will have to be paid, reads the general body’s letter issued February 14. However, flat owners support the decision.“Old tenant needs to pay only Rs5,000 one-time as security, which is refundable. New tenants will have to pay Rs7,000 as Rs2,000 is non-refundable and the rest will be refunded once the tenant leaves the unit. The decision has been taken as per rules and for the welfare of the society,” said KP Chauhan, an apartment owner and member of AOA.Dilip Gupta, deputy registrar of the Society Chit and Funds from Meerut that looks after AOAs, etc, said, “If the aggrieved persons move an application to our office we can look into the issue and take appropriate action as per the rules. A decision by AOA should not be arbitrary and without consultation with all flat owners. The aggrieved party can file a complaint, without which we cannot intervene.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/apartment-owners-association-imposes-security-fee-over-tenants-residents-protest-101614536837509.html
28-02-2021||Noida||Noida traffic police to colour code autos to curb their illegal movement||Noida: The traffic department in Gautam Budh Nagar has started working on colour-coding auto-rickshaws in the district, in an effort to curb illegal movement of auto-rickshaws.“We have started the first step of data collection. Nearly 70 vehicles were identified till now. We are working on verifying the remaining, after which the registration process will begin. The idea is to colour-code auto-rickshaws from different parts of the city and issue them the number codes accordingly. This will help us monitor any illegal movement of auto-rickshaws, ease traffic and help the public to identify authorised vehicles in respective areas,” said deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Ganesh Saha.He said auto-rickshaws operating in the city have pre-described routes, but some manage to evade the system.“For instance, auto-rickshaws registered in Dadri are not permitted to travel throughout the city, but sometimes they do. The new system will help us keep such activities in check. The entire plan is in the process of being finalised and we hope to roll it out soon,” said Saha.Mandatory uniforms and ID cards for drivers will also be issued. Any violation, whether in terms of area wise colour-code or ID can lead to issuance of fines by the traffic department, he added. The system will also have different codes for auto-rickshaws plying at metro stations, auto-rickshaw stands and other parts.“We will also make provisions to display the traffic police helpline number on these vehicles for the aid of the public. It is an overhaul of the existing system and will take time to implement, but it will be a significant improvement over the existing system. It will help the travellers and us alike while also keeping criminal activities in check,” Saha added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-traffic-police-to-colour-code-autos-to-curb-their-illegal-movement-101614536837004.html
28-02-2021||Noida||Three weeks on, police yet to identify suspect in security guard’s murder||Noida: Nearly three weeks after a 41-year-old security guard was killed in a robbery attempt at a cash logistics firm in Sector 2, police are yet to identify the suspect in the case.The incident had taken place on February 9 when the victim, Uttam Kesharwani, along with another guard, was doing the night shift at the company tasked with making money deposits for large business owners.An unidentified person had barged into the premises after which Kesharwani had gone off to confront the intruder. There was a struggle between the two during which the other guard also reached the spot. However, the suspect had shot Kesharwani dead and fled the spot, police said.The manager of the company had filed a police complaint, following which a case of murder was registered at the Sector 20 police station. However, 20 days after the incident, police are unable to identify and nab the suspect.A senior police official said that three teams have been formed to catch the killer. “Teams have been deployed to look for clues in nearby districts like Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr and Hapur, and also in Delhi. We are constantly questioning suspicious characters in this regard and will nab the suspect soon,” said Rakesh Kumar Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.CCTV footage of the incident has been widely doing rounds on social media. Police officials said that they have a few clues from the footage and all gangs using a similar modus operandi are under radar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-weeks-on-police-yet-to-identify-suspect-in-security-guard-s-murder-101614536776950.html
28-02-2021||Noida||Noida notified as ‘town of export excellence’ for apparel products||NOIDA: In what comes as a big boost for the apparel industry in the city, the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT), under the ministry of commerce and industry, on Thursday notified Noida as a ‘town of export excellence (TEE)’ for apparel products.Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that with this Gazette notification, Noida will be eligible for many export promotion schemes of the central government, which include central assistance of States and market access initiative. “It’ll also provide support in strengthening infrastructure, simplifying rules and procedures, besides developing production infrastructure relating to design, R&D packaging, logistic support, etc. Since Noida is in the TEE category now, the ministry will also provide awareness and information about international marketing, which will pave the way for further export promotion in the district,” he said. Lalit Thukral, the president of Noida Apparel Export Cluster (NAEC) said that the notification is a great achievement for the apparel industry here. “It’s the second big recognition for the city, after getting declared as ‘city of apparel’ by the state government. It’ll certainly accelerate the NAEC’s mission to develop Noida as a distinguished destination for apparel products,” he said. “As per the present scheme of the centre, an area/cluster that realizes an annual export turnover of ₹1,000 crore or more will be notified as TEE. However, for TEE in handloom, handicraft, agriculture and fisheries sector, the threshold limit is ₹150 crore. Getting the TEE status means the city has immense potential for growth in exports of key items like handloom, agriculture, textiles, handicraft and fisheries. The DGFT notifies a town in this category to enable them to move up in the value chain and tap new markets,” he said. When contacted, a joint secretary in ministry of commerce and industries said that at present, there are altogether 35 towns in India notified as TEE for their unique exportable commodity. “The TEE towns get benefits from many promotional programmes launched by the centre. One of such schemes is the market access initiative (MAI) to recognize export associations, under which financial assistance is provided for export promotion activities on focus country, focus product basis to different industry associations there. These activities include market surveys, setting up of warehouses, participation in international trade fairs, publicity campaigns, brand promotion, reimbursement of registration charges for pharmaceuticals and testing charges for engineering products abroad,” the officer said, asking to remain anonymous.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-notified-as-town-of-export-excellence-for-apparel-products-101614536717576.html
28-02-2021||Noida||Work on landfill site expedited in Greater Noida||GREATER NOIDA The work on the proposed landfill site at Astoli village has been expedited, said the Greater Noida authority on Saturday. The development of landfill site spread on 126 acres holds significance as the authority has plans to set up a waste treatment plant there by the end of 2022.The authority will complete the development of the landfill by end of this year, said officials. “We have put the development work on fast-track so that the authority can start the treatment of waste scientifically. We are levelling the land so that we can store waste and start remediation work,” said Deep Chand, additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority. So far the authority has completed the construction of a boundary wall around the site. The authority will spend ₹3.22 crore on levelling work and developing 100 metre-wide green belt around the site, the officials said, adding that the development of green belt is important to make sure that the waste treatment plant does not cause any inconvenience to people living in Astoli village. The landfill site in Astoli village had got all environmental approvals in 2016, but failed to become operational because of the land issues. Some farmers had started protests and refused to give land for the landfill. But last year, the authority resolved all land-related issues and started the work on this project.Greater Noida produces around 300 metric tonne of waste daily. The authority has divided the city into five clusters for better collection of the waste. The authority is also encouraging residents to segregate the waste so that it can make compost out of green waste and reduce the quantity that goes to landfill. “We will take only 15% inert waste to landfill for the treatment,” said Chand. The treatment plant will be having a capacity of 1.2 tonne, said the officialsThe authority has already decided to set up a construction and demolition waste treatment plant at sector Ecotech 3. It has selected an agency that will recycle the construction waste for 15 years. “We aim to make tiles, bricks and other products out of the construction and demolition waste,” said Chand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/work-on-landfill-site-expedited-in-greater-noida-101614536718194.html
28-02-2021||Noida||Man arrested for carrying 300kg of meat in SUV that met accident in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: Police on Saturday evening arrested a 45-year-old man for allegedly carrying 300 kilogrammes of meat in an SUV which had met an accident on the Noida Expressway on Friday. The suspect was identified as Israr, a resident of Bulandshahr, police said. Vinod Pawar, station house officer, Knowledge Park police station, said that the suspect, along with three accomplices, were going from Kasganj to Delhi with around 300kg meat in a Toyota Innova. “When the car reached near Sector 160 on the Noida Expressway, the vehicle’s front tyre got burst. The driver lost balance of the vehicle and hit the divider and came to the service lane on the left side,” Pawar said. The suspect, Israr, along with other accomplices, abandoned the vehicle and fled the spot, police said. Local people from Gulawli village spotted the damaged car and found a large quantity of meat inside the vehicle. Soon a crowd surged at the spot and they demanded action against the suspects. Ved Nagar, president of Gau Raksha Dal, also reached the spot and filed a police complaint. He claimed that the incident had hurt people’s sentiments. Soon, a team from Knowledge Park police station reached the spot and seized the vehicle and sent the meat sample for forensic examination. “We also found a mobile phone in the vehicle. We investigated the matter and found that the vehicle’s owner was a resident of Delhi. On Saturday evening, the suspect, Israr, was moving on a motorcycle near Jhatta underpass. The police team received information and arrested him,” Pawar said. He was produced in court and sent to judicial custody. A case has been registered against the suspects under sections 5 and 8 of Uttar Pradesh Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act. Police have launched a search for three absconding suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-for-carrying-300kg-of-meat-in-suv-that-met-accident-in-greater-noida-101614536717053.html
28-02-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: FIR registered over ponzi scheme to dupe investors||Greater Noida: The police have registered a case in a “ponzi” scheme where a suspect promised investors returns but decamped with the money. The complainant, Praveen Kumar, a resident of Badalpur, has filed a case at the local police station.Kumar said that in 2018, he had allegedly met a trading broker, who introduced him to the suspect, the director of an investment firm in Greater Noida. “The firm, Niftech Global Private Limited, had been operational in the area for over ten years. They told me of a lucrative investment offer and asked me for a minimum ₹1 lakh and get monthly returns of 4%, while the principal amount would have been safe,” he alleged. The suspect allegedly also asked the victim to ask his family members to invest, Kumar added.Calls and texts by HT to the director of Niftech Global Private Limited elicited no response.Kumar alleged he invested ₹6.5 lakh while his family members invested a total of ₹30 lakh. “The suspect gave us returns till February 2020 and then stopped. We visited his office and found it closed. We also visited his residence but did not find him. Locals there informed that the suspect has moved out,” he said.Kumar alleged that several people from Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Hapur, etc. had made an investment in the company and were cheated. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that a case has been registered against the suspect under Section 420 (cheating) and Section 406 (criminal breach of trust) of IPC. “We conducted a primary investigation and found that the suspect had got money from several people on the pretext of facilitating plots. He had also promised lucrative returns on investment to some people. We are yet to figure out the total number of people cheated and the amount duped in this case. We have registered a case and launched a search for his arrest,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-fir-registered-over-ponzi-scheme-to-dupe-investors-101614536656961.html
28-02-2021||Noida||Noida: Man booked for stalking woman, probe on||Noida: A man living in an area under the jurisdiction of the Sector 20 police has been booked for allegedly stalking a 28-year-old woman living in the neighbourhood. In her complaint, the woman has alleged that the suspect would often follow her in his car. “Every time I went out of my house, he would try to follow me in his car making it very difficult for me to step out of the house,” she alleged.Police said this has been going on for weeks now. “The man lives in the neighbourhood of the girl’s family. She recognizes him but he is unknown to the family. She didn’t have too many details about him, but was able to note down the vehicle’s number which she has shared with us. We have traced the car. Efforts are on to trace the suspect,” said Rakesh Kumar Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.A case of stalking (section 354D of the Indian Penal Code) has been registered at the Sector 20 police station.Police said the woman has been very disturbed for a few days now. “We are also scanning footage of CCTVs in the area so as to gather more evidence against the suspect. Due action will be taken in the case soon,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-man-booked-for-stalking-woman-probe-on-101614536537031.html
28-02-2021||Noida||Businessman, family held at gunpoint inside house, robbed of valuables worth ₹12lakh||Ghaziabad: Several armed robbers barged inside the house of a businessman in Raj Nagar during the wee hours of Sunday and fled with cash, gold and other items, estimated to be about ₹12 lakh, while taking two teenage children and the businessman on gunpoint. The police said they have registered an FIR at the Kavi Nagar police station and formed several teams to trace the suspects.The victim, 42-year-old Pawan Garg, lives in Raj Nagar’s Sector 6 area. He runs a business of ayurvedic medicines at a major market in Chopla. Garg said that he and his family were sleeping when several men overpowered him in bed.“It was around 3.30am when they overpowered me and my sons, aged 13 and 14 years. They took my wife on gunpoint and threatened her of dire consequences and told her to empty the cupboards of valuables. In the meantime, they the pointed gun at me and my children and asked us to remain in bed. Two of the robbers were armed with guns while two had big knives,” Garg said. He said that the suspects stayed in the house for about 25-30 minutes. Whey then got the valuables they told his wife to join the rest of the family. “They kept telling us to give away money and jewellery or they will shoot us. We lay in bed for about 15 minutes when we heard no sound, I got up and found that they had left. Then we moved out and also called up the police. We also gave a police complaint about four robbers. After the complaint was given, my children said that they had heard the four men talking to some other people outside the house. So, it seems that there were more men outside but four came in,” he alleged.He said that all men were masked and of the average age of about 25 years, Garg said, adding they they were dressed jeans, t-shirts and sports shoes.“They took away money, jewellery and expensive watches but did not take away bigger items like laptops, televisions, etc. In all, we estimate that the robbery was worth about ₹12 lakh,” Garg added. Senior police officers and forensic teams visited the victim family. The police said that they have formed five teams to trace the suspects and are also trying to identify the suspects and their movement through CCTVs nearby. The victim’s house has no CCTVs and the robbers entered the house after breaking the window grilles, the police said, adding that gangs who operate in a similar manner are being checked.“On the basis of the complaint given by the family, we have registered an FIR; a field unit also inspected the scene of crime and teams were formed to trace the suspects,” Ghaziabad senior superintendent of police Kalanidhi Naithani said in a statement.“The men were masked and had covered their faces. The family is traumatised and is not able to tell clearly whether they had covered their faces with pieces of cloth or with Covid-19 masks. Our teams are investigating the case and possibility of CCTV footage and other evidences are also being explored. We have registered an FIR under IPC Section 392 (robbery). In case more suspects are involved, we will add appropriate sections,” said Nipun Agarwal, superintendent of police (city 1).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/businessman-family-held-at-gunpoint-inside-house-robbed-of-valuables-worth-12lakh-101614536417671.html
28-02-2021||Mumbai||We will protest against actors, push for electricity bill waiver: Maharashtra Congress chief||In an interview with Hindustan Times, newly appointed Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole says his party was determined to give waiver from inflated power bills, free electricity to the small consumers and have state’s own farm law to negate central laws. Patole said Congress will protest against Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar for their ‘dubious stand’ on the fuel price hike. He also said that the party will not hesitate to speak against the government on issues related to the general public. Excerpts from the interview- Will Congress become aggressive under your leadership?We have been aggressively reacting to the issues that are close to the heart of the people. Our responsibility has increased more as the Narendra Modi government in the Centre has adopted anti-people policies. It has started selling off public sector companies, fuel prices are all-time high when the crude prices are still low. They have imposed a road cess of ₹18 and a farmer development cess of ₹4, but the money collected is not being utilised for the purpose it’s being collected for. You said you will make Congress the number one party in Maharashtra. How are going to take the party to the top from the current number four position in the state? I have a very pragmatic plan for it. There are some problems in organisational structure in the state, but I have started resolving them. I have started taking review across the state, to strengthen our base. We may not be able to achieve the top position immediately in the upcoming local body elections, but by the 2024 Assembly and Lok Sabha polls, the results will be seen. I got an overwhelming response from the people in Mumbai, Nagpur and Bhandara after I was appointed the Congress chief. Congress is there in the roots of Maharashtra and it would not be difficult to become the number one party in the state.Will Congress contest the local body elections, including the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC), with its allies in the state?We will fight the BMC election on our own, it has been decided. We have also made an announcement. For other local bodies, the decision will be taken based on the demand and requirement at the local level by speaking to our leaders in the respective areas.The alliance for the local body elections may lead to friction within the ruling alliance. I do not see any reason for it. Shiv Sena and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had fought separately even when they were in an alliance in the state. Why there should be any problem within the ruling alliance over it? This government is stable and will complete its five-year term.Congress has been complaining about the secondary treatment by two other parties in the Maharasthra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. What do you have to say over it?The government could be formed just because Congress was part of it. I will take a review of all the departments held by the Congress and if felt need we will talk to the chief minister and deputy chief minister to ensure we get equal treatment. We are in power for the balanced development of the state and the interest of the people. We would not tolerate secondary treatment for us. We will not hesitate to talk against the government if need be, in the interest of the people.Congress has spoken about waiver in the inflated bill, free power to small consumers and state’s own farm law to negate central laws…It does not seem to be happening.We are determined to give a waiver to the power consumers from the inflated bills during the lockdown. Our minister (energy minister and Congress leader Nitin Raut) has also announced free power to the consumers with the usage of 100 units. We will ensure that these announcements are fulfilled. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has recently spoken about the revenue shortfall of about ₹1.12 lakh crore. We will speak to him over it but we are firm on the announcement made by Congress ministers.We will push for the state’s own farm law in the ensuing budget session. Our parliamentary board passed a resolution in that respect.There has been unprecedented friction witnessed between governor BS Koshyari and MVA government in the state…Governor’s stand concerning state government matters is doubtful. People have started raising questions over it. He is expected to act impartially as he the head of the state and should treat all equally. He asked the government to hold an election for the post of speaker but does not clear the names recommended for the nomination to the Legislative Council. The friction between the Governor and the government is unprecedented and something which never witnessed in Maharashtra. You were the first BJP member of Parliament (MP) to speak against Prime Minister Narendra Modi before quitting the party in 2017. Was it a mistake to join BJP ahead of the Lok Sabha election in 2014?The reservations and objections raised by me in 2017 are being raised now by the people of the country. I had joined BJP expecting that I will get a better opportunity to serve the people. But was disillusioned within a couple of years. I am a born Congressi but was compelled to join BJP because of the local politics in Bhandara-Gondiya.You criticised Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar for their silence and announced to ban their films. The Opposition says it was just to grab headlines. We are serious about it. I have directed party workers to protest against the actors for not speaking in the interest of the common people. They are the icons of the country and they have the democratic right, it’s their duty to speak up against wrong policies. They spoke in 2012 when there was the Manmohan Singh government in power. Why are they silent now? If they have pressure upon them to not speak against the government, they should come up openly and the people of the country will stand in their support.Some actors have been proclaimed as Deshbhakt by honourable Prime Minister Narendra Modi, but their nationality is in doubts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/we-will-protest-against-actors-push-for-electricity-bill-waiver-maharashtra-congress-chief-101614535937639.html
28-02-2021||Pune||City has 20.38 TMC water stock until monsoon||The water stock in four dams Khadakwasla, Temghar, Varasgaon and Temghar is currently standing at 20.38 TMC which is almost two TMC more than the previous years. The city’s monthly water requirement is currently at 1.5 TMC. With the day temperature rising to 36.1 degrees Celsius on the last day of February, sunny days are ahead for the city in the coming days. In the past, the city saw a water cut but this year water stock in all four dams is adequate enough and the state irrigation department is confident of providing enough water to the city until the start of the monsoon. “We have a very good rainy season which almost continued until November and all the dams have enough water stock to sustain until the start of monsoon. Currently, there are 56.145% (average of four) water stock available in the dams which provide water to Pune,” said an official from the state water irrigation department. Last year, the average water stock of four dams was 50.01 per cent. Except for Khadakwasla, which has marginally low water stock, all other dams have higher stock then what it had in the year 2020 on the same day (February 28). “Recently, water was released for rabi crops so the number is a little low, but it will not have any impact on the water supply in Pune city,” said an official. As of Sunday, Khadakwasla has (0.98 TMC), Temghar (0.51 TMC), Warasgaon (9.31 TMC) and Panshet (9.58 TMC) respectively. “Last year, there was lesser stock in Panshet and Temghar. This year it has a surplus water stock,” added an official. BOXWater storage in dams Dams; 2021; 2020 Panshet; 90.32 %; 77.76% Warasgaon; 71.86%; 70.65% Khadakwasla; 49.23%; 49.42% Temghar; 13.17%; 2.12% Total: 224.58%; 200.04% Average stock: 56.145%; 50.01%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/city-has-20-38-tmc-water-stock-until-monsoon-101614535877484.html
28-02-2021||Other||Centre must ensure one standard measure for all packed, non-packed goods||Last week, an online milk delivery start-up called to say that they are home delivering fresh vegetables and fruits too and as a promotional offer, their customers would be entitled to a 50 per cent discount on the original price ! Of course, there was a catch- the offer would be open for a month, but the discounts would apply only if I validated it with a purchase order for a hamper immediately.I do not like companies that try to hustle you into making a purchase decision instantly, on the basis of their promotional talk on your cell phone. I also know that in most of these cases, the consumer is not given the full and correct information. So I decided to check his prices to see whether he is really giving a 50 per cent discount and whether his prices compare favourably with other online and offline stores. At first glance, I was struck by the price of French beans quoted- ₹17.50 after discount! Since similar beans were being sold for ₹28 for half a kg in two online stores, I thought this was a good offer, till I scrutinized the details carefully and detected the mischief!The quantity of beans for which the price was quoted was only 225 gms! The company may call it a marketing strategy, but I would call it an unfair practice. First, the company calls you and conditions your mind to expect a low price and if you are not careful, you will order the beans believing that you are getting a good deal, without seeing the quantity mentioned in dull blue, against the red colour of the price.That’s not all, Specifying ₹17.50 for 225 gms (not 250 or 500 ) was also obviously meant to prevent price comparison with others. With my poor maths skills, I managed with great difficulty, to calculate the price for one kilogram- ₹77.70 . Now this price was far higher than the price at which others- online/app based stores as well as brick and mortar stores -were selling , at ₹56 a kilogram. In other words, this vegetable, after the so-called discount, was costing ₹21.70 more per kg than others! To mask this and make comparison difficult, he was quoting the price for 225 gms! I then checked his other prices and noticed that there was no uniformity in the quantity quoted. For lettuce, the price listed was for 315 gms, for mushroom-180 gms, for green chilies- 90 gms. Thus it took away the consumer’s right to informed purchase by making price comparison just impossible. Besides, if what you want is 500 gms and not 315, calculating the price was tough!Perturbed by what I saw, I checked up more online grocers and found lot of ambiguity in the pricing. For example, one of them quoted ₹39 for a piece of Broccoli and said in brackets that it’s approximate weight would be 250-500 gms. Does it mean that he will charge ₹39 for one piece of broccoli, irrespective of its weight? Apple- ₹159 for four pieces ( 530 to 640 gms) Similarly, the price quoted for cabbage and cauliflower was for one unit, with wide variation in the weight. Why can’t he just mention the price per kg? The sum and substance of all this is that every online/App /WhatsApp based seller is trying to mislead the consumer, in order to sell- thereby trampling over several rights of consumers.. In order to curb just such practices in the packed goods sector , the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules mandate that ail packed goods should only be sold in certain standard sizes specified under the Rules. Consumers urgently need similar protection vis-à-vis non-packed goods too,The Union ministry of consumer affairs or the Central Consumer Protection Authority has to step in and ensure that all online, app-based, WhatsApp based retailers display prices of non-packed goods-particularly vegetables and fruits- in only one standard measure- one kg or one litre. This would go a long way in preventing deceptive promotional practices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-must-ensure-one-standard-measure-for-all-packed-non-packed-goods-101614535876986.html
28-02-2021||Pune||PMC receives objections to road widening from old city areas||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has registered maximum objections from the old city areas on the proposed widening of city roads from six to nine metres. The objections were revealed during a hearing of PMC’s building permission and development department. The civic body received stiff opposition from areas including Kothrud, Shivajinagar, Erandwane, Parvati-Sahakarnagar, Bibvewadi. In total, the civic body received objections for around 200 roads across the city. The PMC is claiming that there are no open areas for development in the city and only redevelopment can help the city’s development. Unified Development Control and Promotion Regulation (UNDP) has given a lot of opportunity to develop in terms of additional FSI and TDR but if there is no proper width of roads, there is no use of such provision. It will hamper the city’s development as well as revenue losses. Citizens are objecting to reducing plot size, affecting the front side of the home, fear of demolition of some parts of the existing bungalow and tree cutting. Some political parties have sprung to help citizens to register opposition in order to gain mileage in the upcoming civic polls. The PMC has identified 335 city roads on the basis of future development based on the redevelopment and utilization of Transfer Development Rights (TDR) and Floor space Index (FSI). The PMC has appealed to citizens who are living in areas where roads are widening. Of the total 335 roads, there are 255 roads from the old city limit, and the remaining 80 roads fall in the suburban areas. The PMC is receiving fewer applications from suburb areas as compared to the old city limits. The civic body received responses from 1,800 citizens who registered a positive as well as a negative opinion on the road widening. However, the total number of applications is around 700. Most of the bungalow societies are at the forefront in opposition. Prima facie, the PMC has found that around 135 roads from where PMC received very less or no applications so far. Prasanna Joshi, executive engineer of the Development Plan (DP) cell said, “There are fewer applications, but citizen numbers are more as citizens signed applications in groups. We received an application in which 60 citizens signed a single application. To date, we have completed the hearing of around 1,000 citizens. We called individual citizens for hearing.” Rajendra Raut, superintendent engineer of the building permission and development department said, “The hearing is ongoing, it will take another 15 to 20 days to complete it. After that, we will make a detailed report and submit it to the standing committee. At present, it is too early to comment on the issue.” Dr Anant Bhagwat, resident and president of Savarkar co-operative society said, “Our society is located in Sahakarnagar area. It is a bungalow society that consists of 55 bungalows. Each one is having around 2,200 square feet of plot size. At present, we have six metres of internal road. The society is on the dead-end of the Taljai hills. Being a bungalow society, we have maintained greenery in our area. We don’t want to widen the road from six metres to nine metres as it will help to boost commercialization in this area, and it will destroy our flora-fauna as well as peace of residents.” “Under the name of development, the decision is actually favorable to developers and not for common citizens. At present, there are high-rise buildings in our areas, but they have approach roads which are passing through slum areas. If the society road widens, builders will get alternate roads and it will help them to sell their flats at a higher price. In this scenario, how can residents get the benefit? On the other side, our society bungalow’s front side will hamper. We have registered our opposition to the PMC as well as written a letter to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and urban development minister Eknath Shinde,” he added. On the other hand, a resident of Dhankawadi area and member of Kalpataru housing society, Girish Kamble said, “Road width was a hurdle for the development of our society. After the PMC initiative, it will help us to redevelop our society. There are different views on road widening but the PMC will have to make decisions case by case. Development cannot be stopped or imposed on citizens.” Areas where PMC received maximum applications Kothrud, Shivajinagar, Deccan Gymkhana, Ghole road, Bhandarkar road, Law college road, Prabhat road, Erandwane, Parvati, Sahakarnagar, Bibvewadi, Dhanakwadi, Aundh, Baner, Mohamadwadi, Tulsibaugh colony, Ambegaon Budruk, Balewadi, Hadapsar, Aundh, Dhanori.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-receives-objections-to-road-widening-from-old-city-areas-101614535819058.html
28-02-2021||Pune||Mentally challenged woman pushed to death by juvenile in Kothrud||The Kothrud police have booked a 14-year-old juvenile in conflict with the law for the murder of a 33-year-old inmate inside the campus of an institute for the mentally challenged. The incident took place on Friday when the 14-year-old physically lifted the victim and threw her down from the second floor of the institute’s building. The CCTV footage of the incident went viral on social media. The incident took place in the institute for mentally challenged women and girls in Kothrud at around 4:45 pm on Friday. The police detected the case based on the CCTV footage in the building. The investigating officer said, “The deceased was pushed off the second floor by a 14-year-old teen girl who had been admitted to the centre, a few days ago. The victim was walking on the ramp when the teen came from behind and pushed her. The woman was declared dead on arrival by doctors at the hospital. We have registered a murder case but have not arrested the accused as she is also mentally unstable.” Three years ago in March 2018, a mentally ill man killed his 55-year-old mother with a gas cylinder while the two were in a domestic argument; the son hurled a metal gas cylinder in their house at his mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mentally-challenged-woman-pushed-to-death-by-juvenile-in-kothrud-101614535818426.html
28-02-2021||Pune||Three arrested in case involving leak of army recruitment paper||The Military Intelligence (MI) unit of the Indian Army and Pune police Crime Branch Unit IV in a joint operation arrested three persons in case involving the leak of army recruitment exam paper at the Bombay Engineer Group and Centre (BEG&C), Khadki on Sunday. The accused have been identified as Azad Khan, Ali Akhtar, and Mahendra Sonawane. Khan is a civil defence cook at the Bombay Sappers while Akhtar and Sonawane are ex-servicemen. The Army conducts a special recruitment drive for the dependents of Army personnel which is popularly known as Unit Headquarters (UHQ) quota recruitment or Indian Army relation recruitment informed the investigators. According to police, the accused had taken original documents of the candidates and assured them recruitment with the help of a leaked question paper for the common entrance test. They also took ₹1 lakh from the candidate as advance money and one lakh was to be paid post-recruitment. The accused had sent some papers on WhatsApp and had promised to send the leaked paper on Saturday. However, we nabbed them, the complaint stated. The accused approached the complainant when he had gone to collect the admit card at Bombay Sappers and had already cleared the physical and medical test. The accused persons demanded ₹3 lakh at first and then negotiated the amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-arrested-in-case-involving-leak-of-army-recruitment-paper-101614535817535.html
28-02-2021||Pune||Army cancels all-India common entrance test for soldiers after paper-leak incident||The Indian Army has cancelled pan India common entrance exam (general duty test) for soldiers in the wake of the detection of a paper-leak related to the exam which was to be held on Sunday. Army and crime branch officials have nabbed three persons and it is suspected that the paper was leaked in Baramati. The military intelligence, Pune, and crime branch of Pune city police jointly conducted specific operations at various locations in Maharashtra and recovered the leaked question paper of common entrance exam for a soldier (general duty), scheduled to be conducted on February 28, 2021. The two-day operations began on February 27 and ended on February 28. Pune police crime branch sleuths apprehended key operators running the recruitment module by providing question paper in exchange for ₹four to five lakh per candidate from prospective candidates. This module was facilitating selection into the Army adopting corrupt practices in medicals and written exams, they stated. A top official said, “After getting hold of a copy of the question paper, the army authorities verified its authenticity and controlled the damage by timely cancellation of the exam at pan India level. The police have so far apprehended three individuals. The investigation to find out the source of leakage of question paper is being probed by military intelligence and Army authorities. These individuals provided the same question paper to the candidates from Pune, Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli Belgaum and other states.” The MI and police officials suspect the involvement of more persons citing that the leak took place despite stringent security measures and standard operating principles in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/army-cancels-all-india-common-entrance-test-for-soldiers-after-paper-leak-incident-101614535816948.html
28-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: FIR against ex-member of bank panel quashed||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) recently quashed and set aside the first information report (FIR) registered against a former managing committee member of a cooperative bank in Nagpur after it was informed that the loss that the member had caused to the bank by disbursing loans without security, had occurred before the Maharashtra Protection of Investors Deposit (MPID) Act, 1999 came into force. The court also took cognisance of the fact that the loans amounting to nearly ₹145 crores disbursed with his approval, had been recovered.On February 10, a division bench of justice Z Haq and justice Amit Borkar, while hearing the petition filed by Rajiv Mishra, was informed by advocate Shyam Dewani that his client was a managing committee member of Samata Sahakari Cooperative Bank from 1997 to December 2000. In that period he had attended several managing committee meetings wherein it was alleged that he had approved disbursal of loans without security, which had resulted in a loss to the bank.The complaint against Mishra and other managing committee members was lodged after depositors complained that the bank had allegedly defaulted in returning their deposits on maturity without benefits. The complaint was lodged in November 2007 on the allegations that the depositors’ money had been misappropriated by the members between 1997 and 2006 to the tune of ₹145 crore.While arguing, Dewani submitted that Mishra had attended meetings between July 1997 and January 1999 and had resigned in December 2000. However, since the complaint was lodged, the properties of Mishra had been attached under relevant provisions of the Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act. Dewani further submitted that as per the charge sheet all the loans mentioned therein had been disbursed before the MPID Act came into force. In light of these submissions, Dewani sought quashing of the FIR and charge sheet against Mishra.Additional public prosecutor TA Mirza, however, opposed the petition stating that the ingredients of FIR and charge sheet against Mishra were fulfilled as he had connived with other managing committee members to cause huge losses to the bank and hence the court should not interfere.After hearing the submissions, the court observed, “The date of offences alleged against the petitioner are before coming into force of the Act of 1999 i.e. 29th April 1999. Since the alleged offences are committed before coming into force of the Act of 1999, the petitioner cannot be charged for the offences under sections 3 and 4 of the Act of 1999.”While quashing the FIR and charge sheet against Mishra the court held, “In the facts of the present case also, there is nothing to show that Samata Sahakari Cooperative Bank i.e. the Financial Establishment committed “Fraudulent Default” in repayment of any deposit on maturity along with any benefit till March 31, 2000.” The court also noted that as the concerned officer had stated that there was no offence under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code against Mishra, the petition was allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-fir-against-ex-member-of-bank-panel-quashed-101614535758305.html
28-02-2021||Other||50.86% vote in bypolls to 5 municipal wards||New Delhi: An estimated 50.86% electorate voted on Sunday in the bypolls to five municipal wards that were touted as a precursor to the civic polls scheduled next year.Of the five wards, Kalyanpuri (under East Delhi Municipal Corporation) recorded the highest voter turnout at 59.72% and Shalimar Bagh (under North corporation) the lowest at 42.36%. Though the outcome of the bypolls will not alter the composition of the two municipal corporations, those who came out to vote said that they have voted for change and development of their ward. The Bharatiya Janata Party rules the three municipal corporation with a comfortable majority.The by-elections were also held in Chauhan Banger (041E) and Trilokpuri (02E) and Rohini-C wards.State election commissioner SK Srivastava said, “The voter turnout in the bypolls was good. The turnout in East corporation wards was more than the wards (Shalimar Bagh and Rohini-C) in North corporation. The three East corporation wards saw 56.92% voting whereas just 44.95% polling was reported from the North corporation wards.”This was the first election in the Capital to be held during the pandemic so the state election commission has made elaborate arrangements with dedicated waiting rooms, staff with PPE kits etc to allow Covid-19 positive patients to exercise their franchise.Thermal screening of voters, hand sanitisation was a common practice witnessed across all polling booths. Arrangements of masks were also made for those who reached polling centres without masks. At some polling stations authorities were also seen distributing polythene gloves to voters to cast their vote. “The last one hour (4.30 pm to 5.30 pm) was kept for Covid patients, but no one came to cast their vote,” said Srivastava. The result will be declared on March 3.For the residents of Kalyanpuri, a densely populated area with a large number of slum clusters and unauthroised colonies, garbage disposal, lack of streetlights, etc were among the key concerns that led them to the polling booths.“Garbage disposal and lack of street lights is a main problem in the area. So, instead of blindly following any particular party, this time I have voted for development,” Satish Kumar, a resident of Kalyanpuri said after exercising his franchise.The BJP is facing a litmus test Shalimar Bagh, which is considered the party’s stronghold. Of the five wards, this is the only ward which BJP won in 2017. ““These bypolls will show strengths and weaknesses of main three political parties before the 2021 local body elections. There had been no development on local level. There are hundreds of dark spots in the ward as street lights at those places are yet to be fixed. Many times we have reported to local leaders but to no avail,” Karan Singh, a voter and a resident of Shalimar Bagh pocket-D, said after casting his vote.Bypoll was necessitated in Shalimar Bagh after the death of sitting BJP councillor Renu Jaju. The contest here is between Jaju’s daughter-in-law, Surabhi Jaju, AAP’s Sunita Mishra, AAP’s poorvanchali face in the region, and Congress party worker Mamta.As people voted local issues such as sanitation, which they say has worsened in the past few months due to frequent strikes by staff over non-payment of salaries, and area development, the three main political parties say that it will help them gauge the public mood ahead of civic polls next year. Political parties admit that the outcome of the bypolls will set the tone for municipal elections scheduled early next year. The ongoing tussle between AAP, the ruling party in Delhi, and BJP, which has been ruling the three municipal corporations for the past 14 years, over the municipal funding and financial mismanagement is going to be the key issue in the bypolls.In 2017, the BJP has won 181 seats, while AAP and Congress won 48 and 30 seats respectively. The three main political parties said the have already started preparations for the polls.Of the five wards, the AAP won Kalyanpuri, Chauhan Banger and Trilokpuri in 2017. Rohini-C ward is also AAP’s stronghold as the former councillor joined the party just before the assembly elections last year and is now a party MLA from Bawana.Sanitation topped the priority list for people in Trilokpuri ward. Dinesh Valmiki, a local resident, said the civic body has “failed” on the front of local development. “Salaries of municipal employees are not being paid so they go on strike and ultimately the public has to suffer. Sanitation and lack of proper drainage system are major issues being faced by the residents here,” Valmiki said while waiting in a queue to cast his vote.Voting in Trilokpuri ward also saw minor scuffle between volunteers of the AAP and the BJP over the issue of setting up tables near one of the polling centres. The matter was resolved soon.In Rohini-C, Kalyanpuri and Trilokpuri wards, women voters came out in good numbers to exercise their franchise. In Chauhan Banger ward, located close to Jafrabad Metro station, broken roads, lack of drainage, encroachment on pavements and roads were issues on which people voted.The BJP fielded senior party worker Mohammad Nazir Ansari from the ward while the AAP candidate was former Seelampur MLA Mohammad Ishraq Khan. The Congress fielded its youth wing leader Zubair Ahmad, son of former Seelampur MLA Mateen Ahmad.“There are a number of issues here as the area is among one of the most backward wards. Lack of proper drainage system, dug up lanes, encroachment and lack of sanitation services are among main issues here. In this bypoll, we have voted keeping in view the local area development,” said Asma Khatoon, who had come to vote with her husband.In Rohini-C ward BJP’s Rakesh Goel is pitted against AAP’s former Bawana MLA Ram Chander. The Congress candidate from the ward is ex-councillor Memwati Barwala.Rohini-C ward, which falls under Bawana constituency, saw a good number of women voters. “Local area development is our priority. Lack of street lights is a major problem in the region. It poses a security threat especially for women in the area. Dirty water supply is another issue here,” Sarita Goyal, a voter and resident of Prahlad Vihar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5086-vote-in-bypolls-to-5-municipal-wards-101614535756957.html
28-02-2021||Other||Feel unsafe in our own neighbourhood, say locals after Adarsh Nagar snatching||New DelhiThe Saturday night murder of a 25-year-old woman while trying to fight back against a snatcher on the busy Rajan Babu Road in Adarsh Nagar has left the residents of the neighbourhood “shocked and in fear” as they said that such incidents have become common. Locals alleged that the spot is barely 50 metres away from a police post, which often remains unmanned, because of which the snatcher managed to escape on Saturday.Rajini Babbar, a resident of lane number 10, said that every 5-10 days they hear of a similar crime in the area. “The fact that Simran was targeted right in front of her house is very scary. It reflects that the criminals have no fear of entering residential areas to commit a crime,” she said.General secretary of Adarsh Nagar Green residents welfare association, SN Singhal, also said that police presence in the area is insufficient, which encouraged criminal activities.“Almost every evening, anti-social elements gather in parks in the area and create nuisance, making it difficult for locals, specially women and girls, to even walk through the areas. When we call the police, they send a policeman who takes a round of the area and goes back. The SHO has been made aware of these problems repeatedly, but nothing was done. We are waiting for more similar incidents to happen. Today, I’ve written a letter to the area DCP, senior officers and other concerned people, requesting strict action in this regard,” Singhal said.Another woman, who lives in the same area but wished not to be named, said that the lane in which their houses are located, has gates but they are closed only late night around 11-11.30pm. “The road outside is a busy one, with shops on both sides. Who would think that an outsider can attack you in your own residential neighbourhood in front of so many people? This is very shocking,” she said.Simran’s cousin, Taranjit Singh, who also lives in the same neighbourhood, said the residential locality has often reported snatching and robbery incidents. “Police presence during the night is sparse, which encourages such street crimes,” he said.The municipal councillor from Adarsh Nagar ward, Garima Gupta said that she has told the station house officer of Adarsh Nagar police station repeatedly to step up patrolling in the area during night time at least. “There is also a police post less than 50 metres from the spot of crime, which should always remain manned. So far there has been no serious action on such requests,” said Gupta, who had visited the spot.Deepak Tiwari, the security guard who witnessed the attack on Simran, also recalls how he had a face-off with two thieves around 8-9 months ago. “I had caught them trying to enter a house in the same area. I attempted to catch the duo, but they threw stones at me. I chased them, but they managed to escape,” he said.When asked about the allegations by the local residents regarding the law and order in the area, joint commissioner of police (northern range) SS Yadav refused to comment.Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani also did not respond to multiple calls and text messages sent by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/feel-unsafe-in-our-own-neighbourhood-say-locals-after-adarsh-nagar-snatching-101614535696850.html
28-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man held for abusing and attacking actor||The Goregaon police have arrested a man for allegedly abusing and attacking a Marathi actor and wife of a Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer. The incident occurred on Friday near the Jain Hospital at Goregaon when the woman was on her way home. According to police, woman was travelling in her car and was looking for a parking space when a man who was reportedly in an inebriated state, approached her and started abusing her. When she objected, the man attacked her, “The man was drunk and created a ruckus,” said the officer.The officers said that they have arrested the man for abusing (outraging modesty of a woman by words) and attacking the woman under sections 509, 506, 323 and 354 of the Indian Penal Code. The police registered the offence and presented the man in court where he was remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaiman-held-for-abusing-and-attacking-actor-101614535577534.html
28-02-2021||Delhi||25-year-old stabbed while fending off snatching bid in Adarsh Nagar, dies||New Delhi: A 25-year-old woman was stabbed to death when she fought back against a snatcher in north-west Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar on Saturday night. A CCTV footage of the incident, which was widely shared on social media on Sunday, shows the attacker first lunging at the chain of the woman, identified as Simran Kaur, as she is returning home from a nearby market with her mother and two-year-old daughter. Simran, however, immediately fights back, catching the snatcher off-guard and forcing him to retreat. As the snatcher flees, he fishes out a knife and stabs Simran multiple times, before escaping with an accomplice waiting on a scooter nearby. A security guard, on duty in the area, is also seen in the footage chasing the man on foot. Simran later collapsed just a few feet away from her house due to blood loss in front of her two-year-old. Police said they have arrested two men from Jahangirpuri for the murder.In Delhi, snatching cases had gone up by 27.11% in 2020 when compared to the previous year, data released by Delhi Police, during their annual press conference earlier this month showed. A snatching occurs in Delhi every 1 hour 6 minutes, the police data showed.According to investigators, Saturday’s incident took place between 9pm and 9.15pm when Simran — who lives with her husband in Patiala and had been in north Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar visiting her parents — was returning from a local flea market. Eyewitnesses and local residents said when Simran and her mother Mamta Kaur entered lane number seven from Rajan Babu Road, to reach their home, the snatcher approached them from behind.A police officer, who wished not to be named, said it has been established during initial probe that the man extended his arm to grab Simran’s chain or valuables, immediately alerting her and making her turn around. “Her two-year-old daughter, whom she was carrying in her arms, fell on the road as Simran lost balance while trying to fight back. The snatcher also fell while trying to flee. Seeing himself trapped, the man got up and stabbed Simran twice in her chest with a knife and managed to run away,” the officer said.The CCTV then shows Simran picking up her daughter again. However, she collapsed just a few seconds later, right in front of her parents house.The security guard, Deepak Tiwari, who was on duty at the time of the incident, said he was on the other end of the lane where Simran’s parent’s house is located. “It was roughly around 9.10pm when I heard her cry for help. I saw a man was attacking her and I chased after him. However, he jumped on a scooter, on which his accomplice was waiting, and they sped away. I could not see his face or note down the scooter’s registration number,” said Tiwari, who has been working in the area as a security guard for the last two-and-a-half years.Simran was rushed to Fortis Hospital in Shalimar Bagh, where she died during treatment. The crime was reported to the police around 9.45pm. On Sunday evening, deputy commissioner of police (north-west) Usha Rangnani in a statement said that multiple teams were formed to arrest the accused and following multiple raids, the two men – Fardeen,19, and Aqibul, 22, both residents of Jahangirpuri — were arrested. The weapon used in Simran’s murder and the scooter that the men had used to flee the spot, were recovered following their arrests, the statement said. A Special Investigations Team (SIT) has also been formed to further probe the incident. On one side of the spot where Simran was killed, is her brother’s photo studio and on the other side is here father Daler Singh’s house, both less than 20 metres away from the spot where she collapsed .Local residents said there is also a police booth which is fifty metres away from the spot but mostly remains unmanned.Simran’s cousin, Taranjit Singh, 20, who lives in the same neighbourhood said the incident was unfortunate and tragic. “I got a call late night informing that she had to be rushed to hospital. When I reached hospital, she was in the operation theatre, where she succumbed,” Singh said.When contacted, deputy commissioner of police (north-west) Usha Rangnani did not respond to calls and text messages.Delhi police also tweeted on Sunday, “Two arrested for murder of a young woman, committed in desperate attempt of snatching in Adarsh Ngr. Reaffirming our commitment to #ZeroTolerance to crime for safety & security of citizens, @DelhiPolice dedicated to swift & professional investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/25yearold-stabbed-while-fending-off-snatching-bid-in-adarsh-nagar-dies-101614535458256.html
28-02-2021||Other||Pandemic prompts the elderly to make a digital switch||New DelhiIt is 11am on Friday and a digital literacy class has just begun on video communication platform Zoom. The learners — senior citizens aged 60 to 80 — are listening to the trainer, rapt; some are fervently jotting down notes. The first topic of the 15-day workshop is how to make a conference call on a smartphone. After 15 minutes of instructions, the participants are asked to make a conference call. Some flounder, but the faces of those who succeed brim with pride and amazement. “I did not know how to use this feature on my phone, though I needed it to connect with my family and friends. It is so easy,” says Om Prakash Goyal, 65, one of the most enthusiastic learners in the class, who took copious notes throughout the lesson. “But my prime objective is to learn how to book a doctors’ appointment, order medicines, and do banking online. The pandemic has made it necessary, ” says Goyal, a retired government engineer, who lives in Paschim Vihar. India has about 104 million people aged above 60 — just a shade below China —according to the 2011 Census. But digital inclusion has been a distant dream for them. The government’s National Digital Literacy Mission (NDLM) aims to empower at least one person per household. It, however, does not accord any priority to senior citizens. According to a survey by Agewell Foundation, an NGO, in 2018, among senior citizens in Delhi-NCR, around 86% of the 5,000 respondents were found to be digitally illiterate. But the pandemic has led to an exponential demand for digital skills among them, with senior citizens aged 60 to 85, turning to online workshops organised by NGOs, startups, volunteer groups. The lessons in these workshops, include smartphone use, digital payments, e-banking, e-shopping, booking an appointment with doctors online, using cab-hailing apps, and monitoring health through apps. “We get about 100 calls a day compared to 10 before the pandemic for our classes for seniors. Many of them are well-to-do and own expensive smartphones, but are unable to use them. Most say their children do not have time and patience to teach them digital skills,” says Himanshu Rath, founder, Agewell Foundation, which provides free online digital literacy classes for senior citizens. His organization’s digital training calendar is packed for the next few months. Santosh Kaul Ogra, 69, who coordinates with NGOs for digital literacy classes on behalf of many RWAs in Delhi, says that these days he is flooded with demands from senior citizens wanting to attend digital literacy workshops. “Their biggest concern is how to live with dignity during their old age,” says Ogra. “During pandemic they realized that the mobile phone is a powerful device, which they can use for information, entertainment, online transactions and connecting with friends and families.” Kusum Gupta, 77, from Saket, attended a digital literacy class last year. The skills she learnt, she says, are coming quite handy. These days, at 6am, she and her friends attend a yoga class on Zoom. “We are a group of about 20. Before the pandemic, we used to do yoga in the neighbourhood park but now, we do it online. Technology helped me remain connected with friends in these tough times of social distancing,” says Gupta. “My friends say I am quite a tech pro. I watch news, movies, listen to music on YouTube. But technology can help only if you don’t have any hearing or eyesight problems.” Earlier this week, Sushil Bawa, 70, a retired teacher in Rohini, decided to junk her paper diary for a calendar app. She is currently attending a digital literacy workshop. “Now I will use only my phone to get alerts about birthdays, anniversaries of my friends and family.I am also learning how to edit photos, make a photo collage to send personalized wishes to them on special occasions. It keeps me engaged,” says Bawa. Rajkumar Prajapati, 25, a digital trainer at Agewell Foundation, says, “Patience is the key while training elderly as you have to repeat things.” The questions he frequently faces include what is the difference between Chrome and Google; how can one look slimmer in photos, do Google Maps always give the right directions? Shreya Bajaj, 30, who in July launched Easy Hai, an initiative to impart digital skills to the elderly with her sister Surbhi, says demand for her Zoom sessions continues to grow. She charges ₹200 per session and organizes two sessions every day. “So far I have taught digital skills to over 5,000 people. During the lockdown, elderly members in my family struggled with technology. That is how this initiative was born. I have realized that every senior has his or her own digital competency level,” says Bangalore-based Shreya. “Initially, our participants were from Bangalore only; now they are also from Delhi, Chandigarh, Pune, Udaipur, Raipur.” Sonali Sharma, head, advocacy and elderly empowerment, HelpAge India, another NGO, which provides free digital training to seniors all across the country, says that of all the workshops her organization conducts for seniors, the digital training one is the most popular. “Demand for our digital classes is the highest in Hyderabad and Chennai, followed by Delhi. Most of our members are well- educated, middle-class senior citizens, wanting to use technology to live independent lives.” Agrees Saumyajit Roy, co-founder and CEO, Emoha Elder Care, a company that provides elderly care services, “Earlier, seniors who are our members, were quite hesitant about video calls and ordering things online. Now they feel it is better to acquire digital skills for their own safety and security. The pandemic has proved to be a catalyst for digital empowerment of the elderly.” Savita Verma, 64, has taken it upon herself to teach digital skills to her husband. “ I attend the class in the morning and take notes. In the evening, I teach him whatever I learn . I feel empowered and in control of my life, thanks to my newly acquired digital skills. It is really amazing how a smartphone can change your life.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pandemic-prompts-the-elderly-to-make-a-digital-switch-101614535397573.html
28-02-2021||City||J-K’s handicraft, handloom products to be promoted in Canada||Jammu and Kashmir Trade Promotion Organisation (JKTPO) in association with the Consulate General of India Toronto, Canada and Indo Canada Chamber of Commerce (ICCC) organised a virtual meet to promote the export of handicrafts and handloom products of Jammu and Kashmir in Canada.The event aimed to increase the export of handicrafts and handloom in Canada by creating more avenues of trade.The virtual meet was attended by Apoorva Srivastava, Consul General, Consulate General of India Toronto; Vijay Thomas, president, Indo Canada Chamber of Commerce (ICCC); Anoo Malhotra (KAS), managing director, J-K Trade Promotion Organization (JKTPO); Mahmood Ahmad Shah (KAS), director Handicrafts & Handloom, Kashmir; and Vikas Sharma, director, Small and Medium Enterprise (SME), ICCC, along with senior officials from the Jammu and Kashmir and Toronto and eminent members of the handicraft and handloom exports and import community.Also read: 'Congress must unite to defeat ‘divisive’ forces': Farooq AbdullahWhile welcoming the dignitaries, Vijay Thomas said, “Such events help build stronger relationships between importers and exporter. The ICCC is planning to create marketplace-based events for 10 states and UT of Jammu and Kashmir is one of the focus regions."Anoo Malhotra said, “Jammu and Kashmir made exports worth ₹1,360 crores during 2019-20, with the majority coming from RMG wool and manmade yarn fabrics, which is an encouraging fact for this platform and invites importers to connect with exporters from the UT. The department of Handloom & Handicrafts is running more than 500 training centres with a capacity of 13,000 artisans. With skill development initiatives of Government of Jammu and Kashmir, more than 7,500 artisans are getting benefitted.”“I was stunned by the beauty of Basholi painting and other products of handicrafts and handloom from Jammu And Kashmir. We are thankful to the Government of Jammu and Kashmir for this initiative. There is a huge demand for these exquisite handmade products in Canada and I would encourage importers from Canada to buy such exquisite products from Jammu and Kashmir. In fact, we are planning a similar event.” said Apoorva Srivastava, Consul General, Consulate General of India Toronto (ICCC)A presentation on unique handicrafts and handloom products of Jammu and Kashmir was made by Mahmood Ahmad Shah (KAS), director Handicrafts & Handloom, Kashmir, exhibiting the extraordinary intricacy, skill, and artistic expertise of the people. Special emphasis was on products of copperware, walnut wood (GI), Pashmina, Sozni embroidery, Kani Shawl Art (GI), Bashoni Pashmina, chain stitch embroidery, along with Papier Mache, Khatamband, Kal Baffi, Basohli Paintings, tweed jackets, and Kishtwari Loi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jks-handicraft-handloom-products-to-be-promoted-in-canada-101614532247799.html
28-02-2021||Gurugram||Students demand protection of Aravallis, withdrawal of amendment to land act||Students of classes 11 and 12 on Sunday held a demonstration, seeking protection for the Aravallis and demanding the withdrawal of laws aimed at amending the protection afforded to the Aravallis. The protest was held from 6.30pm to 8.30pm at Galleria Market in DLF Phase-4.“In your plans I cannot see any living beauty, I see mountains of trash higher than the Aravallis… I need trees, not toxic energy, because, I cannot breathe…,” recited by a 16-year-old during the protest, referring to the Haryana government’s amendment to the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA).Anushka, another 16-year-old who was protesting at the market on Sunday evening, said, “Aravallis are the green lungs, climate regulator, water recharge zone and shield against desertification of Delhi-NCR. We need to save the Aravallis for a better future.”Environmentalists echoed these sentiments and said they are awaiting the withdrawal of the amendment by the state government, as it puts 33% of the state’s forest cover at risk.Lt. Col (Retd) Sarvadaman Oberoi, a city-based environmentalist and activist said, “It’s a shame that Haryana, with the lowest forest cover in the country, tried to get rid of the PLPA act with an amendment retrospective to 1966. Fortunately, the Supreme Court stayed the amendments from coming into effect. We are hopeful that the government which protected the Mangar Bani sacred grove in 2016 will take concrete steps to protect the Aravallis of south Haryana for future generations of humans and future generations of wildlife.”The state government’s amendment to the PLPA on February 27, 2019, was stayed by the Supreme Court in March 2019, but in July 2019, the governor had approved the bill. However, the amendment is yet to be notified.VS Tanwar, the principal chief conservator of forests, Haryana forest department, said, “There has been no development or movement in the PLPA amendment case so far, since the matter was stayed by the Supreme Court. The orders of the apex court are still enforced.”On March 1, 2019, the Supreme Court had expressed concern over the bill, in a hearing related to the Kant Enclave judgment, and stated, “In order to get rid of this order, the state of Haryana has made certain amendments in Punjab Land Preservation Act, 1900, by virtue of that they are permitting construction in the forest area and PLPA region also [sic].”The apex court also warned the state government against enacting the legislation without the court’s permission. The bill passed by the state cabinet removes legal ‘forest’ status for about 60,000 acres of Aravalli land in the state.The law in discussion dates back to the 1900s, which was passed to protect common forest land from being bought under agriculture. In Haryana, the PLPA extends protection to forests and trees on private lands, community lands, panchayat and municipal lands in the uncultivable hills of the Aravallis in the south and Shiwaliks in the northern parts of the state.The PLPA act has two major types of provisions — regional notifications under General Section 4 of PLPA that cover entire districts and merely restrict tree felling (equivalent to a tree preservation rule), and Khasra (plot) number specific notifications, under Special Section 4 and Section 5 of the PLPA that extends protection against land use change to certain specified Aravalli areas, forests and trees. These may be community (shamlat) lands, panchayat, municipal lands, or private lands. The PLPA area under Special sections 4 and 5 approximately cover 30,000 hectares, around 33% of the effective forest land in Haryana.According to directives of the Supreme Court, the PLPA attracts protection under the Forest Conservation Act of 1980, which states that “no state government or other authority shall make, except with the prior approval of the central government, any order directing that any forest land or any portion thereof may be used for any non-forest purpose.”Neelam Ahluwalia, a city-based environmentalist associated with the Aravalli Bachao Citizens Movement that has been demanding the withdrawal of the amendment for two years, said, “A total of 33% of Haryana’s measly 3.62% forest cover is at stake, which amounts to 74,000 acres of land, out of which 60,000 acres are in the Aravallis around Gurugram, Faridabad and south Haryana.”She further said that if the PLPA amendment bill is notified, it can have “disastrous consequences for our air quality, groundwater, and Gurugram and National Capital Region will turn into a desert.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/students-demand-protection-of-aravallis-withdrawal-of-amendment-to-land-act-101614533418512.html
28-02-2021||Gurugram||Stage set for Phase 3 of vaccinations in Gurugram||The third phase of Covid-19 vaccinations is set to begin at 20 session sites in Gurugram on Monday, said health department officials. Officials said that 10 of these sites would be set up at government hospitals and public health centres, while 10 others have been designated at government empanelled private hospitals. On Monday only walk-ins will be allowed for people who are older than 60 years and above and those above 45 years with co-morbidities, said health department officials. Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said that the vaccination at session sites will start from noon and that only walk-ins are expected as the registration on the Co-Win 2.0 portal will start at 9am on Monday. “On the first day, 40 doses per session site will be allowed for eligible beneficiaries, while 60 will be meant for health workers who will be taking their second vaccine shot,” said Yadav, adding that health department is geared up to ensure hassle-free vaccination for the general population from Monday. Yadav also said that the health department is looking at the third phase on Monday as a soft launch, expecting to vaccinate around 2,000 beneficiaries, which will later be expanded to cover a larger number of beneficiaries as the pace of online registrations pick up. Residents across the state can access the registration through www.cowin.gov.in for the third phase, which will be inaugurated by Haryana health minister Anil Vij through video conferencing on Monday, said a government statement.To ease the process of registration and enable beneficiaries to get vaccinated without much hassle, the union health ministry on Sunday stated that people can get registered through their mobile phones and four persons can register themselves on a single mobile number. However, all the registrants will have to carry their identity cards — Aadhaar card/letter, electoral photo card, passport, driving licence, PAN card, NPR Smart Card or pension document with photograph.State health minister Anil Vij on Sunday said that the vaccine will be administered free of cost at government hospitals and will be administered at a cost of ₹250 at government empanelled private hospitals. Vij said that all efforts are being made to ensure a smooth roll-out of vaccination for the third phase.Sharing details of phase three of the Covid-19 vaccine roll-out, additional chief secretary (health), Rajeev Arora, said that beneficiaries with co-morbidities will have to get a certificate regarding the co-morbidity from a government or privately registered medical practitioner to qualify as a vaccine beneficiary.Arora said that the beneficiaries can approach any government-run Covid vaccine centres and get the vaccine administered free of cost or can register themselves on the Co-WIN portal or Aarogya Setu application.For the online registration for the vaccine, Arora said that the beneficiary can specify the date, time and vaccination centre where he/she would like to get the vaccine administered and then visit the centre on the specified date. The beneficiary should carry a photo ID and a certificate of co-morbidity.Meanwhile, on Sunday, 56 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the district, with around 3,007 RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests conducted in the last 24 hours. On Saturday, 62 persons had tested positive for Covid-19, while 3,468 tests were conducted by the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/stage-set-for-phase-3-of-vaccinations-in-gurugram-101614533417832.html
28-02-2021||Gurugram||MCG to acquire 100-metre hydraulic ladder for fire safety||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has approved a proposal by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) to use its funds to procure a 100-metre hydraulic ladder for the city on a priority basis.In a city of over 1,200 high-rises, the Gurugram fire department only has a solitary 42-metre fire ladder capable of reaching only the fourteenth floor of a building. Gurugram has several skyscrapers measuring around 175 metres.As per IS Kashyap, assistant divisional fire safety office (ADFSO), the Haryana government, earlier this month, had given approval to procure five 42-metre fire ladders for Gurugram when a state-level discussion was held on fire preparedness for all the districts in Haryana.Following the intervention of the Haryana CM, it was altered to a 100-metre fire ladder.In Gurugram, the local fire department comes under the ambit of the MCG.“The Haryana CM has authorised MCG to procure a 100-metre fire ladder using its own funds. Earlier, the proposal from the government’s own side was for authorising the procurement of only five hydraulic platforms for the city. The government has given such an approval exclusively for Gurugram,” said Kashyap.Kashyap added that such a ladder is only manufactured by a Finland-based company and it would cost around ₹30 crore to purchase.Kashyap said that although a private developer has a fire ladder equipped to reach such heights and can be called upon in case of an emergency the time spent in coordination can lead to a massive delay.“Although we have an understanding with all private firms in the district for helping each other out during any fire, we cannot afford to both spend time and rely on anyone else for procuring a 100-metre ladder as it can lead to a considerable delay in dousing or rescue operations. We need it readily available and hence, it is required on an urgent basis,” said Kashyap.The fire department’s demand for a 100-metre ladder has been pending since 2008. In last year’s state budget, Khattar had announced that all of Haryana’s municipal corporations, including MCG, will each get new fire ladders.“Saving lives and bettering the lives of citizens have always been MCG’s priority. All necessary procedures have been initiated to procure a new fire ladder and strengthen the local fire department,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.Kashyap said that although the MCG’s funds will be used for the procurement of the ladder, the paperwork and other formalities for approaching the Finland-based company will be done through the Haryana directorate of supplies and disposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-to-acquire-100-metre-hydraulic-ladder-for-fire-safety-101614533417192.html
28-02-2021||Gurugram||Flyover, underpass at Huda City Centre to be operational in July||An underpass and a flyover being constructed near Huda City Centre Metro station to ease traffic congestion will become functional from the beginning of July as per the fresh deadline set by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), said officials privy to the matter. The GMDA had earlier set a deadline of March 2021, which got delayed due to the lockdown imposed by the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic last year. The authority has now set a deadline of June 30 and has directed implementing agencies to expedite work on the two structures. Jitendra Mittal, chief engineer (infrastructure), GMDA said, “We are aiming to complete the project by June-end and make the flyover and underpass fully functional from the beginning of July. Once the project is complete, it will help reduce traffic congestion at Huda City Centre, which witnesses heavy footfall due to the Metro connectivity to different parts of NCR.” Earlier, during the seventh meeting of GMDA in December 2020, the authority had stated in its agenda that the construction of the 270-metre flyover, the 735-metre underpass from Signature Road to Subhash Chowk, along with service roads and drainage work was being undertaken as part of a larger project. The work for the project started in February 2019 and is estimated to cost approximately ₹52.52 crore. The agenda, a copy of which was accessed by HT, states, “The flyover portion is 83% complete. The progress of civil works achieved is 41%.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/flyover-underpass-at-huda-city-centre-to-be-operational-in-july-101614533416639.html
28-02-2021||Gurugram||Schools across Haryana to reopen for students of classes 1 and 2||Schools across the state will reopen for in-person classroom sessions for students of classes 1 and 2 from Monday onwards, nearly a year after they were closed across the country amid Covid-19 outbreak in March last year. Online classes for students who wish to continue to with remote learning will also continue and they will neither be bound to attend classroom sessions nor will their names be struck off the school roll, as per the SOP(standard operating procedure) issued by the education department earlier this week. Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said that the school will become fully operational with classes starting for classes 1 and 2. “Children in these grades will be returning to school after one whole year. Resumption of in-person sessions will give teachers the chance to provide more robust support to students, many of whom are not being able to keep up with online classes,” said Sharma. She added that the school had been in touch with parents and was expecting a good turnout on Monday. “We are taking necessary measures in view of the pandemic and expect children to return back to classrooms safely,” said Sharma. Schools across the country were closed in March last year amid the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Voluntary visits to schools in Haryana for doubt-clearing sessions were allowed from September onwards, followed by regular classes from November 2 for students in classes 9 to 12. Schools were reopened for students in classes 6 to 8 on February 1 and classes 3 to 5 on February 24. As per the government directive, both government and private schools will be allowed to conduct classes of three-and-a-half-hour duration from 10am till 1.30pm for students in these classes. Students are also required to produce a parental consent letter. The directive also mentioned that cooked meals will not be provided in schools; instead dry ration will be provided. Most private schools said that parents were not willing to send children to school for in-person classroom sessions yet. Anita Malhotra, principal of Lotus Valley International School, said that the school had sought feedback from parents but there were not many takers for offline classes. “We had sought feedback from parents but most of them are not ready to send children to school yet. We will continue with online classes for now,” said Malhotra. She, however, added that the school might initiate classes from the new academic session in April. “When the school reopens in the new session, we might start with offline classes in batches. All these decisions will be taken while taking into cognisance of the evolving Covid-19 situation,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/schools-across-haryana-to-reopen-for-students-of-classes-1-and-2-101614533357812.html
28-02-2021||Gurugram||35-year-old man mowed down by speeding car at Labour Chowk crossing||A 35-year-old man was killed after a speeding car allegedly hit him while he was walking along with his brother towards Garhi Hasru to meet his father on Friday evening. The police said that the driver of the car allegedly fled the spot, said the police. adding that the incident took place at the Labour Chowk crossing. According to the police, the victim, Sunny Singh, was a resident of Garhi Hasru village and worked as a driver with a transporter. He is survived by his wife and two children. The incident took place around 6.40pm, when Singh, along with his brother Aakash, was going towards his village from the local railway station. The police said that his brother was walking ahead of him when the incident took place. “My brother used to live in Durga Colony near Chandu Budhera and had recently constructed his house. On Friday he came to meet us and, after spending a few minutes at railway station, we were on our way to meet our father who lives in the village,” said Aakash, brother of the deceased. A case was registered against the suspect under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sector 10 police station on Saturday. Suresh Kumar, station house officer, Sector 10 police station, said that the accident took place right in front of the crossing near Labour Chowk. A speeding i10 car hit the victim while he was walking on the roadside. He suffered severe injuries and died on the spot. The driver is yet to be identified and arrested. We are investigating the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/35yearold-man-mowed-down-by-speeding-car-at-labour-chowk-crossing-101614533357288.html
28-02-2021||Gurugram||City bus service starts four new routes for Faridabad public||To provide speedy and economical transport facilities to residents of Faridabad, the Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL) has extended its city bus service to four new routes in Faridabad. The services were inaugurated on Saturday by GMCBL and Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority (FMDA).The new bus services comprise four new routes — the first being Route No. 902, a mudrika (roundabout) service that starts from NIT Bus Stand. The first service starts at 7.15am and the last service at 7.35pm. The route starts from NIT Bus Stand to the Bata Metro Station and back to NIT Bus Stand, via Hardware Chowk, Bata Metro Station, Hardware Chowk, Dabua Colony, Hanuman temple and KL Mehta College.The second route is Route No. 904, which starts from Ballabgarh (bypass road) at 7am and from the Badarpur border at 8.05am. The last service on this route will be at 6.24pm from Ballabgarh and 7.29 pm from Badarpur.The third route is Route No. 905, which provides a commute between the Sector 28 Metro station and Puri Pranayam Society in Sector 82, with the first services starting at 7am and 7.38am, respectively, and the last services at 6.56pm and 7.34pm, respectively.The fourth bus service is Route No. 906, which covers areas between the Bata Metro Station and Lakhani Arman-Neelam Chowk Ajronda Metro Station, with first services starting at 7am and 7.38am, respectively, and last services at 7.40pm and 8.18pm, respectively.With the addition of four new routes, the GMCBL now has buses running on 27 routes, with a total of 163 buses in both Gurugram and Faridabad.Anju Chaudhary, chief executive officer of GMCBL, during the launch of Route 902 on February 22 had said, “We are already running four buses till NIT Faridabad and now, we started two more buses from NIT till Bata Chowk. These buses will be going from Gurugram and cater to the public within Faridabad. We are further thinking of adding 10 more buses to the fleet with an increase in the number of commuters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/city-bus-service-starts-four-new-routes-for-faridabad-public-101614533356707.html
28-02-2021||Gurugram||DHBVN officials assaulted by families in Gadoli village||The police on Saturday booked two families for allegedly assaulting and threatening officials of Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) in village Gadoli in Sector 10. The police said a team of DHBVN officials who went to check for electricity theft were assaulted by the families. According to the police, the suspects, Tilak Raj and Hukum Chand, were present at their houses and asked their wives to lock the gates when the officials reached the spot.Junior engineer Ram Bahadur, along with staff member Ravinder Kumar, went to check for electricity theft in Hukum Chand’s two-storey house in village Gadoli. “Chand has been drawing electricity directly from the electric pole by fixing two wires. Although, he had installed sub-meters for his tenants but there was no main meter. We clicked pictures and videographed the spot,” said Nathuram, sub-divisional officer (SDO) of DHBVN, adding that the officials are being treated for their injuries. He alleged that Hukum refused to cooperate with the officials, following which they went to another house to check for power theft. But, they soon found that Tilak Raj too was also involved in same alleged power theft. “When the team began documenting the theft, the families started pelting stones and assaulted them with sticks. They then chased them out of the house,” said Nathuram. The discom employees called the police control room and registered their complaint at the Sector 10 police station. They gave a written complaint against electricity theft, assault on staff and intimidation by both the families. Inspector Suresh Kumar, SHO, Sector 10 police station, said they have registered the case and are conducting investigation. The case was registered against the families under sections 186 (obstructing public servant), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assault or criminal force) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).“Discom employees are afraid to act in cases of electricity thefts as people often attack them and go scot-free,” said the sub-divisonal officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dhbvn-officials-assaulted-by-families-in-gadoli-village-101614533296731.html
28-02-2021||Patna||Primary classes to begin from tomorrow in Bihar: All you need to know||Regular classes will resume for students of class 1 to 5 in Bihar from March 1. The Bihar education department took the decision after consulting with the crisis management group in a meeting last week. “We have decided to reopen the school for junior students from March 1. We will hold a review meeting after 15 working days to decide the continuance or discontinuance of the classes,” Chief secretary Deepak Kumar, who chaired the meeting, said.Here is all you need to know about the decision:1. Currently, schools are functioning for students of classes 6 to 12 with 50% attendance and other restrictive measures due to the pandemic.2. Students of Classes 9, 11 and 12 were told to come to school from January 4, while students of Classes 6 to 8 were called from February 8. 3. “Like senior students, primary class students will also be given two face masks on the first day of reopening. Primary schools will have to follow the same Covid-19 safety guideline issued for classes 6 to 12," said an official of the education department.4. Parents as well as students have welcomed the government's decision to reopen schools. “It’s good that schools are reopening. Online class is not feasible for young students. After staying at home, children are losing the disciplined way of living,” Seema Pandey, whose daughter studies in Class 5, told Hindustan Times.5. Schools and colleges were shut in the state since March 2020 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/primary-classes-to-begin-from-tomorrow-in-bihar-all-you-need-to-know-101614532948137.html
28-02-2021||Other||Cross-border smuggling ring busted, Ludhiana factory owner held with 2.17kg heroin||The Ludhiana unit of the special task force (STF) claims to have unearthed a cross-border smuggling ring with the recovery of 2.17 kg heroin from two men, including a city-based spare parts manufacturer.The accused had hidden the heroin in a compartment near the battery of a mini-truck. They have been identified as Kamaljit Singh, 32, of Kabir Nagar, Daba, and Bhupinder Singh Bhinda, 42, of Amar Nagar. The gang’s kingpin, Rajveer Singh Gill of Amar Nagar, is at large. Kamaljit owns a motorcycle spare parts manufacturing unit in Ludhiana, while Bhupinder is a truck driver.Inspector Harbans Singh, in-charge, Ludhiana STF unit, said following secret information, the mini-truck was stopped for checking near the vegetable market on Jalandhar Bypass on Saturday.On searching the vehicle, 2.17kg heroin was found hidden in a secret compartment, which the accused confessed to procuring from the border area in Amritsar.Gang’s kingpin a history-sheeterThe inspector said the gang of three had been smuggling drugs for the past three years. “Rajveer used to fix deals with drug suppliers, while Kamaljit and Bhupinder used to bring the consignments and hand them over to Rajveer, who further supplied it to customers,” the cop added.Rajveer was previously arrested by the Kapurthala police with 1kg heroin in June 2020. He was lodged in Kapurthala jail, but got bail after around two months. Following his release, he returned to drug smuggling, and included Kamaljit and Bhupinder in his gang.“The STF is probing how the accused managed cross-border smuggling. They also have links with drug peddlers lodged in jails,” the inspector said.“Rajveer has a total of three drug smuggling cases against him. The criminal record of the other two accused is being probed,” he added.A case under Sections 21, 29, 27, 25, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has been lodged against the accused at the STF station in Mohali. The accused were produced in court and sent to three-day police remand. More revelations are expected from them during questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/crossborder-smuggling-ring-busted-ludhiana-factory-owner-held-with-2-17kg-heroin-101614531977270.html
28-02-2021||Delhi||MCD bypolls: AAP, BJP, Congress exude confidence of victory||Rivals AAP, BJP and Congress exuded confidence of victory in the bypolls for five municipal wards after voting concluded on Sunday evening.Senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and party in-charge for MCD (municipal corporations) affairs Durgesh Pathak said he visited polling booths in various wards and was confident of winning all five wards."We will win all the five wards. I was in the field during voting and can say with confidence we are going to win," Pathak stated.Delhi Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Adesh Gupta, who visited Kalyanpuri, Shalimar Bagh (north) and Trilokpuri wards, too claimed that the saffron party would bag the wards."The BJP will win with big margins... People of Delhi have completely rejected the development model of Kejriwal government. Seeing their enthusiasm towards the BJP, it will not be too early to say that the party (BJP) candidates have already won the by-elections," Gupta asserted.He thanked the people for supporting the BJP.Meanwhile, the Delhi Congress said that it will not only win the bypolls but also the civic body polls due in 2022."We won the hearts of the people in the semi final (bypolls) and will also win the final in 2022," it said.The five yearly elections for 272 wards in three municipal corporations are due in 2022."The support of the people in the five wards is sure to turn the results in the favour of the party (Congress) candidates," it said. More than 50% voters cast their votes in the municipal corporation bypolls in the five wards on Sunday, with the highest voting percentage recorded in Kalyanpuri and the lowest in Shalimar Bagh (north), Election Commission officials said.As per official figures, 59.19% votes were cast in Kalyanpuri, 55.95% in Trilokpuri, 55.60% in Chauhan Bangar, 44.58% in Rohini-C, and 43.23% in Shalimar Bagh (north) wards.The total voting percentage in the five wards was 50.86%.The results for the bypolls will be announced on March 3, officials said, adding that there are 327 polling stations and 26 candidates in the fray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mcd-bypolls-aap-bjp-congress-exude-confidence-of-victory-101614529878111.html
28-02-2021||Other||1,585 new Covid-19 cases in Pune district on Sunday; active case count almost double of Mumbai’s||PUNE The Maharahstra health department recorded 1,585 new Covid-19 cases in Pune district on Sunday, with which the city’s active case count crossed the 15,000 mark. As of Sunday, 15,005 active patients are undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation, which is close to double of what Mumbai has recorded; Mumbai has reported 8,299 active cases. Pune has totally reported 4,09,821 Covid-19 cases, of which 3,86,705 have recovered.The death toll for Pune district stands at 8,111.Pune city has reported 790 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking its count to 2,09,269. One death was reported which puts the death toll at 4,575.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported four deaths taking its death toll to 1,333. With 399 new cases reported on Sunday, the count went up to 1,02,246, while Pune rural reported 396 new cases, which took the count to 98,306. With one new death, the death toll stands at 2,154. As of Sunday, 3,753 patients were discharged in the state, so 20.24 lakh patients have recovered from the infection. The recovery rate in the state is 93.95%. Also, 8,293 new cases in the state took the count to 21.55 lakh. With 62 new deaths, the death toll stood at 53,358. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.42%. Currently, 3,35,492 people are in home quarantine and 3,332 people are in institutional quarantine in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1585-new-covid-19-cases-in-pune-district-on-sunday-active-case-count-almost-double-of-mumbais-101614530536379.html
28-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s temperature rises to match season's highest||Mumbai experienced a warm Sunday as the maximum temperature rose significantly owing to hot and dry northerly winds.The Santacruz station of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), which is indicative of the city’s temperature, recorded a maximum temperature of 36.3 degrees Celsius on Sunday, which was at par with the season’s highest temperature recorded on February 2 and 21. The maximum temperature was 3.9 degrees above normal and 1.6 degrees above Saturday’s maximum temperature.At Colaba, a maximum temperature of 32.8 degrees Celsius was recorded, which was 1.9 degrees above normal. This was also slightly higher than Saturday’s 31 degrees Celsius.The rise in temperature was in line with IMD’s forecast for the day. “The IMD had forecast a rise in maximum temperature over the entire Konkan region including Mumbai because of hot and dry north-westerly winds in lower levels. Temperature will remain similar on Monday as well,” said Shubhangi Bhute, scientist at IMD, Mumbai.Minimum temperatures also remained above normal. At Santacruz, a minimum temperature of 20.6 degrees Celsius, which was 1.2 degrees above normal was recorded. Colaba recorded a minimum temperature of 22.5 degrees Celsius, which was 1.3 degrees above normal.With higher temperatures, the air quality remained in the moderate range. An overall Air Quality Index—a pollutant measuring index—of 156 was recorded on Sunday.The AQI is a pollution measuring indicator and was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe.“The air quality is in moderate category because of the rising temperatures and will remain so for the next two-three days,” said a spokesperson for SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-temperature-rises-to-match-season-s-highest-101614529010488.html
28-02-2021||Other||Bihar worker finds mention in PM Modi’s ‘Maan ki Baat’||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi on Sunday lauded the efforts of migrant worker, Pramod Baitha, in his monthly radio address ‘Mann ki Baat’ while sharing the examples of individuals who have been striving towards self-reliant India.“I am happy that this mantra of self-reliance is reaching every village in the country... Pramodji (Pramod Baitha), a native of Bettiah, was a technician at a factory manufacturing LED bulbs in Delhi. He understood the whole processes minutely while working there. But during the pandemic, he had to return to his native place. He himself started a small manufacturing unit,” said the PM in 74th edition of ‘Mann ki Baat’ . “He took along a team of local youths and achieved the journey from a factory worker to a factory owner in a few months,” said the PM. Baitha, a resident of Majhauliya block in West Champaran who was a migrant labourer till last year, utilised Covid as opportunity to turn into an entrepreneur after he set up the LED bulb manufacturing unit at his village. “This decision to set up the unit was not an easy one. For past 10 years, I have worked for different factories in Delhi, keeping my heart and soul together,” said Baitha, who started his unit in May last year with his hard earned money. Within the few months after setting up of the unit, the unit started to get good response.“Encouraged by the response, we procured some other equipment. Yet we are unable to meet all the demands owing to crunch in capital. Against the requirement of 10,000 LED bulbs, we are supplying 1,000 only. We will certainly be able to produce more, if we receive any assistance from government,” Baitha, who has engaged eight people at his manufacturing unit. “There is no reason to move outside our native place in search of work when we are earning between ₹400 and ₹500 every day here only,” said Rohit Kumar, a labourer at the factory. Baitha has been procuring raw materials from Delhi and other parts of Uttar Pradesh. “We also repair the fused bulbs at the unit,” he added.West Champaran recorded a footfall 84,019 migrants, above 18 years, following an ease in the nationwide lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Later, with the efforts of district administration, about 90 returnee workers set up their manufacturing units and over 150 others expressed their willingness for making assortments in footwears and apparel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-worker-finds-mention-in-pm-modi-s-maan-ki-baat-101614528796206.html
28-02-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 spike: How major Maharashtra cities are faring||Maharashtra, one of the coronavirus (Covid-19) hotspots of India, reported 8,293 fresh infection cases on Sunday, 360 less cases than it reported on Saturday. The steady rise of Covid-19 cases in the state, being seen as a result of general laxity, mutation of virus strains and lifting of the lockdown, has been witnessed since February.This rise is being called the second wave of infections in the state and has brought about fresh restrictions as well as extended lockdowns in areas including Amravati, Akola, Akot and Murjitnagar.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAccording to the Centre, the six states of Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, and Gujarat contributed to 86.37 per cent of fresh Covid-19 cases in the country in the last 24 hours.Here is a look at how Maharashtra cities are doing:Pune- Pune has recorded 790 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday. On Saturday, the number of fresh cases was slightly lower at 743. The total number of infections in the city is 209,269.Navi Mumbai- Navi Mumbai recorded 153 fresh cases on Sunday, while it recorded 116 cases on the previous day. The total number of Covid cases stands at 59,817.Thane- Thane too saw a spike in its daily Covid tally on Sunday as 211 fresh cases were recorded on Sunday while 202 cases were reported on Saturday. As many as 62,869 people have been infected with the disease in the city.Amravati- As many as 632 people were infected with Covid in the city on Sunday. On Saturday, the number was much lower at 423. A total of 24,469 people have been infected with the virus here.Nagpur- The city saw 796 fresh infections on Sunday, 42 less than its Saturday tally of 838. As many as 132,481 people have been diagnosed with the virus in Nagpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-spike-how-major-maharashtra-cities-are-faring-101614528080644.html
28-02-2021||Patna||Arun Kumar Singh takes charge as Bihar chief secretary||Arun Kumar Singh, a 1985-batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, Sunday was appointed the new chief secretary of Bihar, replacing Deepak Kumar. Kumar, a 1984-batch officer, was due to retire on February 29, 2020 but, the central government had granted him extension twice for two terms of six months each on the state government’s recommendation. Kumar had assumed charge as chief secretary of Bihar from May 31, 2018 following the retirement of Anjani Kumar Singh, who is currently the advisor to the chief minister(CM) Nitish Kumar.The state government had to appoint Arun Kumar Singh after the Centre, which beached the convention by granting six month extension for successive terms, declined giving fresh extension to Deepak Kumar. Kumar will join as principal secretary to the CM on contract, the post of which was created under the cabinet secretary department (CSD) in 2002, from March 1. As per the notification issued by the CSD, terms and condition of his appointment would be notified later. Arun Kumar Singh, who is currently development commissioner, is due to retire on August 31, while his batch mate Tripurari Sharan, who is chairman-cum-member, board of revenue, will retire on June 30. According to a general administrative department (GAD) notification, additional chief secretary, home, Amir Subhani has been made the development commissioner in place of Arun Kumar Singh. Subhani will, however, continue to hold the additional charge of director, Bihar public administration and rural development institute. Chaitanya Prasad, who is posted with water resources department (WRD) as its principal secretary, has been shifted to the home department in the same capacity. Sanjeev Hans, who currently holds the charge of energy department, has been given the additional charge of WRD. Chaitanya Prasad will hold the additional charge of the registration, excise and prohibition department. Ravi Manu Bhai Parmar, principal secretary, art and culture department, has been asked to take over as the new administrative head of the minor irrigation department and will continue to hold the additional charge of his existing department. Santosh Kumar Mall, who is secretary of minor irrigation department, has been made the new secretary of information technology department. He will, however, continue to hold the additional charge of tourism department as well. PS Meena, currently posted in the finance department as one of the secretaries, has been moved to SC/ST welfare department as new secretary, replacing Divesh Sehra, who shuffled position with Meena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/arun-kumar-singh-takes-charge-as-bihar-chief-secretary-101614528376180.html
28-02-2021||Kolkata||Tejashwi Yadav likely to meet Bengal CM on Monday, seat-sharing talks on cards||Keen on allying with like-minded secular parties in West Bengal for the upcoming Assembly election, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader and Bihar's leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav is expected to meet with West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee on Monday.As per sources, Tejashwi Yadav, who is in Kolkata after visiting Guwahati, is likely to have a meeting with Banerjee on Monday morning wherein he is expected to initiate talks on a possible seat-sharing arrangement with the TMC.An RJD delegation, led by senior party leaders like Abdul Bari Siddiqui and Shyam Rajak, has already held a few rounds of talks with the TMC leaders including Abhishek Banerjee, the chief minister's nephew and senior party leader.“Tejashwi is expected to meet the West Bengal CM. Our party’s main goal is to defeat the BJP in West Bengal and Assam. This is why we are keen on siding with parties strongly footed in these two states which are opposed to the saffron camp,” said a senior RJD leader who is accompanying Tejashwi in Kolkata.Also read: 8,293 new cases in Maharashtra as Covid-19 spike continues amid lockdown, curbsThe opposition leader is also scheduled to meet senior TMC leader and urban development minister Firhad Hakim and hold talks about the upcoming Bengal polls, which will be held in eight phases starting March 27.Sources said the RJD is keen to contest around a dozen seats in West Bengal, primarily in assembly constituencies in Asansol, Howrah and central Kolkata where there is a sizeable population from Bihar.Incidentally, there were speculations of the RJD closing in with the CPM-Congress alliance but with Tejashwi Yadav skipping the Brigade ground Left–Congress rally today is an indication that Bihar’s main opposition party could be inching closer to the TMC for a seat-sharing deal.In Assam, the RJD has already announced its plans to contest the polls. Tejashwi, during his stay in Guwahati on Saturday, said his party had already held talks with the Congress and would hold talks with the AIUDF (All India United Democratic Front) led by Maulana Badruddin Ajmal. Tejashwi Yadav later met the AIUDF chief, who in a Twitter post, said it was a pleasure to host Tejashwi. In the post, the AIUDF chief said Tejashwi Yadav has emerged as a youth icon and a strong voice for liberal and democratic politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tejashwi-yadav-likely-to-meet-cm-banerjee-on-monday-seat-sharing-talks-on-cards-101614526777535.html
28-02-2021||Pune||NCL scholar’s murder: Needle of suspicion points police to friend who met Pandit on dating app||The investigation into the brutal murder of Sudarshan alias Balya Baburao Pandit, a 30-year-old PhD student at the National Chemical Laboratory (NCL), Pashan is pointing a needle of suspicion towards a friend of his with whom he met over a dating app. Pandit was found murdered on the Pashan hill on Saturday morning. The deceased Pandit was found lying in a trench located on the hill. The suspect had disrobed him and there was nothing on his body at the time the police team reached the spot. Pandit’s friend has been identified as Raviraj Kshirsagar (35). “He is currently recuperating in a hospital following a failed suicide bid. The police are looking for another accused in the case. Both of them had met over a dating app and through other mutual friends. In the last scene both are seen together,” said DCP ( Zone IV) Pankaj Deshmukh. The deceased student was brutally assaulted by the unidentified persons on his head and neck sometime in the night intervening Friday and Saturday. Pandit was currently staying at Sutarwadi in Pashan and was a native of Jafrabad in Jalna district. He was pursuing his PhD studies at the National Chemical Laboratory (NCL). Rathod was staying with two others in a rented accommodation in Sutarwadi and did not go to the room on Friday night when he was murdered. Pandit’s cousin Sandeep Pandit (34) had lodged an FIR with the Chatushringi police station against the unidentified assailants. Police said that the assailants assaulted Pandit with a heavy and blunt object like heavy stones. He sustained deep injuries on his head and neck. The assailants then disrobed him and threw his body in the trench to destroy the evidence in the case. The morning walkers on the hill saw his body in the trench and gave a call to the police. “Pandit wanted to complete his PhD and support his family members in a good way. He belonged to a middle-class family based in Jalna”, said an investigating officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ncl-scholar-s-murder-needle-of-suspicion-points-police-to-friend-who-met-pandit-on-dating-app-101614527235968.html
28-02-2021||Delhi||4th week of 'Switch Delhi' campaign to focus on raising awareness among RWAs||Raising awareness among resident welfare associations(RWAs) to promote adoption of electric vehicles (EVs) will be the key focus during the fourth week of 'Switch Delhi' campaign, Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot said on Sunday.The fourth week of the Delhi government's eight-week campaign, which aims at sensitizing every Delhiite about the benefits of switching to electric vehicles, will begin on Monday.Gahlot said the transport department will connect with all the RWAs in Delhi and undertake the awareness activity to make the 'Switch Delhi' campaign a mass movement. "The RWAs have played an important role in the development of Delhi. They can play a major role in making people aware about the environmental benefits of EVs and nudge them to make the switch from conventional fossil fuel driven vehicles," he said.The minister appealed to the RWAs to organise weekly meetings with the early adopters of EVs, saying pledging to install charging points in at least five per cent of parking spaces in their area is crucial for this movement to become a success.In the third week of the campaign, adoption of electric four-wheelers was promoted through mass awareness activities. In earlier weeks, people were sensitised about adoption of electric two-wheelers and three-wheelers.The minister also emphasised the need for associating local MLAs and councilors with the campaign and urged the RWAs to organize a door-to-door sensitization drive to make residents aware of the economic and environmental benefits of switching to EVs. PTI VIT TDS TDS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/4th-week-of-switch-delhi-campaign-to-focus-on-raising-awareness-among-rwas-101614517087114.html
28-02-2021||Other||Dry run at 4 govt-run hospitals in Pune prior to phase 2 of vaccination drive||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will conduct a “dry run” from Monday at four government-run hospitals in the city, prior to opening the Covid vaccination drive to the general population, under phase two of the drive.This comes after directives from the state government to all the district administrations and municipal corporations.Phase two of the vaccination drive is for seniors citizens and the vulnerable population and is to begin from March 1. However, a test run on Monday will determine the future course of action, said officials.As per the central government directives, under phase two of the nationwide vaccination drive, all citizens above 60 years of age, and those within the age bracket of 45 to 59 years, with specified co-morbidities, will be covered.The CoWin app which has been in use since January 2 for the vaccination of Health Care Workers (HCWs) and Frontline workers (FLWs) has now been updated to version 2.0, which is a population-scale software with the capacity of processing several thousands of entries.However, local authorities are yet to get the vaccinator modules, expected to come in by late Sunday night or Monday morning.In addition to the vulnerable population, under the phase two the fundamental shift is that citizens in the identified age groups, as also those healthcare workers and frontline who have been missed the present phase of vaccination, can select vaccination centres of their choice.Dr Ashish Bharti, PMC health chief said, “We have finalised four government hospitals in the city which include BJ Medical college (Sassoon), Kamala Nehru Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Hospital and Sutar hospital, where the dry run will be conducted on Monday. This means that once we get the vaccinator module for the targeted population we will check if its runs smoothly and then, take a further call of action. There are 12-13 MPJAY empanelled private hospitals and also more than 20 CGHS hospitals in the city, but they will not be part of phase two of the vaccination drive as of now.”Under phase two, the specified comorbidities for those aged between 45 and 59 include, diabetes, hypertension, kidney/liver/cardiac ailments and blood- related disorders like sickle cell disease, bone marrow failure or thalassemia.Beneficiaries will be able to self register in advance by downloading the CO-Win 2.0 portal, or through on-site registrations. All beneficiaries will be issued a digital QR code-based provisional (on receiving the first does), and final (on receiving second dose), certificate. Vaccination will be free of charge at the Government vaccination centres. The beneficiary will have to show a photo ID document for proof of age (preferably Aadhar card or electoral ID) and certificate of co-morbidity (if required).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dry-run-at-4-government-run-hospitals-prior-to-phase-2-of-vaccination-drive-101614524535849.html
28-02-2021||Lucknow||Pay bills on time, disclose actual load to get cheap electricity: UP minister||Uttar Pradesh power minister Srikant Sharma on Sunday exhorted consumers to pay electricity bills on time and disclose actual load usage to get cheap and uninterrupted power supply. The minister noted that the dream of state government to provide cheap power to consumers may be translated into reality on the basis of their cooperation."Timely payment of bills and disclosure of actual load by consumer are the twin vital components for cheap power supply," Sharma, UP Minister for power and additional source of energy told reporters on Sunday. He said, for the reason best known to them, rural consumers, so far have not been able to deposit the bill in time. Consumers would get cheap power tariff, provided the payment is on time, the minister stated. To ensure timely and actual reach of power bills to rural consumers, a prob-billing system, replacing manual billing system, is in progress, he said. Downloadable billing, through prob billing, enables rural consumers to get actual bills in time. The minister advised consumers to get their load enhanced in their own interest, for getting uninterrupted supply, if they are consuming more power. The state power department has started a 100-day programme for strengthening infrastructure paving the way for uninterrupted power supply as per schedule, during forthcoming summer, the minister added. Nodal officers have been appointed to ensure that the plan is implemented in letter and spirit ensuring 18-hour power supply in rural areas, 20 hours at Tehsil headquarters and 24 hours in city areas. Besides hundred per cent utilization of transmission stations, efforts are on to avoid overloading of 33/11 power substations, the minister disclosed. The process of upgrading the sub stations on the basis of sanctioned load has also started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pay-bills-on-time-disclose-actual-load-to-get-cheap-electricity-up-minister-101614518326054.html
28-02-2021||Other||PCMC to deploy retired Army personnel as mask inspectors||PUNE To strengthen their mask inspection squad, the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has decided to hire 50 retired army personnel, to be on duty from March 1.The army personnel will check that residents are using masks along with police officers and PCMC staff.The administration has identified 85 spots in the twin cities where there is a huge rush of people every day. In these places, the retired army personnel will be deployed.PCMC will also include women from the Durga Brigade in the mask inspection drive.“It is the action mode plan of the PCMC administration and for those who are not following rules, strict action will be taken. People who argue after being caught red- handed will face severe action,” said Ajit Pawar, additional commissioner, PCMC.Between February 19-25, 1,251 people have been fined for not wearing masks and fines of ₹6,25,500 were collected. Overall, till February 28, 32, 220 citizens have been fined and the PCMC administration has collected 1,64,60,000 in fines.On Sunday 423 fresh Covid positive cases were recorded in PCMC, which takes the total to 1,05,704. Currently there are 20 containment zones in PCMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pcmc-to-deploy-retired-army-personnel-as-mask-inspectors-101614523575755.html
28-02-2021||Other||SSC preliminary exam schedule goes for a toss with school closures||As per orders issued by the district administration on Sunday, schools and colleges in Pune district will be closed till March 14. This closure has disturbed the schedule of the preliminary SSC, Class 10, board examinations. The schools and colleges in the district have been closed since February 22. The restrictions are necessary in order to prevent the spread of coronavirus, the district administration stated.“There are 800 schools from the city and rural parts affiliated to the Pune District Mukhyadhyapak Sangh. These schools use question papers issued by Mukhyadhyapak Sangh. We had planned to conduct preliminary examinations for Class 10 from March 1. Now that the schools will be closed, we will have to reschedule,” said Harishchandra Gaikwad, president, Pune district Mukhyadhyapak Sangh (Headmaster’s association). “It is not feasible to conduct these exams online. Writing practice for the students is important,” added Gaikwad.The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary & Higher Secondary Education has declared the detailed time- table of the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) and Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examinations. The SSC exams are to be held between April 29 and May 20 and schools had planned the preliminary examinations accordingly. The preliminary examinations are considered as the final practice for the board examinations. This year, when most of the teaching has been conducted online, preliminary examinations has become important for students in terms of writing practice. “Throughout the year we have had online exams and most of them were multiple choice questions (MCQs). Prelims are necessary in order to get the experience before the board examination. Our prelims were scheduled to begin from March 8, but now schools will be closed I am not sure what the plan will be. When writing exams at home there are disturbances and manipulations. It’s a very different scenario from the board exam,” said Arya Dhanawade, an SSC student of the Rosary School in Warje. As the schools will remain closed till March 14, now schools are contemplating ways to conduct this examination. “Our syllabus is almost complete. Revision of some subjects is going on. We had planned a preliminary examination about March 15. If schools do not open by then, then it will be a problem. We have been conducting online classes, but the problem is, not all the students join in”, said Prachi Gumaste headmistress, Nutan Marathi Vidyalay. “We will begin the prelims from March 1, as per schedule, but we will conduct it online,” said Fr Rajesh Bansode, St Joseph’s School in Ghorpadi. “Luckily we completed the written preliminary examination for Class 10 on campus before schools closed from February 22. During the process of this test students realised which points and skills they need to work on. We have resumed online classes for Class 10 students. We don’t want them to be on their own during these uncertain times. We want students to get back into the academic routine again,” said Pallavi Naik, principal, Kalmadi high school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ssc-preliminary-exam-schedule-goes-for-a-toss-with-school-closures-101614522675675.html
28-02-2021||Dehradun||Akhadas, seers oppose Uttarakhand govt’s fresh Mahakumbh SoP on Covid-19||The latest standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by the Uttarakhand government’s disaster management department have not gone down well with Akhadas, seers, local priests and the trader fraternity.The Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad has termed the restrictions as 'stern measures'. The SOPs include mandatory registration at government portals, negative Covid-19 report (not more than 72 hours old), e-pass allocation for pilgrims, among others. Stern legal action against violators will be initiated under the Disaster Management Act and Covid-19 regulations, as per the SOPs.Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri questioned the necessity of bringing in such measures for the Haridwar Mahakumbh when no such SoPs and restrictions were in place during the Magh Mela in Prayagraj and at Vrindavan fair.Also read: 6 states contributed to 86.37% of new Covid-19 cases, says govt"How under the umbrella of such stern restrictions, protocols and procedures a grand Kumbh can be organised? In name of fear of corona or safety measures, undue restrictions should not be put in place. Though the government has assured of conducting grand Kumbh fair, we urge it to ease restrictions as Covid-19 transmission has slowed down in the recent months and vaccination is also being done," said Narendra Giri.Shri Mahant Rajendra Das, president of Akhil Bharatiya Shri Panch Nirmohi Akhada, expressed displeasure over the delay in making arrangements for seers from other states, particularly Khalsa seers who are now heading for Haridwar Kumbh after completion of the Vrindavan fair.Akhada Parishad has also objected to the proposed one-month-long Mahakunbh 2021 instead of the earlier announced 60 days of Kumbh."Normally, every Kumbh is at least 4 months long in Haridwar but this time, the state government has shortened the duration to just a month. The government has shown no regard to saints, local priests and the trader community. It seems the government is not interested in organising Kumbh fair in reality while on paper it claims to organise a grand Kumbh," said former CM Harish Rawat after attending a religious event at Pathri village.Hindu Jagran Manch activists also met Shankaracharya Jagadguru Raj Rajeshwarashram at his Kankhal-based ashram and expressed their displeasure over the restrictions on Kumbh-bound pilgrims and saints."We are generating awareness among saints as well as the masses regarding the need to adhere to Covid-preventive measures. Negative Covid report conducted within 72 hours of the arrival of pilgrims and seers is mandatory as per the SoP," said Haridwar chief medical officer Dr SK Jha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/akhadas-seers-oppose-uttarakhand-govt-s-fresh-mahakumbh-sop-on-covid19-101614519910296.html
28-02-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka: Senior citizens, those with comorbidities to be vaccinated from March 1||Senior citizens and those with comorbidities against Covid-19 in Karnataka will be vaccinated at all taluk and district level hospitals and two identified private hospitals in each district from March 1, the state government said on Sunday. People aged 60 years and above and those between 45-59 years suffering from specific comorbidities, supported by a certificate by a registered medical practitioner, will be vaccinated. "In the initial phase, all taluk level hospitals, district level hospital and two identified private hospitals from each district and major hospitals of Bengaluru and 18 private health facilities from BBMP will implement Covid-19 vaccination from March 1,"a state health department note said. In the initial days, vaccination will be only for online registered beneficiaries in urban and private facilities and both on-site and online in rural areas. Moving forward, the vaccination for other modes of registration will be scaled up the number of facilities increased. The vaccination would be held four days a week -- Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday in government facilities and all working days in private hospitals. The exercise, to be held between 12 pm to 5 pm, would later be modified, it said. The number would be limited to 200 per day per session site and would be on a first come first serve basis. However, online registered beneficiaries would be allotted a specific time in a day. The vaccination will be free of charge at the government Vaccination centres, while those taking the shot at any designated/empaneled private health facility have to pay ₹250 each for a dose, which includes ₹100 service charge and ₹150 which would be deposited to Government of India specified account, it added. The nationwide Covid-19 Vaccination drive was launched on January 16 and has been limited to health care workers and front line Covid warriors. The beneficiaries will be able to self-register in advance by downloading the COWin 2.0 portal and through other IT Applications such as Arogya Setu. Facility of on site registration allows those who cannot self-register in advance to walk into the identified Covid vaccination centres and get themselves registered on-site and then vaccinated. Healthcare workers and frontline staff who have missed the shots or been left out of the current vaccination drive can also select vaccination centres of their choice, the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-senior-citizens-those-with-comorbidities-to-be-jabbed-from-march-1-101614518907109.html
28-02-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: List of private, govt hospitals vaccinating people above 60, or above 45 with comorbidities||Starting March 1, all people above the age of 60, or those above 45 with existing illnesses that make them more susceptible to Covid-19, will be allowed to sign up to receive coronavirus vaccines at government and private facilities.The Centre has capped the cost of Covid-19 vaccine at a private centre to ₹250 a dose, while government centres will continue to administer shots for free.Eligible residents can register themselves on the Co-Win app, the Aarogya Setu app, or log on to cowin.gov.in. Residents can also walk in to vaccination centres and get themselves registered on spot.Below is the list of government and private hospitals in Delhi that will vaccinate people above 60 and those above 45 with existing comorbidities:GOVERNMENT HOSPITALS:Central district:Aruna Asaf Ali Govt. HospitalBalak Ram HospitalBurari HospitalDr. N. C. Joshi HospitalGB Pant HospitalGirdhari Lal HospitalGuru Nanak Eye HospitalHindu Rao HospitalKasturba HospitalLok Nayak HospitalMaulana Azad Dental InstituteMaulana Azad Medical CollegeEast district:Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital New Delhi district:Delhi Cantonment General HospitalKalawati Saran Children HospitalNDMC Charak Palika Hospital DHNorthern Railways HospitalRam Manohar Lohia Hospital DHMaternity, Gynae Hospital, New Delhi North district:Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial HospitalMaharishi Valmiki HospitalSatyawadi Raja Harishchandra HospitalNortheast district:JPC HospitalNorthwest district:Bhagwan Mahavir Hospital PitampuraDeep Chand Bandhu Hospital Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital Rohini ESI Hospital RohiniShahdara district:Delhi State Cancer Institute Doctor Hegdewar Arogya Sansthan Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital IG ESI Hospital IHBASRajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital Tahirpur Swami Dayanand Hospital South district:All India Institute of Medical SciencesAmbedkar Nagar HospitalInstitute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS)PT. Madan Mohan Malaviya HospitalSafdarjung HospitalSoutheast district:ESI Hospital Okhla Phase 1 DHLNC Hospital, Lajpat NagarPSMS Hospital, KalkajiSouthwest district: CRPF Composite Hospital, Jharoda KalanDada Dev HospitalMansaram Park DispensaryRHTC NajafgarhRTRM HospitalWest district:Acharya Shree Bhikshuk Govt HospitalDeen Dayal UpadhyayHospitalESI Hospital Basaidara PurGuru Gobind Singh Govt HospitalJanakpuri Super Speciality HospitalSardar Vallabh Bhai Patel HospitalTilak Nagar Colony HospitalPRIVATE HOSPITALS:Central district:BLK Memorial HospitalDelhi Heart and lung hospitalDivine Multispecialty Hosp. & Cancer Cent., WazirabadJeevan Mala HospitalJeewan Nursing Home, Pusa RoadKapil Multispecialty Hospital, NathupuraMedlife Hospital, BurariNKS Hospital, Gulabi BaghSanjeevan Hospital, DaryaganjSant Parmanand HospitalSGR Kolmet Hospital, Pusa RoadSir Ganga Ram City Hospital, Pusa RoadSir Ganga Ram HospitalSt. Stephens HospitalTeerath Ram Shah HospitalEast district:Apex City Hospital, West Vinod NagarBimla HospitalDharamshila Narayana Superspeciality HospitalJeevan Anmol HospitalMakkar Multi-speciality HospitalMalik Radix Health care CenterMax PatparganjMetro Hospital and Cancer InstitutePatel Hospital, ShakarpurRam Lal Kundan Lal Hospital, Pandav NagarSMS HospitalVirmani HospitalNew Delhi district:Flt. Lt. RajanDhall Hospital FORTISIndian Spinal Injuries CentrePrimus Super Specialty HospitalNorth district:Balaji Hospital, NarelaBansal Global Hospital, JahangirpuriGupta Multispecialty Hospital, BawanaMaha Durga Charitable TrustMaharaja Agarsain Multispecialty Hospital, NarelaMangalam Hospital, BawanaNulife Hospital, GTB NagarPentamed Hospital, Derawal NagarSant Soham Hospital, BawanaNortheast district:Moral HospitalPanchsheel HospitalNorthwest district:Bhagwan Mahavir Hospital, Madhuban ChowkBhagwati Hospital, RohiniBrahm Shakti HospitalCygnus MLS Super Specialty HospitalDharamvir Solanki Hospital, RohiniFortis Hospital Shalimar BaghJaipur Golden HospitalLalita Hospital, BegumpurMax Super Speciality Hospital Shalimar BaghMuni Mayaram Jain Hospital, PitampuraRajiv Gandhi Cancer Institute & Research CentreSantom HospitalSaroj Medical Institute, Jail Road, RohiniSaroj Super Specialty HospitalSavitri Hospital, KanjhawalaShree Aggarsain International HospitalSunrise Hospital, Rohini Tomar Multispecialty Hospital, KirariShahdara district:Dr. Gupta Nursing Home, Naveen ShahdaraEast Delhi Medical Centre Mansarover ParkGoyal Hospital and Urology CenterGupta Multispecialty Hospital, Vivek ViharKaruna Hospital, Dilshad GardenKosmos Super Specialty Hospital, Vikas MargPushpanjali Medical Centre, Vikas Marg Ext.Red Cross Hospital, Dilshad GardenShanti Mukand HospitalShri Ram Singh Hospital, Krishna NagarSurya Hospital, Krishna NagarSouth district:Aashlok HospitalFortis C Doc HospitalMadhukar RainbowMax Super Specialty Hospital, SaketMedeor HospitalPhoenix HospitalPushpawati Singhania Research Institute (PSRI)Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Hospital, Gautam NagarSitaram Bhartia HospitalSoutheast district:Alshifa Multispeciality hospitalBanarsidas Chandiwala Hospital, Kalkaji Bansal Hospital & Research Centre, NFCBatra Hospital And Medical Research CentreFortis Escorts Heart InstituteHakeem Abdul Hameed Centenary HospitalHoly Family HospitalIBS Hospital, Lajpat NagarIndraprastha Apollo HospitalsIrene Hospital, KalkajiJeevan Hospital and Nursing Home Jeewan Nursing Home, Gate No. 2Metro Hospital, Lajpat NagarMool Chand Kharaiti Ram HospitalNational Heart InstituteRoyal Kalindi Hospital, Sarita ViharSunrise Hospital, Kalindi ColonyUniversal Centre of Health Services, BadarpurVIMHANS HospitalSouthwest district:Aakash HealthcareAnsari Hospital, SagarpurAyushman Hospital Health ServicesB.H. Salvas Hospital, Haibatpura, NajafgarhBensups Hospital, DwarkaBhagat Chandra HospitalDivyaPrastha HospitalHuman Care Medical Charitable Trust (Manipal)Maharaja Agrasen Hospital, DwarkaRosewood Hospital, NajafgarhSamar Hospital, Dwarka Shakuntala Hopsital, West SagarpurTaarak HospitalVenkateswar HospitalVikas HospitalWest district:Action Cancer HospitalAltius Sonia HospitalArdent Ganpati Hospital, MundkaB.M. Gupta Hospital, Uttam NagarBhatia Global Hospital, Paschim ViharCD Global Hospital, Najafgarh RoadJeewan Moti Khera Hospital, NangloiKalra Hospital Kalra Hospital, Uttam NagarKonarc Hospital, NangloiKukreja Hospital and Heart Centre, Rajouri GardenMaharaja Agrasen Hospital, Punjabi BaghMansaram Hospital, NangloiMata Chanan Devi HospitalMata Roop Rani Maggo Hospital, Uttam NagarMGS Hospital, Punjabi BaghPGH Hospital, Vikas NagarRathi Hospital, NajafgarhRevive Hospital, Vishwas ParkRLKC Metro Hospital, NarainaSatyabhama HospitalSehgal Neo HospitalShree BalaJi Action Medical Institute||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-list-of-private-govt-hospitals-vaccinating-people-above-60-or-above-45-with-comorbidities-101614520275556.html
28-02-2021||Other||Pune’s institutes ensure Science Day stays alive wwith online sessions||PUNE Astronomy aims at finding the origin of the Universe,” said Neeraj Gupta, who spoke on “Science with Square Kilometre Array”, during the Science day celebrations held online by the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA).“The Square kilometre Array is the world’s largest radio telescope. It requires all the intelligence and resources from all countries across the globe. It will be built in two places in Australia and South Africa. All the radio astronomers are a part of this,” said Gupta.He further added that radio astronomy is the emission that comes from celestial objects like the sun, stars, and clouds, among other objects. “Radio astronomy studies celestial objects at radio wavelength. The radiations that we study come to us due to different events. It is like we map one object through different ways to understand its origin, age and composition. Scientists have won the Nobel Prize by contributing on various interesting aspects of the subject,” added Gupta.In another session on the platform of Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research (IISER), Pune, Dr SG Srivatsan, associate dean of research and development at IISER Pune, spoke about “Making smart probes for the detection of Covid-19”.“If we develop diagnostics kits in India, the cost of testing kits will be much, much lower and its reach will also be more as compared to others. The Centre for cellular and molecular biology, Bengaluru, has recently launched a project of Indigenous diagnostics called Index. This project is funded by the Rockefeller Foundation, USA. IISER is also part of the project,” said SrivatsanHe added that IISER is dealing with the chemistry aspect of the project.“Index aims at the supply chain of Indian companies to make reagents and enzymes for diagnostic kits for Covid-19. We help companies maintain a high standard of diagnostic kit development so that problems can be avoided. Problems like false negatives and false positives can be completely avoided,” said Srivatsan.Along with this, the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), National Centre for Cell Sciences (NCCS), and National Chemical Laboratory (CSIR-NCL) also conducted their Science Day programs online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punes-institutes-ensure-science-day-stays-alive-wwith-online-sessions-101614517575113.html
28-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports less than 200 new Covid-19 cases, 1 death; recovery rate little over 98%||Delhi reported 197 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), lower than the 200 or above infections in the last four days, and one related death, taking the city’s tally to 639,289 and death toll to 10,910, according to a bulletin from the state health department on Sunday. The Capital’s active caseload stands at 1,335 after witnessing a slight jump from 1,307 reported on Saturday. according to the latest data. The data also shows that 168 patients recovered from the coronavirus disease in the city on Sunday, taking the number of recoveries so far to 627,044 and recovery rate to 98.1 per cent.There were more than 200 daily cases in Delhi for the past four days. The city had reported 200 new cases on Wednesday, 220 cases on Thursday, 256 cases on Friday and 243 cases on Saturday. Daily new fatalities have remained below five for the week with no deaths reported on Thursday.Also read | Average 200 daily new Covid-19 cases in Delhi amid spike in Maharashtra, KeralaGovernment data shows that from February 1 to February 23, the count of daily cases had been recorded below 200. The daily figures ranged from 148 on January 25 to 299 on January 16, according to official data. Delhi had recorded 199 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease on January 28.The government had tested 57,772 samples on Sunday comprising 39,070 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and 18,702 Rapid Antigen Tests, according to the bulletin. The tests per million count stand at 6,51,615 tests and 1,23,80,699 samples have been tested so far. The cumulative positivity rate, considering the total tests done and total positive cases, stands at 5.16 per cent and the case fatality rate is at 1.71 per cent. The data also showed that 691 patients are currently under home isolation.India reported 16,752 new Covid-19 cases and 113 deaths on Sunday. With 8,623 cases and 51 deaths, Maharashtra reported the maximum number of cases and deaths followed by Kerala with 3,792 cases and 18 deaths. From March 1, India’s vaccination drive is set to enter its second phase which will also include citizens in the age group of 60 and those above 45 years of age with specific co-morbid conditions. Also, private hospitals would be roped in to further increase vaccine coverage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-less-than-200-new-covid-19-cases-1-death-101614515568497.html
28-02-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan to begin phase 2 of Covid-19 vaccination on Monday||The Covid-19 vaccine for the general public will be rolled out from Monday. Those eligible can get vaccinated at private hospitals at ₹250 per dose. The vaccination will be free in government hospitals.The state health department has made all preparations to achieve the target of inoculation of 16.3 million people for this phase-II of the vaccination. The next phase of vaccination will cover a large population of those above 60 years and those ageing 45 years and above with specific co-morbidities.The Central government has approved doses for 68 lakh people above the age of 60 years. However, as per the electoral rolls, the number of people falling in the criteria is 86 lakh. The vaccination programme will be run in nearly 250 private hospitals of the state.An official said that arrangements of prior and on spot registration of beneficiaries will be done by the government while Anganwadi workers and health workers will also mobilise elderly people for the vaccination.Also read: 6 states contributed to 86.37% of new Covid-19 cases, says govtRajasthan achieved more than 85 per cent of the target in the first two phases of vaccination that covered health and front-line workers.More than 4,000 sites have been prepared across the state, including 400 in Jaipur, to achieve the vaccination target, said a senior health department official familiar with the developments.In Jaipur, the health department targets to vaccinate 1.5 million people, which means 75,000 daily.“In Jaipur, around 75,000 people will be vaccinated every day and around 400 centres will be created to achieve that. Apart from the health department, the help of the ayurvedic department will be taken. Enough personnel will be deployed for the safety of the vaccines,” said Dr Narottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (CMHO), Jaipur.Mission director, National Health Mission (NHM) in Rajasthan, Naresh Thakral, said that Covid-19 vaccination 2.0 will be starting from Monday. Under the new guidelines of the Union health ministry, all those ageing 60 years and above, and those between the age group 45-60 years with serious illnesses and co-morbidities will be vaccinated. The basis for calculating the age of the beneficiary has been set on January 1, 2022.Thakral said that vaccines would be given to those people suffering from complex diseases between the ages of 45 and 59, listed among the 20 diseases by the Union health ministry. Such patients must produce a medical certificate issued at the level of Registered Medical Practitioners (RMP). Without these mandatory medical documents, the person will not get the facility of vaccination at this stage.In Rajasthan, close to eight lakh frontline and health workers have been vaccinated so far against the target of over 14 lakh. Over 2.24 lakh people have been given the second dose of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-to-begin-phase-2-of-covid-19-vaccination-on-monday-101614515308994.html
28-02-2021||Delhi||One year on, LNJP corona warriors recall raging pandemic, challenges||At state-run LNJP Hospital, the nerve centre of Delhi's battle against the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, many doctors at times had to wear PPE kits for nearly 18 hours to attend to struggling patients in the sweltering heat when its first wave had hit the city and the mortuary was piled up with bodies.It's been one year since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in the national capital, and daily cases and death counts have both come down significantly, and scenes of distress in the hospital's corridors and outside morgue have been replaced by talks about the ongoing vaccination.It was on March 1 that the first case of Covid-19 was recorded in the city, a few months after the "unpredictable virus" had wreaked havoc in Wuhan in China, where it was first reported globally.Rohit Datta, a businessman from east Delhi, who had returned from Italy last year, tested positive for the new virus that had left the world puzzled and in a grip of extreme fear.The world had not seen anything like this before since the Spanish Flu of 1918, and certainly not in India. As the cases began to spiral in large parts of the country, including Delhi, a nationwide lockdown was imposed late March by the government to contain the spread of the virus.While most people were practically left confined to their houses for several months and work for home became the new normal, healthcare workers faced the heavy brunt of the pandemic, as doctors, nurses, served patients day in and day out, without any weekly breaks, isolated from their family members for days, weeks or even months.Amit Anand, a 35-year-doctor at the 2,000-bed LNJP Hospital who has been on duty since the outbreak of the pandemic here, said, "It's one year of Covid in Delhi, and I also met my family back home, after a gap of one year."The Begusarai native, whose wife also holds an MBBS degree, told PTI, "I met my wife and son, now two-and-a-half years old, in Bokaro this February, and he almost didn't recognise me. The pandemic literally separated us from our families. But we have to do our job, which we have chosen, so that motivated us throughout this very tough period."LNJP Hospital, now a partial Covid-19 facility, was the first hospital to be converted into a dedicated coronavirus facility in Delhi, and soon Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH), GTB Hospital and other government hospitals were also roped in, besides reserving beds in private hospitals to treat increasing number of patients.On June 23, the national capital had reported its first wave of the infection with 3,947 cases, the highest single-day spike till then.Delhi went into a war mode, with government efforts to combat the pandemic being led by 'corona warriors' in hospitals in white lab coats and police in streets wearing khaki.Ritu Saxena, Emergency Department chief, at the hospital, which has treated a record over 11,000 COVID-19 patients till date, recalled that in June when the first wave had hit Delhi, a large number of people were dying daily and bodies would pile up beyond capacity in the mortuary."Some doctors at times had to wear PPE (personal protective equipment) kits for 18 hours in a day in harsh summer when temperature had gone above 40 degrees Celsius to attend to patients," she said.Delhi then battled the second and third waves of the pandemic in September (over 4,000 daily cases multiple times) and November respectively, the latter being the worst this year, but the city known for its resilience, soldiered on and eventually manage to surmount it.The highest single-day spike of 8,593 cases in Delhi till date was reported on November 11, while on November 19 the city recorded 131 Covid-19 deaths, the highest single-day fatality count till date.Suresh Kumar, Medical Director of the LNJP Hospital and a Covid-19 survivor, says the past one year of battling the pandemic had taught "valuable lessons" to meet the challenges ahead."In this period, we also equipped ourselves with more medical infrastructure. So, we had 155 oxygen supply pipe lines in the beginning for beds, besides oxygen cylinders. We expanded it gradually to 1,000, to meet the 2,000-bed requirements. Also, we now know at least something about this virus and its behaviour," he told PTI.As one year gets over since the outbreak of the pandemic, while deaths have reduced significantly, daily cases have shown an upsurge in the last few days.Delhi recorded 243 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, while three fresh fatalities pushed the death toll to 10,909, according to data shared by the city health department.This was the fourth successive day when daily cases count have stood at the 200-mark or beyond.Delhi had recorded 94 fresh Covid-19 cases on February 16, the lowest in over nine months.Doctors on Friday warned that the numbers could go up in the coming months.While the vaccination drive which started on January 16 is currently underway, Kumar urged people to continue to wear masks and adhere to safety norms as the vaccine can only to cut the transmission of the virus.Asked what was the most memorable moment of this one year gone by, he said, "Entire period will stay with us in our memories, but feted by the government with floral showers from helicopters really touched our heart."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/one-year-on-lnjp-corona-warriors-recall-raging-pandemic-challenges-101614504356506.html
28-02-2021||Delhi||Noida metro trains 'skipping' some stations during peak hours; citizens protest||Hundreds of city dwellers are suffering due to the Aqua Line metro “skipping” 10 stations during peak hours, office bearers of residents' groups claimed on Saturday, as they held a protest against the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) here.Among the stations skipped by the metro train during the peak hours (8 am to 11 am and 5 pm to 8 pm on weekdays) are Sector 101 and Sector 50, which is dedicated to the transgender community, they said.The NMRC, which manages the Aqua Line, had started “Fast Trains” from February 8 which skip certain “low-ridership” stations during peak hours with an objective to reduce the travel time between terminus stations in Noida and Greater Noida by nine minutes.Around three dozen people, including office-bearers of residents' bodies like the Noida Extension Flat Owners Welfare Association (NEFOWA), the Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Association (NOFAA) and social activists, on Saturday staged a protest at the Sector 101 metro station, demanding a rollback of the NMRC move.The stations “skipped” during peak hours are: Sector - 50, Sector - 101, Sector - 81, Sector - 83, Sector - 143, Sector - 144, Sector - 145, Sector - 146, Sector - 147 and Sector - 148.“We need to strike a balance between convenience and speed. A nine minutes faster journey does not give any significant advantage to commuters but it definitely causes inconvenience to several commuters (whose stations are being skipped),” NOFAA president Rajiva Singh said.Citing the issues, he said many high-rise apartment residents have purchased flats keeping in mind the closeness of the metro station. There are many women commuters during peak hours, and students as well as senior citizens have to bear the brunt of this decision, he added.NEFOWA general secretary Shweta Bharti said the residents have been raising the issue for past two-three days but there has been no response from officials concerned.“Now metro does not stop at key stations like Sector 101 and Sector 50 during peak hours. There are dozens of residential societies in the vicinity of these stations where commuters are facing trouble because they have to go to other stations now,” Bharti said.She added that the problem would amplify in the coming days as schools and offices are reopening after a break due to the COVID-19 pandemic.The protestors also alleged that they were not allowed to travel from Sector 101 metro station to Sector 50 metro station by the metro where they wanted to hand over a memorandum to NMRC officials and take up the issue with them.“Our demonstration was peaceful. We would have purchased metro ticket and travelled like ordinary commuters but still we were not allowed,” Bharti claimed.There was no response immediately by the NMRC over the protest on Saturday.The Aqua Line connects Noida and Greater Noida through 21 stations, covering a distance of 29.7 km, according to officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/noida-metro-trains-skipping-some-stations-during-peak-hours-citizens-protest-101614514917950.html
28-02-2021||Mumbai||Beware of online pitfalls, Mumbai cops' advisory tells people||The cyber wing of Mumbai police on Sunday issued a social media advisory asking people not to share personal information with strangers online and to ensure the internet activities of their children is monitored.Accounts being operated by minors must be checked by their parents or guardians to ensure nothing is amiss in their conduct that could make them prey to online predators, an official said.It has come to the notice during various police probes that such predators manage to obtain objectionable photographs from minors after befriending them online and then proceed to extort money through blackmail, he added."Do not accept friend requests from strangers, do not share personal photographs online, and try to keep social media accounts as private as possible," the official said by way of advice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/beware-of-online-pitfalls-mumbai-cops-advisory-tells-people-101614509314661.html
28-02-2021||Other||Labs in city will now provide QR codes with RT-PCR test reports to counter fake results||PUNE Laboratories in the city will now provide QR codes with RT-PCR test reports to counter fake negative reports.Certain labs found that clients edited the Covid-19 RT-PCR reports to show a negative result, so as to meet commercial requirements.The move also comes after a requirement by the Dubai health authorities which, that passengers travelling to the UAE must have a QR code link to their original test report. Krsnaa Diagnostics currently already has this system in place. Shravan Mutha, Covid-19 manager at the laboratory chain, said, “We have already implemented the QR code system in our RTPCR reports for the past two months. The QR code take you to our portal where the patient can get the details. We have implemented it because of fake reports in market.”Abrarali Dalal, chief operating officer, Sahyadri Hospitals, said that the hospital had two cases wherein a forged report in hospital’s name was used. “In one case, the HR department of a company called us asking for a hard copy and when we checked our records, we could not find such a report. In Pune too, we found a similar case, following which we filed a complaint with the Kothrud police station. To counter such fake reports we are in the process of starting QR code based RT-PCR reports. Also we have had multiple requests from passengers wanting to go to Dubai, where such a report is required. The QR-code based report cannot be forged and also the customers will not be charged above the government-capped price for this,” Dalal said. “We do provide QR codes on the RT-PCR test results. Due to the increasing demand to provide the same, we recently made the decision to provide QR-codes for the test results across India and have been doing so since the past three days” said Dr Manish D Karekar, chief of Lab Services, Metropolis Healthcare.The government has restricted the price for RT-PCR rests at private labs at ₹850, and at ₹980 for home collection.As per the advisory issued by the Dubai health authorities on January 28, 2021, passengers travelling from India to Dubai have to carry a negative RTPCR report which is linked to a QR code. Pune has one flight to Dubai. A passenger who is to board a flight from Lohegaon airport to Dubai on Monday, on condition of anonymity, said, “I have a flight to catch Monday. I was asked to get a QR-linked RTPCR report and I enquired at many places, but didn’t get any private or government labs that give such reports. Finally, I found one private lab which has such a facility. Hopefully, I’ll get the report before the flight.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/labs-in-city-will-now-provide-qr-codes-with-rt-pcr-test-reports-to-counter-fake-results-101614514935012.html
28-02-2021||Mumbai||MVA govt made strategy for no debate on performance, says Fadnavis||Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Sundayaccused the MVA government of preparing a strategy to ensure there is no debate on its performance during the budget session of the state Legislature which begins on Monday.Addressing a press conference on the eve of the 10- day budget session, Fadnavis said the BJP boycotted the meeting of the Legislature's Business Advisory Committee on February 25 since it had decided that there will be no debates and calling attention notices during the House proceedings.The state budget session is normally held for six weeks, but in view of the current Covid-19 pandemic situation, it has been curtailed.Fadnavis claimed the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA-comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) government is "directionless" and has failed on all fronts."Its single-point agenda is corruption in transfers of IAS and IPS officers," he alleged.He said the BJP will publish a booklet on "corrupt practices" in Mumbai while dealing with the C-19 pandemic.He said the state government has cancelled the customary tea party on the session's eve due to the pandemic."The political meetings of the Congress and NCP are allowed during the current situation. The Shiv Sena's show of strength is okay.Only what is not allowed is the tea party and the Shiv Jayanti celebration (wherein curbs were imposed earlier this month)," he said.Fadnavis also targeted Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Rathod, who resigned as state cabinet minister on Sunday after facing flak from the opposition BJP over his name being linked to a woman's death."Despite evidence in the form of video and audio clips, there is no FIR against Rathod. I will not blame Rathod, but the higher ups for shielding him," he said, without naming anyone.The police official conducting the probe into the case should be immediately suspended, the BJP leader said.Fadnavis said NCP minister Dhananjay Munde also faced accusations from a woman. Even though the woman has withdrawn the allegations, the issue has not ended, he claimed."We are of the opinion that the proposed Shakti Act for crime against women is a farce. There is no action against ministers involved in cases of crime against women. Is the law different for ministers?" he asked.The condition of cotton and soybean farmers in the state is "extremely bad". There is no procurement of farm produceand even the loan waiver scheme is not operational as of now, he claimed.Targeting the government over complaints of high electricity bills received by consumers in the state, Fadnavis said 3.5 lakh power connections have been cut and notices for default in payment has been sent to 75 lakh consumers.The Shiv Sena, which heads the ruling alliance, talks of pride and self-respect over the issue of boundary dispute with Karnataka, but why is it not showing the same pride and self-respect over the BJP's demand for renaming Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar, Fadnavis said.Fadnavis further said he will ensure all central help to the state government in the legal battle in the Supreme Court over the Maratha quota issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mva-govt-made-strategy-for-no-debate-on-performance-says-fadnavis-101614514173486.html
28-02-2021||Other||PMC building garbage shed within flood-line of Mula-Mutha in Koregaon park, alleges ex-zonal commissioner||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) stands accused of ignoring a former zonal commissioner’s complaints, raised over the issue of constructing a solid waste segregation shed inside the floodline of the Mula-Mutha river, near the burning ghat road in Koregaon Park.The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had already taken action against the PMC over the construction within floodlines and the riverbed, in 2014. NGT and the Supreme Court passed an order to stop work, and directed the PMC to remove debris from the floodline area, as it was creating obstacles to the natural flow of the river.However, PMC, in Koregaon Park, is constructing a new segregation centre. Interestingly, a PMC employees housing society is a stone’s throw away from the shed is being built.Former zonal commissioner Umesh Mali had warned solid waste department officials about the work going on within the floodline.Mali said, “The corporation has already set up an Avani waste compost plant and one garden shredding shed within the floodline in the burning ghat area. I took objection at the time, however, it was not considered. Now, there is another segregation shed coming up near the Avani plant. I spoke to Ajit Deshmukh, solid waste department head, one month ago. He gave me a positive response about looking into the matter. After that, he has gone on medical leave and the work is still going on.”Mali added, “Last year, the entire stretch where the work is going on was flooded. I have shared photographs with the concerned officials, but, nothing has happened till date.”Rajkumar Rajput, an official of the solid waste department, said, “I have to visit and check. However, the solid waste department hasn’t given any permission to set up a shed. For the Avani compost plan, I don’t know whether it has come in the floodline area because it was constructed earlier.”Vilas Kanade, joint municipal commissioner, with additional charge of the solid waste management department, said, “I have to check it. However, there is a chance that Swachh is constructing a shed in that area. If it is true, we will remove it.”Civic activist Vijay Kumbhar said, “In 2003, the high court had given instructions to the PMC to stop construction in floodline areas in one of the cases. However, it has not stopped. Now, the time has come to file a criminal case against the PMC over this issue.”The PMC is facing stiff opposition from residents over the setting up of garbage plants in residential areas in different parts of the city. Sus and Wadgaon Budruk garbage processing plants are recent examples of opposition from residents. Kumbar said, “It is not good to set up plants in flood-line areas. PMC cannot push citizens into danger to avoid agitation and opposition to solid waste plants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-building-garbage-shed-within-flood-line-of-mula-mutha-in-koregaon-park-alleges-ex-zonal-commissioner-101614513974968.html
28-02-2021||Mumbai||What made Shiv Sena minister Sanjay Rathod resign?||Maharashtra forest minister Sanjay Rathod resigned on Sunday after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) mounted pressure on the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government calling for his sacking. Rathod, a Shiv Sena leader, was linked to the death by suicide of a 23-year-old woman in Pune. “I have given my resignation to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The way opposition is warning that they won’t allow the assembly session to function, I have distanced myself from it. I want a fair probe in the case,” Rathod said after submitting his resignation.The BJP had launched a state-wide agitation, demanding Rathod’s ouster from the state cabinet. Rathod has repeatedly denied any involvement in the suicide case.MLA, ministerRathod, 50, is a four-time Shiv Sena legislator from Digras assembly constituency in the state’s Yavatmal district. In the previous Devendra Fandnavis-led government, when the Shiv Sena was in an alliance with the BJP, Rathod served as minister of state for revenue for five years.Alleged link to woman’s suicide caseThe woman, an aspiring model and a resident of Parli Vaijanath in Beed district, died after falling from the balcony of an apartment in Pune’s Hadapsar area on February 8. Soon after her death, several photos and audio clips surfaced allegedly linking Rathod to her. Rathod did not make any public appearances for two weeks after her death. The Pune Police registered a case of accidental death and are treating the case as that of suicide. The woman’s family has not filed any complaint so far with the police.BJP’s state-wide agitationAfter the videos and photos surfaced, the BJP alleged that the Pune Police was under pressure by the state government and was not investigating the case thoroughly. The BJP’s state unit chief Chandrakant Patil on Saturday announced that the party legislators will not allow the functioning of the assembly’s budget session. “If Rathod is not asked to resign before Monday and if Thackeray does not come clear on this case, we will not let the legislature function,” Patil said in a press conference.BJP leader Chitra Wagh on Saturday also questioned chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s silence on the issue adding that the Maharashtra government was shielding Rathod. “Despite substantial proof against him [Rathod], no action has been taken against him. In fact, the police have not even registered a first information report in this case. There are 45 missed calls in Rathod’s name on the victim’s phone,” Wagh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/what-made-shiv-sena-minister-sanjay-rathod-resign-101614513203912.html
28-02-2021||Other||Schools, colleges and coaching classes closed till March 14; restricted movement between 11pm-6am continues||PUNE In an order issued on Sunday afternoon, the Pune district collector extended the restrictions imposed on schools, colleges and coaching classes till March 14. Schools, colleges and coaching classes will be closed till March 14. “To control the spread of the Coronavirus restrictions are necessary. That’s why this decision has been taken. Medical and essential services are exempt from the restrictions,” Pune collector Rajesh Deshmukh said in the order.Limited movement in the night from 11 pm to 6 am will continue, and restaurants and bars will shut by 11 pm, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said on Saturday. Deshmukh has also advised district education officers to that SSC and HSC students are not affected due to the closure of schools. He has asked authorities to emphasise the online mode of conducting examinations. These restrictions will be in effect from Sunday.Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar also issued an order on Sunday afternoon related to Pune city. According to the order, all schools, colleges and private coaching classes will be closed till March 14, and online education will continue. Limited movement in night from 11pm to 6am will continue. Those on night shifts will be allowed to travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/schools-colleges-and-coaching-classes-closed-till-march-14-restricted-movement-between-11pm-6am-continues-101614512834834.html
28-02-2021||Other||57 transgender students enrol for SSC, HSC exams in Pune division||PUNE This year at least 57 transgender students from the Pune division will be appearing for the Class 10 and Class 12 examination.Pune division of the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) tops the chart across Maharashtra.The board introduced the ‘other’ section in gender in 2019 and since then, there has been a gradual increase in students filling the forms under this section.Though the move is bold said activists, it also is a major challenge for these students.Bindumadhav Khire, director of Bindu Queer Rights Foundation, said that though the number of students is less, they represent that today’s generation is brave to have come out of the closet at this young age.“However, they are also more vulnerable than others. There is a need to counsel the students and their families and friends. To encourage more students, there should be more inclusive sensitisation of students, teachers and families,” said Khire.“Though the number reflects a hopeful trend, there still is a long way to go,” he added.Speaking about the issues of the students who enrol under the transgender section for the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) and Secondary School Certificate (SSC), Disha Pinky Sheikh, member, Tritiyapanti Kalyankari Mahamandal said that students face tremendous issues.“In many cases, it is seen that many students are forced by their parents to not accept themselves as transgender while filing the forms. There is a need to counsel parents as well as the students if the number is to be increased,” said Sheikh.She further added that many students who have left their families and moved to a different city have to face the problem of accommodation.“There are no hostels for transgender students. And there are also no complaint cells where they can register their grievances. Many face differential treatment at educational institutions. These reasons deter a student from attending schools. If any schemes can help these students, they have to be on an inclusive platform. For that there has to be sensitisation of various stakeholders so that the students don’t face discrimination at any stage,” she said.She further highlighted that once the student clears Class 12, there should be a few seats reserved for them at the college level.“Transgender students can take admissions under these seats in a given time. If no students come to take the admission, then the seats can be given to other students. But having such reserved seats can encourage more from the community to complete their higher education,” said Sheikh.Dinkar Patil, chairman, MSBSHSE, said that a gradual increase in the number of transgender students is a good sign. “There is steady and slow progress in the numbers which is a positive sign. And the majority of these students have filled the forms from regular schools which is also good,” said Patil.As per the data furnished by the board, only ten transgender students, from HSC and SSC together have filled the Form 17 which is for private candidates across Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/57-transgender-students-enrol-for-ssc-hsc-exams-in-pune-division-101614512774824.html
28-02-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena minister Sanjay Rathod hands over resignation to Uddhav Thackeray||Shiv Sena minister Sanjay Rathod, facing allegations in death by suicide of a 23-year-old Pune woman, tendered his resignation to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday afternoon, Rathod said. However, the party has not made any official announcement of his resignation.Leaders aware of developments said that the forest disaster management minister, however, requested Thackeray not to accept his resignation until the inquiry is completed. Thackeray, who is also the Shiv Sena chief, was irked by Rathod’s show of strength at Pohradevi temple in Washim earlier this week."I have submitted my resignation to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray," Rathod told reporters outside Varsha, the official residence of the CM."Till the inquiry is conducted I have stepped down. There was politics being played out on the issue; the manner in which the opposition said they will not let proceedings happen, therefore I have stepped down. I want a fair inquiry to be conducted and the truth to come out," Rathod added after resigning as the forest minister.Leaders referenced above said that senior Shiv Sena minister Eknath Shinde, who met Thackeray behind closed doors, suggested that Rathod’s resignation should not be accepted till the inquiry report in the February 8 suicide case is submitted, bringing the truth about Rathod’s alleged involvement out. Earlier, Rathod met the CM in the presence of Sena ministers Anil Parab and Aaditya Thackeray.The resignation comes in the wake of the intensified attacks on the Sena-led government on the issue by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The BJP is likely to further raise the issue and disrupt proceedings in the House from Monday if it considers it to be a token resignation ahead of the budget session.Also Read: Maharashtra Covid-19 surge: Curfew in Hingoli from March 1 to 7The BJP has alleged that the deceased woman was in a relationship with Rathod and he should be booked in the case. Several audio clips related to the case have gone viral in the past few days and the BJP claims that one of the persons in an audio clip is Rathod, who has been insisting on his innocence.Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil told TV channels that this is a “small beginning” in the suicide case of the 23-year-old woman. "Ideally Thackeray should have taken the resignation much earlier but we are happy that he has taken the minister’s resignation due to pressure from the people," he told TV channels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-minister-sanjay-rathod-hands-over-resignation-to-uddhav-thackeray-101614509094631.html
28-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi MCD bypolls: 32.25% voters turnout till 1:30pm; 38.85% at Kalyanpuri||A turnout of over 32 per cent was registered in the first six hours of voting for the bypolls to five municipal wards in Delhi on Sunday, the first electoral exercise being conducted in the national capital amid the coronavirus pandemic.The results of these bye-elections are likely to have an impact on the big-ticket 2022 Delhi civic polls.Polling began at 7:30 AM amid tight security arrangements and it will end at 5:30 PM.By 1:30 PM, the overall turnout across the five wards was 32.25 per cent, with Kalyanpuri ward recording the maximum 38.85 per cent, as per data shared by a senior official of the State Election Commission in Delhi said.According to the State Election Commission, around 2.42 lakh people are eligible to cast their votes in two wards under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) and three wards under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC).The main contenders are the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the BJP and the Congress. All of them have expressed confidence that they will emerge victorious in the bypolls, being held under strict COVID protocols.The municipal wards where polling is underway are Rohini-C, Shalimar Bagh (North), Trilokpuri, Kalyanpuri and Chauhan Banger.While Shalimar Bagh (North) is reserved for women, Trilokpuri and Kalyanpuri are reserved for the Scheduled Caste (SC) category, according to the poll body.The turnout at other wards are Trilokpuri (35.31 per cent); Rohini-C (29.56 per cent); Shalimar Bagh-North (25.52 per cent) and Chauhan Banger (33.88 per cent), the official said.The bypolls are being seen as the semifinal before the elections to all 272 MCD wards in early 2022.The results for the bypolls will be announced on March 3, officials said, adding that there are 327 polling stations and 26 candidates in the fray.The officials said Covid-19 patients can vote during the last hour of polling as per the government guidelines.Thermal guns are being used to measure temperature of all voters, and masks and sanitiser bottles being provided at polling stations, another official said.Of Delhi's 272 wards, North Delhi Municipal Corporation and South Delhi Municipal Corporation have 104 each and East Delhi Municipal Corporation has 64.The Bharatiya Janata Party has been controlling all three corporations since 2012 when the erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Delhi was trifurcated into North, South and East corporations.The main candidates in the Kalyanpuri ward bye-elections are Dhirendra from the AAP, Siyaram Kanojia from the BJP and Dharampal Maurya from the Congress.Vijay Kumar from the AAP, Om Prakash Gugarwal from the BJP and Bal Kishan from the Congress are contesting from Trilokpuri ward.In Chauhan Banger, former AAP MLA Haji Ishraq Khan is pitted against Congress' Chaudhary Zubair Ahmad and BJP's Nazir Ansari.These three wards are under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation. The AAP held these wards. The bypolls were necessitated after sitting councillors contested the assembly polls last year and became MLAs.In Shalimar Bagh North ward, which fell vacant after the death of the BJP councillor, the contest is between the saffron party's Surbhi Jaju, AAP's Sunita Mishra and Congress' Mamata.The BJP had retained all three corporations in the 2017 civic polls with the AAP finishing a distant second. While the BJP had swept the polls by winning 181 seats, the AAP had won 48 and the Congress was on the third spot in the tally with 30 seats to its kitty.In May 2016, bypolls were held for 13 municipal wards, with the AAP picking up five seats, followed by Congress with four and the BJP with three seats, one ward picked up by an independent candidate.The voters' turnout in the 2016 bypolls was 45.90 per cent, as per data shared by the State Election Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-mcd-bypolls-32-25-voters-turnout-till-1-30pm-38-85-at-kalyanpuri-101614507209897.html
28-02-2021||Other||Your Space: Stay fit, follow norms to fight the virus||PUNE As there is a surge in virus cases schools, colleges have shut down and night curfew is in place. The district administration has put in place various other restrictions to curb the spread of virus. Here is how Puneites are taking precautions to ensure there is no second wave of the Covid-19 infection. They also share how they are paying attention to personal hygiene and focusing on overall health and diet along with regular exercise to fight the virus.Eat healthy and stay fitAs virus cases are on the rise, it is our responsibility to pay attention to personal hygiene. Always wear a mask and maintain social distance in public places. Make sure you take all the possible care in case you are going out for work. Avoid social gatherings like marriages, political gathering and other functions. Make necessary amends in your diet and daily routine to boost your immunity and make yourself stronger. Most importantly, do not forget to do exercise. Take out time from your busy schedule and exercise regularly to keep yourself healthy.Gunratna SontakkeSafety is in our handsAs veterinary doctor, we wear face masks and face shields at the workplace. We follow strict social distancing as well. We do not allow pet owners without masks and we have made frequent hand washing, disinfection of our working area a daily routine to ensure safety for us and those who visit the clinic. As soon as I return home, I wash my clothes and have a bath. I refrain from touching any object in the house unless and until I have taken a bath. I have a five-year-old son at home and for the safety of my family, I follow all norms carefully. For my OPD, I have an entirely different dress and when I go to the OPD I wear that dress every day along with a separate pair of shoes or floaters. Following hand hygiene is equally important. Keep using sanitisers or soap to disinfect your hands regularly when you are out or at the workplace.Dr Prashant SalveThere is no reason to panic, follow precautionsThe city is again emerging as a hotspot for Covid. By rectifying previous mistakes we can avoid the second wave of this pandemic. The local government is taking necessary steps in this direction like identifying containment zones, intensifying testing, strict regulations regarding social distancing among others. But we need serious efforts from the citizens as well. Just like the previous time, there is no reason to panic as people are now more informed about necessary precautions, symptoms of the disease and possible treatment. We live in Susgaon which is at the edge of Pune city. Since last week, people have started wearing masks in public places more seriously. Gram Panchayat is spreading awareness about the virus precautions. At the society level, the management has made new rules to limit the entry of courier and daily items services to the main gate only. I am working for a UPSC coaching class and working from home. Also, I am a mother of a 10-month-old child therefore I am more cautious. We avoid unnecessarily going out and preferably bring all necessary things once a week itself.Leena BhangaleKeep your safety guards up!Avoid going out whenever necessary. Also, avoid going out together, when the work can be done alone. Meet people in safe places and maintain social distance. Wear masks constantly and sanitise hands frequently. Avoid inviting people home or going to other people’s houses unless it is necessary. Do not attend any public functions if it can be avoided, instead attend virtual functions. Meet friends and families on video call instead of meeting at public places. Incorporate healthy habits like cook and eat homemade food and exercise regularly. There are plenty of videos on the internet that can guide you with how to do effective exercise at home. Make sure you and your family exercise together to maintain good health.Amruta DeshpandePeople with comorbidities should be extra carefulAlong with following safety norms one must ensure the intake of healthy home-made food (avoid junk) and exercise regularly. Perform breathing exercises and include fruits like lemons, amla, oranges which contain Vitamin C which plays a major role in maintaining the integrity of body tissues. Patients with obesity, high BP, chronic lung diseases, diabetes, liver disease and other comorbidities have an increased risk of acquiring the infection. People who smoke or have undergone transplant surgeries also have higher susceptibility. Therefore, our efforts along with the measures directed by the state together are the only resorts to prevent the second wave, as it will take time for the vaccination practices to be followed nationwide and we can’t afford a hike at such a time. Most importantly, do not rely on and depend on non-approved medicines. If you encounter even any mild symptoms of Covid like cough, running nose, fatigue, body ache contact your physician immediately and follow all the instructions directed by the physician.Pratiksha Bhansali||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/your-space-stay-fit-follow-norms-to-fight-the-virus-101614506834444.html
28-02-2021||Jaipur||‘My father, grandmother want to sell me off’: Rajasthan girl tells police||An 18-year-old girl in Rajasthan’s Barmer district has accused her father and relatives of attempting to sell her and also harassing her physically and mentally. She further alleged that her father and other family members killed her mother years ago by setting her on fire. The police registered a complaint on Saturday and are investigating the matter, said police officials.The girl, a resident of a Barmer village, in her complaint to Narpat Singh, additional superintendent of police, Barmer, alleged that her father and other relatives, including her grandmother were attempting to sell her off. She said they started harassing her when she resisted and locked her in the house for several days. Her complaint further states that she finally escaped a few days ago when some people visited her house to take her.While her police complaint does not mention the specific reason, trade in brides is a flourishing business in northwest India. Female foeticide and the resulting gender imbalance has made men from Haryana, Punjab and western Uttar Pradesh indulge in human trafficking to source brides from poverty-ridden areas in Assam, Chhattisgarh, Tripura, Bihar, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Nepal.Must Watch: Robbers dig tunnel into Jaipur house, steal silver buried under basement The girl said she was currently staying at her maternal house of her own sweet will but her family had lodged a false case of kidnapping against them. She further alleged that she would be “sold off” if she went to her father’s house.The police officer confirmed receiving the complaint and said he has directed the local police to register and investigate the case. Hukma Ram, the station house officer (SHO) at Gida police station said they have lodged a case under Section 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and launched an investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/my-father-grandmother-want-to-sell-me-off-rajasthan-girl-tells-police-101614506428672.html
28-02-2021||Delhi||19 passengers caught with ammunition at IGI airport this year: Police||Nineteen passengers were allegedly caught carrying ammunition in their hand baggage during screening at the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport here this year so far, police said on Sunday.A senior police official said all such passengers face criminal proceedings under the Arms Act.He also said it was a matter of concern that despite warnings passengers carry ammunition, knowingly or unknowingly, with them.From January 1 to February 26, a total of 19 cases, where ammunition was found in the passengers’ baggage during the security check, have been registered at the IGI airport police station under sections of the Arms Act, police said.A 44-year-old man was caught with 19 live bullets of .32 bore in his hand baggage on February 14, while he intended to travel to Bangalore from the IGI airport by a private airline, according to data shared by police.A case was registered against him under the Arms Act and during interrogation, he told police that the cartridges belonged to him and he has an arms license which is valid in Karnataka state only, police said.The man worked as a general manager quality for a Bangalore-based garment factory, they said.In another instance, a 21-year-old woman passenger, who was travelling from Delhi to Pune on February 14, was caught carrying one live cartridge in her hand baggage during screening at Terminal 2 of the IGI airport, police said.During interrogation, she told police that she is a housewife and her husband is a constable in the Indian Army and posted at Patiala Cantt. Since she was returning to her native place, she took her husband's trolley bag unaware of the presence of a bullet in the bag which she claimed belonged to her husband, they said.Deputy Commissioner of Police (IGI Airport) Rajeev Ranjan said as per legal provisions, an FIR is registered against passengers who carry ammunition illegally and without a valid license issued for Delhi or all India. The passenger has to face criminal proceedings before the court of law, he added.In the last three years -- from 2018 to February 2021, a total of 257 cases were registered under the Arms Act at the IGI airport, police said.An appeal that announced ‘Carrying Ammunition at Airport is a Non-Bailable Offence’ was circulated in the public domain through various social media platforms of the Delhi Police. Despite issuing such appeals to the public, cases, where cartridges are found in the baggage of the passengers, are still being reported, which is a matter of concern, Ranjan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/19-passengers-caught-with-ammunition-at-igi-airport-this-year-police-101614503613221.html
28-02-2021||Delhi||MCD bypolls: Amid Covid-19 protocols 20.38% voters turnout in first four hours||A turnout of about 20 per cent was registered in the first four hours of voting for the bypolls to five municipal wards in Delhi on Sunday, the first electoral exercise being conducted in the national capital amid the coronavirus pandemic.The results of these bye-elections are likely to have an impact on the 2022 Delhi civic polls.Polling began at 7:30 am amid tight security arrangements.By 11:30 AM, the overall turnout across the five wards was 20.38 per cent, with Kalyanpur ward recording the maximum 25.69 per cent, a senior official of the State Election Commission in Delhi said.According to the State Election Commission, around 2.42 lakh people are eligible to cast their votes in two wards under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) and three wards under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC).The main contenders are the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the BJP and the Congress. All of them have expressed confidence that they will emerge victorious in the bypolls, being held under strict Covid-19 protocols.The municipal wards where polling is underway are Rohini-C, Shalimar Bagh (North), Trilokpuri, Kalyanpuri and Chauhan Banger.While Shalimar Bagh (North) is reserved for women, Trilokpuri and Kalyanpuri are reserved for the Scheduled Caste (SC) category, according to the poll body.The turnout at other wards are Trilokpuri (22.68 per cent); Rohini-C (19.11 per cent); Shalimar-North (15.13 per cent) and Chauhan Banger (20.14 per cent), the official said.The bypolls are being seen as the semifinal before the elections to all 272 MCD wards in early 2022.The results for the bypolls will be announced on March 3, officials said, adding that there are 327 polling stations and 26 candidates in the fray.The officials said Covid-19 patients can vote during the last hour of polling as per the government guidelines.Thermal guns are being used to measure temperature of each voter and masks and sanitiser bottles being provided at polling stations, another official said.Of Delhi's 272 wards, North Delhi Municipal Corporation and South Delhi Municipal Corporation have 104 each and East Delhi Municipal Corporation has 64.The Bharatiya Janata Party has been controlling all three corporations since 2012, when the erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Delhi was trifurcated into North, South and East corporations.The main candidates in the Kalyanpuri ward bye-elections are Dhirendra from the AAP, Siyaram Kanojia from the BJP and Dharampal Maurya from the Congress.Vijay Kumar from the AAP, Om Prakash Gugarwal from the BJP and Bal Kishan from the Congress are contesting from Trilokpuri ward.In Chauhan Banger, former AAP MLA Haji Ishraq Khan is pitted against Congress' Chaudhary Zubair Ahmad and BJP's Nazir Ansari.These three wards are under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation. The AAP held these wards. The bypolls were necessitated after sitting councillors contested the assembly polls last year and became MLAs.In Shalimar Bagh North ward, which fell vacant after the death of the BJP councillor, the contest is between the saffron party's Surbhi Jaju, AAP's Sunita Mishra and Congress' Mamata.The BJP had retained all three corporations in the 2017 civic polls with the AAP finishing a distant second.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mcd-bypolls-amid-covid-19-protocols-20-38-voters-turnout-in-first-four-hours-101614502117885.html
28-02-2021||Pune||Pune schools, colleges to remain shut till March 14 amid soaring Covid-19 cases||Authorities in Maharashtra’s Pune have extended the closure of schools and colleges till March 14 in wake of the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the city. District mayor Murlidhar Mohol also said people will not be allowed to be out on the streets between 11pm to 6am in Pune, ANI reported on Sunday.The announcement comes a day after the lockdown in Maharashtra’s Amravati district was extended for another week till March 8. All shops, establishments, schools and colleges are closed in the district and only essential services are permitted to operate.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here“There won’t be any restrictions on the shop timings. Shops can remain open provided that they follow the Covid-19 protocol and restaurants/hotels timings will not change,” Saurabh Rao, Pune's divisional commissioner, had earlier told HT.The Pune district reported 1,484 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths on Saturday, according to the state health department. This takes the district’s tally to 408,000 out of which 386,000 have recovered while 8,105 fatalities have been recorded.An upsurge in cases in Maharashtra has forced several districts including Akola, Akot and Murjitapur, to go under a lockdown again. The resurgence was first reported from the Vidarbha region— Amravati, Yavatmal districts to be particular. But on Wednesday, Mumbai, which is far away from the Vidarbha districts of eastern Maharashtra, reported four-digit daily infections (1,167) — the highest since November 2020.Several states have mandated people coming from Maharashtra and Kerala to carry negative Covid-19 reports. This comes as two states have been contributing most to the nation’s daily coronavirus caseload. Of the 16, 752 cases reported between Saturday and Sunday morning, 8,623 were from Maharashtra while Kerala recorded an increase of 3,792 cases.As the state’s trajectory witnesses a steady upward trend, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has directed senior officials to take strict action against people or organisations who are found flouting Covid-19 guidelines. He also told municipalities in the state to spray disinfectant at public places regularly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-schools-colleges-to-remain-shut-till-march-14-amid-soaring-covid-19-cases-101614500560597.html
28-02-2021||Patna||Bihar to deploy trained doctors and nurses to tackle AES this year||Bihar health department will deploy 30 trained doctors along with 40 nurses to help minimize the casualties among children due to acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) this year in the worst-affected districts.Names of these doctors and paramedic staff have been sent to the civil surgeons in the worst-hit districts of north Bihar with the instruction to depute them to hospitals, where kids are likely to be taken for treatment.Chief medical officer-cum-civil surgeon of Muzaffarpur (in-charge) Dr Harendra Alok, said these doctors and nursing staff were trained at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences at New Delhi and Patna.“These doctors and nurses will take care of the ailing children apart from documenting every detail of the illness: What short of medicines will be given, what are the symptoms and the effect of the drugs,” he said.Meanwhile, the divisional commissioner of Tirhut, Manish Kumar, held a review meeting with all the six district magistrates from Muzaffarpur, Sitamarhi, Vaishali and Sheohar along with East and West Champarans to assess the preparedness for tackling the deadly disease, which has taken more than 5000 lives of innocent kids aged between 6 months to 15 years in the last two and a half decades.Kumar asked all the DMs to launch a massive awareness program about the disease in the worst affected areas. “Since, we have no proper medication for treating the ailing kids, as reasons behind its spread is yet to be discovered, so we must follow the ‘prevention is better than cure’ theory to minimize the deaths of children. And spreading awareness about it is one of the important tools in this regard,” he said.Also Read: Bihar to begin registration for 3rd phase of Covid-19 vaccination from March 1The commissioner added that an integrated command center, related to the AES, is to be set up at the Sadar hospital for day to day monitoring of the situation. “This center will start functioning from March 1 this year. Anybody can call this center and give information about the disease,” he said.The DM of Muzaffarpur, Pranav Kumar informed that awareness programmes started on February 3 this year.Muzaffarpur is one of the worst-affected districts by the AES. More than 1,000 kids have fallen prey to this disease in the last one decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-to-deploy-trained-doctors-and-nurses-to-tackle-aes-this-year-101614500981932.html
28-02-2021||Delhi||10 police teams to probe woman death from stabbed for resisting snatching bid in Delhi||Ten police teams have been constituted to probe Delhi's Adarsh Nagar case where a woman was stabbed to death by a chain snatcher while resisting the robbery, according to DCP Northwest Usha Rangnani on Sunday.The residents here alleged that several incidents of snatching have taken place in the area but still Delhi police have not intensified patrolling.However, police said that patrolling is going on in the area and they are doing their best to combat these incidents.A 25-year-old woman was stabbed to death by a snatcher for resisting a robbery bid in the Adarsh Nagar area of the national capital, Delhi Police said.According to the police, the woman was stabbed to death in north-west Delhi's Adarsh Nagar while trying to resist a snatching bid. She was coming home from a market and was holding her child when the incident occurred.An FIR has been registered, but no arrest has been made till now. Further investigation of the case is underway, the police said.This is the second stabbing incident in the last two days.A 17-year-old boy was admitted to AIIMS Trauma Centre on Friday after being beaten up and stabbed by three boys in the Kalkaji area when he objected to them following his sister and passing indecent remarks. Five persons have been arrested in connection with the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/10-police-teams-to-probe-woman-death-from-stabbed-for-resisting-snatching-bid-in-delhi-101614500766603.html
28-02-2021||Patna||Manufacturing hub at Dobhi in Gaya along Amirtsar-Delhi-Kolkata freight corridor||Bihar industry department is setting up an integrated manufacturing hub at Dobhi in Gaya district with the land acquisition process expected to start by next month. The hub will be part of the economic zones of the upcoming Amritsar-Delhi-Kolkata freight corridor.The project has got in principle approval from the Centre, which will pay 50% of the cost for the project, a joint venture with the Centre. It is expected to boost economic activity in various states, said additional chief secretary, industry department, Brijesh Mehrohtra.The government wants to acquire 1650 acres of land for the hub and the process is expected to start from next month onwards. “A proposal for the land acquisition for the project will be sent to the cabinet soon. Once approved, the acquisition process will start,” said a senior official in the department, who didn’t wish to be quoted.The manufacturing hub will cater to the needs of big industries and medium scale manufacturing units including ancillary units and interested investors will be provided land as per their needs. “Land would be provided to manufacturing, ancillary and processing units based on applications. Till now, this is the plan. The ambit may be expanded for other enterprises later on,” said another officer in the department preferring anonymity.The other advantage of the site at Dobhi is its proximity to the upcoming eastern freight dedicated corridor passing through Gaya and the Kolkata-Delhi national highway. This will give manufacturing firms better logistical and transportation facilities, officials said.Also Read: Temperature soars to nearly 34°C in Gaya, Bihar as summer knocks earlyIndustry officials maintained that the project cost would be over ₹1000 crore but a clearer picture will emerge once the detailed project report (DPR) is finalised. “The land acquisition work would take six to eight months. In the meantime, the appointment of consultant and DPR work would be done,” said Mehrohtra.Meanwhile, the industry department is also focusing on developing the electronic park at Begusarai, where the required land acquisition has been made. “There has been interest shown by several sand firms in setting up units. We are accelerating the process of developing the park as a major hub,” said another industry official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/manufacturing-hub-at-dobhi-in-gaya-along-amirtsar-delhi-kolkata-freight-corridor-101614499041750.html
28-02-2021||Patna||Temperature soars to nearly 34°C in Gaya, Bihar as summer knocks early||Patna recorded a maximum temperature of 33°C and minimum temperature of 18.6°C, both five notches above the season’s normal, triggering fears of an early arrival of the summer season. Gaya was the hottest in the state with maximum temperature at 33.8°C followed by Bhagalpur- 33.7°C and Purnea at 30°C.Most of the cities in the state recorded higher temperatures for this time in February, breaking past records. Even higher temperatures were seen in February 2017, when Patna and Gaya recorded a maximum temperature of 34.2°C and 34.1°C respectively.Amit Sinha, a meteorologist at Patna weather department, said maximum and minimum temperatures at most places in the state had gone past the normal since the past three to four days.“Usually, mercury above 30°C is recorded in March, but this year the mercury has exceeded the normal temperature in February-end itself. The reason behind above-normal temperature is lack of any active western disturbance. Last active western disturbance was witnessed on February 7. The westerly winds have cleared the lower level of atmosphere, leading to maximum penetration of sunlight hitting surface,” he said.Also Read: Congress MLA’s nephew shot dead at Bihar home, 4th murder in the familyHe also said that a gradual increase in maximum temperature is likely after March 1.“After extreme cold, we are feeling extreme hot. It’s very uncomfortable to travel in daytime due to sizzling heat. I am wondering what will happen in April and May this year,” said Rupesh Singh, a delivery agent working for a private firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/temperature-soars-to-nearly-34-c-in-gaya-bihar-as-summer-knocks-early-101614493781554.html
28-02-2021||Bhopal||2 held in MP for ‘forcing’ minors to convert, kin of accused allege frame-up||Two boys were arrested under the newly-ordained MP Freedom of Religion Ordinance on allegations of sexually harassing two minor girls and forcing them to convert in Indore on Saturday, said police. However, the family of the accused contest police’s theory and allege a frame-up by Hindu Rakshak Sangathan.The accused Sohail Khan, 19 and Hasan Khan, 20, were arrested under Section 363 (abduction), 354 (sexual harassment) and 3/5 of MP Freedom of Religion Ordinance.Indore’s Azad Nagar police station in-charge Manish Daver said, “Two 16-year-old class 12 students had gone to a party in Khargone to celebrate Sohail’s birthday in Hasan Khan’s car. The minor girls said the accused sexually harassed them while taking a selfie. When the victims refused, the accused forced them for conversion and marriage.”“Later two people Ramesh Jat and Nitin Patidaar from Hindu Rakshak Sangathan saw the girls’ plight and came to help the girls," he added."The girls filed the complaint at Maheshwar police station in Khargone on Friday night and later Indore police registered the case at Azad Nagar police station on Saturday,” said the police officer. Police are investigating the matter.However, the family members of the accused said the girls knew Sohail for several years and they had gone to Khargone to celebrate Sohail’s birthday.Also Read: Will stop conversion of Hindu girls with a strict law: Gujarat CM Rupani“Hindu Rakshak Sangathan members created ruckus when they were taking a selfie and forced the girls to file a complaint against the boys. Hasan met the girls for the first time. How’s it possible for him to force someone for marriage and conversion in the very first meeting,” asked one of the brothers of the accused, who didn’t wish to be named.Hindu Rakshak Sangathan member Nitin Patidar said, “The boys were forcing the girls for a selfie and the girls were refusing to do so. When we reached there to help the girls, the girls shared their ordeal. We just helped the girls like a common man.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/2-held-in-mp-for-forcing-minors-to-convert-kin-of-accused-allege-frameup-101614492222445.html
28-02-2021||Patna||Congress MLA’s nephew shot dead at Bihar home, 4th murder in the family||Four armed men shot dead the nephew of Kargahar Congress MLA Santosh Kumar Mishra in the MLA’s ancestral house at Sohasa locality of Parsathua market in Bihar’s Rohtas district on Saturday evening, said officials.Sanjiv Kumar Mishra, 40, was shot in the head when he returned home after buying medicines from a nearby shop at around 5:30 pm. The assailants then fled on two bikes, firing indiscriminately in the air and spreading panic in the market, police said.Mishra died on the way to a Varanasi hospital. Following his death, hundreds of angry locals gathered demanding action against the station house officer (SHO). MLA Santosh Kumar Mishra soon reached the spot and the body was sent to Sasaram for post-mortem after assurance of action by the police.The deceased was the grandson of famous Congress leader Pt Girish Narayan Mishra and the influential family ran a degree college and several social institutions in the locality. He has left behind two daughters and a son.Santosh Kumar Mishra won Kargahar assembly seat in the 2020 elections. His wife Rinki Mishra was projected as the Mukhiya candidate from the home panchayat.Also Read: Bihar to begin registration for 3rd phase of Covid-19 vaccination from March 1Sanjeev was the fourth family member to be murdered in the last 20 years. His father Mahendra alias Gumti Mishra, uncle Chandrama Mishra and grandfather Pt Kamta Prasad Mishra, had all been shot dead in Parsathua market. Sanjiv got drawn to crime in early age and was an accused in four murder cases. He had come out on bail about two years back and had since been involved in social work.Traders downed shutters of their shops after the shooting as tension prevailed in and around Parsathua market. Police were camping at the market.Superintendent of police, Ashish Bharti said a special investigation team (SIT) was formed to arrest the criminals and CCTV footage was being screened to identify them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/congress-mla-s-nephew-shot-dead-at-bihar-home-4th-murder-in-the-family-101614490026544.html
28-02-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram condominium declared containment zone after 20 Covid-19 cases detected||An apartment complex in Haryana's Gurugram was declared a containment zone after 20 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were reported from there, news agency ANI reported. The housing society under watch is Ireo Victory Valley in Sector 67."First, three cases were reported, after which testing camp was set up. Around 20 persons tested positive, so we declared it as containment zone. More tests being conducted," ANI quoted district health department official J Prakash as saying.Meanwhile, the Covid-19 death toll in Haryana rose to 3,047 on Saturday with three more fatalities, while 199 new cases pushed the infection count to 2,70,610, a health department bulletin said.One fatality each was recorded in Gurugram, Ambala and Karnal districts, it said.During the past 24 hours, the count of new cases doubled in Gurugram, from 29 a day earlier to 62 on Saturday, while Karnal, Kurukshetra and Panchkula reported 33, 29 and 20 new cases respectively.District Gurugram; COVID-19 Update, dated 27.02.2021#FightagainstCoronavirus pic.twitter.com/cMZNhYzLmmThe number of active cases in the state jumped from 1,103 on Friday to 1,205 on Saturday while 2,66,358 people have recovered from the infection. The recovery rate was 98.43 per cent, it stated.Similar development had taken place in Bengaluru a few days ago. Amid the resurgence in the number of cases of Covid-19, an apartment complex was sealed in the city.An alert was sounded at SJR Watermark Apartments after 10 Covid-19 cases were found there between February 15 and 22, according to news agency PTI.Based on the finding, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike declared six contagious blocks as a containment zone. Sanitisation was carried out in the apartment premises and a health team with four doctors also deployed.India witnessed a rise in the number of coronavirus cases this week spurred by spikes in states like Kerala and Maharashtra. The country recorded 88,328 cases in the last six days and 637 deaths. The Union ministry for health and family welfare has asked Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Chattisgarh to increase their testing and containment measures in order to stop the spread of Covid-19 and avert a second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-condominium-declared-containment-zone-after-20-covid-19-cases-surface-101614485270363.html
28-02-2021||Kolkata||CPI(M)’s 1st rally at Kolkata’s Brigade Parade Grounds; Congress, ISF invited||The Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), on Sunday will hold its first mega rally at Kolkata’s Brigade Parade Ground, the biggest open ground in the city located in the sprawling Maidans, prior to the West Bengal assembly polls.In a bid to display the strength of the third front which has taken shape over the past few weeks, the CPI(M) has planned a mega show along with its partners in the Left Front. The Congress and the Indian Secular Front (ISF), a new platform launched by cleric Abbasuddin Siddiqui from Furfura Sharif, have also been invited.Significantly, Congress leader and Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has been invited to the rally.Although the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the main contenders in the bi-polar election, have been planning to hold rallies at the Brigade grounds, it is the CPI(M) and its Left partners who have managed to organise the first one.Thousands of Left supporters from the districts started arriving in Kolkata by trains and busses on Saturday. CPI(M) supporters took out numerous processions in Kolkata and its outskirts, asking people to attend the political programme.“With the Congress and the ISF taking part, we are expecting a mammoth turnout. Since all people will not be able to reach the main podium we have installed 620 loudspeakers so that the speeches can be heard from everywhere,” said Left Front chairman and veteran CPI(M) leader Biman Bose who visited the venue on Saturday.Kolkata Police officials said extensive security arrangements are being made. The rally ground has been divided into 11 security zones.Ailing former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, 76, expressed anguish over not being able to attend the rally because of his health condition.“I am getting a lot of information about the Brigade rally. I cannot explain the anguish I am going through for not being able to attend it. My comrades are fighting on the ground, while I am following the advice of doctors because of my illness. I could never imagine that I will be confined to my home while a meeting will be on at the Maidans. I wish it success,” Bhattacharjee said in a message that was released by his party on Saturday night.In October last year, Bhattacharjee was rushed to a private hospital in Kolkata with symptoms of breathlessness. He has been suffering from Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) for more than a decade.CPI(M) leaders said Bhattacharjee was extremely unwell when the Left Front held its last rally at the Brigade grounds prior to the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Yet, he came to the venue in a car and stayed for some time although doctors did not allow him to leave the vehicle. On Sunday, a speech by Bhattacharjee may be read out, CPI(M) leaders said.There is an old saying in Bengal politics that whoever manages to fill up the Brigade grounds with its followers wins elections. Only big parties hold rallies at this venue and whenever they do so, attempts are made to ferry as many supporters from the districts as possible since the grounds can accommodate close to one million people.The TMC leadership did not want to give any importance to the Left-Congress rally.“The writing is already on the wall. People will elect Mamata Banerjee as chief minister for the third time. It makes no difference if some party holds a rally at the Brigade,” said urban development minister Firhad Hakim.Also Read: West Bengal polls 2021: Special police observer Vivek Dubey to reach on SundayBJP leaders, too, tried to play down the Left’s campaigning.“This is a contest between the BJP and the TMC. Other parties do not matter,” said Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh.The BJP won 18 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. Seen in terms of assembly segments, the BJP was ahead of the others in 122 of the state’s 294 assembly seats while the TMC lead in 163.In terms of vote share in the 2019 polls, the TMC got 43.69 % in 2019 against 40.64 % secured by the BJP. The CPI(M)’s vote share came down to 6.34 % while the Congress got only 5.67%.For the TMC and the BJP, any change in vote share of the Left and Congress may play a crucial role. The Congress and the Left Front parties contested as allies in the 2016 assembly polls but couldn’t stop the TMC from coming to power with 211 seats. The Congress wrested 44 seats while the Left got 32. Their tie-up did not last.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cpims-1st-rally-at-kolkata-s-brigade-parade-grounds-congress-isf-invited-101614484408872.html
28-02-2021||Election:||Delhi municipal by-polls: Voting underway at 5 MCD wards||Voters queued up on Sunday as polling for elections to five wards of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) began at 7:30am in the first set of polls being held in Delhi amid the coronavirus pandemic. Several people were seen queued outside polling booths in the city’s Ward No 32N, (Rohini-C), Ward No 62N, (Shalimar Bagh North) in north Delhi and Ward No 02-E (Trilokpuri), Ward No 08-E (Kalyanpuri) and Ward No 41-E (Chauhan Bangar) in east Delhi.Polling will go on till 5:30pm and the results for the two wards under North Delhi Municipal Corporation and three under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation will be declared on March 3. Four of the five wards fell vacant after their incumbent councillors were elected as the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) legislators in the assembly polls whereas the by-election in Shalimar Bagh was necessitated after the death of councillor Renu Jaju, who won the seat on a BJP ticket in 2017. The national capital went to assembly polls in February last year in which chief minister Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP emerged victorious with a huge majority. For nearly 15 years, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has ruled all three MCDs in the city. In 2017, while AAP won four of these five wards, Congress was pushed to a distant third with just 30 seats. While the Congress looks to improve its performance, state labour minister and AAP’s Delhi unit convener Gopal Rai on Saturday called the by-polls a “semi-final” to end the BJP’s 15-year control and that the election will write Delhi’s future for the next five years.“The BJP spread politics of hate during the Delhi assembly elections, but people again voted for an AAP government under chief minister Kejriwal. The AAP will defeat the BJP in the MCD by-election just the way it did in the assembly elections. This election is not about the Congress, but about defeating the BJP. The Congress will not do any good to the citizens of Delhi, but only split the vote,” Rai said.Chief minister Kejriwal, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and other cabinet ministers campaigned for their candidates on all five seats. The BJP, meanwhile, held roadshows and meetings at the booth level and has tasked each party worker to get support from at least 21 houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/delhi-municipal-by-polls-voting-underway-at-5-mcd-wards-101614483530349.html
28-02-2021||Indore||Two co-accused of comedian Munawar Faruqui walk out of jail||Two persons involved in organizing a comedy show of stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui were released from the Central jail here on Saturday, after spending nearly two months behind bars.The Indore bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court had granted interim bail to Sadaqat Khan (23) and Nalin Yadav (25) the day before.They had sought bail referring to the Supreme Court's order of February 5 granting bail to Faruqui (32) in the same case.Khan and Yadav walked out of the jail after completing the legal procedure. Upon release in the evening, both said they have full faith in the judiciary.Khan is a civil engineer while Yadav is a budding comedian himself.The high court had granted interim bail to two other accused, Prakhar Vyas and Adwin Anthony, in the case on February 12.Faruqui and others involved in organizing the show in Indore were arrested on the night of January 1, following a complaint by Eklavya Singh Gaud, son of local BJP MLA Malini Laxman Singh Gaud.The MLA's son had alleged that objectionable comments were made about Hindu deities and Union Home Minister Amit Shah during the show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/two-co-accused-of-comedian-munawar-faruqui-walk-out-of-jail-101614475740085.html
28-02-2021||Mumbai||Ambani bomb scare: Vehicle used by suspects identified||The Mumbai Police have spotted on CCTV surveillance the Innova car used by two suspects to escape after parking a car laden with explosives near the residence of Reliance Industries’ chairman Mukesh Ambani. Police officials in the crime branch said the car was last seen on the Bhiwandi-Nashik highway. The police are now scouring nearby villages for clues and more details.On February 25 afternoon, a Scorpio car was found abandoned on Carmichael Road, about 600 metres away from the Ambani residence. Twenty loose Gelatin sticks were found in the car, although there was no timer or detonation device. The police subsequently released details of a letter found in the car, addressed to the Reliance chairman and his wife, claiming this was just “a trailer”.The 2.5kg of gelatin, in sticks, found in the SUV, is considered enough to trigger a low-intensity explosion. The SUV sported fake plates — the number was that of the lead car in the security convoy deployed for Nita Ambani.“Our teams are still trying to trace the Innova vehicle and scanning more CCTV footage. So far, we have recorded 25 statements during the probe. NIA is also conducting a parallel probe,” Milind Bharambe, joint commissioner of police (crime) said on Saturday.The police have so far scanned around 700 CCTV cameras in to track the route of the two SUVs, a crime branch official said.The Scorpio car in which the explosives were found has also been sent to a forensic lab for further examination. The forensic team will try to collect finger prints and DNA samples. The Scorpio belongs to a Thane resident and was stolen on the night of February 17. The car owner had reported the car’s theft to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ambani-bomb-scare-vehicle-used-by-suspects-identified-101614470242605.html
28-02-2021||Delhi||Weather experts weigh in on why spring gave Delhi a miss||Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 31.7 degrees Celsius on Saturday, Mumbai, 34.6 degrees, and Kolkata, 35.8 degrees as many parts of India experienced the hottest spring they have in years as the absence of western disturbances, cyclonic storms originating in the Mediterranean more than offset the effect of La Niña, which many experts expected to prolong the winter in the northern plains.There might be a respite for a few days, from Sunday to the middle of next week, but it isn’t expected to be much of one, and then, forecasters say, it will heat up even more.Since Monday (till Saturday), maximum temperatures in Delhi have read: 28.9; 31.5; 32.5; 33.2; 33; and 31.7 degrees C.The situation is similar in most cities in the northern plains. Mumbai’s maximum temperature over the same period has ranged between 33.9 and 36.1 degrees C. These are between 5 and 7 degrees higher than normal. How unique is this? According to India Meteorological Department’s data, Delhi’s maximum temperature didn’t touch 30 degree C in 2020, 2019, 2015, 2014 and 2013 in February. There were 4 days with 30 degree C + maximum temperature in 2018; three days in 2017; and five days in 2016.“Normally, six western disturbances impact the northern plains in January and February and about four to five in March. The north westerly winds bring pleasant spring time weather as we head to summer. That hasn’t happened this year. Only one WD each impacted the NW plains in January and February each. Rest of the WDs impacted only the upper reaches of the Western Himalayas. Warm south-westerly winds have been blowing,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.There is likely to be a marginal fall in maximum temperatures starting Sunday for a brief period which will not be as pleasant as spring, he said, adding: “Today the wind direction switched for a bit to north westerly (from the direction of Western Himalayas which normally brings cooler air).” The change may result in a 2-3 degree C drop in maximum temperatures over the plains till March 3. “But maximum temperatures are already 5 to 6 degree C above normal, so a 2-3 degree C drop won’t bring back spring. From March 3, maximums will rise again to 34 to 35 degree C,” Srivastava said.According to an IMD statement on February 24, higher temperatures over northwestern plains can be attributed to absence of any weather system and prevalence of southwesterly surface winds, causing advection of heat from west Rajasthan towards the region.Earlier, meteorologists expected winter to be prolonged this year because of La Niña, a global weather phenomenon. El Niño and the Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean, according to National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).ENSO has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods and drought. El Niño has a warming influence on global temperatures, while La Niña has the opposite effect. In India for example, El Niño is associated with drought or weak monsoon while La Niña is associated with strong monsoon and above average rains and colder winters.On Friday and Saturday maximum temperatures over NW India were 6 to 8 degree C above normal. On Saturday Hisar recorded 31.5,five degree C above normal; Narnaul 33.8, eight degree C above normal; Churu 33.9 degree C, five degrees above normal; Ambala 30.3, seven degrees above normal; Pilani 33.7, seven degrees above normal; Karnal 30, six degrees above normal; Jaipur 33.8, six degrees above normal; Delhi recorded 33 degree C, seven degrees above normal on Friday and 31. 7, six degrees above normal on Saturday. Other central and eastern Indian cities are also seeing an early summer. “The rise in maximum temperatures over northwest India is mainly due to south-westerly winds and the lack of weather systems which can bring rain. There has been snowfall and rain in the Himalayas on Friday so now temperature will fall temporarily but climatologically temperatures will continue to rise. In IMD’s terminology there is no spring. We move over to the pre-monsoon season from winter,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD. And some parts of India will heat up faster than the rest. “Temperature starts rising peaking first in Odisha, Maharashtra, etc, in March and then in northwest India. So, we are also expecting temperatures to rise in Maharashtra from next week,” he added. “La Niña conditions are still moderate. But I think temperatures have gone up in northwest India due to south-westerly winds,” said DS Pai, senior climate scientist at IMD Pune said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/weather-experts-weigh-in-on-why-spring-gave-delhi-a-miss-101614467930683.html
28-02-2021||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot share stage, take on Centre over farm laws||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot on Saturday put up a show of unity ahead of bypolls to four seats in the state as they attacked the Centre over the three contentious farm laws and extended support to the ongoing farmers’ agitation.The two senior Congress leaders were involved in a political tussle last July over the functioning of the state unit, which threatened to topple the Gehlot government. The Congress brass eventually stepped in to resolve the month-long crisis.Bypolls to Sujangarh, Rajsamand, Sahada and Vallabhgarh are scheduled due to the deaths of sitting legislators.“Protest and agitation are ornaments of democracy, but the Central government is stubborn and not ready to listen to the farmers who are sitting on protest in extreme weather conditions for the last 90 days,” 69-year-old Gehlot said while addressing a kisan mahapanchayat in Bikaner.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and UP, have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November demanding a repeal of the three laws.Pilot, who travelled with Gehlot to two kisan mahanpanchayats, said the Centre was ignoring the legitimate demands of the farmers. “PM is not ready to listen to the farmers. Our leader Sonia Gandhi had united 24 parties against the farm laws. They want to shut all the mandis,” the 43-year-old said.State BJP president Satish Poonia rejected the Congress leaders’ allegations. “In the name of farmers, the Congress is trying to gain its lost ground. Generally, it is perceived that the party in power wins the bypolls, but the Congress government is afraid,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/ashok-gehlot-and-sachin-pilot-share-stage-take-on-centre-over-farm-laws-101614466407884.html
28-02-2021||Education||DU awards over 178,000 degrees at mixed format convocation||Delhi University (DU) on Saturday awarded degrees to 178,719 students during its 97th annual convocation ceremony held partially online this year due to the pandemic.Addressing the ceremony, DU acting vice-chancellor (V-C) PC Joshi said, “It is not just the first in the history of DU but also across the country that nearly 180,000 students received their degrees digitally.”The convocation ceremony was a mixed event — audience could attend it online, while some were invited to attend it in-person at North Campus.Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ was the chief guest and awarded the degrees with the click of a button on a tablet.Appreciating DU’s efforts, he said, “You all saw how with a click of a button we sent degrees to 178,719 students. This is the digital India we talk about. This is why PM Narendra Modi says ‘convert your challenges into opportunities.’”.The university awarded 670 doctoral degrees, 44 super-specialty DM/M.Ch course degrees, 156 medals and 36 prizes in multidisciplinary fields.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/du-awards-over-178-000-degrees-at-mixed-format-convocation-101614465852132.html
28-02-2021||Delhi||Man killed in fire at factory in Delhi's Pratap Nagar||A 35-year-old worker died and another was injured in a factory fire in north Delhi’s Pratap Nagar on Saturday, Delhi fire service officers said.The factory was located in the first floor of a three-storey building.The blaze, fire officers said, was reported at around 3.45am after a person in the area heard an explosion. At least 28 fire tenders were pressed into service and they took nearly five hours to douse the fire that had spread to the second floor that had another factory.Officials suspect fautly wiring in the building that set off a short-circuit or an LPG cylinder in the factory.The dead man was identified as Upchand Kumar who was from Siwan in Bihar. His colleague, identified as Sushil was admitted at a city hospital. A fire officer also suffered burn injuries while attempting to douse the fire.Forensic experts and crime branch officials visited the site at around noon and took samples for investigation.Police registered a case at the Gulabi Bagh police station and are probing the cause of the fire.They said that a preliminary investigation revealed that the factory was run and managed by three persons from Gautam Budh Nagar district in Uttar Pradesh; they will be summoned to join the investigation into the fire at the factory, police said.Fire officials said that the factory was over 600 square yards. The ground had a bottle manufacturing unit, the first floor manufactured lipstick and the second floor packed toys.Kumar, fire officials said, was sleeping in a room on the first floor room. Kumar’s body was found at around 9am.His relatives who reached the spot said Kumar had been employed at the factory for several years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-killed-in-fire-at-factory-in-delhi-s-pratap-nagar-101614464825111.html
28-02-2021||Delhi||Bypolls in 5 MCD wards today||Municipal bypolls will be held in five wards on Sunday, two of which fall under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation and three under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation.Polling will start at 7.30am and end at 5.30pm, and the results will be declared on March 3.The Aam Aadmi Party won four of these five wards in the 2017 MCD elections, which saw the Bharatiya Janata Party retain all the three civic bodies in the city. The BJP has ruled all three MCDs in Delhi for nearly 15 years now.The Congress, which was pushed to a distant third in the 2017 MCD elections with just 30 seats, is looking to improve its performance and make the polls a triangular battle, instead of a straight contest between the AAP and BJP.Sunday’s bypolls will be held in wards 32N, (Rohini-C) and 62N, (Shalimar Bagh North) in north Delhi and wards 02-E (Trilokpuri), 08E (Kalyanpuri) and 41E (Chauhan Bangar) in east Delhi.Four of the five wards that go to bypolls fell vacant after their incumbent councillors were elected AAP MLAs in the assembly polls in February last year. The bypoll in Shalimar Bagh, meanwhile, was necessitated after the death of councillor Renu Jaju, who won the seat on a BJP ticket in 2017.The AAP, which has fielded two former MLAs for Sunday’s bypolls saw its party supremo and Delhi chief minister Kejriwal campaign for five candidates, as did other cabinet ministers, including deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia.Calling the bypolls a “semi-final” to end the BJP’s 15-year control of the civic bodies, state labour minister and AAP’s Delhi unit convener Gopal Rai said Saturday’s election will “write Delhi’s future for the next five years.”“The BJP spread politics of hate during the Delhi assembly elections, but people again voted for an AAP government under chief minister Kejriwal. The AAP will defeat BJP in the MCD by-election just the way it did in the assembly elections. This election is not about the Congress, but about defeating the BJP. The Congress will not do any good to the citizens of Delhi, but only split the vote,” Rai said.The BJP has been holding roadshows and meetings at the booth level, and has tasked each party worker with getting support from at least 21 houses, as part of their campaign.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said the BJP will win all five wards, claiming that the people of Delhi believe in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s motto of “sabka saath, sabka vikas aur sabka vishwas”.“The Kejriwal government has not fulfilled any of its poll promises and is neglecting development work, which is what people want. The AAP has pushed Delhi towards anarchy as Kejriwal is now supporting those very elements who insulted the national flag and created chaos in the city on Republic Day as part of the farmers’ agitation,” he said.Meanwhile, the Congress, in its campaigns said the Capital was blighted by “multiplicity of authority”, and criticised the BJP and the AAP for not doing anything other than “bickering”, alleging that this has led to a governance paralysis in the city.Shaktisinh Gohil, Delhi Congress in-charge, said people are tired of the misrule and shadow boxing of the BJP and the AAP governments.“Governments of both the parties at the Centre and in Delhi have been self-obsessed without doing any work. In the past few years, they only made charges and counter charges against each other, about fund misuse, stalled developments and corruption. But, none filed FIRs despite they levelling charges of corruption on each other,” said Gohil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bypolls-in-5-mcd-wards-today-101614464642133.html
28-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds 243 new Covid-19 cases, three more deaths||The Capital reported over 200 cases of Covid-19 for the fourth day in a row, adding 243 cases on Saturday, amid concerns over the emergence of what appears to be new waves of the infection in at least five states in India — Maharashtra, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Chhattisgarh.The city’s average positivity has increased to 0.32% over the last seven days, in comparison to 0.25% the week before and 0.21% the week before that.Although the increase is minor, experts worry it may be indicative of an increase in virus transmission in Delhi.The city also recorded three Covid-19 deaths, the highest in 15 days. So far, 10,909 people have died of the infection in Delhi.“If the number of tests has remained more or less the same, it shows that the transmission of the infection is increasing again. What we need to do right now is tell people that the pandemic is not over. They have to continue to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour to ensure the numbers remain under control,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research.Delhi conducted 67,484 tests for the infection on Saturday. Of these, 45,873 were conducted using the more reliable reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction method (RT-PCR). The positivity rate on Saturday — 0.36% — was marginally lower than 0.41% on Friday.Centre lists 226 private hospitals for Covid jabsThe Centre has released a list of 226 vaccination centres in private hospitals registered under Ayushman Bharat and CGHS in Delhi that will vaccinate people over the age of 60 and those with comorbidities in the second phase of vaccinations that will begin across India on March 1.All the 313 centres — government and private centre — already vaccinating health care workers and frontline workers will continue to vaccinate other beneficiaries as well, according to senior officials in the state’s health department.“The second phase of the vaccination drive will be rolled out across all the existing centres currently and then we will look at expanding the number of centre. A decision on which private hospitals will be included in the new list of centres will be taken after a meeting with the private hospitals tomorrow,” one of the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-243-new-covid-19-cases-three-more-deaths-101614463638111.html
28-02-2021||Delhi||Flyers up 25% at General aviation terminal: DIAL||The General Aviation Terminal has seen a 25% increase in passenger movement since its inauguration in September last year, the Delhi airport operator DIAL said on Saturday.The General Aviation facility supports passengers on chartered flights or private jets from Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport.DIAL -- Delhi International Airport Ltd-- said that around 120 passengers use the terminal daily, up from 96 daily passengers since its launch last year. “The passenger footfall at this newly built terminal includes domestic and international passengers in the ratio of 90:10. The terminal is witnessing over 30 air traffic movements (ATMs) per day, compared to 24 ATMs in September 2020,” it said.DIAL CEO Videh Kumar Jaipuriar said the rise is due to the airport status as the second safest in the world and efficiency in handling operations smoothly even during the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/flyers-up-25-at-general-aviation-terminal-dial-101614463380614.html
28-02-2021||Noida||3 held for raping woman in Uttar Pradesh's Hapur||The Hapur police on Saturday arrested three men for allegedly gang raping a 30-year-old woman from Greater Noida, who had boarded their auto-rickshaw late Wednesday to return home from work. Police said the arrests were made following an encounter in the Pilkhuwa area of Hapur district, and the suspects sustained gunshot wounds to their legs.Police identified the arrested men as Ankit Tomar, 26, and Akash Tomar, 21, her two fellow passengers in the auto, and Aakil, 27, the driver of the auto, which the 30-year-old woman had boarded from Lal Kuan intersection in Ghaziabad to go home to Greater Noida.Additional superintendent of police (Hapur) Sarvesh Mishra said the suspects belong to Galandpur village.He said the police identified the auto-rickshaw and suspects based on a tip-off from local informants.The woman had told the police the three men forcefully taken her in the auto to Hapur, to an isolated spot, where they took turns to rape her.A police team pursued the suspects around 5am, after spotting them in the auto-rickshaw near a dental college on NH-24. They fired at the police team when asked to stop. In the exchange of fire, they sustained bullet injuries to their legs, police said.Mishra said during interrogation, the suspects admitted to a prior gang-rape as well — of a girl whom they had abducted in their auto almost a month ago. They also admitted that they followed the same pattern with the woman on Wednesday night.“The first victim didn’t report the incident to the police. Ankit Tomar was sent to jail in 2013 in a rape case,” Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/3-held-for-raping-woman-in-uttar-pradesh-s-hapur-101614463015960.html
28-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal says city law, order in turmoil; Police disagree||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said Delhi’s law and order situation is in “serious turmoil” and demanded Union home minister Amit Shah and Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal take action, in comments that came after an eight-year-old girl was murdered and a teenage boy stabbed in two separate cases in Delhi’s Patparganj and Kalkaji areas.“Deeply concerned by the murder of a 8-yr-old girl in Khichripur & attack on a 17-yr-old boy in Kalkaji. Delhi’’s law and order situation is in a serious turmoil, I appeal to Hon’’ble Home Minister & Lt. Gov (Lieutenant Governor) to take appropriate action to address the situation,” Kejriwal said in a tweet.Disagreeing with the Delhi chief minister’s tweet, the deputy commissioner of police (east), Deepak Yadav on Saturday evening responded: “We reaffirm our commitment to professional investigation and extending the best support to the aggrieved family.” In an attached statement, the DCP said a special investigative team headed by the additional DCP (east) had been formed to probe the matter.Earlier this month, during their annual press conference, Delhi police pointed out that crimes such as murder, extortion and those against women, reduced in 2020 over 2019. The data showed that cases of rape, molestation, and attacks on women declined.Also Read| 17-year-old critical after being stabbed by 5 in Delhi's KalkajiDeputy chief minister Manish Sisodia met the family of the deceased girl in Khichripur. He assured the family the case would be tried in a fast-track court and that best lawyers would be engaged to ensure death penalty to the guilty.Delhi BJP President Adesh Gupta also met the family of the girl. “The BJP stands by the family in this hour of grief. I have spoken to the area DCP and urged him to make the family feel safe and ensure that the child’s murderer is tried in the fast-track court,” he said.The minor girl was abducted from Khichripur and a complaint was lodged by her parents at Kalyanpuri police station. The body of the girl was recovered from Modinagar in Uttar Pradesh on Friday, police said.The four who kidnapped the girl for ransom and killed her were arrested, they said.In another incident, a 17-year-old boy was beaten and stabbed for allegedly trying to stop five persons, including two juveniles, from stalking his sister and harassing her. The incident happened in the Kalkaji area, near a school.The injured boy, a resident of Kalkaji, was taken to AIIMS Trauma Centre, the police said.AAP Kalkaji MLA Atishi met the family of the boy who she said was stable and recovering.“Neither women nor school-going children are safe under BJP’s Delhi Police. A girl was molested by some men just 100 metres away from the police station as she was returning from school and her brother was stabbed when he tried to save her. Law and order situation in the entire city is crumbling; criminals think that they can kill anyone and they will not face any punishment,” Atishi said.The Delhi Commission of Women (DCW) on Saturday issued a notice to the Police in connection with the attack on the 17-year-old boy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-says-city-law-order-in-turmoil-police-disagree-101614461785534.html
28-02-2021||Delhi||17-year-old critical after being stabbed by 5 in Delhi's Kalkaji||Three persons were arrested and two juveniles detained for allegedly stabbing a 17-year-old schoolboy who tried to stop them from stalking his 18-year-old sister and passing lewd comments at her outside a government school in south-east Delhi’s Kalkaji on Friday afternoon. The boy is currently undergoing treatment at the AIIMS Trauma Centre and the family said his condition is critical.The sister has also alleged that the police who reached the spot shouted at her and questioned her claims when she tried to tell them of what had transpired.Police said a case of attempt to murder, stalking and sexual harassment was registered at the Kalkaji police station against the five suspects.The incident that happened outside a school attracted sharp criticism from politicians, including chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.“Deeply concerned by the murder of a 8-yr old girl in Khichdipur & attack on a 17-yr old boy in Kalkaji. Delhi’s law and order situation is in a serious turmoil, I appeal to Hon’ble Home Minister & Lt. Gov to take appropriate action to address the situation.(sic)” Kejriwal tweeted on Saturday.The chief minister was also referring to the kidnapping and murder of a minor girl from east Delhi’s Khichripur that was reported on Friday. Four men, who had kidnapped and killed the girl, and thrown her body in the fields near Modinagar in Ghaziabad, were arrested on Friday.The police said the four had planned to extort the girl’s family, but murdered her on finding the police on their tail.The schoolgirl in the Kalkaji incident, a class 12 student, told the media persons that on Friday afternoon, she and her brother had left school and were walking towards their home when five persons started following them and passed lewd remarks at her.“When my brother objected to this, a fight broke out between them. They stabbed my brother in the abdomen and fled. I alerted my father and we rushed my brother to AIIMS Trauma Centre. His condition is critical,” said the schoolgirl, adding that she knew the names of the boys who harassed her.The girl alleged that the policemen who reached the crime scene questioned her claims. They allegedly asked her why there was no blood at the spot, though her clothes were drenched in it.Deputy commissioner of police (south-east) RP Meena said the Kalkaji police station received information about the stabbing and a police team reached the spot to learn that the boy was taken to the hospital. The team went to the hospital and were told that he was in surgery.“The eyewitness (sister) who was present with him at the time of the incident stated that five people followed them and made indecent remarks about her. When her brother objected to that, they started beating him and one of them stabbed him in the abdomen before fleeing the spot with the others. We have registered a case,” said DCP Meena.The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) and Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) also took cognizance of the incident on Friday and sought a report from the police on the incident as well as action taken on the schoolgirl’s allegations on the police.DCPCR chairman Anurag Kundu tweeted about the incident: “There is a situation of deteriorating law and order in the city, particularly for children where they are neither physically nor sexually safe. I met the family at AIIMS, whose son was beaten and stabbed for objecting to molestation bid on his sister. Have passed directions (sic).”The directions passed by the Delhi child rights body included asking the station house officer (SHO, of Kalkaji police station) to conduct an inquiry into the matter expeditiously and submit a status report by March 3.The Commission also directed the station house officer concerned to conduct regular patrolling in and around the school around the time when classes get over.Additionally, the panel also directed the subdivisional magistrate (SDM) to depute at least two civil defence volunteers around the schools once classes are over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/17yearold-critical-after-being-stabbed-by-5-in-delhi-s-kalkaji-101614461131297.html
28-02-2021||Other||Petrol at all-time high rate of ₹97.57 a litre; diesel at ₹88.6 per litre||After remaining constant for three days, fuel prices in city increased on Saturday to reach an all-time high. While one litre of petrol was available at ₹97.57 on Saturday, diesel was priced at ₹88.60 per litre. On Tuesday, one litre of petrol was available at ₹97.34, while diesel was priced at ₹88.44 a litre. On February 21, petrol price touched ₹97 per litre, while one litre of diesel was priced at ₹88.06 in Mumbai. Prior to the rise this year, the highest surge in fuel prices was witnessed in 2018, when a litre of petrol had reached ₹91.34 per litre, while diesel had crossed ₹80 per litre.Transporters across the country, including the Bombay Goods Transport Association (BGTA), have called for immediate intervention of the government to curtail the rising fuel prices. BGTA also supported the Bharat Bandh called on Thursday by the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) against the price hike. “The transport industry is fully neglected by the government. Transportation rates cannot be flexible as per daily changing diesel rates. The non-uniformity of prices across the country also makes it difficult to compete fairly,” stated a statement from BGTA.On Friday, transporters met Union minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Thakur to discuss their issues. “He assured to resolve the problems of parcel transportation/debarking of cargo at ports meant for short distances, arising on account of the amended electronic-way bill system. We also discussed issues of presumptive tax and bringing diesel prices under Goods and Services Tax (GST). He assured to take up the issue with the department concerned,” said Kultaran Singh Atwal, president, All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petrol-at-all-time-high-rate-of-97-57-a-litre-diesel-at-88-6-per-litre-101614455411164.html
28-02-2021||Other||Hrithik Roshan gives statement in fake emails case||Actor Hrithik Roshan on Saturday visited the crime intelligence unit (CIU) of the Mumbai Police’s crime branch to record a fresh statement in connection with the complaint lodged by him following his exchange of legal notices with actor Kangana Ranaut in 2016. Roshan had lodged a complaint with the cyber police at Bandra-Kurla Complex five years ago against an unidentified imposter, who had allegedly sent emails to several women. Last year in December, the case was transferred to CIU, after which summons were issued to Roshan for recording his fresh statement. The actor visited CIU at 11.40am on Saturday. He left CIU office about three hours later. A police officer attached to the crime branch said Roshan has reiterated his complaint in his statement.On the basis of Roshan’s complaint, the cybercrime had in 2016 registered an offence against unidentified individuals under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Information Technology Act. Roshan had alleged that a person was in contact with his friends and fans by using a fake email id: hroshan@email.com. The cyber police had then recorded the statements of Ranaut and her sister while probing the case. Ranaut in an interview had referred to Roshan as a “silly ex” without naming him. In March 2016, they had sent legal notices to each other. The centre of fights between the two actors was an email id from which Ranaut claimed to have received messages from Roshan, proving they were in a relationship. Roshan however, said he never had an email account on the said id, and that it was an imposter who had been communicating with Ranaut all along.He then filed the complaint to track those operating the email id (from which Ranaut received the mails). The police have been unable to track the user. An officer had then said that the emails had come from a United States server, and in the absence of data from there, no user could be identified. The police had later sent Roshan’s mobile phone to the forensic science laboratory but Ranaut had then failed to submit her device. Her lawyer had also questioned the “genuineness of the entire complaint.”The case was transferred to CIU after Roshan’s lawyer in December 2020 wrote to Mumbai Police commissioner alleging that there was no progress in the probe for five years. “Our client also met the top police officers and reiterated all the facts and informed them about the trauma caused to him and his family. He also reiterated his request for a timely investigation. However, there has been no progress in the investigation and the aforementioned cases are still pending. We thus request to kindly look into the matter and issue appropriate orders to direct completion of investigation at the earliest as it is pending since 2016,” stated the lawyer’s letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hrithik-roshan-gives-statement-in-fake-emails-case-101614455170957.html
28-02-2021||Mumbai||Despite renovation, Thane stadium still not the ideal sports ground||Three years since the Dadoji Konddev Stadium has been shut for renovation, sportspersons from Thane and nearby cities are left without a proper place to practice.The stadium was renovated in 2019, though it was reserved only for premier cricket matches while the local sportsmen were allotted a small piece of land to practice. This was the only stadium for sportspersons from Kalyan, Navi Mumbai and Thane. Around 400 cricketers, 500 athletes and a few other sportspersons practice and train here regularly.In February 2019, the stadium was converted into a state-of-the-art cricket pitch to host international-level matches. Hardly two women’s under-19 cricket matches have taken place here in the last two years.However, since renovation, the regular sportspersons are not able to practice or train properly. There are only two nets for cricket practice and a small synthetic track near the steps of the stadium for athletes.A senior officer from Thane Municipal Corporation, said, “Unlike earlier, we cannot permit sportspersons to use the entire ground at all times. Shoes with spikes can damage the cricket pitch. Moreover, we have made provisions for two nets and a synthetic track for athletes, Ghantali Prabodhini cricket coaching is currently conducting their training sessions here. Moreover, the Board of Control for Cricket in India has conducted two Under-19 women’s matches here. This shows that the BCCI is aware of the stadium.”Sportspersons have already been without any practice for months together during the lockdown. Now, when there is a need for more space to practice, the stadium continues to have restricted timings for players.“Unlike earlier, we are not able to continue practicing at the stadium due to restricted timings. Most of us juggle studies and training. This stadium is so aptly located, it becomes convenient for those from Navi Mumbai, Kalyan and areas within Thane to reach. However post renovation with restricted timings at the stadium we are not able to practice like before, many of us opt for other smaller grounds in Mumbra and nearby areas,” said Pooja Joshi, an athlete who has been practicing since the last five years at the stadium.Athletes and cricketers find it difficult to travel to other grounds for practice when they have a provision for everything at a single place.Shreyas Chavan, athletics coach, Thane, added, “Thane is a city with international level athletes and other sportspersons as well. There are many who come from nearby areas to practice and have attained fame at the national level too. While the civic body is making plans to expand and provide better facilities at the stadium, they should take into consideration the interests of all sportspersons and not just one particular sport.”Despite repeated calls, Minal Palande, sports officer, was unavailable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/despite-renovation-thane-stadium-still-not-the-ideal-sports-ground-101614454210935.html
28-02-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan-Dombivli civic body appoints agency to study sewer lines in city limits||In the wake of the demand to make the Ulhas and Waldhuni rivers pollution, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has appointed a private agency to study all the sewer lines meeting the water bodies in KDMC limits.This is the first time such a study is being undertaken to explore all the possibilities of pollution caused in these two water bodies since the last several years.“The study has begun and it will help us get a clear picture of where exactly the sewer lines meet the water bodies. The agency will prepare a detailed report and submit it to the civic body for further action. Based on that, we will take necessary measures for the future,” said Sapna Koli, city engineer KDMC.The civic body is spending ₹77 lakh to consolidate the entire sewage system in the KDMC jurisdiction. The work for the study was started a week ago and is expected to be completed by March end.“Meanwhile, we are already working on two sewage treatment plants, which will be ready by May end,” added Koli.An on-going protest by the Mee Kalyankar social group, headed by Nitin Nikam, to turn the rivers pollution free reached its 18th day on Saturday with several NGOs and citizens supporting it. However, the protest was called off later on Saturday after Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde, Thane collector Rajesh Narvekar and civic commissioners of Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation and Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation and microbiologist Shekhar Bhadsalve met Nikam. Shinde assured to come up with an effective solution with the help of experts and solve the issue of green weeds growing in the river. “From Monday the green weeds will be removed manually later on with the help of expert permanent solution will be imposed,” said Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyandombivli-civic-body-appoints-agency-to-study-sewer-lines-in-city-limits-101614454031001.html
28-02-2021||Bangalore||Asha Bhat on making Kannada film debut with Roberrt: Darshan made it easy for me||Asha Bhat may have made her acting debut with a Hindi film, but the model-turned-actor, who has been born and raised in Bhadravati, in Karnataka, is gearing up for her debut in Kannada film industry with Roberrt.“I am all set,” she shares with excitement, and adds, “The film was supposed to release last year but because of the pandemic it could not happen. It has been a long wait. But now that the momentum has picked up I am happy to be busy promoting the film.”The 28-year-old says she always wanted to do a film in Kannada language. “It is my mother tongue. I always wanted to but it is just that the first opportunity for me that came my way was a Hindi film Junglee (2019). I took it up and immediately post that the team called me up and gave me a briefing, and I was like very happy about it and said yes to the project. It is a nice script and it is a nice way to give back to my people and entertain them through Kannada cinema,” she explains.Bhat says she is grateful to get the opportunity to work with popular Kannada star Darshan in her very first film in the region.“He is such a great actor. He has over two decades of experience in the industry. This is a great start. The first day I was a little nervous. My first shot was with Darshan sir and I was feeling intimidated and nervous. I kept thinking if I would remember the lines or worried about whether I would do a mistake during my take. But he just walked in, he had a bright smile and he said made it easy for me,” the actor says.Doling out praise for director Tharun Sudhir, she adds, “He is very generous as a director and he allows the actor to do (the scene) the way they want to do. He gave me a lot of liberty and the support has been great.”Bhat also notes how the Kannada film industry has evolved over the years. “Definitely there has been an evolution and I feel very grateful to be a part of this Kannada industry and what a film to start with,” she concludes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/asha-bhat-on-making-kannada-film-debut-with-roberrt-darshan-made-it-easy-for-me-101614453970535.html
28-02-2021||Mumbai||189 new Covid cases in Kalyan, Dombivli||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has managed to complete 99 per cent of the first dose of vaccination for health workers. Twenty one per cent health workers have also got the second dose.Out of the total 9,075 health workers registered, 8,980 health workers have got their first dose of vaccination. A total of 1,870 health workers have taken the second dose of vaccination, as per the KDMC health department records.The pace is slower in the frontline workers category wherein KDMC has completed 63 per cent of vaccination – 4,318 frontline workers out of the 6,841 listed beneficiaries.Overall, the civic body has managed to complete 61 per cent of vaccination for both health workers and frontline workers. This means that out of the 24,896 listed beneficiaries, 15,168 have been vaccinated.KDMC recorded 189 new Covid cases on Saturday, which is the highest since the surge. The civic body has recorded a total of 66,947 cases till now. “We have been asked to stop the vaccination for the time being. So, no vaccination will be carried out until the next order. Meanwhile, the work of data of elderly people might begin soon. People are calling us asking for the dose. However, we will have to wait for further directions,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.Meanwhile, with the increase in Covid-19 cases in Kalyan-Dombivli limits, the KDMC has plans to increase the testing at the Kalyan railway station. The testing done at the station, however, does not have many positive results. Out of the 2,157 antigen tests done so far from February 18, only seven have tested positive. “Around 200-300 testing happens at the station per day now, earlier we used to test 1,000 per day. The testing will again be increased to 1,000 per day from Monday. A person tested positive at the station two days back and was quarantined. However, the other six with him refused to take the test,” said an officer of KDMC who did not wish to be named.Since November 26, a total of 26,732 tests were carried out at the station. Of these, 143 tested positive. In KDMC so far, a total of 3.65 lakh tests has been carried out, 2.04 lakh of which is RT-PCR tests and 1.60 lakh, rapid antigen tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/189-new-covid-cases-in-kalyan-dombivli-101614453490583.html
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccine coverage among Chandigarh cops increases to 31.5%||After a slow start, more cops are coming forward to get a jab in the city. On Friday, 759 cops got vaccinated at the Sector 26 police hospital. Before February 20, less than 100 cops were inoculated, and vaccine coverage was at 9.77%. The rate has moved up to 31.48%.As per senior police officials, the rise could be attributed to understanding the hesitance on part of the cops and spreading awareness about the vaccine.At the Sector 26 police hospital, a total 1,881 cops have been vaccinated since the drive began here on February 3. With 5,975 beneficiaries in the Chandigarh Police, the coverage has now moved up to 31.48%.Around 200 cops got vaccinated at the civil hospital in Manimajra and at Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32; the total number is over 2,000 now, as per police officials.On February 22, UT senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal had issued an order that strict disciplinary action will be taken against those who didn’t show up for vaccination, after which the numbers began increasing. SP, headquarters, Manoj Kumar Meena said, “We cannot force people to get vaccinated since it is voluntary, however, we have made it mandatory for cops to turn up at the hospital for their slot. They are free to consult with the doctors who will counsel them.”To manage the rush, five vaccination centres have been made for cops. The drive will go on till March 6, but the police plans to get most cops vaccinated by March 3 with a couple of days left for contingencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccine-coverage-among-chandigarh-cops-increases-to-315-101614453252538.html
28-02-2021||Mumbai||Covid cases increase by 45% in Navi Mumbai||In the last 15 days, Covid cases in Navi Mumbai have gone up by 45 per cent and the doubling rate has come down from 676 to 404 days. The number of active cases as on February 9 was 819, which increased to 1,189 on February 25.The maximum increase was recorded at the Vashi ward, where cases have risen by 98 in the last fortnight. Vashi had 103 active cases on February 9 and rose to 201.Digha is the only ward that has seen a decline in the active cases from 19 to 13 despite being a ward with the maximum slums.The lowest number of increase in cases was recorded at Ghansoli ward with 38, from 80 to 118. Due to the sudden increase in the cases, the doubling rate has also decreased.The civic body has started a quarantine facility for the high-risk patients at MGM, Sanpada hospital. “The contact tracing is being done strictly and when a high-risk patient is traced, he is shifted to the MGM at Sanpada. Two dedicated Covid health centres – Radhaswami Satsang Hall and Export House at Turbhe, which were shut owing to lack of patients, have been kept on stand by and would be started again, if needed,” NMMC chief, Abhijit Bangar said.Currently, the Cidco Exhibition Centre in Vashi and Dr DY Patil Hospital in Nerul are utilised for the treatment of the Covid positive patients.The recovery rate of Navi Mumbai on February 9 was 96 per cent, which too came down by one percent in 15 days. The recovery rates in Airoli, Turbhe and Koparkhairane came down to 95 per cent from 96 per cent while that in Vashi came down to 94 per cent from 96 per cent. Meanwhile, Digha ward, which had a 95 per cent recovery rate on February 9, increased to 96 per cent. With the increasing cases, the corporation has increased the number of tests for early detection and isolation.The weekly swab count, which was 1,567 till last week, has now increased to 2,587. “Early detection and treatment is possible with more testing. We do not wish to go in reverse order to the lockdown. Hence, even as we are doing our best to contain the spread, each and every individual too needs to his/her bit by following the norms,” Bangar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-cases-increase-by-45-in-navi-mumbai-101614453251418.html
28-02-2021||Mumbai||Crocodile warning board to keep people away from Navi Mumbai creek||Following the rescue of a crocodile from the pond behind Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation headquarters in Belapur, the corporation has put up boards at the Sector 6 creek adjoining Palm Beach Road in Nerul, warning people to stay away from the water. The board is put up by the disaster management cell of NMMC.“Though the crocodile was rescued and shifted outside the city limits, there is always a risk of having more crocodiles in the water,” an official from the disaster management cell said. The board says that there is presence of crocodiles in water and hence one should not enter the water. In case of going by boat, one should not keep hands or legs under the water and also should not throw any food item into the water.“The local villagers go near the creek for fishing. Hence, to warn those, we decided to put up the board. After the rescue, no other crocodile was seen in the pond but yet we cannot be sure if there are no crocodiles,” the officer added.“There has been no study conducted in the Navi Mumbai area regarding the crocodiles in the creek and hence it is difficult to confirm if there are any more crocodiles or not. There used to be the sighting of one crocodile in Juinagar creek and people used to pelt it with stones. Prima facie, the belief is that it is the same crocodile that has been rescued recently. Even as the reptile is a female, it is difficult to find out if she had ever laid eggs. If at all there were any babies, it is difficult for them to survive in the creek. Babies can survive only in small streams,” Aditya Patil, president of Wildlife Welfare Association (WWA), which had rescued the crocodile, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/crocodile-warning-board-to-keep-people-away-from-navi-mumbai-creek-101614453070527.html
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||Vijay Hazare trophy: Chandigarh lose to Saurashtra by 66 runs||Led by a superb 130-ball knock of 174 runs from Prerak Mankad, Saurashtra beat Chandigarh by 66 runs in the Elite Group E match of the Vijay Hazare Trophy tie at the Eden Gardens in Kolkata on Saturday.With this win, Saurashtra earned four points to emerge on top of the group with 16 points. Batting first, Saurashtra scored a mammoth total of 388 runs for the loss of seven wickets in 50 overs. Batting at number 4, Prerak played a stunning innings of 174 runs to take Saurashtra past the 350-run mark. Besides, A V Vasavada (71) and Vishvarajsinh Jadeja (50) bolstered the team. For Chandigarh, medium-pacer Jaskarandeep Singh bagged four wickets.In reply, Chandigarh tried hard to get to the target but fell 66 runs short of the target. Opener Arslan Z Khan and Manan Vohra gave a solid start, stitching a 111-run partnership. After both the openers perished, Chandigarh batsmen struggled to keep up pace.Chandigarh will next take on Jammu and Kashmir on March 1.Scores in briefSaurashtra: 388 for 7 in 50 overs (Prerak Mankad 174, A V Vasavada 71, Vishvarajsinh Jadeja 50, Jaskarandeep Singh 4 for 60, Jagjit Sandhu 2 for 84) beat Chandigarh: 327 for 7 in 50 overs (Arslan Z Khan 61, Ankit Kaushik 54, Manan Vohra 50, D A Jadeja 2 for 40) by 66 runs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vijay-hazare-trophy-chandigarh-lose-to-saurashtra-by-66-runs-101614452831413.html
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh RLA extends deadline to get HSRPs to Sept 30||The Registration and Licensing Authority (RLA), Chandigarh, has extended the last date for affixing high-security registration plates (HSRPs) on vehicles in the CH01BK and BL series to September 30.The decision has been taken to avoid rush at the RLA office and other centres amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in the city.Initially, the RLA had set February 28 as the deadline, which was extended to March 31. On Friday, it had decided to extend it further up to May 31, but following a meeting with senior administrative officials on Saturday, September 30 was set as the new deadline. Once the deadline lapses, traffic police will start issuing challans to the violators. While two-wheeler owners have to pay ₹3,000 fine, those caught without HSRPs on four-wheelers will have to cough up ₹5,000.Officials reasoned that people’s safety, and not challans, were at the top of their priorities right now. The department is also working on other measures to streamline the process. In order to prevent rush, the authorities had already decided to go for a staggered enforcement for other series.Appointment system in works to reduce rushThe number plates are affixed by a third -party vendor, Test HSRP Chandigarh Private Limited, in Chandigarh. It’s head manager, Rachit Mathur, said: “At present, more than 50% of the applicants aren’t even from the BK and BL series. People are worried about getting challaned, and so are coming forward out of turn, leading to rush.”Mathur said an online portal is in the works for booking appointments and making payments. “We have also opened a separate window for women and senior citizens at the RLA office in Sector 17. Similar windows will also be opened at subdivisional magistrate’s offices in the Industrial Area and Sector 42 from Monday,” he said.“Most of the people turn up at the Sector-17 office, leading to a rush here. We are advising those from southern and eastern sectors to visit the respective SDM offices instead,” said RLA Virat.There is also a rush of vehicle owners who have HSRPs and only need to get the third registration mark (colour-coded stickers). Vendors are in the process of developing a system through which these stickers can be delivered to the doorstep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-rla-extends-deadline-to-get-hsrps-to-sept-30-101614452650425.html
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||Kargil War veteran among two held for drug peddling in Mohali||The crime investigating agency of Mohali police on Saturday arrested two drug smugglers, including a Kargil War veteran, from Zirakpur and recovered 500 grams of opium and 1,920 habit-forming tablets from their possession.They have been identified as Jasbir Singh, alias Fauji, of Silver City Heights, Zirakpur, and Arun Kumar, alias Anu, of Modern Enclave, Baltana. They were arrested following a tip-off.Senior superintendent of police, Mohali, Satinder Singh said Jasbir had suffered a bullet injury in the Kargil War in 1999 and had retired from the army in 2006. For the past three years, he was working with BSNL in Chandigarh.During questioning, Jasbir told police that he got hooked to drugs 15 years ago and had also been supplying them to his clients from his workplace. It also came to light that the other accused, Arun, was already booked twice by the special task force for heroin smuggling.The duo used to buy the contraband from different parts of Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana and supplied it to their clients in the tricity area, said the SSP. They have been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kargil-war-veteran-among-two-held-for-drug-peddling-in-mohali-101614452470388.html
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn gears up for next phase of Covid vaccination||As the Centre is set to roll out the next phase of Covid-19 vaccination for general public, eligible beneficiaries in Chandigarh will be able to make online appointments from Monday.The next phase of vaccination is due for the people above 60 years and those aged from 45 years to 59 years and having comorbidities. While Co-WIN portal for online registration is set to go live on Monday (March 1), the administration will also make arrangements for on-site registrations and vaccination for a limited number of people on Monday, said a senior UT official, wishing not to be named.However, the drive is expected to pick up pace on Tuesday, with the number of people getting the jab depending on the online registrations made on Monday.Besides government facilities, the authorities are also inspecting private hospitals empanelled under central government schemes for necessary infrastructure in order to rope them in as vaccination centres.“We are in the process of selecting the vaccination centres. The list will be updated by Sunday evening, and the general public will be able to see them through the Co-WIN platform from Monday,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health department.UT officials said that prior registration facility should be availed by the citizens rather than the walk-in. “When the online interface goes live, we will be able to utilise our full capacity,” said an official. The department plans to create 17 sites with capacity of inoculating 200 people each in the next week. During online registration, people will have a choice to select the date, time and vaccination centre based on the availability. Details of the photo ID card to be used by the beneficiary will also be captured at the time of registration. In the beginning, slots will be given at PGIMER, GMCH-32 and GMSH-16 besides civil hospitals in Sector 45 and Manimajra, health and wellness centres in Sector 23 and 49, and Police Hospital in Sector 26. Walk in at empanelled hospitals in Mohali The Mohali administration has empanelled around 20 private hospitals besides government hospitals for the vaccination drive. Civil surgeon Dr Adarashpal Kaur said the eligible beneficiaries can walk in at any of these hospitals for on-site registration and vaccination from Monday. They should carry a photo ID card with age proof. In case, they are aged between 45 and 59 with comorbid conditions, they should also carry a certificate duly attested by a registered medical practitioner, she said. The drive will be carried out at civil hospitals in Mohali, Kharar, Dera Bassi, Kurali, Banur, Boothgarh and Lalru between 9am and 3pm, besides at private hospitals, including Max (Phase 6), Fortis (Sector 62), Ivy (Sector 71) and Amar (Sector 70) in Mohali, Amcare in Zirakpur and Multi Super Specialty Hospital in Sohana.While there are no charges in government hospital, private hospitals will collect a fee.Punjab health secretary Hussan Lal said: “We have asked private hospitals not to collect more than ₹250, with ₹150 for vaccine and ₹100 as service charge. We are holding a meeting with them on Sunday.” Three govt facilities to begin drive in P’kulaThe Panchkula health department is also gearing up for the next phase.To begin with, the vaccine will be provided at three government facilities: General Hospital in Sector 6 and polyclinic in Sector 26, Panchkula, and Government Hospital in Kalka.We are yet to finalise details regarding private hospitals. It will be done by Sunday,” said Dr Meenu Sasan, district immunisation officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-gears-up-for-next-phase-of-covid-vaccination-101614452356079.html
28-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees over 8,000 Covid-19 cases for 4th day in a row||Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 8,623 new Covid-19 infections, taking the count to 2,146,777. It also recorded 51 deaths, taking the toll to 52,092. The state has reported more than 8,000 cases for four days in a row now. Amid the rise in cases in Maharashtra, district authorities extended the lockdown imposed in Amravati, Akola, Akot and Murjitapur by another week (till March 8), after a lockdown was enforced in these places from February 22 till March 1. The Nagpur district administration had also announced a lockdown on Saturday and Sunday. Shelesh Nawal, district collector, Amravati, confirmed that the lockdown has been extended till March 8. Jitendra Papalkar, district collector, Akola said, “We will review the situation by March 5 or 6. If the situation is under control, we might also bring in some relaxations.” Papalkar said that the district administration has also increased tests drastically in the past month. “We are conducting tests to the tune of 2,500-2,700 a day now.” The essential services in the three regions have also been restricted to functioning between 8am and 3pm. Compared to January when the state recorded 92,177 new cases of Covid-19, the state has already recorded 123,015 cases till February 27, a 33% increase in fresh infections.In the past four days itself, the state has recorded more than 25,000 new infections. In his address to citizens last Sunday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had stated that the state would review the situation in the next few days to decide on a second lockdown, however, there is no decision on it yet except the lockdown imposed in some districts. A senior official from the state government said, “We are strictly monitoring the situation in districts. While the situation does not seem to be as bad as September-October 2020 when the state saw a massive upsurge, however, people have to be more cautious and maintain Covid-appropriate behavior.”On Saturday, Mumbai reported 987 cases and 4 deaths, taking the count to 324,866 cases and 11,470 fatalities. Cities like Pune, Nagpur, and Nashik reported 743, 838 and 550 cases respectively. Districts like Amravati and Akola (both city and district) reported 545 and 287 cases respectively. Following an increase in cases in Vidharbha, which includes districts like Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal and Washim, a seven-day lockdown in Amravati city and Achalpur town started from Monday evening, while other districts have restricted shop and establishment timings. Marathwada districts, including Parbhani, Hingoli, Nanded and Latur, have imposed a night curfew and restriction on the travellers coming from affected Vidarbha districts. Schools and colleges in all these districts have been closed for few weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-over-8-000-covid-19-cases-for-4th-day-in-a-row-101614452354675.html
28-02-2021||Pune||NCL research fellow’s body found, throat slit in Pune||The police have recovered body of a research fellow at the National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) located at Pashan in Pune.The police officials said the 30-year-old man, identified as Sudarshan alias Balya Baburao Pandit, was murdered with his body lying in pool of blood on Saturday morning. “His throat was slit and there were indication of assault with stone,” said a senior police officer.Pandit was a native of Jafarabad in Jalana district of Marathwada region.“He was staying in Pashan near NCL where he was research fellow since past one and a half years. We have recovered wallet with his identity details. A first information report (FIR) has been registered at the Chatuhshrungi police station under Sections 302 and 201 of Indian Penal Code,” said zonal deputy commissioner Pankaj Deshmukh.The complaint was lodged by victim’s relative, Sandip Pandit (34), a resident of Pashan.“He is a research fellow working at Pashan NCL and was murdered wherein his throat was slit open. It does not seem to a robbery motive and the case will be detected soon,” said Deshmukh.Police have lodged cases under sections 302, 201 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against an unidentified person or persons. “Sudarshan had no clothes on and was stabbed in the neck and his face was smashed with a stone. After checking the pockets of the pants lying on the side, Aadhaar card was found in it and he was identified. The motive behind the murder is yet to be ascertained,” said a police officer present at the spot.According to official investigating the case, the deceased was first attacked with a stone and some other hard object. His throat was also found to be slit while the assailants removed the clothes and then dumped the body at Sus Khind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ncl-research-fellow-s-body-found-throat-slit-in-pune-101614450969697.html
28-02-2021||Mumbai||Centre’s new social media regulations dictatorial: Maharashtra IT minister Satej Patil||Maharashtra minister of state for information technology (IT) Satej Patil on Saturday criticised the Central government’s regulations for social media platforms such as Facebook or Twitter and over-the-top (OTT) players such as content streaming platforms, calling them “dictatorial” and a threat to democracy and freedom of expression.Patil clarified that this is his personal stand and he is yet to discuss the issue with his colleagues in the state government. He told Hindustan Times, “The regulations curtail freedom of expression. With these regulations, privacy of individuals will be threatened. As of now, if the government wants anything which is anti-national and objectionable taken off the social media platforms, the social media companies cooperate. So there is no need to bring these regulations, unless the government wants access to everyone’s social media.”He added, “We saw what happened in the United States; former president Donald Trump’s Twitter account was deactivated. This shows that even presently in the law, there are mechanisms to ensure such type of content can be removed. What the government is seeking to do through these new regulations is gain control of the content, which is not acceptable.”Patil also said that some bureaucrats deciding on what can be published and what cannot on any social media is an attack on the freedom of press, and such orders will not have any standing in the court of law.On February 25, 2021, the ministry of electronics and information technology notified the Guidelines for Intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code Rules, 2021 that social media companies and OTT platforms need to follow. One of the rules is enabling traceability of the originator of content. It also requires such platforms to remove content flagged by authorities within 36 hours as well as appointment of a grievance officer to receive complaints within 24 hours and resolve it within 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/centres-new-social-media-regulations-dictatorial-maharashtra-it-minister-satej-patil-101614450850500.html
28-02-2021||Pune||Large blaze destroys vehicles seized by Deccan police station||As many as five two-wheelers seized by the local police during various operations and kept in the compound of the Deccan traffic division at Jangli Maharaj (JM) road were gutted in a major fire incident that took place on Saturday afternoon. However, no casualty was reported even as thick smoke spread across the area leading to confusion amongst commuters and area residents. Three fire tenders and a water tanker were sent to the spot to control the flames, fire department officials said. The cause of the fire could not be ascertained until late in the evening. The fire was brought under control in 30 minutes, officials claimed. A large number of onlookers had gathered at the spot as firemen controlled the flames. The central brigade control room informed that a call was received around 3.43 pm and it was doused completely at around 4.15 pm. DCP (traffic) Rahul Srirame said, “The vehicles burnt in the fire incident belonged to the police station and were seized during different crime detections. No vehicle was of the traffic branch as we keep our vehicles segregated.” Fire officer Prashant Ranpise said, “Five two-wheelers were burnt during the fire which suddenly broke out in the compound and investigation is on to find out the reason behind the outbreak. No casualty was reported during the fire.” In a second incident, a major fire took place in the garbage yard opposite Pune District Milk Co-operative Credit Society in Katraj at 5 am on Saturday. Six fire tenders from Bhavani peth and Kondhwa fire stations were rushed to the spot to douse the flames. According to fire officer Sanjay Jadhav, since the garbage was mostly dry and made of plastic, waste plater and other combustible material like rubber and nylon, the fire aggravated. The fire was brought under control in 45 minutes, informed fire control room officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/large-blaze-destroys-vehicles-seized-by-deccan-police-station-101614450670816.html
28-02-2021||Pune||Despite Bhama Askhed completion, tankers in full swing in eastern Pune||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has received additional water from Bhama Askhed dam for the eastern parts of the city but the overall tanker numbers are the same. The PMC has refuted the claim saying that the tanker numbers have gone down drastically on Nagar road and the Vadgaonsheri area. It was expected that once the water from Bhama Askhed dam would arrive in the city, it would help bring down the tanker numbers but all the tanker points in the city are constantly busy with tankers trying to fill up. Water department head Aniruddha Pawaskar said, “Earlier the requirement of tankers on Nagar road area was between 75 to 125 per day in the month of February and March but as water has arrived from Bhama Askhed, it has come down to 28 to 30 tankers per day. We are trying to bring it down to zero but it will take time.” Pawaskar said, “Some parts in Lohegaon like Khandvenagar which got merged recently did not have a water pipeline network. So it’s important to provide them with water through a water tanker. Even some spots in Kharadi are facing water problems, but it will get sorted out. We are developing water lines in the Lohegaon area after which it would be able to achieve the zero-tanker mark in the eastern parts.” Pawaskar accepted that there is a rush at tanker points to fill up the water. “It is mainly due to the additional responsibility of water for newly merged areas. These new areas did not have water lines. They got merged recently. So water tankers are going in those areas,” he said. One of the prominent tanker operators said on anonymity, “Tanker business in the Pune city would never die. By considering the city’s geography, there are always problems in some parts which would not get water. Even after every few years, new areas are going to add in the city. If the tankers get closed in some parts, they move in the newly merged areas. Even after water closure, the water supply got affected in many parts of the city. There is no option than providing water through tankers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/despite-bhama-askhed-completion-tankers-in-full-swing-in-eastern-pune-101614450669667.html
28-02-2021||Pune||Pune sessions court rejects anticipatory bail application of Wadgaon Maval JMFC in bribery case||Additional Sessions Judge SR Navandar has rejected the bail application of Wadgaon Maval Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC) Archana Jatkar filed under Section 438 of CrPC in connection with a case lodged against her at Dehu road police station by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) under sections 7A and 12 of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. Apprehending arrest, the judicial officer had approached the court seeking anticipatory bail. Jatkar was under ACB radar since the arrest of Shubhavari Gaikwad on January 15, who was caught red-handed accepting a bribe of ₹2.5 lakh. Gaikwad who impersonated as a court staffer and promised to manage the court’s decision in favour of the complainant identified as Swapnil Madhukar Shevkar, a resident of Induri in Maval taluka of the district. Shevkar who runs a milk dairy in the name ‘Kadjai Mata Dudh Sankalan’ used to supply milk to Amul Dairy of Khed. Shubhavari Gaikwad, approached him on January 4 and January 5 falsely pretending herself to be ‘Mhatre Madam’ and told him that there is a criminal case filed against him in the court of the applicant judicial officer. She also showed him a copy of a criminal complaint and pointed out that it was posted for hearing on January 6 and gave him an assurance that the case will be dismissed by managing the presiding officer if he made a payment of ₹5 lakh. Shevkar showed displeasure after which she reduced the amount of bribe to Rs. 3 lakh. The complainant, therefore, approached the office of ACB on January 6 and filed a complaint of demand for bribe after which a trap was laid leading to her arrest. The judge in his order observed, “The above observations prima facie denote serious involvement of the applicant in the commission of crime i.e. demand and acceptance of bribe through the accused number one (Shubhavari Gaikwad). There are statements of some litigants to whom the accused number one approached in similar manners in relation to the cases pending in the court of the applicant. In a similar manner, she gave proposals. There appears to be a serious conspiracy that needs to be excavated. The hidden network needs to be traced out and this cannot be done unless the applicant is interrogated in police custody. It is, therefore, the arguments advanced on behalf of the applicant cannot be accepted. The applicant is a public servant. She owes a duty to render services without fear and favour of anybody, particularly when she is working as a judicial officer. When it is prima facie noticed that she is involved in corrupt practices, no relief of anticipatory bail can be granted to her.” The observation stated “APP PS Agarwal argued that there is sufficient evidence to show that the applicant is involved in the commission of a crime. He has taken me through the papers of investigation including scripts of conversations recorded during verification of bribe and during the trap. According to him, custodial interrogation of applicant is necessary. The offence is very serious and therefore anticipatory bail may not be granted The advocate for the JMFC argued that the amount of bribe paid to Gaikwad has been seized, she has been interrogated and now released on bail, nothing is remained to be seized from the accused and therefore her custodial interrogation is not necessary. It is, therefore, prayed for grant of anticipatory bail.” Box On January 13, 2021, a trap was laid on Shubhavari Gaikwad where she accepted a bribe amount, which consisted of real cash of ₹50,000 and duplicate notes of ₹2,50,000. Immediately, she was taken into custody. When her hands were checked under the ultraviolet lamp, those were found shining with the anthracin powder. Accordingly, a trap panchanama was prepared. Thereafter, an FIR came to be registered and the accused was formally arrested and interrogated in police custody. The order stated “The learned advocate for the applicant AL Dongare has argued that there are no direct allegations against the applicant in FIR that there is no evidence of her involvement either in demand or in acceptance of the amount and the applicant has been falsely implicated in the case. It is submitted that the applicant came in contact with the accused number one a few days ago when she was in search of the caretaker for her child. It is argued that the applicant contacted the accused number one only for the purpose of securing a maidservant and not with any another purpose. According to the advocate for the applicant, it is possible that the accused number one had taken undue advantage of the acquaintance of the applicant and demanded bribe in her name.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-sessions-court-rejects-anticipatory-bail-application-of-wadgaon-maval-jmfc-in-bribery-case-101614450670156.html
28-02-2021||Mumbai||Pandemic effect: Maharashtra issues guidelines to tackle learning losses||With schools in the state remaining shut for nearly 10 months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra education department has issued guidelines for addressing concerns about loss of learning over these months.In an eight-page document, the department has laid out guidelines for bringing drop-out students back to schools and mitigate loss of learning over the past one year. “Not all students have access to online learning, and there are many limitations in reaching out to such students despite efforts from schools. Similarly, there has been a lot of reverse migration from urban areas to villages during the pandemic. There is a concern that children who migrated in such a manner might drop out or be forced into child labour. This is a key reason why some guidelines are needed to help bring such students back to schools and train the ones who might have suffered learning losses,” states the document.The guidelines include giving special attention to female students and children with special needs to ensure that they do not lag behind in their studies and do not drop out. Similarly, schools have been asked to conduct awareness drives among parents, assuring about the safety of the students in schools during the current situation. A list of students who have migrated is to be collated and such students should be contacted to ensure that they continue learning. Similarly, the guidelines also have several measures to mitigate learning losses. For instance, teachers have to stress on remedial learning when physical schools reopen and should focus on ensuring that students possess basic arithmetic and language literacy. Teachers need to be trained to address challenges with respect to loss of learning, states the circular.The education department has launched a drive to identify out-of-school students across the state from March 1. While schools in Mumbai and Thane are yet to reopen, those in other parts of the state have reopened for Classes 9 to 12 from November 23 and for Classes 5 to 8 from January 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pandemic-effect-maharashtra-issues-guidelines-to-tackle-learning-losses-101614450614019.html
28-02-2021||Pune||Grocery store owner booked for duplicating masala||The Sinhagad police have booked a grocery store for selling fake spices in the name of Suhana Masala company. Sanjay Kumar Bhise (46) has lodged a complaint against the accused who has been identified as Praveen Kankaria (45), a resident of Wadgaon Budruk. According to the police, Bhise who is the sales representative of the company had received a tip-off that Kankariya was allegedly selling mutton and chicken spices in packets carrying the name of Suhana Masala brand. Accordingly he gave a written complaint to the police station after which they raided the premises which go by the name Kankariya trading. The police have seized duplicate packs of spices in the name of the original brand and the investigation is on.PSI Vishal Shinde of the Sinhagad police stattion is the investigating officer in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/grocery-store-owner-booked-for-duplicating-masala-101614450612474.html
28-02-2021||Pune||Software engineer on a plogging mission to clean Pune||Vivek Gurav, a 25-year-old software engineer has taken it upon himself to clean the city through plogging initiatives. Gurav’s efforts to clean the Indrayani river ghat in Alandi as an engineering student won him huge praise in the area. “When I shifted to Pune for higher studies, I joined the MIT academy of engineering, Alandi in 2014. The river Indrayani was a place where I went for a daily walk with my friends in the evening. We observed people who carelessly dumped a lot of trash and plastic in the river as well as surrounding areas,” said Gurav. Initially, Gurav and his friends blamed the local body and government for all these actions, but he personally felt it was the moral duty of citizens including him to follow cleanliness norms and keep the city clean.He appealed to his friends to join him in cleaning the river Indrayani who initially was quite hesitant, but he took up a challenge and started the cleaning journey.With the support of a few friends, he adopted Indrayani river for a mega clean-up mission.“The efforts lasted for four years and we saw a behavioral change in the visitors after a span who minimized littering at the Indrayani ghat near Alandi temple. After my college days, we stopped the campaign and took up the charge to not only clean rivers but all the public spaces in the city,” Gurav said.Vivek has been picking trash while he is on an early morning walk or jogging every day. “I have integrated clean-up with my workout routine which has now made this a multi-tasking routine for me,” Gurav said.“Starting my day early morning at 5-6 am daily has helped me manage my work schedule. I do the morning walk for around 45 minutes covering 3 km stretch daily. That has helped me stay fit and healthy while contributing to the Clean City mission,” he said.Gurav added that he was called Kabadiwala, Kachrawala, rag picker initially but he has now created an identity where people call him a plogger. In order to clear the social taboo and stigma around picking up trash, Gurav tried to involve people from different professional backgrounds when he launched a community of Ploggers - Pune Ploggers. “Transforming the way, we pick up trash and gamification of Swachh Bharat Mission, I was able to attract more than 4,000 Ploggers across India and now people have started identifying us as Eco-Fitness warriors. Cleaning the city isn’t only the responsibility of the government, citizen participation will actually drive the mission of Swachh Bharat abhiyan and Fit India movement,” Gurav said.More than 5,000 tonnes of waste have been collected through different campaigns. Most of the waste collected from river bodies is sent for segregation. The recyclable waste is segregated and sent for recycling by giving up the trash to local Kabadiwalas as a source of income for them. “That’s how they were able to involve them in the community as well.We make Eco-bricks out of non-recyclable plastic waste; cigarette butts are being recycled as well. The glass bottles are upcycled by a team of rural women who get some extra income by selling those,” he said.Addressing the mindset of citizens, promoting zero-littering habits, raising awareness through schools and colleges, talking to local communities and making them a part of this mission will drive the true purpose why he started this cause. “I have been promoting a zero-waste lifestyle. I have been talking about how climate change is impacting all of us and the role of youth-led action can be the ultimate climate action,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/software-engineer-on-a-plogging-mission-to-clean-pune-101614450611943.html
28-02-2021||Pune||IISER to train Science, Maths teachers from four states||After the success of training around 50,000 teachers from across Maharashtra in subjects like Science and Mathematics, the Indrani Balan Science Activity Centre (SAC) at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune is now planning to expand its program to four more states this year. The institute has taken various online initiatives to ensure that teachers are able to understand and explain basic concepts in science and mathematics to students in simpler ways through online education. Officials said that they are planning to work with the education department of other states in creating such study materials for other states in their own vernacular language. Harinath Chakrapani. professor and dean, international relations and outreach said that the training of teachers has received a very good response. “There are teachers with us from every district of Maharashtra and it is because of the proactive nature of the education department that we are able to reach so many teachers,” said Chakrapani. He further added that the institute is planning with other states to start similar programmes. “We are planning to reach four more states this year. Our intention is to reach proactive states that understand the value of training their teachers to effectively teach the students,” said Chakrapani. He also added that at present, the online videos are in three languages, namely English, Marathi and Hindi. “We have these three languages but as we expand the project, we will include experts from respective states to introduce more vernacular languages and help the child,” said Chakrapani. Also, under the SAC at IISER, Pune, there are activity-based online videos that are published each week which include various scientific experiments for children, parents and teachers. “After the lockdown last year, these videos became more popular as many students, parents and teachers started giving feedback. There were around 1 lakh views to each video we made. Also, we have video feedback from students who tried these experiments at home. These experiments are based on basic scientific principles and through the videos, we hope that these concepts are clear to the students,” said Chakrapani. Box Planetarium still under construction The planetarium at Pimpri-Chinchwad Science Park has been under construction since 2016. The project is on the verge of completion. Though there are various other Science day programs at the Science Park this year, the visit to the planetarium may need more time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/iiser-to-train-science-maths-teachers-from-four-states-101614450611438.html
28-02-2021||Mumbai||RT-PCR samples now tested at Mumbai airport||Passengers undergoing the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) may be able to get their tests results quicker. This is because the airport has tied up with Mylab Discovery Solutions and allotted space to set up the RT-PCR testing counter as well as for the processing of the sample for a quick turnaround. The counter has been set up at Level 1 of the Terminal (East Side) for the international passengers. For the domestic passengers, the counter is set up in the arrival corridor.Mylab Discovery Solutions’ facility was inaugurated on February 22 for both international and domestic passengers arriving at the airport. The lab will help passengers with test results within eight hours at a minimal cost of ₹850.The test facilities are available at both departures and arrivals at the airport.The airport spokesperson said, “additional facility is introduced for the convenience and offering a speedy report to the arriving passengers.”CSMIA said that the facility is in compliance with the standard of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) certified agency for testing Covid-19 samples.Currently, CSMIA hosts three testing facilities at the terminal. These are handled by Suburban Diagnostics, Metropolis Healthcare Ltd. and Lifenity Wellness International limited. It has 30 counters of testing facilities wherein 12 counters are set up for international travellers and 18 counters for domestic passengers. “The express test is available at ₹4,500 and aims to provide the arriving passengers with a quick and accurate diagnosis,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rtpcr-samples-now-tested-at-mumbai-airport-101614450610981.html
28-02-2021||Pune||Fuel prices rise again after a three-day interval in Pune||After three days of staying constant, the fuel prices in the city moved upward once again with regular petrol touching ₹97.17 per litre while diesel was recorded at ₹86.88 per litre, according to price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The price of premium or branded petrol, which had crossed the ₹100 per litre mark on February 20, further rose at ₹100.87 per litre, the notification stated. Previously, the rates were hiked on Tuesday when Petrol in Pune had touched ₹96.96 per litre and diesel at ₹86.72 per litre. Maharashtra’s Parbhani town in the Marathwada region has the highest price of fuel in the state. Regular petrol reached ₹99.68 per litre in Parbhani and the rate of Power petrol has crossed ₹102 per litre. The rate of diesel in Parbhani is ₹89.28 per litre, as per the notification.With the rate of fuel continuously increasing, the transporters have threatened to increase their rates. Earlier, when premium petrol breached the ₹100 per litre mark, transporters body proposed to increase rates by 20 per cent.We have written to the Central government. Otherwise, we will have to give the call for a strike,” said Baba Shinde, a member of the transporter association.According to RTI activist and president of Sajag Nagrik Manch Vivek Velankar, the rise in the prices of fuel for aeroplanes are less than the prices at which commoners are purchasing fuel. The hike, as Velankar noted, was mostly due to higher taxes by the centre and state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fuel-prices-rise-again-after-a-three-day-interval-in-pune-101614450550642.html
28-02-2021||Other||Pune dist reports 1,484 new Covid cases, 4 deaths in 24 hours||The Pune district reported 1,484 new Covid cases and four deaths in 24 hours on Saturday, according to the state health department.This takes the progressive count to 4.08 lakh out of which 3.86 lakh have recovered and 8,105 were declared dead. Currently, 13,692 are active cases who are currently undergoing treatment in the hospital or are in home isolation.The city reported 743 new cases taking the progressive count to 208,479 and the death toll stood at 4,574 as one death was reported on Saturday.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 340 new virus cases which took the progressive count to 101,847 and the death toll stood at 1,329 with one death reported in 24 hours.Pune rural reported 401 new cases with the progressive count at 97,910 while the death toll stood at 2,153, as two deaths were reported.On Saturday, 3,648 patients were discharged taking the count to 20.20 lakh after full recovery. The recovery rate in the state is 94.14%. Also, 8,623 new cases were reported in the state today taking the final count to 21.46 lakh.Meanwhile, 51 new Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state on Saturday which took the death toll to 53,296. The Case fatality rate is the state is 2.43%. Out of 1,61,99,818 laboratory samples 21,46,777 have been tested positive (13.25%) for Covid-19 until Saturday.Currently, 3,34,102 people are in home quarantine and 3,084 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-dist-reports-1-484-new-covid-cases-4-deaths-in-24-hours-101614449409458.html
28-02-2021||Other||Covid restrictions likely to continue in Pune district||As the Covid cases continue to rise in the district, Saurabh Rao, Pune divisional commissioner, has hinted at extending the existing restrictions.The order regarding the same is likely to be issued today (Sunday).“Curbs on the movement of residents during the night hours is likely to continue. There won’t be any restrictions on the shop timings. Shops can remain open provided that they follow the Covid protocol and restaurants/hotels timings will not change. We are yet to decide whether to keep schools close for another week or two,” he said.Considering the increasing number of Covid cases in the Pune district, all schools, colleges and private coaching classes are closed till February 28.On February 21, following the meeting with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, Pune divisional commissioner had announced new restrictions in the Pune district which are effective till February 28. The restrictions included curbs on the movement of residents during the night hours from 11pm to 6 am, hotels, restaurants and bars are allowed to operate only till 11 pm.Essential services, such as medical stores and hospitals, milk and vegetable supply, newspaper distribution and transport of food grains, are excluded from the restrictions.“We are in discussions with the authorities and the current restrictions are likely to continue. A decision is yet to be taken regarding reopening schools and colleges. The upcoming examination of Secondary School Certificate (SSC) and Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) will have to be considered. There will be no additional restrictions,” said Murlidhar Mohol, Pune mayor.On Saturday (February 27), the Pune district reported 1,484 new Covid cases and four deaths, according to the state health department. This takes the progressive count to 4.08 lakh out of which 3.86 lakh have recovered and 8,105 were declared dead. Currently, 13,692 are active cases who are currently undergoing treatment in the hospital or are in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-restrictions-likely-to-continue-in-pune-district-101614445029802.html
28-02-2021||Other||80 illegal structures razed in anti-encroachment drive in Kothrud||An anti-encroachment drive was carried out by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) at Sagar Colony in Kothrud, on Saturday.The action was taken against at least 70 to 80 illegal shanties, homes and shops, said officials.Madhav Jagtap, PMC encroachment department, said, “These properties were becoming a hurdle for road widening. They all were illegal and obstructing the road.”Jagtap said PMC undertook the drive with the help of the police. “The police force was on the spot so the process was smooth. We used the JCB excavaters for removing the shops.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/80-illegal-structures-razed-in-anti-encroachment-drive-in-kothrud-101614445029206.html
28-02-2021||Other||42 sites in Pune city shortlisted for free Covid vaccine shots||The administration has begun preparation to add more vaccination sites, crowd management, adverse effects following immunization (AEFI) management and also check internet connectivity as the government hospitals, private health facilities gear up to give jabs to senior citizens and 45-years and above with comorbidities from next month.Dr Ashish Bharati, health chief, PMC, said, “We have shortlisted about 42 session sites only for free shots at government centres in Pune city. We are now checking for internet connectivity, room space, AEFI management and in case the referral hospital is located far away in case of any AEFI we will not consider that centre.”For those willing to get the vaccine at private centres, each dose is likely to cost ₹250 at the session site. About 12 lakh vulnerable people are likely to be vaccinated in the city.As per the order issued by the central government to states, that as per the Co-WIN 2.0 meeting chaired by chief executive officer (CEO) National Health Authority and Union Health Secretary held on Friday, it was said that the service charge to be recovered from private hospitals acting as Covid vaccination centre would be subject to the ceiling price of ₹100 per person per dose. Besides, private hospitals will recover ₹150 per person per dose as the cost of the vaccine. So each beneficiary would have to pay ₹250 per dose per person. As recommended for maximum efficacy each person has to take two doses and so as per the current order, the vaccination would cost the beneficiary ₹500.As per the central government guidelines, the phase two vaccination centres must be government health facilities such as primary health centres, community health centres, Ayushman Bharat health and wellness centres, sub-division hospitals, district hospitals and medical college hospitals. All private hospitals empanelled under Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS), Ayushman Bharat- Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana (AB-PM JAY) and similar state health insurance schemes.The private health facilities must have adequate space for the vaccination process, basic cold chain equipment for storing the vaccine vials, have their team of vaccinators and staff and adequate facility for management of any AEFI cases. Although the guidelines also talk about advance self-registration, on-site registration and facilitated cohort registration, the local authorities and the possible private hospital still await more details.Dr Avdhut Bodamwhad, medical superintendent, Ruby Hall Clinic, which is one of the empanelled MPJAY hospitals, said, “We are yet to get any specific information about opening up our session sites for the vaccination of the general public. We currently have two of the four-session sites active, but we can open all four if the state permits.”“We are currently vaccinating frontline workers and our staff as we have about 3,000 people. We are awaiting more details,” he said.Dr Bharati said, “It is possible that the first few days beginning from March 1 would be for a dry run like the ones we had during the first phase. This could delay the ongoing phase-one vaccination. The state has promised no shortage of vaccines.”States and Union Territories have been asked to keep a vaccination scale-up plan ready which will include the granular weekly and fortnightly plans for scaling up the vaccination sites both within the government and private facilities and also the number of vaccine doses administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/42-sites-in-pune-city-shortlisted-for-free-covid-vaccine-shots-101614444309103.html
28-02-2021||Other||12% of healthcare workers have got second dose of Covid vaccine in Pune district||The district administration is now racing against time as the central government begins to vaccinate the general population. From March 1, the states have to begin vaccination for citizens above 60 years of age and those within the age bracket of 45 to 59 years with specified co-morbidities. This number alone would come to about 18 lakh in the district.However, the administration is currently lagging in vaccinating beneficiaries under the first phase itself as 12.07 % of the registered healthcare workers (HSCW’s) have got the second round of Covid vaccine dose while frontline workers (FLW’s) are yet to get their second dose.As per the state health department as of Friday (February 26), out of the 1,06,451 HCW’s in the district 73,493 have got their first dose and 12,853 have got the first and second doses.Also, out of the 84,154 expected beneficiaries, 37,131 FLW’s have got their first dose and will get the second dose in March (28 after receiving the first dose).Dr Ashish Bharati, chief health officer, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said, “Our vaccination drive for FLW’s and HCW’s has been halted by the state government for February 27 and 28, which cost us dearly. We could have vaccinated at least 8,000 workers in these two days if we were allowed to continue with the momentum.”“In the past two days we vaccinated more than the target and covered the maximum number of possible beneficiaries,” he said.The vaccination drive is likely to be hampered next week too as the state and the Centre would conduct a dry run of the Co-WIN app for the registration of the general public.The administration is now searching for additional sites which can be used to vaccinate seniors and those above 45 years with comorbidities. Along with the specifications mentioned by the central government, the site needs to have good internet connectivity which is a challenge for the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/12-of-healthcare-workers-have-got-second-dose-of-covid-vaccine-in-pune-dist-101614437768825.html
