03-05-2020||News||Heart patients should not delay hospital visits due to Covid-19 fears||Over the last three months, the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has brought the world to a standstill. That Covid-19 affects the respiratory system is known; in its milder form, which is the case in more than 80% of those infected, it causes fever, sore throat, cough, and body aches that abate over a couple of weeks without any treatment. But some of these cases may get serious because of pneumonia, leading to breathlessness, which may need ventilator support. Many of these patients don’t survive. Over the last six weeks, doctors have realised that Covid-19 also affects the heart in many ways, leading to the creation of treatment protocols by several national societies to manage cardiac cases during the Covid-19 pandemic.It is now evident that patients with pre-existing heart diseases, previous heart attacks, or low-pumping efficiency of the heart (heart failure) are at a greater risk of developing serious Covid-19 infection. Those above 60 years with hypertension or diabetes have a five times greater risk of dying from it. On the other hand, even a mild coronavirus infection can lead to the worsening of previously stable heart disease, needing urgent medical care for stabilisation. Therefore, heart patients must protect themselves from Covid-19 by social distancing, wearing masks, washing hands, and using sanitisers. Heart patients also need to maintain a healthy lifestyle during the lockdown by following indoor exercise and yoga regimes, a healthy diet, sleeping, engaging in recreational activities, taking medications regularly, and staying positive. Going forward, these protective habits should become the new normal lifestyle.There has been a realisation that the virus can affect the heart in previously healthy individuals. The virus can cause severe inflammatory responses in the body that affect the arteries and, in addition, cause an increased tendency for clotting. This can lead to heart attacks and strokes, and these can occur in a younger age groups. The virus can also infect the heart muscle, causing myocarditis, which can be confused with a heart attack. This leads to decreased pumping efficiency of the heart, acute heart failure, shock, heart rate, and rhythm irregularities, and in rare instances, sudden death. This heart muscle injury is seen in 20%-30% of Covid-19 patients hospitalised with breathing problems, and is reflected in markedly raised levels of a commonly available blood marker (Troponin I) test and contributes to 50% of the deaths. Such serious patients require advanced in-hospital supportive care. Experts agree that patients getting admitted now with acute cardiac problems should be tested to exclude the coronavirus. Following recovery from Covid-19, those with myocarditis may recover over weeks, but knowledge of this is limited.Finally, there is an intriguing paradox observed during this pandemic that has implications for heart patients. Hospitals around the world including India have noted an approximately 50% decrease in the admission of patients with acute heart attacks, a medical emergency requiring life-saving treatment. Cardiologists have debated on the causes for this. While pollution-free and stress-free lifestyles during the lockdown could have resulted in lower heart attack rates, the inability to reach hospitals for treatment because of movement restrictions could be another reason. But the biggest concern across the world seems to be that despite their heart condition deteriorating, many patients may be delaying medical attention and treatment because they are scared to go to the hospital for the fear of being infected by the coronavirus. Evidence of this has been seen in Europe and the United States, where everyone calls for an ambulance in case of medical emergencies, and accurate and centralised data is maintained of all medical events in the community. While there are fewer acute heart attack cases being admitted to hospital emergency units, there is a marked increase in deaths from cardiac arrest at home , probably due to the postponement and delay in seeking medical attention. It is, therefore, important to emphasise that heart patients must not ignore any deterioration in symptoms and/or delay medical attention. Telemedicine consultation is now possible with most doctors for immediate advice. Furthermore, heart patients should feel reassured that the hospitals are open, doctors are working, and the medical facilities are safe places with well-defined protocols laid down for both elective and emergency treatment to keep the patients protected from infection. So the clear message is: No heart patient should delay or postpone any treatment due to undue fears over Covid-19 if the need arises. Timely treatment saves lives.While we fight the coronavirus together and take care of Covid-19 patients, millions of heart patients should be reassured that their safety remains a priority for those of us in the medical profession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/heart-patients-should-not-delay-hospital-visits-due-to-covid-19-fears/story-RWTeQcdu8ircUCZn2xYijL.html
03-05-2020||News||Covid-19: In times of crisis, women self-help groups lead the way||As India fights the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), it requires all stakeholders to take charge and deliver. Among those which are working on the ground, the women-led self-help groups (SHGs) have emerged as effective frontline responders, reaching the last-mile and ensuring an immediate relief and socio-economic protection to the country’s most vulnerable.Their reach is staggering: Approximately 67 million women are organised into 6 million SHGs. Operating on the principles of self-help, cohesion and mutual interest, SHGs are voluntary groups of 10-20 women from their neighbourhood, who pool their savings and gain access to credit. As of today, these collectives have saved $1.4 billion, and leveraged another $37 billion from commercial banks. What began as a call to empower poor rural women under the aegis of the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM) has since grown into one of the world’s largest institutional platforms for the poor.To facilitate the workings of SHGs, the Union ministry of rural development issues policy directions and advisories to state missions.SHGs have local as well as national reach. They are producing masks and personal protective equipments (PPEs), creating awareness about the pandemic, and delivering essentials goods and financial assistance to the most vulnerable.For example, in Bihar, women under the JEEViKA platform (the State Rural Livelihood Mission) are active in identifying and surveying vulnerable households. Using innovative communication methods, SHG members ensure that the risks of Covid-19 and its transmission are easily explained to rural masses. Using the information education and communication material developed by the state mission, the didis, as they are locally called, use the network of 1.4 lakh state-wide SHGs to create awareness about hand-washing, social distancing, sanitation and quarantine.In Uttar Pradesh (UP), with the help of Khadi Gramudyog, SHG members plan to produce masks worth six lakh metres of khadi fabric. In Kheri district, SHGs are working round-the-clock to produce PPE kits for frontline health workers and police personnel. Moreover, SHG women under the Prerna platform use methods such as rangolis, TikTok videos and songs to create awareness about hand-washing and social distancing.In Jharkhand, SHG women use the Aajeevika Farm Fresh mobile app to sell vegetables, ensuring that social distancing guidelines are not flouted. They also use their networks to identify vulnerable households, flagging to the administration the pockets in need of food. They help run a 24-hour helpline by the State Rural Livelihood Mission (SRLM), which provides important information and counselling to the returning migrant. Every Panchayat in the state has a Muhkya Mantri Didi Kitchen, which provides free food to the needy. At present, the state has about 4,185 community kitchens in as many Panchayats, with SRLM providing Rs 20,000 each to SHGs running these centres.In Kerala, through the renowned Kudumbashree network, women collectives have been on the frontlines, home-delivering groceries through a floating market to the most vulnerable, providing PPEs to local government hospitals, and running 1,300 community kitchens across the state. They also help in Covid-19-related myth-busting.In several states, SHGs have taken up the task of production, packaging and distribution of take-home ration (THR) as anganwadi centres across the country are shut due to the lockdown. In Odisha and Chhattisgarh, the SHG women also distribute eggs along with THR. This ensures that the State reaches every child under five, pregnant women, lactating mothers, and vulnerable target groups.In many states, SHG members engaged as BC Sakhi (banking correspondent agents) help home-deliver the Centre’s financial relief packages for the rural community facing socio-economic distress, pensioners, and those who are dependent on the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act.There are four main reasons why SHGs play an important role in serving the poor:One, they have a better understanding of local communities, and in times of crises, have immediate access on the ground.Two, they serve as an integral community communication channel, help reach the last mile, and are trusted by local communities.Three, they can provide short- and medium-term social and economic protection, serving as a critical conduit for providing relief to the most vulnerable.Four, they quickly set up the production of relevant items using their well-honed skills, and put to use village distribution and supply chains.As we celebrate and acknowledge their contributions in tackling the coronavirus pandemic, we must continue to strengthen them, and replicate the model across the country. They must be given a requisite economic and social empowerment. Governments and society must recognise that effective emergency response and the social and economic protection of the most vulnerable is critically dependent on institutions like SHGs.Nita Kejrewal is joint secretary, ministry of rural developmentThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-in-times-of-crisis-women-self-help-groups-lead-the-way/story-SyXJVNPLUdVbSljkeaeszN.html
03-05-2020||News||We need social solidarity, not social distancing||Leadership plays a crucial role in times of crises. In confronting unprecedented challenges such as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), proper messaging is essential to galvanise people. In the Indian context, apart from region, language and faith, social diversity also plays an important role. The growing consciousness on social diversity is a significant step in dealing with exclusion and incidents of discrimination on the basis of birth. Therefore, any strategy to contain a crisis of this proportion must be inclusive.When Prime Minister Narendra Modi used “physical distancing” instead of “social distancing” in Mann Ki Baat, it started a debate in India. In a deeply hierarchical society with traditional prejudices, social exclusion may masquerade as “social distancing”. That made intellectual leaders from the subaltern communities across the country question the term “social distancing”.Not only in India, but voices from across the world challenged the usage of the term. Socially marginalised and racially segregated people, who are unfortunately at the bottom of the pyramid, unequivocally discarded the term “social distancing”. Rising international concerns eventually made the World Health Organization advocate for the use of the term “physical distancing”.Caste still remains a fundamental component of the national conversation. It plays an instrumental role in shaping the structures of power and influence. Government data on social atrocities, published by the National Crime Records Bureau, recognises it as a cardinal source of tension in both rural and urban areas. The term “social distancing”, therefore, smells of archaic practices perpetuating casteism. Noted thinker on Dalit issues and professor of sociology at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, Vivek Kumar, says, “There is absolutely nothing as a pristine, pure and universal culture. Terms are culturally-specific and, therefore, cultural constructs should also be society-specific. Social distancing in India was maintained during birth, death and menstruation. Social distance is the totality of interactional distancing barring all cultural and physical engagements. Hence, we must not even unconsciously legitimise anything that ends up intensifying social cleavages and conflicts.”There is an imminent threat of social distancing gaining traction in society. Regressive sections might choose to justify traditional social distancing as an effective tool to counter the pandemic. It will be a big dent to the efforts of those who have dedicated their lives for the cause of fairness and equality. Social reform movements against caste and its privileges are as old as Savitri Bai Phule and BR Ambedkar, and that struggle for equality still continues. We must go back to the Constitution’s preamble, which seeks to achieve social justice as the nation’s ultimate virtue.Empathy, sense of compassion and efforts aimed at achieving social solidarity to challenge Covid-19 must be acknowledged and encouraged at all levels. Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief, Mohan Bhagwat, too, in his address to the nation, promoted the term “physical distancing” instead of “social distancing”. The leadership, both at the government- and the civil society-level, has shown that the crisis needs a socially cohesive and comprehensive strategy.India has made substantial progress, with a Dalit in the Rashtrapati Bhawan and a person from a socially-backward community as the country’s prime minister. The collective conscience of the country is at an all-time high. The march towards social justice and equality must compliment the efforts to contain the pandemic without losing credence. To crush the virus, this crisis must be transformed into an opportunity that coalesces the collective will of every Indian – irrespective of caste, creed, gender, and religion.Guru Prakash is assistant professor, Patna University, and fellow, India FoundationThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/we-need-social-solidarity-not-social-distancing/story-QlECWtV9vAU0wOVgTYc3YI.html
03-05-2020||News||A tale of two epidemics – Aids and Covid-19||The global upheaval created by the new strain of coronavirus (Covid-19) reminds us that communicable diseases are always a threat to public health. I look at the coronavirus pandemic with a feeling of déjà vu – with memories of the deadly spread of HIV/Aids just two decades ago fresh in my mind. It consumed more lives and left many more infected than Covid-19 is likely to before it is tamed and eliminated.I see similarities in how countries responded to Aids then and Covid-19 now. While, in case of Aids, it was Africa and the third-world countries that were in denial and bore the brunt of the epidemic, this time around, it is the developed world that has messed up the response to the Covid-19 crisis, despite possessing the scientific and technological prowess to challenge it. During the Aids epidemic in the 1990s, African and Asian countries underestimated the spread of HIV, thanks to the lack of sophisticated epidemiological tools and responsive health systems. But there can be no excuse for the developed world’s complacency and a lack of preparedness in dealing with the coronavirus crisis; they, after all, possess the world’s best information technology-enabled epidemiological surveillance systems to track pandemics.One common challenge that we faced then, and face still now, is to arrive at a credible number of infections. In the case of Covid-19, most countries are tailoring their responses to symptomatic cases or those quarantined for suspected infections. Infectious diseases always have a large number of unreported cases, with people either unaware or frightened to undergo tests. But there are still no organised efforts to bring out a credible number of estimated infections in countries reporting a high number of cases.During the HIV crisis, the process to arrive at an estimated number was developed quite early with help from the United Nations system. India reported less than one lakh HIV infections 20 years after the first case was reported in 1986. But national-level sentinel surveillance conducted in 1998 yielded an estimate of three million infections. This was further refined using new data, but the number was still as high as 2.4 million, 20 times more than the reported cases. This forced the government to recognise the severity of the epidemic and invest resources into a vastly expanded and decentralised national AIDS response in 1999. In the next 10 years, the infection level was brought down by 56%, and the mortality was reduced through an expanded treatment programme covering almost 1.2 million people.It should be epidemiologically possible to initiate national-level sentinel surveillance for Covid-19 in India, to locate if any latent epidemics are occurring in rural and remote areas outside the hot zones identified by states. The integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP) should be given the mandate to undertake such periodic surveillance with technical inputs from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Testing is another important component of epidemic control. In the Aids programme, rapid kits introduced in 2,000 had enabled the government to quickly expand testing facilities across the country, which allowed people to get themselves tested and, if required, enrolled in the treatment programme.Similarly, in the case of Covid19, India could easily overcome its initial reluctance to test large numbers. States could gradually expand testing facilities; the numbers, in case they are higher, can be partially explained by scaling up testing. The availability of rapid test kits for quick diagnosis could have enormously helped the programme, but substandard kits from China slowed down the effort. We need to quickly ramp up the indigenous production of rapid kits of standard quality to test the asymptomatic cases. Making kits available for voluntary testing at a very low price will help people access health care services during the early stages of infection.In the 90s, stigma and discrimination associated with HIV positives greatly hindered the response. Health care providers were reluctant to treat them due to the fear of infection, and a lack of universal precautions for infection control in government hospitals which bore the brunt of the epidemic. The big difference this time around is that health care providers at the forefront of the response are being hailed as heroes.But stigma is emerging from society due to an inadequate understanding of the dynamics of the Covid-19 epidemic. Disturbing instances of locals resisting last rites of people dying of Covid-19-related infections point towards the need to normalise the disease. Massive awareness campaigns in the late 90s, with community participation, contributed to a rise in awareness levels about HIV and Aids in the population. Similar efforts are needed now, with strong involvement of communities and persons cured of Covid-19.Unlike HIV, which still infects about 1.5 million persons every year, the immediate threat of Covid-19 may not last more than a year or two. But its impact on the health systems and economies will be more profound than HIV, which was more of a silent tsunami causing unnoticed destruction to vulnerable communities. But even if Covid-19 is controlled, it may not necessarily vanish. Until the mass immunisation of populations becomes possible with a preventive vaccine, we must be prepared for its periodical onslaughts, even if in a less virulent form. JVR Prasada Rao is a former health secretary and director, National AIDS Control Programme, Government of IndiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-tale-of-two-epidemics-aids-and-covid-19/story-iyUJS9RpU81K7C0icKszuM.html
