04-05-2020||News||It’s time to refresh old ideas like universal job guarantee||The lockdown due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is estimated to have tripled the urban unemployment rate in its first three weeks. According to the Reserve Bank of India, a full bounce-back looks unlikely in the near future, and the business sentiment has shifted from negative to one of pessimism.The government’s recently-announced economic package does little for workers in urban areas, most of whom are irregular informal workers. The majority of them – 62 to 85% – have no access to benefits such as provident funds and insurance, which make up the flagship government schemes for Covid-19 relief aimed at such workers.Policies to protect workers are being discussed across the world. Such as the United Kingdom’s payment of 80% of wages for furloughed workers and a universal basic income. Closer home, the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII), has urged the government to provide a fiscal stimulus of Rs 2 trillion, which could support 200 million low-income people with Rs 10,000 each. Many of the proposals being put forward insist on targeted direct transfers, often through biometric identification-based bank accounts. The CII specifically mentions an “Aadhar based Direct Benefit Transfer”.Targeting based on incomes and encashing checks may be easy in economies with broad-based tax and payments systems. For vulnerable groups in India, correct targeting and timely payments are perennial problems. Detailed data is severely lacking. For example, just 7% of adults file taxes, and the available labour force statistics make it difficult to accurately identify unemployed individuals. There is growing evidence of exclusions and omissions, and payment failures and misdirection from the Aadhar-based system even in normal times and in areas where it has been in place for a while.Economists have long recognised the informational challenges of targeted payments. They have advocated job guarantees because they are self-targeting. A needy rural household and a rural landlord both have access to work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), but the landlord is unlikely to take up digging wells for Rs 202 a day.These reasons motivated MGNREGA to cover all rural households, and the government expects to rely on it to create rural jobs once social distancing rules are relaxed. It is time to be bolder than this. A universal job guarantee needs to be on the table for discussion to cover the many workers who are in precarious work situations across in the country.Even in more advanced countries, national statistics have proved inadequate in recording informal workers outside the organised sector, especially the new breed of self-employed and temporary workers in cities. To understand the value of job guarantee to such workers, the Centre for Economic Performance at the London School of Economics conducted a survey of over 16,000 individuals in India in 2018. It found that, on average, an urban worker is willing to take a 15% cut in wage to get a guaranteed number of days of work in a year.Our survey showed that migrants were much less likely than non-migrants to be able to pay for emergency expenses. They also placed a greater value on having a job guarantee. Although a universal programme would not have overcome the immediate plight of uncovered migrants, it is certainly fair to say that the holes in coverage created by targeted payments have not been adequately weighed in policy discussions.The self-targeting features of a universal job guarantee make it equitable and cost-effective. A 100-day job guarantee at a daily wage of Rs 200 (similar to MGNREGA) would cost Rs 20,000 per person. Let’s suppose all casual workers (13% of the urban workforce of 300 million persons), irrespective of income, take up the job guarantee. To calculate how many other individuals take it up, add the 15% value that workers place on having a job guarantee, and we end up with a daily value of Rs 230. In urban India, 16% of the workforce, including those who are unemployed, earn less than Rs 230 from other works – and suppose all of them take up the job guarantee scheme. From a back of the envelope calculation, an urban job guarantee would cost Rs 1.74 trillion, or 0.8% of India’s annual GDP.Many may consider Rs 200 obscenely low. At Rs 400 a day, the estimated cost of providing a 100-day job guarantee would be Rs 6.6 trillion. In reality, costs are likely to be much lower, because the take-up rates here include government workers and business owners, who place much lower values on job guarantee.Importantly, these costs do not net out potential benefits from skills for young urban workers, 93% of whom have no formal vocational or on-the-job training. A job guarantee might lift some of their despondency, as documented for young UK workers during the New Deals of the late 1990s.At a time of severe economic insecurity, a pledge, not even an actual outlay of 1 to 3% of GDP, is a minuscule sum to restore dignity to those who may have fallen through the cracks. This is not the time for “technophiles” to dogmatically cling on to the libertarian ambitions of targeted bank transfers as an end in itself. Old ideas of job guarantees have value in today’s difficult economic times.Swati Dhingra is associate professor, department of economics, and Centre for Economic Performance, London School of EconomicsThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/it-s-time-to-refresh-old-ideas-like-universal-job-guarantee/story-71ZCvvyVe1mOpU0kzXR2pN.html
04-05-2020||News||Covid-19: What it means for courts and businesses||Much like other sectors, the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has the potential to impact the legal framework globally. It might bring manpower rationalization, closure of business units, disruptions in supply chains and non-performance of contracts and calling-off of projects among other things. This will add to the existing caseload in Indian courts. This requires a proactive approach to insulate the legal system from a possible breakdown.But, every crisis brings in its wake opportunities. Covid-19 can be leveraged to introduce the greater use of technology to improve the accessibility and affordability of the system for litigants. During the lockdown, a few benches of the Supreme Court and high courts successfully heard important cases through the virtual medium. But to make it work efficiently across the country, the process must be intensified and widened to equip every court with the right technology and bandwidth.The use of technology is not low-hanging fruit. Considerable work has to be done in integrating and linking systems and data, harmonising procedures, and creating user-friendly digital structures. For instance, in the United States, the legal system began using technology over a decade ago. It required meticulous planning and implementation, which was comprehensive and capable enough to take care of all possible disruptions the system could cause. Instead of reinventing the wheel, India can borrow from the expertise that the US has.With Covid-19 shutting the country, it will likely bring a groundswell of cases that will focus on force majeure, since the parties involved in contracts may seek an escape-route invoking the disruptions in the supply chain and other eventualities.Under both Indian and English law, force majeure does not simply mean anything outside the control of the parties to a contract. Its meaning and applicability depend on the wording of a contract intended to anticipate unforeseen events and remedies for that. Implicit in it is the possible variance in the force majeure clauses incorporated in contracts. There are possibilities that some contracts might not have visualised such an eventuality or have opted for a restricted narration of the clause.In the given situation, it is important for SC to revisit the Doctrine of Frustration of Contracts/force majeure, and lay down conditions for the applicability of the doctrine, especially when the Indian Contract Act is largely silent on the issue.Much as the legal world, Covid-19 has triggered fear among both employees and employers about the continuity of employment and operations of businesses, which are affected across sectors. Even if the lockdown is lifted in the near future, its impact will be felt for long. Some business entities are already contemplating closing down, others are scaling down, and some, including the public sector undertakings, have announced pay cuts and retrenchment of contract workers.With the quantum of litigation expected to go up, alternative dispute settlement mechanisms such as mediation should be used to solve the cases, particularly related to tenancy, employment, deferment of loans, and the interest chargeable. The cases decided should have finality, with appeals going to higher courts only under exceptional cases. To handle the cases of litigation efficiently, cross-country special courts and benches should also be considered.Covid-19 also necessitates amendments to a number of existing laws to make them contextual to the change. Legislations such as Indian Contract Act, Indian Evidence Act, Intellectual Property Rights, labour laws, Disaster Management Act and Epidemics Act need to be reviewed to align them with the changes in the economic and legal framework.Lalit Bhasin is president, Society of Indian Law Firms and Bar Association of India, and chairman, CII Legal Services Committee and Chartered Institute of ArbitratorsThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-what-it-means-for-courts-and-businesses/story-vd0EbbVOFOkSKhUSbDiheP.html
04-05-2020||News||Covid-19: A call to save the planet, writes Valmik Thapar||Our world lies torn and shattered, and all because of an invisible virus that probably was let loose by a horseshoe bat. In our understanding of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), one critical factor stands out. The destruction of wildlife and wildlife habitats led to its creation. It could be from Wuhan’s horrific wet wildlife markets or experimenting with bats in a Wuhan laboratory or destroying bat habitats that led to a crisis where millions are infected and hundreds of thousands are dead.Intermediary species like the pangolin might have helped in mutating this virus and,over the last decade, humans have left no stone unturned to decimate pangolins and smuggle them live into wildlife markets. They could very easily have been the intermediary species.China is hugely responsible for the demand and needs to be shamed across the world. I squarely place blame on its actions. I watched closely its enormous role in the tiger crisis that enveloped India from the 1990s for two decades. I watched its increasing presence in Africa and the resultant decline in Africa’s wildlife. At many international meetings for the last 30 years, it was warned to end its illegal wildlife trafficking and markets. It paid no heed. Many wildlife warriors fought to prevent China from this highly destructive role.But China, as a global economic power, cared little and plunged on regardless in its craze for wild animal parts and associated medicine. As far as I am concerned, this virus is a result of this. This virus is also a result of the actions of all those political and business leaders who did not care. All those who scoffed at and mocked nature’s warriors, hurled abuse on those who served both wildlife and nature.The disrespect that many who serve nature have suffered is shocking. Many of us are now angry and unforgiving. Our warnings over the last 50 years have come true. We have tirelessly strived to prioritise the protection of our natural world. Very few who made policy or took decisions listened. Today, they should be drowning in guilt. Big business has failed nature. Few provide grants to protect it. Corporate leaders prefer to remain ignorant of the ways of nature. Now they have been hit where it hurts most. Trillions of dollars lost, and economies at a standstill. If we wake up from this nightmare, will they learn? Will they shed their arrogance? The less said about our politicians and bureaucrats, the better.I remember how hard I tried to get Prime Minister (PM) Manmohan Singh to create a department of forests and wildlife (which did not exist in the ministry of environment and forests) so that this essential sector was governed properly. The idea was to create a separate ministry over time and allow a ministry of environment and climate change to be independent of it. He agreed with my logic, (10 years ago), and instructed that it should be done. But a bunch of secretaries vetoed him. PM Narendra Modi has not held one meeting of the National Board of Wildlife in seven years. Nobody cares. They still do not realise that the virus they deal with originates in wildlife and is unleashed because of poor governance. They do not realise that India is in dire straits, the economy a mess and life disrupted because of how we deal with the natural world and its myriad species.Prime ministers, ministers, political leaders, bureaucrats, business leaders, and society must be educated, and fast, as nature’s time bomb is ticking. This coronavirus is a warning shot over the bow. Next time around, nature will let loose a virus that will be much more virulent. This global pandemic could have come much earlier. It did not because of the tireless service of both nature warriors and wildlife warriors. These people come from all walks of life, in villages, towns and cities and spend their time passionately defending nature. Without them, we would have no world to live in. They provide the most essential service to the nation, but aren’t recognised or respected. More often than not, they are relegated to oblivion. We need to remember all of them today and salute them.Who are these people? They are, among others, the 150,000 forest officers and forest guards. About 100,000 are scientists, wildlife watchers, wildlife travel promoters, wildlife hotel creators, wildlife photographers, wildlife filmmakers, writers, conservationists, naturalists, village volunteers and non-governmental organisations. We need to celebrate them when we are out of this crisis. The PM must brainstorm with them. You cannot run an economy without a healthy natural world. This virus reveals how easily economic collapse comes. Leaders of the world will have to put forests, wildlife and the environment on the top of the agenda if they do not want to be plagued with more disease and death.Economic recoveries must be green. No longer can we harm the natural wealth of our country or any country. This virus from Wuhan has proved that it can bring the world to its knees. That is the interdependence of the world today. Healing nature must be our call sign. Our leadership across this planet must wake up to a new era where life, the economics of it, the design of it are non-wasteful and non-exploitative and tempered with great respect for nature.Preventing global warming and the climate crisis must be immediate priorities. This virus has revealed how our planet is vulnerable and without healing nature, we, as a human race, will die. Let’s learn our lessons and act hand-in-hand with the natural world. We need an educated and enlightened media that does its homework. We need urgent global meetings of world leaders on forests and wildlife. We need global decisions to close wet markets and wildlife trade. We need to find non-invasive solutions for our future. Enough of diplomacy; it is time to call a spade a spade. Enough of G7 and G20 meets. They need to be re-strategised in light of what has happened.Our mission today must be to create key strategies to protect natural ecosystems, wilderness and all the life that abounds in it. If we do not achieve this mission, there is no hope for our planet’s future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-a-call-to-save-the-planet-writes-valmik-thapar/story-wcBSzgzOZTqTL2aIcg6kmJ.html
04-05-2020||News||Enable Make in India to become the new normal, writes Amitabh Kant||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis has put the whole world on notice. It has highlighted the need for efficient responses to urgently required goods and services. Perhaps never before has there been as much urgency in ensuring the supply of equipment crucial for frontline workers, essential services providers, and the population at large, in such a short time. With the massive demand for personal protection equipment (PPE), surgical and N95 masks, ventilators and testing kits, it has been necessary to look for solutions domestically. And Indian entrepreneurs have stepped up to the plate, and fulfilled the demands through innovation, repurposing, and bolstering the production of essential goods.This is why, going by the response from Indian companies to the pandemic, there is clear evidence that Make in India can be a driving force. Building on the catalysing effect of this concept, the next step is to provide a dependable regulatory framework, and incentivise similar synergies to allow Make in India across sectors become the new normal.As evident from the successes in the health sector, Indian companies and entrepreneurs can recalibrate, repurpose and become world beaters.The manner in which vitally important supplies to combat Covid-19 was made available is a testament to the potential of Make in India. India required 75,000 ventilators, of which just under 61,000 needed to be ordered. Nine domestic manufacturers were chosen to supply almost 60,000 of those, with just one importer being selected for the remaining 1,000. Of the domestic suppliers, Sanray Technologies and Bharat Electronics were chosen for 30,000 ventilators, while AMTZ and AgVa each for the supply of 13,500 and 10,000 respectively. A similar situation is being witnessed in PPEs, where for a total requirement of over 20 million PPEs, 35 domestic manufacturers have stepped up to fulfil the demand, supplying 13 million PPEs. The domestic manufacturing of PPEs has grown exponentially. For masks, of the 27.2 million required, three domestic manufacturers are providing 12.8 million. The production of domestically manufactured testing kits, both reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and rapid antibody testing, has been ramped up. This capability will enhance India’s daily testing capability. Overall, these are huge opportunities for Indian companies to prove their mettle. Indian companies are also at the frontline of developing a vaccine for Covid-19. Between six to eight Indian companies have reached the development phase. Zydus Cadila is said to be working on two vaccines, while Serum Institute, Biological E, Bharat Biotech, Indian Immunologicals, and Mynvax are also in the process of developing a vaccine. Biocon, a leading Indian biopharmaceutical company, is developing two new generation repurposed drugs for treatment and an antibody diagnostic kit. It is also working on a vaccine project with Seagull Biosolutions.Several entrepreneurs have made inroads in helping fight the pandemic.Biodesign Innovations Labs, which makes automated versions of low-cost manual ventilators, tied up with Remidio, a manufacturer of ophthalmological devices to ramp up production from 400 ventilators per month to 15,000 over the next couple of months. AgVa Healthcare tied up with Maruti Suzuki in a collaboration arrangement to develop ventilators, and potentially make 20,000 ventilators a month, up from its earlier production of 300 per month.Saral Designs repurposed from making sanitary napkins to manufacturing three-ply surgical masks, and in collaboration with the Mahindra Group, has raised production to 30,000 masks per day that they are sending to state governments through Mahindra’s Corporate Social Responsibility programme. Qure.ai, has used Artificial Intelligence (AI) and machine learning to develop a solution through screening chest X-rays for abnormalities in seconds, through door-to-door testing, acting as the first point of reference on who needs to be tested for Covid-19.Staqu Technologies, an AI-based contactless monitoring application, has a built-in provision for thermal cameras which can take body temperature from a distance of up to 10 metres. Asimov Robotics has introduced the “Karmi-bot”, a robot intended for isolation wards in hospitals, with the ability to carry medicines and food trays and conduct video calls with caregivers, among other essential features.And these are just a few of the innovators who are taking the fight to the pandemic.The collaboration between India’s best corporate entities and the brightest young start-up entrepreneurs during one of the world’s most critical periods is arguably one of the most positive takeaways for India’s future as a global powerhouse. India’s focus on fostering and supporting the startup ecosystem is a vital input towards becoming a $5 trillion economy. Collaboration, innovation, and the ability to recalibrate and repurpose bodes well for Make in India to be accelerated. If the results are so encouraging in the health sector, then with adequate support and a robust regulatory framework, this can be replicated across most sectors, helping India become self-sufficient and the nerve centre for growth and capability. There is no better time than now for this movement to take off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/enable-make-in-india-to-become-the-new-normal-writes-amitabh-kant/story-mfpm0Qc4hZCxGUNba655XO.html
