06-05-2020||News||A blueprint to restart the economy| Analysis||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is an unprecedented humanitarian crisis. Six weeks of national lockdown have given India the time to make a concerted effort to flatten the curve. Attention is now shifting to reopening the economy while containing the virus. In the six weeks so far, India’s economy has functioned at about half of its full activity level, with over 140 million non-farm workers inactive (of a total of 262 million). This is a cost that India cannot incur repeatedly. Since the infection risk is likely to persist and could increase when the lockdown is lifted, the economy will need to be managed alongside Covid-19, possibly for a prolonged period. In this situation, effective management of lockdowns and restarts will be a critical capability for Indian administrators, along with healthcare and infection tracking capacity. Looking ahead, three considerations may inform a suitable approach for India. First, India’s manufacturing, labour and distribution chains are tightly intertwined and this will need to be taken into account when lifting lockdowns. Take the electronics manufacturing sector, for example. It requires inputs from sectors as diverse as metal working, plastic moulding and paper processing; disallowing any of these could limit production. Second, India’s economic activity is concentrated — 130 districts that are classified by the ministry of health and family welfare as falling in the red zone comprise 40% of India’s GDP; the 352 green zone districts, where most activity is allowed, account for less than a quarter.Third, states may choose to keep red zone districts locked down beyond containment zones in order to minimise the risk of infection spreading, even though the ministry of home affairs (MHA) has allowed them to reopen. Mumbai and Pune, which represent 6% of India’s GDP, are two such examples. Furthermore, varying interpretations of government guidelines by local frontline administrators could confound the issue. In the dynamic environment anticipated, such guidelines may change frequently, needing an agile implementation capability on the ground. We used district-level data on employment for 700+ districts across 19 sectors to analyse economic activity and worker situation. If 27 of the most urbanised red zone districts that also have relatively high infection rates are under lockdown, only 80% of India’s economic activity occurs, and 67 million non-farm workers remain inactive. States such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Gujarat and Delhi will each have over four million non-farm workers inactive (see accompanying graphic). This will affect the lives and livelihoods of 195 million people and cost more than $12 billion per quarter in government support.  Therefore, India needs to build a granular, dynamic, locally implemented lockdown and restart management capability. Such a capability would consider several measures beyond the essential ones needed for managing the health situation (for instance, critical care capacity creation, disease tracking and spread prevention). One, clearly moving from a list of permissible activities to a “not-permitted” or “negative” list, which would be easier to understand and implement. This will avoid the risk of critical intermediate industries being disallowed because of a difference in interpretation. Two, reinforcing the principle of locking down only containment zones, not whole districts, in line with MHA guidelines. Administrators, particularly at the district level, are focused on what’s being reported daily —the disease statistics. Providing a 360 degree view that tracks health impact across both lives and livelihoods will enable more informed decision-making.Three, operationalising safe and controlled movement of labour between urban and rural areas, as well as within cities. Four, increasing implementation capacity at the district level through 700+ capable and trained officers deputed to work with district magistrates in each district to help execute locally tailored back-to-work and tailored lockdown plans; supported by cross-functional centres of excellence in each state. This happens in every Indian election. Five, strengthening coordination and communication. Tight coordination among various arms of the government — central departments, states, local administration and regulators — and with stakeholders from industry and commerce is important. A senior-level state-cum-central government Covid-19 forum that meets weekly could be created to interact frequently, sharing cross-functional learnings. This could help deliver clearer communication to stakeholders at all levels.Six, looking ahead and contingency planning since the future is uncertain and the situation will continue to evolve. It will be wise to develop contingency plans at all levels of government based on possible scenarios of disease evolution. India’s economy may likely need to function alongside Covid-19 for a prolonged period. Effective management of lockdowns and restarts will be a critical capability for Indian administrators in this context.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-blueprint-to-restart-the-economy-analysis/story-DmtM8I3eugAHbTav2yRHdM.html
06-05-2020||News||Covid-19: Getting Indian citizens back home||Speaking in 2014 to non-resident Indians (NRIs) in New York’s Madison Square Garden, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi promised that “I will never let you down.” The following year, speaking in Dubai, he thanked Indian workers in the Gulf for their contribution to the motherland: “Even if it rains in India, you open your umbrellas to keep us safe.”The coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-sparked crisis has now turned the tables, with NRIs and other Indian citizens abroad calling on Modi to fulfil his promises and bring them home to safety. Having benefitted at home from his international outreach to the diaspora, the PM will, by now, have realised that the diaspora’s committed support, including political and financial, comes with a price. There are between 10 -20 million Indian citizens abroad. In the Gulf countries alone, 300,000 Indians have registered to return, and an estimated 10,000 have contracted the virus. This poses an unprecedented challenge, one that no other country has faced so far. So, how can their safe passage home be ensured with minimal operational costs and maximum political benefit? The Vande Bharat Mission is yet another attempt by Modi to transform an external crisis into a domestic opportunity. Beginning on Thursday, and coordinated by the ministry of external affairs (MEA), the Vande Bharat Mission is likely to be the largest and most complex repatriation mission ever conducted by India, and possibly worldwide. There will be 64 flights in the first week, for 15,000 people. However, unlike other past operations, including from the Gulf in 1990 or Yemen in 2015, this time the government will only serve as a facilitator. Officials this week emphasised that this is “not an evacuation plan, as it is not government-sponsored” and only “coordinated by MEA and missions worldwide … on commercial basis.” This is a subtle but important clarification that raises several questions. Citizens flying in from North America, for example, will be charged up to ~1 lakh for a one-way flight and have begun to voice their concerns. What will happen to those financially vulnerable, especially in the Gulf, who cannot afford to pay for their travel? Will they be abandoned, subject to the virus, chronic unemployment and xenophobic backlash? And what about the optics of people paying to be taken home by the Indian Navy or the Indian Air Force? The pay-per-use policy is also driven by the need to reduce the financial burden on the government’s coffers, in particular Air India, which is still owed money for past operations. The hundreds, if not thousands, of repatriation flights over the next weeks and months will be a welcome injection of funds into the struggling carrier. And by charging citizens stuck abroad the actual flight cost, the government is also seeking to pre-empt criticism about giving special treatment to the diaspora even as domestic migrants face trying circumstances to move across the country. Besides the commercial aspect of the Vande Bharat Mission, the government also faces five more challenges. First, it will have to make and explain difficult choices about prioritising different countries. The first week, for example, will see a flight from Dhaka but none from Kathmandu. The MEA’s objective logic of sequence will also come under continuous pressure from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and different state governments, given different political agendas, including upcoming state elections. Second, diplomatic missions will also struggle to flesh out the rather ambiguous “compelling” criteria to select who is eligible and prioritised for repatriation. This will rely on the discretion of local diplomats, but is bound to create tension: Foreign citizens are excluded from applying but what will happen, for example, to Indian parents with dependent infants who hold foreign passports? Third, in a struggling Indian economy, the authorities will also have to ensure that returnees are able to reintegrate with minimum disruption. The MEA’s appointment of nodal officers with additional secretary rank to oversee coordination with each state government is welcome. The economy may lose a significant amount of critical remittances, around 2% of GDP, but the return of skilled migrants may also be leveraged as an opportunity for several sectors. Fourth, with the Navy’s deployment to the Maldives, and the Air Force readying its aircraft, there will also be civil-military coordination challenges to ensure successful repatriation. In one of its first practical tests, the newly-created department of military affairs will play an important role in securing sea and air routes for safe passage.Finally, it will be mostly the efforts of Indian diplomats on the ground, serving at the forefront in over 100 countries, which will determine the success of the mission. Every crisis requires all hands on deck, but with less than 1,000 officers, it should be a cause for concern that the Indian Foreign Service has little time left for more strategic tasks in a rapidly changing world order. Even if it all ends well, with PM showing up to claim success and reap political benefits, the Covid-19 crisis will hopefully also make the point that India’s diaspora diplomacy requires more investment. Besides political rallies and cultural festivals, Modi will have to dedicate more resources to upgrading consular services, expanding diplomatic staff and, most important, better training to conduct future operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-getting-indian-citizens-back-home/story-jzYZeUG5KiEq8uneu2mWpL.html
06-05-2020||News||How PM Narendra Modi has led the Covid-19 battle||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is credited with the fact that he was probably the first political leader who understood the importance of social media and leveraged it for the benefit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2014 elections. He has continued to use this tool to motivate citizens, while also using radio through “Mann Ki Baat”. I can vouch that it was PM Modi again who could sense the danger of the coronavirus pandemic in December itself, when China was infected. There were, at that time, no cases in India. But the PM, after every cabinet meeting, used to tell us that virus and the infection will not stop in China. He used to emphasise its seriousness, say it will spread all over, and that everyone is unprepared. And, therefore, his emphasis was on how India needs to prepare itself. India started screening incoming international passengers early. Those travellers suspected of being infected were kept in a facility of the ministry of home affairs at Manesar. That was when we realised how grave the situation could turn out to be. From that day, the PM started implementing his plans to prepare India to fight against the pandemic. Here are a few major changes he brought about with his foresight.There was no concept of dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. Today, we have nearly 700 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals with more than 200,000 isolation beds and 15,000 intensive care unit beds.Personal protective equipment (PPE) is vital to save the doctors and staff who treat Covid-19 patients. India had no facility to manufacture them. Initially, major orders were given for imports. Now, we have 39 factories in India manufacturing and stitching PPEs. Over 2.2 million PPE kits have already been distributed.We were not manufacturing masks, leave alone N95. But six million masks have already been distributed. While many new factories have started working on N95 masks, small units have started preparing and stitching home-made masks.We had only one lab to test. That was in Pune. Our testing capacity was just 4,000 per day. Now there are nearly 300 labs to conduct Covid-19 tests and give results. Now we can conduct 80,000-plus tests a day.Initially, there were only around 8,400 ventilators. With initial orders, we now have nearly 30,000 ventilators. Indian manufacturers have started producing ventilators. We expect around 30,000 ventilators to be produced domestically.Even as he led the preparations, PM Modi, simultaneously, remained connected with the world, talked to various leaders, and shared experiences, learning from each other and implementing what he found useful and appropriate for the Indian context.PM Modi also recognised the impact of the lockdown. Therefore, he declared a huge package of Rs 1.7 lakh crore to protect the poor. India has the biggest food security programme in the world under which 800 million people are given five kg of wheat/rice at Rs 2/3 a kg. For April, May and June, the PM decided to give 15 kg rice/wheat plus three kg dal free of cost, per person. This took care of basic rations for all vulnerable Indian households.Around 200 million women from low-income groups were provided support, through the direct benefit transfer scheme of Rs 500 per month for three months in their Jan Dhan accounts. Further, under the PM-Kisan scheme, Rs 2,000 was transferred to 84 million farmers; 80 million beneficiaries of Ujwala LPG scheme were offered three cylinders free of cost. The PM also offered the facility of withdrawal from the provident funds and close to a million workers have withdrawn nearly Rs 36 crore.The PM also provided help to small businesses and workers by promising that the provident fund contribution of the owner and worker will be deposited by the government for three months. The Reserve Bank of India has also released liquidity of Rs 4 lakh crore through various measures in repo rates. The middle class was given the facility for deferment of EMIs and other mandatory submissions. The Centre gave Rs 15,000 crore for dedicated treatment of Covid-19 and released Rs 11,000 crore as State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF). In addition, Rs 31,000 crore was also released to help construction workers and all states were asked to distribute this at the earliest.The PM also ensured the full-scale operation of agricultural activities, from the farm to the market by facilitating faster movement, more sowing, and money being paid to the farmers at the earliest. This ensured that the agricultural economy started working normally.A national lockdown is a massive decision. It can never be successful until people participate voluntarily. The PM has maintained a continued dialogue with the people, with even the poorest of the poor convinced that the PM is working for them and cares. This is why he could prepare them psychologically for the long lockdown, suspension of activities and the resultant hardship. The people’s curfew and his call to applaud health workers and frontline workers helped motivate people to fight Covid-19 and instill discipline in them.The PM also gave simple four steps to remain safe — put on a mask, wash hands regularly, keep social distancing, and stay at home. Citizens have largely abided by this.All of this shows that PM Modi planned in advance, planned in detail, practised meticulously, communicated effectively, and kept the world in the loop. India has, therefore, succeeded in managing the coronavirus crisis better than many other advanced economies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-pm-narendra-modi-has-led-the-covid-19-battle/story-78clA27sNmrap5hfXuKaIP.html
06-05-2020||News||To counter the Covid-19 pandemic, bring more poor into the LPG net||One of the most important components of the government’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) relief package is free LPG for three months for nearly 500 million people. As the national system of LPG distribution is reasonably well-functioning, it is an efficient way to provide economic support to the poor. With uncertainty all around us, ensuring free LPG takes at least one important burden off people’s plates.There are, however, some concerns. The programme is focused on its recent customer base – about 83 million – created by the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana. It may be an efficient way to reach the poor, but it, unfortunately, leaves out a number of equally deserving groups of the poor. To reach the left-out sections, India needs additional measures.A secure and continuous supply of LPG is another concern. It is the only fuel in the country with stable demand. The consumption of other major fuels – gasoline, diesel, CNG, or coal – is drastically down due to the lockdown. Other energy-intensive activities involving the use of cars, buses, trains, and planes are at much lower levels. Due to the complete lockdown, more people are cooking at home, further pushing up the LPG demand.LPG is an odd fuel in that, unlike oil, it’s not searched for directly. There are no LPG wells anywhere. It is, in fact, a secondary product of the oil and gas production, which, owing to low demand, threaten the availability of LPG. To ensure its supplies, the government has reached out to natural gas producers in the Persian Gulf. But with global gas and oil production suppressed, it may require more effort.What perhaps is not so well-understood and appreciated is that ensuring the use of LPG among the poor is actually a direct health benefit measure. Air pollution exposure from biomass cooking fires increases the risk and severity of infection, a harmful situation particularly during the Covid-19 spread.It is well-established that air pollution exposure increases the risk of respiratory diseases, including infectious ones like flu or pneumonia. This is not because pollution contains pathogens – the virus in this case – but because it decreases the effectiveness of the human immune system.Recent research shows that those exposed to air pollution are more susceptible to Covid-19. It’s also true for smokers whose immune system is further weakened by smoke. Outdoor air pollution in India, among the worst in the world, and the use of fossil fuels such as coal, has dropped drastically during the lockdown. This is good for health, a partial counterbalance to the terrible disruption of life brought about by the economic disruption. Sending people to their villages and towns during the lockdown, however, may expose them to smoke from cooking fires if they are still using biomass fuel. It will cause extra pollution exposures and enhance the risk of Covid-19 by counteracting the benefit from lower ambient pollution exposure. Since the household use of biomass is responsible for a substantial portion of ambient pollution nationally, some of the health benefits accrued due to low consumption of fossil fuel will also be lost.It’s praiseworthy that India has convinced most people to stay in their homes that have cleaner air owing to the use of LPG. But it may also want to find ways to ensure gas supply for those who are left out to help keep homes clean and safe for everyone.Kirk R Smith is director, Collaborative Clean Air Policy Centre, New Delhi, and professor, School of Public Health, University of California, BerkeleyThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/to-counter-the-covid-19-pandemic-bring-more-poor-into-the-lpg-net/story-drzPH8Jk26uRXsSvaqfz2J.html
