07-05-2020||News||Usher in changes to ensure no Indian goes hungry | Opinion||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced pandemic has triggered a civilisational crisis with no immediate end in the sight. Many would reckon that India has done well to contain it. Yes, this is a crisis of enormous dimensions with extreme complexities. Lives are under threat, livelihoods are at stake, large reverse migration is underway, and the economy is in a tailspin with disruptions. This requires a multi-pronged response mechanism.The Union government, along with the state governments, is working on these lines. A national economic relief package has been announced, with more in the offing. The economy is being opened up incrementally. State governments are addressing migration woes. People are getting used to the idea of their homes being their second workplace. If there is one image of the national lockdown that has stayed with most of us, it is that of migrant labourers trudging to their respective home towns. Such episodes have been reported from Delhi, Mumbai, Surat, parts of Telangana, and elsewhere.More than 90% of the workforce is in the unorganised sector. In the lockdown, it’s the poorest and the marginalised who are hit the most. A United Nations University report says that 104 million more people could slip below the poverty line in India due to the crisis. An International Labour Organization report, on the other hand, says that around 400 million workers in the unorganised sector of India could sink further into poverty due to this.When the poorest don’t have enough for two square meals a day, it means that we, as a nation, have failed them. Look around and you will hear appalling stories of starvation deaths and malnourishment. All this will get exacerbated if the lockdown is extended.It’s generally believed that democracy, and a free Press, are the best guarantees against starvation. So, where have we failed? What can be done to ensure that starvation and hunger deaths don’t assume the form of a crisis in the uncertain times ahead?When I moved a private member’s resolution, advocating for a zero hunger Act in the Lok Sabha in 2006, I got overwhelming across-the-board support. A responsive political class, media, and civil society groups ensured that India got a National Food Security Act (NFSA) in 2013. It entitles 67% of the population (75% in rural India, and 50% in urban India) to five kg of food grains per person per month for priority households. The Act covers over 810 million people. During the lockdown, the government has increased the monthly quota of subsidised food grains to seven kg per person along with the free distribution of five kg food grains under the PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojna for the next three months. While the spread of the NFSA is welcome, more needs to be done. India ranks 72nd in a list of 113 countries in the Economist Intelligence Unit’s 2019 Global Food Security Index, where availability, affordability, quality and safety of food are measured. Or, the Global Hunger Index of 2019, which ranks India at the 102nd position in a list of 117 countries. As part of a long-term plan, India, like other countries, is working to end hunger, and eliminate malnutrition by 2030, in line with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). A 2019 Niti Aayog report says that Goa, Mizoram, Kerala, Chandigarh are among the states and Union territories that are doing well, but others are lagging behind.As India comes to terms with a new post-Covid-19 normal, we should work vigorously towards a hunger-free, malnourishment-free India well before the deadline. This must be the top priority as we rejig our priorities. While the SDGs with 2030 as the deadline were launched in 2016, countries like Brazil launched a war on hunger way back in 2003, with its pioneering “Fome Zero” (Zero Hunger) aimed at providing everyone enough food, and the right kind of food, for nutritional needs and well-being.We should use this crisis as an opportunity to undertake large-scale changes to be able to feed India, especially the most vulnerable sections, in the right manner. The five kg food grain quantum under the NFSA should be raised to 10kg going forward. The government could consider introducing breakfast, in addition to midday meals, in schools, to ensure that children are healthy. It’s time to make the NFSA coverage universal. The Food Corporation of India’s godowns are filled to capacity with more than three times the buffer stock it is required to maintain. In other words, no one going to a public distribution system shop must be turned away because of the absence of a ration card. Some states have already acted on this. A problem faced by migrant workers is that the ration cards from their places of origin are not valid in other states. The Union government is readying a “one nation, one ration card” scheme, and this needs to be prioritised. In the post-lockdown period, the issue has become particularly important, with large-scale reverse migration.Another important problem pertains to the linking of Aadhaar cards to ration cards. In many rural areas, the identification infrastructure often malfunctions. The glitches in the verification process must not become an excuse to deny someone food grains. We also need to universalise direct transfers to those living on the fringes.Let the Covid-19 crisis usher in policy changes that ensure that our poorest are well fed, their nourishment needs taken care of, and their dignity upheld. It is only then that India will be able to script an inclusive growth story.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/usher-in-changes-to-ensure-no-indian-goes-hungry-opinion/story-3wlcKRq5lI6G9oflgSQmsJ.html
07-05-2020||News||Covid-19: India is staring at a mental health crisis||The social and economic fissures exposed by the pandemic will result in mass unemployment, depleted social safety nets, starvation, increase in gender-based violence, homelessness, alcoholism, loan defaults and millions slipping into poverty. This post-Covid landscape will be a fertile breeding ground for an increase in chronic stress, anxiety, depression, alcohol dependence, and self-harm.As the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to take lives across the world, there’s another public health crisis that’s rearing its ugly head. This new danger may perhaps unleash more death and despair than the coronavirus itself.Going by the history of pandemics, and the knock-on effects of an inevitable economic downturn, India is looking at a mental health crisis, with suicide-related deaths as its lead indicator.After the stock market crash of 1929, the suicide rate in the United States (US) rose 50%; to 18.1 per 100,000 from the 12.1 per 100,000 from 1920 to 1928 and stayed at 15.4 per 100,000 between 1930 and 1940. In 2008, researchers from the University of Oxford and the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine noted an extra 10,000 “economic suicides” across the US, Canada and Europe, due to the financial crisis. These suicides were attributed to the economic hardships post-recession.The social and economic fissures exposed by the pandemic will result in mass unemployment, depleted social safety nets, starvation, increase in gender-based violence, homelessness, alcoholism, loan defaults and millions slipping into poverty. This will be a fertile breeding ground for an increase in chronic stress, anxiety, depression, alcohol dependence, and self-harm; leading to an overall rise in morbidity, suicides and the number of disability-adjusted life years linked to mental health.At-risk populations include the 150 million with pre-existing mental health issues, Covid-19 survivors, frontline medical workers, young people, differently abled people, women, workers in the unorganised sector, and the elderly.For a country with the highest number of poor and malnourished, and individuals with depression and anxiety, this is the perfect storm. How many suicides can we expect? India reported 1,34,516 suicides in 2018. Most independent estimates are far more. The World Health Organization (WHO) pegged 2016 suicides at 215,872, with a suicide rate of 16.5 suicides, against the global suicide rate of 10.5. History tells us that India should prepare for a large number of suicides, even in the thousands. Other than human suffering, suicide has an economic dimension, each death costs Rs 265,000 in the first year alone, says a study by Gopala Sarma Poduri in the Indian Journal of Psychological Medicine. Short-term costs include hospital expenses for the act leading to death, autopsy expenses, police investigations, funeral expenses, etc. Long-term costs include the lost income that could have been earned by the person till retirement, tax that the government lost from that income, among other things. Given that the second wave is expected, most of these deaths can be prevented.First, India can appoint a minister with a Cabinet rank as head of mental health and well-being, and create an emergency task force of public health experts in creating and executing evidence-based interventions.Second, work on a war footing to push to implement the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017, (MHCA) that promises mental health care to all and introduce a suicide prevention policy. Many countries, including China, have been able to significantly reduce suicides after they implemented a suicide prevention policy.India’s investment in mental health — the last Union Budget slashed it by 20% from Rs 50 crore to Rs 40 crore — will need a boost. According to estimates, Rs 93,000 crore will be needed to implement MHCA, 2017. This could come from the PM Cares Fund, corporate social responsibility initiatives, private equity, and perhaps, a new national lottery.Rural India may be particularly susceptible to suicide due to the influx of migrant workers, and also because it is home to the at-risk farmer community. The central storage of pesticides in the farming community, decreasing the lethality of pesticides, and interventions to dissipate suicide contagions might be key.At the centre of this should be a large public engagement campaign to increase help-seeking. This must be centrally driven, supported by state governments, and endorsed by influential people. Mental health and suicide should be treated as a public health crisis that needs immediate fixing. Mainstream media and social media giants can be roped in to create and spread awareness.There is a good chance that alcohol addiction will rise after Covid-19. It will be beneficial to provide rehabilitation services that address both physical and psychological aspects. Community-based interventions such as Atmiyata’s community-based volunteers in Maharashtra and Gujarat, SCARF’s mental health mobile vans in Tamil Nadu, and Sangath’s VISHRAM, that used community health workers for the first line of treatment (depression fell by 22% and prevalence of suicidal thoughts fell by 51%), can be scaled.To reduce the pressure on the overworked primary and secondary mental health task force, the focus should be on self, family, community and primary care. Group psychological support for the unemployed through non-profits and the community will help. Training millions in suicide prevention techniques and combining crisis intervention by providing psychological first-aid will help save lives and reduce emotional distress, preventing long-term trauma.Digitally-mediated therapy and telepsychiatry (NIMHANS runs a successful telepsychiatry intervention in Karnataka) should be scaled up. A mental health startup incubator (funded by the Startup India programme) should provide the necessary impetus to spawn innovations that tap technologies like artificial intelligence, machine learning and chatbots. Use of low-tech like text messages can be highly effective in increasing awareness, decreasing stigma and inducing help-seeking behaviour.Finally, every crisis is an opportunity. The 1918 global flu epidemic stirred many European countries to create national health services. While mental health woes can shave off 3-4% of GDP, every dollar investment has a return of four-six times. Mental health and suicide prevention interventions can not only save lives, but also make immense economic sense.Nelson Vinod Moses is founder, Suicide Prevention India Foundation, and an independent journalistThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-india-is-staring-at-a-mental-health-crisis/story-hmBOzUYsbo3SmtlWilmBzL.html
07-05-2020||News||Covid-19: We need to restore the idea of village swaraj | Opinion||As the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) wreaks havoc across the world, India faces another massive challenge: How to ensure the safety and the well-being of its poor and marginalised living in urban agglomerations. Large employment centers such as Mumbai, Delhi and Ahmedabad are struggling to contain the spread of the deadly virus. The problem gets further complicated for those who live in congested slums and ghettos where social distancing is at best a misnomer. Add to that, the poor and migrants are unemployed, and, in the immediate future, face an uncertain future. It must be addressed. Perhaps, the issue does not need a brand new solution but the one that the Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi had suggested: Gram swaraj – his talisman, the fruit of his life-long search for answers of India’s many ills. His pioneering idea of swaraj or self-rule emanated from the very foundation of the Indian society, its villages, and implied self-reliance. Gandhi envisioned his ideal village as a self-sufficient republic – independent of its neighbours for its own wants, and, yet, interdependent for those dependent on it.“I am convinced that if India is to attain true freedom and through India the world also, then sooner or later the fact must be recognised that the people will have to live in villages, not in towns, in huts, not in palaces,” he said.In 1929, he wrote in Young India: “We are inheritors of a rural civilisation. The vastness of our country, the vastness of the population, the situation and the climate of the country have, in my opinion, destined it for a rural civilization... To uproot it and substitute for it an urban civilization seems to me an impossibility.”The post-lockdown images of migrant labourers walking back on feet or thronging bus and train stations caused a massive furore. Migrants are aware that, without work, they can’t survive in cities. In contrast, in their villages, they have a well-established food supply and free shelter. Anyway, if they don’t have work in their destination cities, they have no good reasons to stay away from the family. Most of them are employed in low-end, low-value, hazardous work, which is further compounded by a lack of identity and legal protection. For them, villages are still a better option, with a social security net. Nearly one-fifth of India’s labour force – about 100 million – are migrants. Of this, a vast majority are from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh (UP). In the case of UP, half a million workers from around the country have returned home after the lockdown. To make them financially independent, the UP government has constituted a committee of high-ranking civil servants which is trying to prop up the village economy. The committee has also been asked to adopt a holistic approach and develop short- and long-term plans for migrants.One of the first such tasks the UP government has taken is to reopen the closed and defunct mills, especially those in the food business – the flour, oil and pulse mills. It’s reviving small units such as dairies, and ensuring them security and support to employ the local workforce, and eventually, cater to foreign markets.The government is also trying to revive the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector, which has over 70 lakh units in the state – the largest share in the country. The MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh recently connected with over 100 US-based companies that showed interest in expanding their existing businesses in the state. “But they want us to introduce some relaxations in labour laws,” Singh told the press. Rebuilding the village economy can enable people to stay in their communities. Small scale industries, local mills, cottage and home-grown products can make this happen if supported with an efficient distribution system and conducive laws. According to British Governor in India, Sir Charles Metcalfe, “The village communities are little republics having nearly everything they want within themselves and almost independent of foreign relations. They seem to last where nothing else lasts.” Such an idyllic village life was lost to the pursuit of a modern India seeking city-centric industrialisation and economic activity. But all is not lost. Adversities can be turned into opportunities. The coronavirus pandemic offers one that could help us implement the ideals of villages in practice. It’s time we correct this anomaly.Shesh Narain Singh is a senior journalist, columnist and political analyst. He is political editor, Deshbandhu and Consultant, News18 India. Vineeta Dwivedi is a former broadcaster and journalist, and teaches Communication at Bhawan’s SP Jain Institute of Management and Research (SPJIMR), MumbaiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-91-we-need-to-restore-the-idea-of-village-swaraj/story-Pfk7t2PVbj9oU3LXfLzmOK.html
07-05-2020||News||First CPEC and now China’s Covid-19: Gilgit-Baltistan’s growing woes | Opinion||Gilgit-Baltistan (G-B), in proportion to population, has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in Pakistan. So far, 607 people have tested positive in a territory with less than one and half million people. Heroes like Dr. Osama Riaz and paramedic Malik Ashtar who unfortunately died while performing duties without virus protective kits have become a source to galvanize society. Locals blame the authorities for committing criminal negligence by not transporting Dr. Osama to Islamabad to save his life. Dismal economic condition and lack of preparedness could lead to more deaths in coming weeks.G-B is not a constitutional part of Pakistan and therefore survives on financial handouts from Islamabad. Locals including the Chief Minister, Hafiz Rehman, blames Islamabad for denying adequate funds to cope with the Covid-19 situation. Islamabad continues to reject provisions of protective gear with the excuse of fund shortage. Medical professionals are still not sure about the exact scope of positive cases as many people remain undetected due to faulty testing kits. Authorities warn that Islamic devotees returning from the Tablighi Jamaat congregation could stimulate local virus transmission.Locals are yet to benefit from the medical aid which military helicopters collect from the Chinese officials at the Khunjerav Pass. There is only one testing centre for the entire territory with capacity to test 15 people per day. At this rate, existing patients in Nagar alone, which is one of ten districts of G-B, would take eighty days to complete the process. Some hotels now function as quarantine centres but accommodate a small portion of patients. For now, G-B has only 15 ventilators for over 400 urgent-care patients and most of these ventilators were bought by local private donations. Transporting patients to Islamabad is cumbersome and economically impractical for most among locals.Naveed Murtaza, a local activist states that the people of District Hunza, which borders China, are protesting after failing to obtain stimulus fund. He said that videos have emerged of students of G-B sleeping on roadsides in Pakistan while waiting for government help. Local media reports ailing and starving prisoners and political activists protesting in different jails of G-B. “This is no way to thank G-B which provides for more than half of Pakistan’s water needs. Pakistan should take lead from other countries and immediately release political activists in these testing times”, says Naveed.Pakistan and China are using the pandemic to deepen control over G-B and squeeze more resources. Pakistani rulers call G-B country’s lifeline since CPEC related multi-billion dollar projects would fail without Gilgit facilitating border link between Pakistan and China. In the name of assisting local administration during the pandemic, Pakistan is expanding military presence and subjugating a territory that lawfully belongs to India. Pakistan’s behaviour is compelling a large majority of locals to demand withdrawal of its troops and seek complete independence. In the past, Pakistan sought help from Chinese army to quell such dissent. In 2010, media reported on the presence of eleven thousand Chinese troops in the region as part of CPEC security apparatus.Given the situation, people in G-B feel apprehensive about Chinese staffs resuming work on CPEC projects. Mohammad Lateef, a concerned activist from Skardo opines that locals fear the corridor will carry the virus deeper into the valleys. “Locals see CPEC as an instrument of invasion which destroys environment, culture and social fabric without much benefit to the people. They fear China will force concessions from Pakistan by using CPEC as debt weapon”, says Lateef. The merger of Macao and Hong Kong have taught China techniques to seek concessions from weaker nations to expand the Han empire. Hidden behind the testimonies of camaraderie, China plans to buy out assets in G-B, threatening freedoms, democratic values and national identities.Sajjad Raja, a political leader from Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir (POJK) accuses Pakistani military of moving Covid-19 patients to Mirpur. Many among locals think that Pakistan is risking lives of millions of POJK natives to siphon money from the Western aid agencies, says Raja. Another local leader, Amjad Ayub attests that many hotels in POJK were now crowded with Pakistani patients. “Authorities forced local Mirpuris out of buildings and hospitals to accommodate Pakistanis. Staffs and equipment at Mohi-uddin Hospital were now at disposal of Pakistani patients while locals; wait for medical facilities, POJK belongs to India, and Pakistan has no right to abuse the territory to draw international attention”, exclaims Amjad.Ishaq Sharif, a leader from District Bagh reveals that Pakistan invaded and divided J&K by employing religious terrorism and now it is hurting locals by changing demography through Covid-19, “We are invaded by Pakistan army, not India. Entire world is praising India for securing ration for Kashmiris during Corona pandemic while Pakistan abuses its own people to attract international funds, Pakistan which does not miss a chance to abuse India is now begging PM Modi for ventilators and hydroxychloroquine. Seventy years of deprivation under Pakistani rule is now compelling people in POJK and G-B to look towards India for basics like food and medicines”, exclaims Ishaq.Jafar Ismail, a resident of Muzaffarabad says that Pakistani army continuously talks about Kashmir valley and its Corona patients to distract Pakistanis away from the dismal situation in POJK and G-B. Pakistan betrays the people of G-B and POJK. It has no will or capacity to fulfil demands of local Muslims yet pretends to care for the Muslims in Kashmir valley. He warns Pakistan was only interested in keeping Punjab safe and prosperous by filling coffers with earnings from POJK and G-B.(Senge H Sering is a Washington DC-based researcher and human rights activist born in Pakistan-occupied Gilgit-Baltistan. He runs the Institute of Gilgit Baltistan Studies in Washington.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/first-cpec-and-now-china-s-covid-19-gilgit-baltistan-s-growing-woes-opinion/story-xWvZmEntn6Q1Tbq4DPuAlM.html
07-05-2020||News||Pakistan proxies in fight to the finish in Afghanistan, but India too needs to prep | Analysis||Aslam Farooqui, the so-called Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP) chief who was arrested on April 4, hasn’t really been singing like a canary as some expected. But he has spoken about his group’s links with Pakistani deep state, given interrogators an insight into the status of power struggle in Afghanistan and admitted how his fighters had been on the run and mostly, hiding in a eastern Afghanistan district. The big picture that has emerged from days of questioning at a location outside Kabul is that the Taliban will not share the spoils of power after the withdrawal of US armed forces from the country.The Taliban, he has told interrogators in the early days of his interrogation, has neutralised 90 percent of the ISKP group in Afghanistan. This onslaught has forced his remaining fighters to seek shelter in Achin district of Nangarhar province, which shares the border with Pakistan.It hasn’t helped the ISKP led by Farooqui, a Pashtun from Orakzai Agency, that the group largely comprises Pakistani nationals, right from those in Balochistan and Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa area to Islamabad and Pak-occupied Kashmir. The Sunni Pashtun Taliban have been mercilessly battering the ISKP for trying to operate from Kandahar, Kunar, Nuristan and Nangarhar provinces.The Taliban, for the record, had promptly distanced itself from the March 25 attack on the Kabul gurdwara that killed more than 2 dozen Sikh worshippers. The attack was carried out by Farooqui group with a couple of radicalised Keralites from Kasargod involved in the massacre.The Taliban, after some hiccups, has started taking the first steps to implement the February 29 deal with the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad that paves the way for the US and other foreign forces to quit Afghanistan. This pact requires the Afghan government to release 5,000 Taliban prisoners. The Taliban, on the other hand, would free 1,000 Afghan security force personnel. The exchange was supposed to have happened by March 10.The Taliban released the first set of 20 Afghan security-force prisoners on Sunday, a development that the US special envoy described as an “important step in the peace process and the reduction of violence”.It is still early to predict the course of events in the volatile state of Afghanistan. But there is growing evidence that the country is heading from being a Islamic Republic to Islamic Emirate, where Sharia laws will apply and back to the days when Taliban took control of Kabul in 1996.Even though the US may have a limited footprint in the strife-torn country to manage its affairs in Central Asia, Pakistan and China, there are indications that the Taliban will not listen to its Pakistan, once its mentor, on every issue once it seizes power.“The Taliban is not a monolithic body. It may be united to seize power in Afghanistan but there are elements within it that completely oppose Pakistan and some are advocates of the Durand Line being made into the new border with its eastern neighbour,” said a senior analyst based in Kabul.That will complicate the situation for Islamabad.Just as Pakistan, India is also going into uncharted waters once again as it supports the current regime including its Northern Alliance friends from the past two decades, it will have to deal with Taliban when it comes to power. And that day is not too far away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/pakistan-proxies-in-fight-to-the-finish-in-afghanistan-but-india-too-needs-to-prep/story-ykhtNp5qte8WrAKyxFqP4N.html
