08-05-2020||News||It is time to reset India’s approach to the environment||On Thursday, a gas leak from a polymer plant in Vizag killed 12 people. Hundreds were hospitalised; thousands exposed and evacuated. According to reports, the company, by its own admission in May 2019, didn’t have a valid environmental clearance. On the same day, seven workers were hospitalised due to a gas leak at a paper mill in Raigarh, Chhattisgarh. The question we ask after every disaster is: Could it have been avoided? An even better question to ask is: How can environmental damage be avoided before it happens?In March, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) delivered an elaborate judgment on illegal mining. In Dukalu Ram vs the Union of India, the court found Jindal Power Limited and Coal India Limited guilty of illegal mining in Raigarh, imposing ~160 crore as the cost for environmental damages. Significantly, the court’s order sets a template for what constitutes environmental damage, a concept worth exploring in greater depth.India has said protecting the environment is desirable, and has led by hosting international meetings such as the Conference of the Parties for the Convention on Biological Diversity (2012), the United Nations Conference to Combat Desertification (2019) and the Convention on Migratory Species (2020). But we are yet to decide what constitutes damage to the environment.This assumes greater significance as the Government of India is reworking its Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification. Such assessments are done to find out the impact a project has on the environment. Getting environmental clearances depends on this assessment. The 2020 EIA draft introduces a host of changes, introducing the concept of post-facto clearance. This means that projects that did not apply for EIAs and environmental clearances — and subsequently started construction or are up and running — will be appraised and may receive clean chits. If found to be run in a “sustainable” fashion, they will be allowed to apply for environmental clearances. If found to be damaging the environment, closure of the project or other actions will be recommended.But what is environmental damage? The 2020 draft says the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) should set the criteria for damage assessment and remediation. The CPCB was created in 1974 under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act; it also carries out functions under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981. Thus, the CPCB’s mandate relates to maintaining clean water and air and preventing their pollution. Yet, though pollution or leaks are one of the most visible indicators of environmental damage, they aren’t the only ones. In this regard, the NGT order is illustrative. The order found illegal mining to be harmful to the environment on counts of waste dumping, proximity to residences, causing the drying up of ponds, air pollution through poor transport of coal, loss of groundwater (this amounts to degradation), lack of provision of health care, and loss of ecological services.The most significant in the case of long-term damage is the loss of ecological or ecosystem services. Ecosystem services refer to the services provided by healthy nature, which include things like pollination, quality of life, bio-filtration and more. In the Raigarh mines, apart from the usual complaints of air and water pollution, villagers complained of “raging fires” at the mining sites that caused turbidity and affected their health.A few things should be kept in mind. First, the EIA notification draft should broaden the scope and understanding of environmental damage, beyond just pollution. Environmental damage, including purported long-term damage to ecological services, should be part of the assessment and the EIA notification.Second, the world after the coronavirus pandemic has shown us that several human-led activities create novel interfaces that further lead to consequences we can’t control, such as viruses caused by the disturbance to wildlife. We are also seeing how pristine the environment is without our interventions. The images released by NASA reveal that the air over the northern Gangetic plain is the cleanest it has been in 20 years. This clear view gives us a chance to plan projects in a way that actively protects the environment rather than “balances” it against political goals.Finally, if we can put India under lockdown, and run offices remotely, it means we can indeed do the impossible as long as political and societal will exists for it. A clean environment — on the heels of an ongoing pandemic — is a social goal, as much as one mandated by international conventions. This is the time to put trust in science and technical expertise, and create a broader understanding of what environmental damage is. Once we fully map it, we can set about preventing it.We tend to pray after environmental catastrophe strikes. But we need more than thoughts and prayers to institutionalise environmental protection. This is the best time to understand how environmental damage impacts ecological services, and how this should reflect in the EIA processes. As we pick up the pieces left behind from a virus, we must plan to avoid more environmental grief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/it-is-time-to-reset-india-s-approach-to-the-environment/story-8Ya15cIZKBb0xmN59q0OhO.html
08-05-2020||News||The indispensability of labour in reviving India’s economic engine | Opinion||Migrant workers are like nowhere people. Yet, they are everywhere. From high-rises to highways, who builds them? It is a silent army of migrant workers, working day and night with no job security, no social safety net, and poor living conditions — yet, theirs are not the names we see on the billboards or the foundation stones of these shining symbols of India’s economic progress. From domestic helps to drivers, from the vegetable seller to the roadside food stall or kirana store owners — their names are not on any payroll or pension plans or tax registers and yet, remove them and life in urban and semi-urban areas would be paralysed. Like now.Invisible, taken for granted, they are treated with indifference in the best of times and callousness and cruelty in the worst, as the spectacle of migrant workers walking hundreds of miles on hot and dusty roads to go back home showed. It evoked the words from the Woody Guthrie song, “I ain’t got no home in this world anymore”. For some of them, this proved to be literally and tragically true, whether due to death or the hostile reception they faced back home. They left their homes in search of a better life, to support their families back home. Yet, their adopted homes did not own them up when the chips were down.Perhaps the human tragedy involved here will not move everyone equally. Even if the human plight does move us, some may take a more pragmatic point of view — what matters most is dealing with the public health crisis first, and then restarting the engine of growth. Now, what is this engine of growth? You might think that it is capital accumulation — new machines and factories — and productivity growth — better technology and organisational methods. But capital cannot generate output on its own — it needs labour. In a country like India, it comes mainly through migrant labourers from rural areas. The engine of growth runs on the fuel of migrant labour, which moves from less productive sectors like agriculture to more productive sectors like manufacturing and services. Without this fuel, the engine will sputter and stop because of upward pressure on wages in the limited pool of local labour markets. What drives the flow of migration is the prospect of better opportunities in urban areas. Interestingly, research on migration shows that there is, in fact, significant under-migration compared to the potential labour supply from rural areas. The main factor cited is risk-aversion. While average incomes are lower in rural areas, villagers can eke out a living easily and rely on strong informal safety nets based on social networks. Very poor households may be unwilling to incur the financial and psychological costs of migration and brave the subsistence risk of things not panning out. The horrifying experience of migrant workers during this crisis will only magnify such fears and reinforce the tendency towards under-migration.What does this imply for the post-lockdown period? Could we simply press a button and restart the engine of growth, as Ben Bernanke, the former Federal Reserve chairman, seems to suggest for the United States (US) economy? Bernanke said that the current economic crisis is closer to a major snowstorm or a natural disaster than to a 1930s-style Depression, which came from problems of human institutions and monetary and financial shocks. So, he has predicted a sharp recession and a quick recovery for the US. Whether Bernanke’s prediction about the US is right remains to be seen, but his logic does not apply to a developing country like India where informal institutions and social networks play a much larger role in the economy than in a developed country. While trust and reputation are important in every economic sphere, these are the only currency in the informal sector where there are no contracts and regulations, and hiring is based on word-of-mouth referrals (think, for example, how domestic workers are hired). Therefore, social networks play a big role as reputation in the community acts as a bond against potential malfeasance or low productivity. But trust takes time to build, as do social networks once they are disrupted. Therefore, the assumption that after the crisis subsides, things will return to normal and an unlimited supply of labour will flow in from the countryside is unrealistic. Wages will have to rise significantly, and networks that underpin informal labour markets will have to reform for the process to resume. Employers are clearly seeing the writing on the wall. Therefore, we see attempts like the construction industry lobbying a state government to cancel trains to stop migrant workers from heading back home.The same logic of the market that is often invoked to say there are no free lunches when talking about relief packages for the poor, also says the only way to induce labour to work is through improvement in wages and living and work conditions, not coercion. And given that 90% of the Indian workforce is in the informal sector with no job security or benefits, the safety net provided by the government must be strengthened to attract migrant workers back after this ordeal.At the minimum, this would involve making ration cards portable so that migrant workers are covered by the public distribution system (PDS) and committing significantly more resources (than in the relief package announced earlier) to direct cash transfers and to the PDS. There are no free lunches. The economy will not move forward unless the migrant workers come back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-indispensability-of-labour-in-reviving-india-s-economic-engine/story-SN06z8SlkZYnuVtVKnvqOL.html
08-05-2020||News||It’s time to make migrant workers’ concerns an electoral issue||Since the announcement of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown, a huge number of migrant workers have left their places of work for their homes. There is no official count on the number, but estimates suggest that it could be about half a million. According to Parliamentary records, India has about 100 million migrant workers. How could an executive decision, so wide in its repercussions, fail to account for such a large number of its own citizens?It may have answers in our political discourse – especially the migrants’ place in it. Because they are on the move, they are never treated as a “vote bank”. It is now a pejorative reference to a captive electorate that historically votes en masse, usually pegged to allegiance to their caste (or class in the West), religion, and colour. Antithetical to that group are “swing voters”, who show no such fidelity, are hard to woo and hard to keep, but ultimately decide the election’s outcome.India’s migrant workers are neither a vote bank nor a swing vote – most of the time, they cast no vote at all. That exacerbates their vulnerabilities more than factors such as earnings in which they greatly outstrip their peers back in the village. The Representation of People’s Act, 1951 requires the casting of votes at the place of registration. A vote, however, can be transferred, but the process is not that simple. By the time the formalities are completed, or the next election comes around, the migrant may have moved to another city in search of the next opportunity. In cities such as Mumbai, the dominant nativist agenda discourages migrants from enrolling or transferring their votes to the megacity. Political leaders don’t tailor their agendas to address migrant workers’ concerns. Even mainstream parties such as the Bhartiya Janata Party or the Congress did not subsume the migrant’s enfranchisement as an agenda in their manifesto for the last general election.The Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, 1979, which aimed to protect migrant workers’ interest, served its cause well for its first decade of operation. But in 1990-91, when India faced its greatest pre-Covid-19 economic crises, labor laws were significantly watered down to allow for the rapid industrialisation. Trade union politics that had hitherto brought out successful politicians – George Fernandes, for example – were forced to find other biddings. India’s employee provident fund has a mere 45 million active users across private and public establishments. Despite the 1979 Act requiring the creation of a central registry of migrant workers, the Union labour minister told the Parliament a year ago that the government maintains no such database.Freedom to move freely, live and settle in any part of India is guaranteed as a fundamental right under Article 19 of the Constitution. Interstate movement of the workforce is not only the lifeline of the India’s famed demographic dividend but also a dividend of federalism where state governments compete with each other on socioeconomic policies to attract more skilled workforce.In the now legendry case of Indira Gandhi v/s Raj Narain, the Supreme Court’s Justice HR Khanna had opined that free and fair election is an essential element of a democracy – with successive judgments emphasising on that principal. But how free is an election that effectively disenfranchises nearly 8% of its population for the simple fault of exercising their fundamental right to migrate within the country?A 2015 Tata Institute of Social Sciences report correlated that states with higher rates of migration are associated with lower voter turnouts. In order to facilitate electoral participation of migrant workers, the report called for a national consultation on early voting, postal ballot, proxy voting, and electronic voting – early and alternative voting systems widely used in the United Kingdom, the United States, and Australia. Palagummi Sainath, the founder of the People’s Archive of Rural India, has suggested that, to include the migrant votes, elections should be timed with the harvest season. It has precedence. The Election Commission of India has in the past made successful voting provisions for Kashmiri migrants, Jammu’s Talwara migrants, and Mizoram’s Reangs.Nothing can justify the exclusion of the tens of millions of our own citizens from the political bargain of India. Migrants should fight to port their votes wherever they go, and we, in solidarity, should corral for those rights.Kabeer Shrivastava is advocate, Delhi High CourtThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/it-s-time-to-make-migrant-workers-concerns-an-electoral-issue/story-QyT6sootXn5xxS069DWX0H.html
08-05-2020||News||How Covid-19 can affect India’s energy transition goals||As we stare down the Covid-19 pandemic, the crisis has put the trend towards an energy transition at risk. While some fear that the transition may be left flat, others are optimistic that it will get supercharged by this cataclysm. India moved to the forefront of the global energy transition with a target of 175-gigawatt (GW) renewable energy (RE) capacity by 2022. This is likely to undergo an upgrade to 450 GW by 2030. Simultaneously, policy interventions are being planned to push electric vehicles, energy storage, smart grids and other modern energy technologies and practices. Will the pandemic-induced economic contraction topple India’s energy transition priorities? First, disruptions in the global supply chain for clean energy technologies is a key impediment. A long-haul to restoration will not only cause delays but also increase component costs by eliminating global manufacturing surplus. India, with modest 3 GW manufacturing capacity, depends on Chinese manufacturers for about 80% of our solar cells and modules. Chinese manufacturers and India’s ministry of new and renewable energy (MNRE) are hopeful of a speedy revival. The ministry has offered a blanket extension of the lockdown period plus 30 days to ongoing projects and is making efforts to ease the movement of materials. Besides, MNRE has sought land sites suitable for RE manufacturing and export services hubs. Second, the downtrend in fossil fuel prices and demand shrinks the cost advantage RE has gained in recent years. Crude oil prices have declined, even gone negative for one memorable day, while coal prices are also under pressure. For example, India’s kerosene subsidy bill came down to zero in March and the LPG subsidy cost (exluding the three free refills being provided to Ujjwala consumers during the lockdown) reduced to nearly zero in May. The coal ministry has removed surcharges, quantity restrictions, and advance payment requirements to maintain demand, and may even cut prices. The government continues its protective impulse on coal – seeking to maintain production, substituting coal import and promote sales – likely because workers, some poorer states, and key sectors like railways are heavily dependent on the coal economy. By contrast, the Centre seized the moment with the oil price drop to increase the excise duty on petrol and diesel to boost tax revenues. Will the net effect government’s use of tax and subsidy instruments benefit fossils or work to keep RE cost competitive?Third, global capital has been increasingly enthusiastic about an energy transition but the pandemic may open alternative investment opportunities. India’s RE development has largely been financed by foreign and private capital that may shrink if the pandemic worsens. Domestic public capital, constrained by lock-ins to non-performing energy assets, have limited capability to finance energy transition. Will the RE transition suffer for want of financing? Fourth, the decline in electricity demand will likely shrink the space for new RE. Distribution utilities are struggling to keep up with surplus power purchase contracts. In the wake of the lockdown, a few states attempted to invoke force majeure clause and stop withdrawal from RE plants. However, the Centre mandated ‘must-run’ status and regular payments for RE in order to keep it going. Further, India signalled its continued support for RE by completing tenders for 2 GW of solar power even amid the lockdown. The government could go even further by retiring old and polluting coal plants to create space for RE. The Centre’s efforts to protect RE are important signals in favour of sustaining the energy transition. Further, a draft bill to amend the Electricity Act, notified amid the lockdown, may add additional safeguards, such as provisions for a national RE policy, stricter compliance mechanism for renewable purchase obligation, and an Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority that may protect RE and other generators from threats of reneging. Beyond these prompt signals, India needs a strategic approach to sustain the transition to a 21st century energy future. Here are three key steps in that direction:First, while firm national targets are essential, the centralised approach to enforcement in the proposed amendment is misplaced. It is crucial to engage with political economic opportunities and constraints in the states and let the states chart their transition pathways. While the Centre should focus on creating incentives, the states must step up to tap them and unwind the chronic lock-ins. For example, the transition offers opportunities to manage the rising burden of recurring tariff subsidy on the states through one-time support to clean energy infrastructure for the poor.Second, in planning the post-Covid-19 recovery, energy transition could be a catalytic force for rebooting the economy while redirecting energy in the direction of more resilience. For example, we need more health infrastructure, to manage the health emergency, that can be energy resilient through decentralised clean energy. Finally, the pandemic is exacerbating the weaknesses in India’s electricity system, thus causing tensions in the transition. Both fossil and RE systems will need stimulus to sustain the impacts. It is not a question of which technology to support, but a choice between different configurations of technology, politics and institutions. Our focus should not be on restoring the pre-Covid configuration and underlying low-level equilibrium in electricity. Rather, we must use this critical juncture to push for positive reforms and overdue structural changes to build a resilient electricity future. Ashwini K Swain is a fellow at the Centre for Policy Research.Thew views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-covid-19-can-affect-india-s-energy-transition-goals/story-nJX9xopJfVYadDAxT7MRjN.html
08-05-2020||News||Covid-19: Despite difficult circumstances, police personnel are doing their best to keep you safe||The coronavirus pandemic has compelled many nations to take tough measures that require a strong police force to enforce them. Many police personnel are executing this sort of enforcement for the first time in their careers. They have to deal not just with crimes, but also with panic-stricken crowds, emotionally charged and fearful people, trying to walk home or buy essential supplies. The other task that the police have to undertake are enforcing movement restrictions, checking valid passes, ensuring the movement of essential goods, guarding quarantine centres and escorting people who have contracted the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Besides all these, they have to keep an eye on hoarders, rumour-mongers as well as those trapped in their homes due to old age or disabilities. In Punjab, the police helped a woman deliver her baby. In Panchkula, the police turned up at a senior citizen’s home to celebrate his birthday as he had no one else to celebrate it with. In many places, like in Kerala, the police have been feeding stray and abandoned animals. The police force has shown exceptional resilience even when subjected to harsh words and physical attacks like being spat upon, pelted with stones, or even in some places, when people tried to run them down with their vehicles. The most horrendous was the instance when a religious sect clashed with the police in Patiala and during the scuffle chopped off the hand of an assistant sub-inspector. I am not trying to say that the police are beyond reproach but they are just as susceptible to emotions and fears as anyone else. Some police personnel has tested positive for the virus, some of them in Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, and Maharashtra have lost their lives. The lockdown that is being enforced by the police has helped in preventing the spread of the disease, in isolating cases, contact tracing and quarantining. Among the states, Himachal Pradesh has received appreciation from Prime Minister Narendra Modi for its efforts in contact tracing, surveillance, and quarantining. The state police have been tracking all those entering the state from hotspots and their contacts.Dealing with Una district, which has a porous border with Punjab and is a gateway to four more districts of Himachal Pradesh, was a challenging exercise. The district reported 16 out of the total of 40 Covid-19 cases in the state on April 30. The district set up 25 inter-state barriers with the adjoining state. Una reported its first positive case on April 2, its share being three out of six cases in the state. Further contact tracing of these cases led to the creation of a pool of around 300 people for testing.The efficiency of the police in contact tracing could be judged from one of those 14 cases that were reported on April 11. The movement of the coronavirus-positive person showed no change during night time but there was some fluctuation during the day time. During a telephonic investigation, he revealed that he did not meet anyone before testing positive. However, the district police chose to investigate further and, with the help of locals and village heads, traced four of his friends whom he had met before he was tested. Those four people were also tested and one of them turned out to be positive. This one case could have infected many others if not for the rigorous tracing by the police.So the next time, you read articles or hear reports critical of the police, do also remember that we try and do as much as we can under these difficult circumstances to keep you safe and well. Sakshi Verma Karthikeyan is a 2014 batch IPS officer (Himachal Pradesh cadre)The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-despite-difficult-circumstances-police-personnel-are-doing-their-best-to-keep-you-safe/story-LbX7ejwCAVquNGxOA854uJ.html
08-05-2020||News||How the Covid-19-induced lockdown has changed me||It is astounding to learn, how few people matter in our lives. We tend to get so tied up in knots with our daily work schedules, gym, chanting, party routines and trying to make ourselves look “good” for others (mostly on social media). As a result, we ignore the people who matter to us and whom we should care about. Be it the elderly in our family, spouse, children, close friends and even those with whom you have spent precious times. We are so busy chasing a future that we have forgotten how to live and enjoy the present. We are so filled with greed and unfulfilled desires that we forget to count our blessings. Most of us have big egos and a false sense of pride and self-importance that we forget how to respect human beings and empathise with their suffering. If there is one thing my late mother taught me, it is compassion for others. To do your deed or service without expecting anything in return. Today, I know people who are more concerned about providing stray dogs with food and shelter rather than looking at the effect the coronavirus has had on human lives. Make no mistake, I am an animal lover and a conservationist. While by all means our priority today should be protecting ourselves and our family members, but we should also extend a helping hand to elders, friends and loved ones we have lost touch with, and have a conversation with them. There are many charity funds and NGOs we can donate to so that they can take care of street children, stranded migrant labourers and homeless people. But, do donate your money wisely.I have decided to spend more time with my family and close friends and with those people who matter to me. I want to enjoy and cherish my time with them. I will limit my social circle accordingly and live life on my terms. I don’t care two hoots about how the world perceives me. I will do all the things I have always wanted to do: Spend more time with nature, enjoy the wilderness of Ladakh, our national parks, take photography lessons, drive to the Rann of Kutch on a moonlit night, and embark on a motorcycle tour of Bhutan.My second important discovery has got to do with how we suffer from the syndrome of obsessive consumerism. We may get over the virus over the next six months or so (wishful thinking?), but it is accepted that it may take several years to recover from the economic fallout of this crisis. I don’t know how many of us realise how deeply this is going to impact each one of us. We have two options; change our lifestyle that revolves around obsessive consumerism or go down the spiral. It’s a no-brainer. During the lockdown, I was pleasantly surprised to see how little we need to go on reasonably comfortably with our daily lives. Be it cars, household stuff, gadgets, food supplies and toiletries. Not to mention the array of expensive garments, shoes and other accessories we are constantly acquiring. And yet, we never stop collecting more and more and more. We do this because we want to show off to the world how up-to-date, fashionable and wealthy we are.I am going to make a conscious effort to move away from this negative pattern. We are living in times where we need to both “preserve” and “conserve”. I have decided to reduce my financial burden to whatever extent possible. Perhaps, it’s time for all of us to review the same.Last, I am thoroughly enjoying the clean Delhi air, crystal clear blue skies, the chirping of birds, the sight of peacocks and squirrels. No traffic and no noise pollution with horns blaring and people shouting and screaming at each other. After decades, I have not suffered a devastating asthma attack that invariably occurs during the months of April-May. I like to take some time off in the evening to stand out in my verandah and enjoy the sounds of nature and the beauty that surrounds us, despite living in a megacity like Delhi.Today, my worry is of another kind. I am beginning to ask myself the question: Do I want to live in Delhi once the lockdown is over?Vikramaditya Singh is former Member of J&K Legislative Council.The views expressed are final||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-the-covid-19-induced-lockdown-has-changed-me/story-mw4AtmX89pjjIVf7HexPoM.html
