09-05-2020||News||Utilise the army, paramilitary to tackle the migrant workers’ crisis||On Thursday, 16 migrant workers were crushed by a train in Aurangabad, Maharashtra. They were sleeping on the rail tracks after a long journey on foot in a desperate attempt to get back to their home towns hundreds of kilometres away in Madhya Pradesh. While the government has failed to make adequate arrangements for migrant workers, who power our economy, aircraft are being arranged for those coming from abroad. It is not just a matter of emotion that migrants want to get home, though that should be enough. It is not just a matter of their right to move about within their own country, subject to reasonable restrictions designed to ensure public healths. The idea should have been to maximise their mobility while minimising restrictions. It is a matter of their survival. Sadly, the Supreme Court and high courts are silent. They could have asked the central government to operationalise the return of the migrants from their host states to home states on these simple principles. But they have not. The impact is there for all to see. Every day, there are stories of migrant workers and their families, bereft of food and money, making desperate attempts to reach their homes. How many must have gone to an early grave not because of Covid-19 but because of callousness and disorganisation of the State? People act on common sense. The migrants in Surat, Bandra, Noida, and Karnataka know their families will starve and they will be prey to predators if they don’t return to safety or to look after those they have left behind. They had left all that was familiar and loved for a better life. Now they are opting for a life of subsistence among their own rather than with strangers in cities who have used them and then let them go.It is now six weeks into a lengthening national lockdown, albeit with some easing of restrictions. The most visible presence of the armed forces has been to shower petals on hospitals and engage in fly pasts from north to south and east to west.The Indian Army does many laudable things. There were reports that in the early days of the lockdown it contributed medical equipment and manpower. The Army has the mandate to come to the aid of the civilian authority whenever there is a national need. It is stationed everywhere across the country; it has tents, rations, and water supplies. It has transport vehicles to move people and food. Its men and resources are available at a very short distance from all arterial roads and highways used by the poor workers. It has managerial capabilities and an organised and disciplined force to move into action at a moment’s notice. None of the assistance they can offer would reduce their operational capabilities. If the risk of infection is a concern, the State can put in place adequate precautionary measures that do not hinder the work but minimise the risk. The Army knows how to minimise casualties. Even now, food water and resting halts can be arranged at regular distances as can isolation camps en route. The workers will understand if they are tested to see if they can go on or must rest in a quarantine area along the way. They will submit to quarantines where needed, if only they know that eventually they will be assisted to get home.It’s been six weeks. People are still walking. People are still thirsty. People are near starving. These are not ordinary people; they have built the country. They will build the country in the future. No favour is being done to them by providing them assistance to get to where they feel they belong. There is still time to save lives and win back trust. Galvanising the Army or even the paramilitary to assist these long marches will transform the everyday images of sorrow into those of joyful reunion. This is the right thing to do.Maja Daruwala is former director, Commonwealth Human Rights InitiativeThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/utilise-the-army-paramilitary-to-tackle-the-migrant-workers-crisis/story-rjN0uCXWmEWk8EfE6tEsDM.html
09-05-2020||News||The concept of ‘nudge’ can lead to social and economic change in India||Driving responsible individual behaviour to achieve collective well-being through public policy is not new to governments. During the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-sparked crisis, the debate on what constitutes the realm of personal choice vis-à-vis collective responsibility is evolving faster than ever before. Governments are using behavioural change and ‘nudge’ theory to address myriad development and governance challenges. The idea gained traction after the United States (US) and the United Kingdom (UK) mainstreamed it by establishing “nudge” units. In India, behavioural change has been woven into programmes such as the Swachh Bharat Mission, Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao Yojna, and the PM Ujjwala Yojana. The government’s think-tank, NITI Aayog, also plans on setting up a formal nudge unit. The Covid-19 pandemic is unique in many ways: There are varying levels of risks for different age groups; there is an all-pervading threat to different socio-economic groups; and there is a need for individual-level impositions on the part of the government. These three are testing two vital elements of human behaviour. First, personal risk-seeking behaviours, and second, the degree to which an individual behaves in the benefit of society. The critical challenge here is to turn the situation around to implement reforms in behavioural change theory that were difficult so far. For example, now is the time to reinforce one of the key messages of the Swachh Bharat Mission: To encourage citizens to wash hands regularly. Children can be made champions of more hygienic behaviour in their families. The “20-second” hand wash rule, complemented by a “turn the tap off” message, can propel water-use optimisation behaviour.Similarly, to maintain social distance, the idea of using toilets constructed under the mission can be reiterated. In urban areas, the possibility of delays in doorstep waste collection can be used to drive home the point that there is an urgent need to improve waste management and begin segregation at home. A “my neighborhood, my hygiene” campaign can nudge urban citizens to care for their localities sustainably. On the economic front, learnings from “give up LPG subsidy” can be used to change the way such programmes work. The idea of market-based utility pricing can be piloted in the distribution companies and passenger services of Indian Railways by eliminating populist cross-subsidies. A nudge to pay taxes timely and rightfully this year can set a new benchmark for compliance, as people become more willing to contribute despite their economic hardships. As communities work closely with local health care cadre, focused messaging on reproductive, maternal, newborn, child, and adolescent health can improve health-seeking attitudes. With people experiencing stress and anxiety, authorities can encourage them to look at their lifestyles holistically by practising wellness guidelines of the National AYUSH Mission. With nurses and female doctors emerging as the heroes in the fight against the coronavirus, a renewed Beti Bachao Beti Padhao campaign, highlighting women’s critical role in the country’s success can improve gender outcomes. Similarly, a systematic behavioural change to arrest the flow of misinformation through social media can be achieved by nudging citizens to think about information accuracy before taking any action. With governments going online, many procedures can either be eliminated or digitised with minimal resistance from employees and citizens alike. This is also an opportune moment to promote digital payments. Given the changing role of police officers from law- enforcers to social collaborators, a systematic change in their public perception can improve civic-safety outcomes. With the young voluntarily helping the old procure, essential commodities, the concept of community-led geriatric care can also be promoted.Such top-down measures complemented by bottom-up initiatives can ensure that change becomes permanent. In this context, the role of panchayati raj institutions becomes critical. Integrating behavioural change in gram panchayat development plans can be a step in the direction towards leveraging these grassroots capacities.However, we must keep in mind the fallout of “soft paternalism” and typical impediments such as “dragons of inaction”, and “behavioural fatigue” while attempting to use the theory of behavioural change. One must use the idea of nudging and behavioural public policy cautiously. If correctly utilised and well executed, it has the potential to drastically alter the level of trust among citizens, thereby changing the nature of the “government–citizen” relationship forever. It can upgrade citizenry, improve democratic outcomes, and enhance the public services’ efficiency in the longer run.Sanyukta Samaddar is adviser, and Sumitra K. and Anand Trivedi are monitoring and evaluation lead and specialist, Niti Aayog respectively.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-concept-of-nudge-can-lead-to-social-and-economic-change-in-india/story-lOOnlAdXAhNKe5mBe0OubN.html
