10-05-2020||News||Women: The invisible face of hunger||Sunita Haldar lives in a village in Fulia district of West Bengal. Her husband migrated to Kerala and she supports herself and her three small children by working in a weaving shed. Now, there are no orders and she and the children are getting by on one meal a day.Sayidabano stitches garments for a contractor in Ahmedabad and gets paid on a piece-rate basis. Her husband died of tuberculosis five years ago. Her eldest son is 15 years old and she wants to give him an education so that he can earn well and support the family. But now, she has no work and her savings are over. She depends on her neighbours for rations. Multiply these pen portraits of struggle and deprivation a million times, and one gets to see the invisible face of hunger. And that is the face of a woman. The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown has revealed the precarious lives of a large number of people. Migrants, mostly men in cities, are the visible face of hunger and despair we see every day in the media. The women left behind in the villages, while their menfolk migrate, are equally deprived of food and cash. In normal times, these women continue to work, while the men are away. They look after their own small farms, manage their cattle and other livestock; they are agricultural labourers or small manufacturers doing weaving, garment-making or embroidery; they are domestic servants or provide other services like child care. Then suddenly, abruptly, came the lockdown. And women found themselves without any means of support. The remittances stopped as the migrants grappled with their difficult situations in cities. At the same time, women’s own incomes collapsed. Women who grow vegetables found that they have no way to take them to market; all manufacturing came to a halt, labour was no more in demand; and although the government has mandated the starting of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, this has hardly happened yet anywhere.The slums and mohallas of urban India hide equally hungry women and children. Perhaps the most affected are the women who are the sole earners in their families. These are widows or those whose husbands or fathers cannot earn due to illness, or sometimes due to addictions. They work as domestic help, street vendors, construction labour, ragpickers or engage in small manufacturing in their homes and bring in money to support their children and the elderly in the family. Even in normal times, they are on the edge of survival. Now with their work gone, hunger stalks their homes. Governments have instituted systems by which grains are widely available for families with ration cards. For those without cards, many state governments have systems for filling up documents using the Aadhaar card or other local documents of proof, through which families can access grains. However, a certain percentage, usually the most vulnerable, are outside the zone of this security net. Sometimes, it is due to not having a ration card or even an Aadhaar card; often it is due to the problems in distribution. The central government had announced various cash transfers including ~500 into women’s Jan Dhan accounts. But here too, many fall through the net. In a study done by Dalberg, a global consulting firm, in mid-April among the 18,000 of the poorest, the Indian below poverty line families, it was found that 45% had not received free rations. And over 70% had not received cash payments into their Jan Dhan accounts. This is not all. Other stresses crowd in. Since money is tight, and the period of lockdown uncertain, there are often quarrels in the house about how to budget and on which items. Women usually bear the brunt of these arguments, and face both mental and physical violence. There is, however, a group of invisible people who are ready to reach out to these hungry families. Within every community, there are those who do their best to ensure that others receive food. Many of the volunteers are women like Sarabjit Kaur, a widow who lives in a village in Patiala district with her son. She is primarily a domestic worker, but also cooks for weddings and events and works as agricultural labour to make ends meet. As soon as she heard about the impending lockdown, she identified all vulnerable families in her community immediately and conveyed this information to the local non-governmental organisations and political leaders. These families received ration kits on a priority basis. There are countless such Sarabjit Kaurs throughout the country, and they should be recognised and asked to become part of the government’s distribution system, so that food can reach the last woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/women-the-invisible-face-of-hunger/story-8tznm5spx1gElOPP09g11I.html
10-05-2020||News||Plan a fiscal response around State spending||While we continue to debate whether the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is a black swan or white swan event, there is little doubt that it has exposed how fragile the economic system is. The stress caused by the disruption of global supply lines and the lockdown is expected to take a heavy toll on GDP growth. This could potentially force the world into a prolonged recession. India may have escaped some of the ravages of the virus so far, thanks to early steps taken by the government, including the nationwide lockdown. But it has come at a huge cost to the economy. Tens of millions have lost their jobs, production has come to a halt and the aggregate demand has reached rock-bottom due to the steep fall in exports, investment and consumption demand. This calls for an urgent and unprecedented response from the government. While the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has taken a few welcome steps in this direction, it is doubtful whether the monetary response will be effective in these circumstances. The monetary policy is of little use when interest rates are low, and the economy is operating below full capacity. It also works indirectly via a network of commercial banks by providing interest rate incentives, so that people readjust their portfolios. Today, because of weak animal spirits and low demand, even the lower cost of capital will not induce businesses to borrow or banks to lend. Banks will be unwilling to lend as they are already burdened with high non-performing assets and will be wary of more defaults due to this crisis. And the lower cost of capital or tax cuts by themselves does not stimulate economic activity if ventures are not profitable due to weak demand. Just distributing a small amount of money to a larger number of people will also not stimulate the economy. What we need is a massive fiscal response built around direct State spending. Undertaking a nationwide project of constructing new public health care centres and hospitals will stimulate industrial production, put money in the hands of the people directly involved in the project, in the newly-appointed health workers and doctors and generate consumption expenditure. Even from an equity perspective, with vulnerable sections being disproportionately affected, there is merit in the government undertaking fiscal expansion via activities that directly build social infrastructure. Low inflation and low interest rates weaken the “crowding out” argument. But where will the money come from? It cannot be raised by increasing taxes as businesses are already badly hit by the disruption. Taxing the salaried class will further drain consumer purchasing power. This calls for a large increase in government borrowings including substantial amounts from the RBI at a lower-than-market interest rate. But it appears that the government is facing resistance from the fiscal hawks who are still fixated on the random fiscal deficit target of 3% and is petrified of the rating downgrade by international credit rating agencies (CRAs). The only thing consistent about these CRAs is their failure to accurately assess the financial situation even of individual companies, leave alone countries. They have failed to predict defaults by large companies like DHFL, IL&FS and the Zee group. This patchy track record is not only limited only to India. In the United States, the Enron saga and subsequent congressional hearings revealed that Standard & Poor’s (S&P) had reaffirmed investment-grade status for the company in October 2001, then downgraded it in November 2001 four days before it declared bankruptcy. Dubious ratings by CRAs played a key role in incubating the 2008 financial crisis. Back then, questions were raised about the role of CRAs in giving bundles of mortgage-backed securities, which had toxic underlying assets, AAA ratings. The methodology of CRAs is opaque, questionable and often lacks economic logic. Take China and India. In 2016, India’s rating by S&P was stuck at BBB — despite improvement in growth and macroeconomic stability since 2014, while China’s rating was unchanged at AAA  despite historic credit expansion and a fall in GDP growth. Most of the toolkits that CRAs use do not factor in uncertainty. Since the 1970s, CRAs have worked with the “issuer pay model”, where the issuer of any market instrument pays to get itself rated leading to an inherent conflict of interest. Competition among them and the client’s desire for better ratings often lead to inflated ratings. Also, the de facto licensing power implies that CRAs obtain a rent to allow borrowers to access debt markets rather than award the certification after due diligence on borrower quality as envisaged in regulation. At this juncture, there can hardly be anything worse than making economic policy subservient to international CRAs. Instead of trying to focus on speculative financial flows, the State must fulfil its obligation under its social contract. If the State does not step up to the plate during a pandemic, the battle against the virus cannot be won.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/plan-a-fiscal-response-around-state-spending/story-HAl2OI5sKbIEV4RxqqabJP.html
