14-05-2020||News||Covid-19: The search for a vaccine||Pandemics are striking with greater frequency primarily because of deforestation, environmental degradation, rapid urbanisation, overpopulation, migration and growing animal and human conflict. There is no herd or population immunity against new pathogens such as the Sars-Cov-2 that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and till herd or population immunity crosses 70%, it will continue to spread. In these circumstances, public health interventions in combination with an effective vaccine may mitigate the situation.India has the distinction of creating a vaccine for a novel virus decades ago, when the Kyasanur Forest Disease was first reported from Shimoga district in Karnataka and is now endemic in Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra and Goa. This vaccine, though crude, is used even today. Shantha Biotech has manufactured the world’s first effective oral cholera vaccine. The vaccine has not been used in India because cholera outbreaks are rare, but it is used all over the world in emergency situations, including in Haiti and Myanmar.The speed with which the Covid-19 pandemic is progressing leaves the world with no choice but to have an emergency-use vaccine ready within six to eight months. We cannot afford to wait for years. In the past, the Ebola vaccine has been rapidly made available. The world already has some experience with coronavirus vaccines against viruses that cause Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (Sars) and the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (Mers). The platforms and proven adjuncts being used for vaccines development are established and have been used to deliver other vaccines. Since we are not starting from scratch, an early vaccine is possible.Most vaccines are being developed to provide immune responses either using pre-fusion or full-length spike protein. The antigen is either expressed in the human body through a messenger RNA or DNA (genetic material) put through a carrier or put in a platform. When injected into humans, the antigen is expressed and builds up an immune response. Before antigens are put into platforms, they are tested against convalescent plasma and monoclonal antibodies in-vitro, ex-vivo or in-vivo. Mice challenge and monkey challenge experiments are also done. Since neither of these is available in India, Indian companies are outsourcing to international companies or laboratories. Special assays using ghost cells are also needed for testing of neutralising antibodies to detect adverse reactions in cells taken from lungs or bronchus.The most promising vaccine is the LPN-RNA vaccine (messenger RNA) being developed by Moderna, which has completed its Phase-I trial with the help of Emory, and has started recruiting for Phase-II. The Phase-I data of this two-dose vaccine, given 29 days apart, is under analysis. The four-messenger RNA vaccine of Pfizer with BNTECH has also moved to phase-I/II trial.In India, Gennova Pharmaceuticals has developed and patented a messenger RNA vaccine that is used with a carrier lipid iron oxide (LION) and an adjuvant known as GLA-SE. Experiments in convalescent serum and mouse and monkey challenge studies have obtained very high neutralising antibody titres.A DNA-vaccine developed by INOVIO Pharmaceuticals has gone into trial in South Korea. In partnership with Cadila Pharmaceuticals in India, the US-based Novavax is using the virus-like particles (VLP) platform, which has been previously used for the papilloma virus vaccine. Using this platform, the company has marketed seasonal influenza, H1N1 and rabies vaccines in India. This vaccine is also undergoing Phase-I trial in the United States (US) and Australia.Oxford University is using a chimp-adenovirus platform to develop a vaccine, which will be manufactured by AstraZeneca in Europe and Serum Institute in India. It is in the Phase-I trial stage. Johnson & Johnson is using adeno-26 platform and pre-fusion spike protein, which has been successfully used by them in Ebola and RSV vaccine trials. This platform is not being used by any company in India.Aurobindo has bought a small startup from Pfizer in the US and is using a vesicular stomatitis virus platform for vaccine development, which is likely to be manufactured in their unit in Hyderabad. The other projects moving fast in India are the CSIR-funded CCMB-Bharat Biotech partnership using a killed-vaccine for which the strain was obtained from the National Institute of Virology, Pune. Zydus-Cadila in India is also in the fray with a measles virus platform. Other projects are using an attenuated viral vaccine, which is similar to the vaccines being developed in China. Immunoglobulins against specific epitopes of Covid-19 antigens will come before vaccines only 1 is available from Israel and a cocktail of 3 are available in United States and are undergoing trials (These provide passive vaccination).There are 110-plus vaccine projects going on at the moment, with unprecedented approaches being adopted by developers. Emergency use of the vaccine is given as soon as they finish Phase-II and move to Phase-III, and mass manufacturing begins taking up the risk of failure in Phase-III. Countries in which they are situated often fund for risk reduction and provide market commitments. This has never happened before.One of the challenges will be to determine who gets vaccinated first. There are several scenarios, one of them is to vaccinate frontline workers, doctors, health care, sanitation and delivery workers. The second scenario is to give them to children, and the last is to conduct ring vaccination around the hotspots to immunise all the contacts and the asymptomatics. The World Health Organization will provide guidance in this matter.Even when we have a vaccine, public health measures will be equally important, including avoiding risky behaviour, keeping social distancing, working on nutrition and access to poor populations and creating a mechanism to avoid animal and human transmission.If trials fail and a vaccine is not available in time globally, the world will have to live with this disease for a very long time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-the-search-for-a-vaccine-analysis/story-4k2CzK3CTvVvpSjHb4KygJ.html
14-05-2020||News||How Covid-19 unbundled the school system globally||In the world of education, this must count for a miracle. Schools, colleges and universities insisted for years that online learning was not for them. With the coronavirus pandemic, suddenly, schools were able to make this rapid shift. Within a fortnight, the technology that received a hard push back suddenly became acceptable — even mandatory. It is tough to advocate change and reforms in the education sector. The traditional university and school models have been sacrosanct for centuries. We mocked assembly-line teaching. Songs were written about how schooling was like a sausage factory, and each student just another brick in the wall. The wall remained unmoved. Until now. Schools quickly realised that this disruption could knock them off their perches. Schooling and higher education had been struggling for decades. Higher education survived, patching over issues with structure, tenure, research, purpose, discrimination, ambition, rigour, reach and, of course, funding. Schooling too suffered with learning lag, funding, standards, teacher motivation, pay, and the gap in preparing all students adequately. The elite did better, since money often purchases quality. Excellence and opportunity were not accessible to all students all over the world. Indeed, as we see from the disruption, nor is survival.Institutions adapted. They were right to do so. They needed students more than students needed them. On paper, institutions certified students. Really, students validated institutions by applying. We are in the early months of the disruption, and already, university students across the world are questioning the value of their education and demanding discounts. Despite the huge amount of work that teachers in schools have put in to scramble to maintain continuity where they can afford it, by going online, fees are under threat. Parents don’t want to send their children to school while the physical dangers are high. Schools cannot survive this.The disruption caused by the coronavirus disease laid bare the fact that institutions were not necessarily delivering value. The school is easily unbundled. We just moved classes, connect, and content to online media. Soon, we will become good at it, and extend it to all. A student will be served just as well with an online curriculum delivered by star teachers across the world. Or by supervised study groups in real or virtual spaces. On demand, with customisation, this could be better than the old ways. One does not need to come into school for this. Teachers, too, can learn to create their magic via tuitions or other learning hubs. Certification can easily be independent of schools. The information technology sector has been doing it for a while; scholastic assessment tests are not school-dependent at all. Students can register for any exams across boards, states, and countries. Exam operations can be in neutral centres, or online. We don’t need schools for exams. Administration can hardly be a reason to have schools and universities. Administration is a software now. Neither learning, nor assessment, needs to be tethered to one hub, except to serve regulation. Regulation can reform to support the unbundled parts too.Social and emotional learning can be found in community and group-learning experiences. One does not need specific school structures. Only sport needs local facilities. Even a corporate traineeship provides that collegial experience. A student may do better participating in a global competition or hackathon than writing tests and essays for an in-school assessment. They can find friends in the local park, or football club, not necessarily at school. If school finds itself parcelled out, then it must ask itself this existential question: What is the true value of school?Other sectors have been disrupted before, and so too can education. Ancient universities disappeared, as did entire school systems. It can happen again. The unbundling of the school package has been made visible. Schools and colleges can be disinter-mediated, and students may find it easier to directly access learning that serves their goals. For many, schools were overly rigid, restricting their personal journeys. For others, schools forced a generic pace. For some with talent, schools were limiting. All teachers know that much of their energy and effort at school is spent in boxing in a variety of students into one set of curricula and goals. Schools bind students to them with laws, enforcement, a monopoly on progression, and habit. Schools also bind students to them with the love of learning, with purpose, with direction and support. Schools and universities do provide value, but it is not where they think it is. It is not where it was. This disruption has revealed our vulnerabilities. But it has also given us a reason to seek true value. As educators and as institutions, our task is to answer this question: What is the true value of schools? And then to deliver for value, not to habit or regulation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-covid-19-unbundled-the-school-system-globally-analysis/story-ChciGMytuOUZTj78i2esiO.html
14-05-2020||News||Curbing fake news doesn’t impinge on press freedom, writes Prakash Javadekar||There is always a debate about how much freedom the press enjoys in a country. But, in India, the only time when press freedom was muzzled was during the national Emergency in June 1975. At the time, I was a student activist and protested the censorship of the press; many of us were arrested on December 11, 1975, and kept in prison until all the political prisoners were released on January 26, 1977. During that time, a government officer was deputed to each newspaper; this person screened all news items that were to be published the next day. He enjoyed unbridled powers to allow or disallow publishing of any news item without ascribing any reason. My father, then a sub-editor at Daily Kesari, founded by Lokmanya Tilak, was on night duty on June 25 when the Emergency was clamped and on the morning of June 26, he told me that press freedom was over.During that period, many petitions were filed before the Supreme Court of India for restoring all freedoms, but in vain. Though millions fought against the Emergency for 18 months, this dark era concerning the freedom of press remained.In the elections held soon after the Emergency was lifted in 1977, the Janata Party won, and its first decision was to restore complete press and media freedom, which has remained unhindered since then.But I want to focus on something that poses as big a threat to freedom of the media: Fake news.During the lockdown, there has been a marked increase in the circulation of fake news pushed through print, electronic, and especially social media such as Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp.To check this menace, we established a Fact Check Unit in the Press Information Bureau (PIB) that started taking immediate cognisance of fake news. Our efforts have started showing positive results. At least some platforms are retracting these fake news items, and placing facts before viewers and readers.The initial response from some quarters to the initiative was to term it the muzzling of the media. But fake news can never have anything to do with freedom of the media.Let me highlight some of the things we have had to combat. On Twitter, a famous advocate said that a woman in Uttar Pradesh threw her five children into the Gomti river because the family had no food. But, when the facts were checked, it was found that there was enough food in her house; she took this extreme step following an altercation with her husband.An even more mischievous piece of fake news circulated on social media, and nearly triggered a clash between migrant workers and the police at the Bandra station in Mumbai. A large number of migrant workers gathered at Bandra Railway Station based on a fake story that flashed on a TV channel about a special train for migrant labourers. There was no such plan.In another instance, a popular channel reported that all staff of Bikaner Government Hospital in Rajasthan tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). This was absolutely wrong. There has been a clear pattern of spreading rumours as news, particularly on social media. Many of these have to do with the schemes of the central and state governments. In some cases, these are about non-existent problems with schemes or plans: “Only 2% of the poor are getting food from ration shops”; or “There will be 30% salary and pension cut for government employees”. In other cases, they are about non-existent schemes and plans: “The government will provide free Internet till June end’; or “Hotels will remain closed till October”. Many of these were widely circulated. All are wrong; they were subsequently withdrawn when countered with facts.Fake news also creates panic. After India exported hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) to the United States and other countries, a narrative spread that the country was left with no stock of HCQ for its own people. There were many such stories — one claimed that Jammu and Kashmir was short of medical supplies. Another said that Manipur’s Churachandpur district had no rations. A large newspaper even projected that Mumbai would see 40,000 cases of Covid-19 by April-end, and that the number would reach 650,000 by mid-May. All these were fake. The platforms had to retract the news.While PIB’s Fact Check Unit managed to crack down on these and present the true picture, it is clear that there is a deliberate attempt to create fake news.That cannot be allowed in a pluralistic democratic set-up like India, not even if the purveyors of fake news try to portray it as a crackdown on the freedom of the press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/curbing-fake-news-doesn-t-impinge-on-press-freedom-analysis/story-exHcTkSyVMjFqWQwKCPvYI.html
14-05-2020||News||Financing the Covid-19 economic package||The wait is over. It came in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s fifth address to the nation in two months. The ending of his speech, which incorporated everything from Bharatiya sanskriti (culture) to solar energy, went off like a bomb. Just when most observers of the government’s actions since the coronavirus pandemic had more or less given up on its announcing an economic package, one far greater than expected was announced. During the silence from the central government, some well-designed packages had been proposed from the outside. One by the Opposition had proposed a package of over Rs 5 lakh crore. This concentrated on relief. While relief is vital and something expected from a government that implemented a lockdown without debate, it cannot address the subsequent revival of the economy. A package representing wider concerns and greater heft, amounting to Rs 15 lakh crore, came from an industry body. At Rs 20 lakh crore, the package announced by the prime minister exceeds even the latter. Coincidentally, it exactly matches the quantum recommended in a proposal made in an article in these pages on April 15. A difference is that while the latter had proposed a pure fiscal stimulus of Rs 20 lakh crore, the prime minister’s package includes the financial implications of measures taken by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) so far and some relief offered in March. It is, therefore, a measure of the combined monetary and fiscal policy response to the exigencies of the moment. However, even if the monetary measures are taken to a sum of over Rs 4 lakh crore, the package is large indeed. At close to 10% of GDP, the stimulus is only slightly lower than what has been announced in the United States. The political element in the magnitude of the response cannot be overlooked. The announcement has come at a time when cases of infection in India are not just rising, but rising fast even though the world’s most stringent lockdown, with associated hardship, has been in place for seven weeks. The economy could no longer be ignored. While the content of the package will slowly emerge, the prime minister’s speech suggests that it is comprehensive, covering most sectors of the economy. However, apart from the possibility that political considerations may end up spreading the outlay thinly, a technical issue remains. Of the four areas of focus mentioned, liquidity is one; land, labour and laws are the others. Now, while liquidity enhancement by RBI is important, global experience points to its weakness as a method of reviving an economy that is in crisis. A central bank may enhance the capacity of banks through repo operations, but it cannot force them to lend. Judging by the volume of funds the latter have parked with RBI, it may be concluded that they are reluctant to do so, making it the right moment to contemplate negative interest rests on these holdings. The point is that the greater the share of liquidity-enhancing measures in this economic package, the less potent it will be.After we have acknowledged the boldness of the announcement, we would be interested in knowing how the additional outlay is to be financed. For the moment, the government should seriously consider the money financing route as funding the deficit will raise interest rates. An objection encountered is that the former is inevitably inflationary. Actually, it is not more so than monetary easing implemented by the central bank. For close to six decades, after the founding of RBI, money financing was routine. In the mid-1950s, there was much hand- wringing that the second five year plan was being deficit-financed. There was some inflation all right, but in seven years after launching the plan, the economy had sloughed-off the colonial rate of growth prevailing for half a century. By the time money financing of the central government’s deficit was discontinued in the 1990s, growth had accelerated two more times. Actually, a period of high inflation came after 2008, well after money financing was discontinued. But recognising the possibility of inflation, the increased outlay now planned may be spent in tranches, holding expenditure back if there is a spurt in inflation. In addition to inflation, some Indian economists residing overseas have warned of capital flight if the fiscal deficit were to rise. India’s foreign exchange reserves currently exceed the volume of portfolio investment. Anyway, why would foreign institutional investors want to flee India exactly when, with the economic package just announced, it stands a chance of becoming the world’s fastest-growing large economy?With the technicalities over, the irony of a government that has distanced itself from almost every aspect of the economic policy of early independent India now adopting its very premise is apparent. Self-reliance was the motif of policies pursued in India in the 1950s, and the country industrialised quickly. In the next decade came the Green Revolution, which set the nation free from food imports. By contrast the “Make in India” initiative of 2014 has been less disruptive. May the freshly minted “Atma Nirbhar Abhiyaan” succeed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/financing-the-covid-19-economic-package/story-4AUrzLZadIYLZjH2d5NbFN.html
14-05-2020||News||Why PM Modi’s address is historic||The second stimulus package announced by Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi has gone beyond expectations. His address to the nation on May 12 will perhaps mark the day when India embarked on the path of converting a global crisis into an opportunity to accelerate its economic transition and build on the solid foundations laid in the first term of this government. This will involve eliminating poverty, improving equity, and raising the living standards of the population in line with their aspirations. It promises to be historical.The PM announced a package of Rs 20 lakh crore or nearly 10% of GDP to trigger economic growth in the post-coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced pandemic period to protect the interests of those affected by the extended lockdown, which was critical in the face of the pernicious virus. In doing so, he has overcome conservative impulses within the establishment and laid the ground for a paradigm shift. It is clear that we cannot continue to operate within self-imposed fiscal constraints. Across the world, these are being discarded in response to the deteriorating economic situation. Fiscal prudence has to be understood in a dynamic perspective. It can be achieved by reversing the slackening economic growth rate, rather than through a continued reduction in public expenditure in response to declining revenues. That would be the certain path to a vicious downward growth spiral from which it would take years to rebuild the economy.But the unexpectedly large fiscal stimulus package is only one of the components of the PM’s address on May 12. For me, the promise to undertake bold structural reforms and jettison the incremental approach holds an even bigger promise for India to regain its growth momentum. Without these bold reforms in areas such as land, labour, liquidity and laws, the fiscal stimulus risked being wasted in a one-off consumption hike, whose growth impulse would taper off quickly. With bold structural reforms, the proposed increase in public expenditure will help attract fresh private investment to build new production capacities, raise productivity by absorbing frontier technologies and promote equity through higher efficiency in the delivery of public services. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-governed states have taken the lead by introducing a slew of labour market reforms that will give flexibility to investors to tailor their workforce in line with changes in seasonal demand and output.These bold reforms will also underpin the PM’s call for a self-reliant India, but one which is not self-centred and protectionist. He made it clear in his address that India will continue to participate even more aggressively in global value chains on the basis of greater competitiveness of its domestic firms and industries. This will call for encouraging local production, building local brands, improving logistics and lowering energy costs for domestic companies. This will enable them to achieve economies of scale and technological sophistication for successfully competing in global markets. The PM’s emphasis on India’s continued engagement with global trends in commerce, finance and technology is surely an effective and decisive response to those raising fears of India turning protectionist. Self-reliance with continued participation in global markets and value chains will be the mantra going forward.His call for promoting local products so that they become global brands and capture a share of international markets is timely. As new capacities are created locally, the support from the consumer will propel them to achieve global qualities and scale. The domestic market, though large and growing, is still not enough to afford global scales of production and economies of scale. India’s software industry came of age and achieved global scales and competitiveness with the Y2K phenomenon, mentioned by the PM in his address. Duties on hardware imports were reduced and software companies were supported to achieve this breakthrough. Similarly, India’s readymade garments industry achieved its present scale and competitiveness only through catering to global demand. It should be evident by now that Indian consumers are a discerning lot who are acutely price and quality conscious. The bold reforms emphasised by the PM in his address will help Indian firms to meet the demands of the local consumers while gaining share in global markets.We should not lose sight of the fact that the challenge has just begun. There is a difficult road ahead of us with the global economy showing signs of a perilous downward slide which could well be as steep as in the Great Depression of the 1930s. The pandemic’s full impact on the global and domestic economy is still not fully known. In the coming days, we have to constantly be on guard, looking out for emerging risks and opportunities and responding with agility and focus on these emerging trends. We have started a paradigm shift, which will take us in the direction of becoming a global player by focusing on our strengths and rooting our policies in our own ground realities. We will thus actualise the PM’s call for converting this crisis into an opportunity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/why-pm-modi-s-address-is-historic/story-Ojkj8M0ml5nxqK3HOIueLI.html
