15-05-2020||News||Covid-19: Time for liberal withdrawal options for retirement funds||We are in the midst of a severe economic and financial crisis. With the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)’s tendency to infect an unusually large number of elderly people, pension schemes become an absolute necessity – for medical support as well as to stave-off the resultant economic crisis.As the Nobel laureate, Milton Friedman, writes: “Only a crisis – actual or perceived – produces real change. When that crisis occurs, the actions that are taken depend on the ideas that are lying around.”Such a crisis exists in the delivery of retirement benefits for India’s National Pension System (NPS) subscribers.We have an example in the Thrift Savings Plan (TSP), a retirement plan for American civil servants, which is an efficient and publicly-managed social security scheme. The account is managed individually for each subscriber, and contributions flow into exclusive accounts. And the risk is borne by the subscriber. It offers three ways to withdraw money on retirement, with an option to choose any or a combination of the three.One, lump-sum withdrawal. Lump-sum withdrawals are large and a member of the TSP can take single or multiple withdrawals on retirement. It is akin to full provident fund (PF) withdrawal on retirement from service by the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) subscribers or up to 60% withdrawal of total corpus by an NPS subscriber.Two, instalment payments. TSP enables a civil servant to receive payments on a monthly, quarterly, or annual basis till the total amount in the TSP account lasts. The participant has the option to start, stop, or change instalment payments at any time.The Employees’ Pension Scheme (EPS), one of the three schemes administered by EPFO that enables a subscriber to receive monthly pension payments. The pension contributions continue to be invested in the fund. While the PF account is managed separately for each individual, the pension contributions flow in a pooled pension fund. The risk is shared by the employers and the central government. Pension is guaranteed by the EPS. At present, it doesn’t have a provision of monthly pension payments for an NPS subscriber.Three, life annuity. An annuity pays a benefit to the participant for life. A TSP account holder purchases an annuity from a TSP-empanelled insurance company. In NPS, a minimum of 40% of the corpus has to be compulsorily used to buy an annuity at retirement to secure a regular income during the period of retirement. There is no annuity in EPFO.It doesn’t change the accumulated pension corpus, it merely redefines the ways the retiral benefits are used.Among the three alternatives available to a TSP subscriber, the most popular is the lump-sum withdrawal at the time of retirement. Its downside risk, however, is that retirees often outlive their pension wealth.An important factor affecting retirement benefits in the future for DC plans like TSP or NPS is the annuity conversion factor (the annuities which are effectively paid to a subscriber in retirement), which for OECD countries stands at 90%.The annuity conversion factor is much lower in India. The annuity market is not well-developed anywhere in the world, and India is no exception. It accounts for less than one-fifth of the total investment of the Indian insurance business. The reward to annuity providers appears to be disproportionate to the risks taken by them for a guaranteed income. The adequacy of benefits is also an issue in life annuity plans and particularly in a low-interest environment.Unlike the TSP, the annuitisation for NPS retirees is mandatory. They must use a minimum of 40% of the corpus to buy a life annuity. The objective of the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) is to develop and regulate pension funds and protect the interest of its subscribers – not promote the insurance industry.PFRDA has an efficient IT-based architecture for the collection of contributions, investments at low costs, electronic record-keeping of accounts, and in-service part-withdrawals. Unlike EPFO, NPS was started in the digital age and has a robust digital infrastructure. Individual accounting infrastructure for bringing flexibility in withdrawal options is in place, and the same could be leveraged for an innovative approach to serve the subscribers. In fact, PFRDA is uniquely placed to offer flexibility in withdrawal options as per the choice exercised by subscribers.It’s time to change the NPS. PFRDA could emulate TSP by liberalising the withdrawal options and individual choice for retirees by providing alternatives and flexibility in the delivery of benefits. In particular, life annuity should be made optional. Similarly, a provision for monthly pension payments could also be introduced for NPS subscribers, while the remaining corpus may continue to be invested with the NPS fund. This would benefit NPS subscribers as larger pools of assets would be less expensive to manage on a per-unit basis as the economies of scale would lower administrative costs, increasing the retiral benefits.PFRDA, the regulator, and the government will find it difficult to resist the idea for a much-improved retirement option that could act as a “crown” for its subscribers in tumultuous times such as the coronavirus pandemic.Anuja Choudhary is a research associate at IMI New Delhi The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-time-for-liberal-withdrawal-options-for-retirement-funds/story-R9zj5ttT3d6PqXEi8QYRdM.html
15-05-2020||News||A Covid-19 vaccine will be found. Plan for its delivery||Most experts say we are 12-18 months away from an approved coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, and even longer from having one available at scale. Despite vaccine development being at this uncertain early stage, India must immediately start planning how to deliver a Covid-19 vaccine.When a vaccine becomes available, everyone will have to run the fastest and largest mass vaccination campaign in history. India will have to vaccinate about a billion people to reach the level believed to confer herd immunity for Covid-19. Each day of the virus-driven uncertainty cripples the economy and imposes immense human costs. India should do everything we can to save a few critical days, weeks or months.A task force on coronavirus vaccine development, drug discovery, diagnosis, and testing exists. This group’s focus is diffuse. Even in the area of vaccines, the group’s focus is primarily vaccine development, not the delivery. Immunising a billion people in a country as diverse as India will be a staggering operational challenge. To be successful, we need a powerful group to plan for vaccine delivery now.To pull this off, India can draw lessons from two large, successful campaign-style exercises. Every five years, India holds the world’s largest general election, involving up to 900 million voters. Electoral rules state there must be a polling place within two kilometres of every habitation. India employs 11 million election workers to make sure every eligible Indian can vote. Every vote is cast electronically via more than 1.7 million machines. Despite these formidable challenges, India successfully conducts elections, widely considered free and fair.The polio campaign is the second example. As recently as 2009, India had over 60% of all global polio cases. With an annual birth cohort of 27 million children, high population density, poor sanitation, inaccessible regions, high population mobility and a high disease burden, the obstacles to achieving zero-polio status seemed insurmountable. Nevertheless, India has not had a single case of the wild poliovirus since 2011, and it was officially declared polio-free in 2014. The victory was achieved through government ownership, partnerships with private and social sectors, innovations in programme delivery, technical advances, and massive social mobilisation. There are over 90 vaccine candidates in trials, six in human clinical trials, with more being added every week. The vaccine candidates range across virus, viral vector, nucleic acid, and protein-based approaches — which means that they will require different technologies and processes to manufacture them. We don’t yet know if an eventual vaccine will require temperature control, ultra-cold temperature control, or not require any cooling to maintain its potency. We don’t know if it will be packaged and administered via conventional syringes or an innovative new delivery mechanism such as a micro-needle patch. We don’t know the duration for which an eventual vaccine will confer immunity. We don’t know its efficacy; of the people who get vaccinated, what fraction will be protected from getting sick? We don’t know how that efficacy will vary across different populations — will it be as effective for older people as for younger people, for populations in north India as in south India?Despite these uncertainties, there is a lot for a Vaccination Task Force (VTF) to productively focus its efforts on right now.First, for each of the key uncertainty drivers, VTF can determine plausible ranges and identify the most likely options. These can be used to draw up a set of scenarios for detailed planning. The VTF can then monitor how vaccine development is progressing. As more information becomes available, the ranges on the key uncertain variables can be narrowed and the priority order and details of plans can be revised.Second, practice through “war games” will allow decision-makers to rapidly and correctly react to changing circumstances. An example: How to react to the possible tragedy of a small cluster of deaths in one state, most likely due to vaccine-related side-effects? Such “war games” are standard practice for militaries, and are increasingly used by corporates to allow decision-makers to improve their responses.Third, no matter how fast production can be ramped up, there will be initial periods when only a limited supply of vaccine will be available, and demand will exceed supply. The VTF can draw up allocation and prioritisation rules. For example, first high-risk populations such as health workers; then, vulnerable populations such as the elderly; thereafter, individuals likely to be potential “super-spreaders”; and finally, the general public. The VTF can also represent India in global agreements for an equitable allocation of vaccines and agree to rules for the timing and allocations of supply within India versus for export to other countries.Fourth, India excels in one critical dimension — vaccine manufacturing. India alone supplies 60% of the vaccine doses purchased by the United Nations Children’s Fund (Unicef) each year. The Serum Institute of India is the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, producing and selling over 1.5 billion doses annually. Even if Indian manufacturers are part of global agreements to ensure equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines for every country, India can be assured of a strong negotiating position, as it brings critical production capacity to the table. The VTF can work collaboratively with local manufacturers to understand how many doses can be manufactured in what time-frames, provide the necessary support to increase the number, and establish agreements to purchase a minimum number of doses at an agreed price.Last, coherent, clear, and resonant communication will be a critical pillar for building trust and ensuring public receptivity and cooperation for a vaccination campaign.If planning for vaccine delivery starts now, India will have a well-thought-through playbook to execute from when a vaccine is ready.Sidharth Rupani is a consultant specialising in the design of public health supply chains The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-covid-19-vaccine-will-be-found-plan-for-its-delivery/story-guxbzBcIvG02mypZOKNV5K.html
