21-05-2020||News||A Green Trade Organisation is the need of the hour||The initial years of the 21st century witnessed universal economic growth. The fundamentals of globalisation appeared to be getting stronger. The 2008 financial crisis raised a few uncomfortable questions. Critics such as Nobel Laureate Eric Maskin argued that it has benefitted only a select few. As countries, including major economies, faced rising unemployment and inequality, a political class propagated inward-looking policies, rather than expanding the realms of globalisation to shore up the growth prospects.On the other hand, with increasing awareness and instances of natural disasters, many demanded urgency in addressing the climate crisis. There were calls to adopt more “sustainable approach” towards achieving development goals that achieve high economic growth without adversely affecting the prospects for future generations. The Paris Climate Agreement showed that leadership from various countries can collaborate in tackling the effects of the climate crisis. However, like global trade, the climate crisis action agenda also witnessed a breaking down of consensus — such as the withdrawal of the United States (US) from the Paris deal.The coronavirus pandemic has shaken the foundations of the world order. It has taught the global leadership that there is no alternative to mutual coexistence, or in the words of Thomas Freidman, “the world has become even flatter”. Globalisation will undergo a radical redesign. Countries will beef up their home-grown manufacturing capabilities for “products and services of essential nature”, while, at the same time, also try and find substitute locations as a buffer for their existing supply chains.As the world witnessed prolonged lockdowns with minimal human interface and movement, the planet went into an “auto-healing” mode. The post-Covid-19 world offers an invaluable opportunity to bring in greener policies for economic recovery. This also offers us a golden chance to create a greener and more balanced rules-based global trade and commerce.As the World Trade Organization (WTO) celebrates its silver jubilee this year, the Green Trade Organisation (GTO) can act as its most suitable extension. While the WTO activities and rules mention conservation of the environment, there is a definite scope for further concrete action on this front.Under GTO, the rules-based order of WTO can be expanded to assimilate facets of trade and commerce from the climate crisis perspective.One, the “greenability” of production supply chains: The GTO will focus on ensuring that the developing countries, the global south, which are often used in the less productive stages of the supply chain (for procuring raw material and farm produce) are accorded effective protection from anti-climate policies that aim to expand profits at the cost of the planet.Two, Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) on climate crisis mitigation products and services: Over the years, the IPR regime has witnessed a spectacular growth in technology and pharmaceutical sectors. Today, we realise how significant human health is for a nation’s progress. For its equitable access globally, we need to develop a robust IPR framework related to climate crisis solutions being developed across the world.Three, the taxonomy and accounting framework for promoting ecologically balanced production processes: This area has witnessed various effective measures being undertaken — especially in the developed countries — such as the Emission Trading System (ETS) and Carbon Credits framework. However, in many parts of the world, there is still an absence of a credible institutional framework that promotes the use of green accounting and tax-based policies.Four, specialised dispute resolution mechanisms on issues of the climate crisis: As the global trade and services systems become more intricate in a world increasingly vulnerable to the climate crisis, there is a significant increase in international disputes on the climate crisis. It will need a mechanism which creates an enabling legal framework, to help resolve such issues, both at the national and international level.In the past, efforts have been made to set up similar structures within the WTO regime. In July 2014, Canada along with other WTO members such as China, the European Union, Japan and the US launched negotiations for a new WTO plurilateral agreement on environmental goods that sought to eliminate tariffs on a range of environmental goods. However, as governments across the world implement relief packages and create a favourable climate for economic activities, the time is ripe for a “Green Trade Framework” that promotes the use of greener technologies and production systems. The GTO should lead to tremendous positive externalities for the planet such as the decline in the exploitation of natural and man-made resources, especially in the middle- and low-income countries; an improvement in the standard of life with the fall in pollution levels; transparent and accountable protocols and systems to deal with effects of climate change-induced by global trade activities.Over the years, globalisation has helped boost economic growth and reduce extreme poverty. The coronavirus pandemic has made it clear that we need to look beyond short-term solutions. We cannot sideline climate action. But it is to create a sustainable and more inclusive planet by providing citizens with a suitable platform to undertake economic activity in an ecologically responsible manner. The creation of a Green Trade Organization is a step in the right direction.Jayraj Pandya is pursuing a Master’s degrees in Advanced Global Studies at the University of Sciences Po, ParisThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-green-trade-organisation-is-the-need-of-the-hour/story-xtvL3XL50gO8zM8M5eQscM.html
21-05-2020||News||India needs a new epidemic control and management law||India’s response to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has so far been effected predominantly by three different laws – the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 (EDA); the Disaster Management Act, 2005 (DMA); and the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (IPC). After the declaration of the pandemic as a “notified disaster”, the National Executive Committee of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), set up under the DMA, has been imposing the graded lockdowns and issuing periodic guidelines to states for enforcing the lockdowns. Simultaneously, both the central and state governments have fallen back on EDA to address the health aspect of this disaster. However, people violating lockdown orders are being charged under sections 188, 269 and 270 of IPC.The use of such an ad-hoc legal architecture with a multiplicity of statues has resulted in a patchwork response against the epidemic in several areas.The archaic three-page-and-four-section EDA does not define what constitutes a “dangerous epidemic disease”. It confers unbridled power to the executive to respond to the disease by the way of promulgating ordinances or regulations, but without due care to the social and reputational standing of the people affected due to the pandemic.Similarly, DMA, passed as an immediate response to the 2004 tsunami, is largely framed for effective preparation, mitigation and managing a natural or man-made calamity, mishap or a catastrophe such as tsunamis, earthquakes and cyclones. These events are normally geographically-localised catastrophic events, disrupting normal life for a few hours or days, but unlike a public health epidemic, do not last over a long period of time. In contrast to natural disasters, physical evacuation of people from an affected area to a relatively safe zone is not an option during a pandemic due to the likelihood of the spread of the infection.Cognisant of the lack of appropriate epidemic control and management law, in 2017, the Union ministry of health and family welfare prepared a comprehensive Public Health (Prevention, Control and Management of epidemics, bio-terrorism, and disasters) Bill to address the loopholes in the current laws including EDA. However, the Bill did not get tabled in Parliament. An Approach Paper on a new Public Health Act proposed by a 2012 task force is also gathering dust.A new and robust epidemic law must take into account the experiences and lessons learnt from the current crisis.First, the Act should provide for an NDMA like authority or body, having representation from both the Centre and states, responsible for designing and implementing well-coordinated surveillance, identification, contact-tracing, quarantine, isolation, testing strategy and treatment. The Act must also empower the body to plan a comprehensive and reasoned lockdown strategy, taking into account disruptions to supply lines, essential and non-essential services, human migration, relief and food support and all non-health services and utilities.Second, the Act must have provisions to allow for multi-sectoral emergency financial support and relief measures to local authorities, farmers, businesses and health care providers, and for animal care and livelihood safeguards.Third, the Act must provide adequate autonomy to states to design and enforce responses as per their local assessments, such as preparing health facilities to respond to various challenges at the district-, block- and gram panchayat-level. For example, the Odisha Government’s conferment of powers of the Collector on sarpanches to enforce isolation and quarantine of the migrant workers returning home from outside.Fourth, the Act must put in a more robust disincentive scheme, which should include a combination of civil and criminal penalties for violation of authorities’ orders. Currently, it provides only for criminal penalties. This should also include stringent punitive action against people abusing or mistreating frontline workers like doctors, nurses, paramedics, village-level health workers, sanitation staff and police personnel, accompanied, of course, by sufficient safeguards against overuse or misuse.Fifth, the Act must also have provisions to protect every citizen’s rights such as privacy. The balance between public health and the right to privacy must not be sacrificed at the altar of an emergency response. Any government response which involves surveillance or collection of personal data of individuals must also have adequate checks and balances to ensure proportionality and reasonableness of data collection. It must have provisions of anonymising the personal data, rigorous record-keeping, non-disclosure of personal data publicly and its deletion when the purpose of collection has been exhausted.Most importantly, there must be a clear definition of an “epidemic disease” to ensure a strict and clear boundary between the operation of an emergency statute and the resumption of ordinary laws.Extraordinary times such as the coronavirus pandemic require extraordinary measures. But even in times of emergencies, the laws must not fall silent. Public trust is strengthened only when adequate transparency and accountability measures are put in place by governments so that the public itself is able to judge the proportionality and reasonableness of the government’s actions.Amar Patnaik is Member of Parliament, Rajya Sabha from Odisha, a former CAG official, with a Master in Public Management from the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, Singapore and the Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, an academic with a PhD in managementNikhil Pratap is an advocateThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-needs-a-new-epidemic-control-and-management-law/story-cglkPZb9OCLWObJjFqk2uO.html
21-05-2020||News||How Xi Jinping’s opposition stacks against him||There is growing turbulence in the political atmosphere in China. With the “Big Two” — as the plenary meetings of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) and the National People’s Congress (NPC) are known — scheduled for May 21 and 22 respectively, opposition to Chinese President Xi Jinping is visibly increasing. The CPPCC and NPC plenums, held in Beijing each March but delayed this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, will have almost 7,000 deputies and officials from across the country gathered to discuss and approve laws, the national budget anticipating the economic situation for the coming year, and the national defence and security budgets. Xi Jinping’s opponents appear to perceive this as an opportunity to widen the ambit of criticism and gather the assembled deputies’ support.Criticism of Chinese President Xi Jinping and the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) sparked when Xi Jinping, in March 2018, abolished the term-limits for top posts, allowing him and others chosen by him to continue beyond the accepted retirement age. A large number of serving and retired party members and cadres who suffered during the violent cultural revolution decade, apprehending a return to the “one-man rule” of Mao Zedong, are opposed to it. Other factors too contributed to the spread of dissatisfaction with the regime. Mishandling of the coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan and the death of Doctor Li Wenliang, punished for making public the news of the coronavirus, provoked a surge in public discontent and criticism. Add to that the instances of apparent subtle protest by some publications of provincial party organisations.Criticisms centred mainly on the Party controlling everything; incrementally stringent and intrusive security controls; the pervasive Social Credit Management system which evaluates the loyalty and trustworthiness of each individual to allow or withhold benefits; expanding the Party’s surveillance; imposition of the Party ideology on educational institutions; undue centralisation of the authority; and discarding of Deng Xiaoping’s policy of “lie low, bide your time”. The perception that the “China Dream” was slipping out of the leadership’s grasp was also growing because of the protest movements in Hong Kong, the re-election of the pro-independence Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) in Taiwan, and tensions in the South China Sea. A number of Party cadres, academics and officials in Chinese think-tanks privately blame Xi Jinping’s aggressive foreign policy for China’s growing international isolation and rapidly deteriorating relations with the United States (US).The unemployed, whose number went up from around 20 million in 2019 to an estimated 70-80 million by March this year, and complaints by ex-People’s Liberation Army (PLA) personnel, added to the widening discontent. This has been exacerbated by the coronavirus pandemic’s impact on China’s economy. Despite Chinese President Xi Jinping’s exhortations to cadres since early February to resume production, the economic revival has been slow. Discouraged by government policies and the expansion of State-owned Enterprises (SoEs) into all sectors of the economy, prominent Chinese businessmen have publicly voiced complaints and, in late March, delivered a letter to Xi Jinping seeking reforms. These included a call for the return to Deng Xiaoping’s policy of “lie low, bide your time”. Prominent Chinese economists have stated that unless the US and European economies start picking up, China cannot expect its economy to revive. Amid this — and almost without precedent in communist China — people blamed the CCP and Xi Jinping. Many senior Party cadres, officials, intellectuals, academics, students and others have risked punishment to criticise Xi Jinping on their social media. Intellectuals and Professors such as Xu Zhongrun, Xu Zhiyong, Zhang Xuezhong and Yu Linqi have demanded on WeChat that Xi Jinping step down. These posts have gone viral. A major indication of a serious inner-Party discontent was seen in a March 22 WeChat report when “princelings”, the children of high-level veteran Party cadres, called for an “Emergency Enlarged Meeting of the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP’s) Politburo” to discuss Xi Jinping’s replacement.A May 5 essay in PLA Daily described the bleak economic and political situation as having reached a “high explosive point”, which foreign powers could use to provoke social upheaval. Concerned at the evolving situation, Xi Jinping established a new high-level “Small Group”, with nine of his loyalists as members to “prevent and crack down on activities that endanger the political security of the country.” He came down hard on Hong Kong, increased pressure on Taiwan, and enhanced China’s presence in the South China Sea.Xi Jinping is mentally tough and, as a “princeling”, has strong connections to the Party veterans. His trusted loyalists occupy crucial powerful positions. He is unlikely to back-off quietly in the face of inner-Party opposition. The new “Small Group” is a clear warning to opponents, “princelings” and Party veterans to fall in line. But whether they do so depends on the extent of the opposition in the middle and higher echelons of the Party and its veterans.Jayadeva Ranade is a former additional secretary, Cabinet Secretariat, Government of India. Currently, he is president, Centre for China Analysis and StrategyThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-xi-jinping-s-opposition-stacks-against-him/story-GZZSuz3uXeT5Ok9cWbmoHJ.html
21-05-2020||News||Fighting the misinformation pandemic in the age of Covid-19||The global disruption unleashed by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has led to an uptick in the use of social media platforms such as WhatsApp, Facebook, TikTok and Twitter. Facebook’s usage, for example, has increased by as much as 50% in countries hardest hit by Covid-19, whereas the Twitter usage in India has gone up by 30% between early-February and end-March. With the lockdown likely to continue in some form or other, the reliance on social media is likely to rise further. This has, however, exacerbated pre-existing challenges around curbing misinformation. Some forms of misinformation, such as a motivational quote misattributed to industrialist Ratan Tata, may be benign, but they can often have severe consequences. In April, 10 people in Andhra Pradesh were found in a semi-conscious state after they followed a “home remedy tip” for the coronavirus they found on TikTok. Similarly, misinformation about the role of specific communities in spreading the virus can further deepen the social divide. Tackling misinformation is a very delicate dance that requires us to traverse a narrow corridor between accurate information and free speech. As many as seven countries including Egypt, Malaysia and China have brought in legislation to control fake news, and almost all of them have been accused of committing excesses. Sensing the danger such steps can invite, an independent European Union committee has advised against bringing laws to curb misinformation.There are no easy responses, however. Society needs to build resilience and infrastructure to be able to tackle this scourge. It calls for a holistic national strategy, with clear roles for social media platforms, governments and individuals.Under intense pressure from governments, leading social media platforms have announced some measures to curb misinformation. For example, Facebook has partnered with the International Fact-Checking Network to provide flash grants for fact-checkers fighting coronavirus-linked misinformation. WhatsApp has introduced features that slow down misinformation by restricting the “frequently forwarded” messages to one chat at a time. Twitter has put in place a system that attempts to identify and remove instances of Covid-19-related misinformation.These measures are welcome, but not enough. In addition to expanding and intensifying the measures already in place, social media platforms must introduce more sophisticated tools, which, for example, sorts and ranks verified news or has a better pattern recognition capacity to remove highly deceiving-in-nature “deep fake” images and audios. This should be prioritised especially in India, where a lot of social media content is audio-visual and in regional languages.In such a crisis, the government, with its unmatched reach, perceived reliability and trust, has an indispensable role to play. As of now, it has reached out to platforms to remove users spreading misinformation, and, on the other side, has issued public advisories.Learning from the best practices employed in other countries to curb fake news, the government should consider implementing these three ideas.First, it should make fighting misinformation a jan andolan (mass movement) by involving people, much as it did with the Swachh Bharat Mission for sanitation. The Australian government’s ”stop and consider” campaign to tackle political misinformation employs the same idea.Second, it should create a non-partisan national task force that serves as a “rapid response mechanism” to coordinate among public and private agencies. This was pioneered in Canada in the run-up to its 2019 election.Third, the government can explore creating forums for citizens to receive accurate information. It has already launched a WhatsApp chatbot to provide accurate information on Covid-19. It can create a fact-checking unit that provides accurate information to the public through a website. Mexico created a government-run platform, ”verificado notimex”, which employs a network of fact-checkers. But, above all this, citizens have the most important role in curbing misinformation. Social media gives each of us immense power. It can be used as a platform for citizen-led mass movements as seen during the agitation against corruption during the last decade.Since out-of-context images are a major source of misinformation, citizens can be trained to use reverse search image tools such as RevEye and TinEye to locate their origin. Videos present an even higher level of complexity, but tools like InVID have begun to make a difference. In general, we should verify the accuracy of information by looking up a reliable source before forwarding it.Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology have shown that posts that trigger an emotional response are shared more — that vulnerability is exactly what fake news targets. In short, if a story is too good, too funny, too infuriating, too sweet, or too outrageous, it is probably likely to be untrue.Subhashish Bhadra and Varad Pande work at Omidyar Network India, an investment firm that invests in bold entrepreneurs who help create a meaningful life for every IndianThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/fighting-the-misinformation-pandemic-in-the-age-of-covid-19/story-GBftzTGps8PR2759zBcKVI.html
21-05-2020||News||Covid-19: Aarogya Setu needs legislative backing||The government’s decision to make the coronavirus (Covid-19) tracking application, Aarogya Setu, mandatory in many spheres of life brings constitutional challenges such as the right to privacy of citizens.The Supreme Court (SC) has deliberated on the issue of privacy on numerous occasions. In Govind Vs State of MP in 1975, the Court recognised that the right to privacy is a part of a citizen’s personal liberty. The Court also held that this right deserved to be examined with care and must only be denied when an important countervailing interest is shown to be superior. In 1996, in PUCL Vs Union of India, the Court formulated guidelines imposing substantive and procedural restraints, while holding that the right to privacy includes informational privacy and confidentiality. However, in the 1998 Mr X Vs Hospital Z case, the Court’s view was that the right to privacy is not absolute and is subject to restrictions as may be lawfully imposed for prevention of crime or disorder, or protection of health or morals, or protection of rights and freedoms of others.In 2017, in the KS Puttuswamy Vs Union of India case, a nine-judge SC bench held that a “menu” of tests should be applied, depending upon the rights that may be infringed. It recognised the importance of a data protection law and its absence as a void in the enforcement of privacy laws. It held that there should be a rational nexus between the objects sought and the means adopted to achieve it, to ensure the extent of interference is proportionate to the need for such interference.The Centre’s directions are executive in nature, deriving their power from the Disaster Management Act, 2005, which doesn’t have any provision to deal with surveillance. However, as the statute is worded in the broadest possible terms and, as it is meant to deal with emergent and unforeseen situations, the authority given can be construed liberally. Still, the Act and the directions thereunder have to be tested on the touchstone laws infringing fundamental rights.The app has not specified the security practices it follows to protect the collected data. A mere declaration that data, being encrypted, is secure is not sufficient. The app requires the user’s Bluetooth and locations services to be switched on at all times. It is not clear if the collected data – or, specifically, the locational surveillance – will be shared with any other agency. In 2018, the ministry of home affairs had authorised 10 agencies to intercept and monitor information and individuals. As most of them are intelligence agencies, they are not liable to disclose information.Currently, there is no legal framework that governs the app beyond its privacy policy and terms of use. The terms and conditions clearly state that the user “agrees and acknowledges that the Government of India will not be liable for any unauthorized access to your information or modification thereof”.The app does not satisfy the menu of tests laid down in the Puttuswamy judgment. It also does not comply with the requirements of the Information Technology Act, 2000 or the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 as far as protections against surveillance are prescribed under these statutes. The lack of regulatory measures, absence of clear legislative authority, and multiple levels of delegation make the app susceptible to misuse.It is similar to the situation when the government had made the Aadhar cards mandatory, without necessary legislation. Once the government brought the Aadhar Act, it allowed citizens to approach the Court, which eventually stuck down parts of the Act it construed extra-constitutional.In the absence of any anchoring legislation, the government’s decision to make the app mandatory lacks legislative competence, besides failing the test of proportionality. The burden is now on the government to prove that the app satisfies the test of proportionality. As the app is mandatory, it could, in essence, allow the government to use it as a surveillance tool – to keep track of social contacts and whereabouts of any user – which would be a clear violation of citizens’ right to privacy. Amit Anand Tiwari is an Advocate on Record, Supreme CourtThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-aarogya-setu-needs-legislative-backing/story-KX76ZP3S3zu3FE6uGcfjoO.html
21-05-2020||News||A few tips for high-risk individuals to keep away Covid-19||It is now well established that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) affects the elderly the most. The highest rate of mortality due to the virus is among the people older than 60 – only incremental with age. More than the age, the unusual death rate is due to the medical conditions associated with age. According to a report by China’s Centre of Disease Control and Prevention, out of a sample of 504 deaths, 31% had high BP, 16% diabetes and 18% underlying cardiovascular diseases. Similar numbers of a high percentage of co-morbidities have also been experienced in India and the United States.Not that such patients are at a high risk of getting infected, just that, with advancing age, they have a weaker immunity. Once they are infected, it has the potential to take on a more serious form. A weak immunity means a lower viral clearance, diminished T-cell function, and higher chances of severe inflammation leading to a cytokine storm, a form of heightened auto-immunity which, instead of killing the virus, ends up harming your own cells.The key, therefore, is to be vigilant – with proper physical distancing, cleaning of hands, and the use of masks.But among those who are at a higher risk are patients with high blood pressure (BP). They should continue using their prescribed medicines such as angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors (ramipril, lisinopril and enalapril) and angiostensin-receptor blockers (ARBs) (telmisartan, losartan and olmesartan). All other classes of drugs for reducing BP are safe.Among the simple measures to keep BP under control is measuring it regularly. Home BP measurements are superior to an isolated BP recording in a clinic or a doctor’s chamber. A calibrated and certified instrument available with chemists or online works. There are newer instruments that record the BP three times within a duration, and give out an average reading, a more accurate measurement than the old, one reading system.In case the BP readings are unusually high or low, speak with your health care provider. Except for minor adjustments, self-treatment is not recommended in this case.Involve yourself for regular physical activities for at least 30 minutes a day – averaging about 8,000 steps. Use moderate salt, avoid alcohol, and eat a low-calorie diet, with plenty of fresh fruits and vegetables.All the general precautions meant for a BP patient applies equally to diabetic patients. The patient should monitor the blood sugar periodically using easily-available home devices. The sugar levels should be maintained between 70 and 180 mgs and HbA1c below 7%.Those who are Covid+ve without symptoms must get in touch with their doctor, who might advise the patient to stop taking certain medicines. Generally, medicines such as metformin and sulfonyl-ureas (glimiperide, glibenclamide and gliclazide) are safe. However, drugs such as dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP4) inhibitors (gliptin group of drugs like linagliptin and sitagliptin), thiazolidinediones (pioglitazone and rosiglitazone), and glucose stimulated insulin secretion (GLPi) analogues (liraglutide) are stopped because of a theoretical possibility of increasing the viral load. Sodium glucose transport protein 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors (empagliflozin, dapagliflozin and canagliflozin) are reasonably safe unless the patient has high fever and vomiting. Insulin is safe – diabetics who need Covid-19-related hospitalisation shift to it.Much as with BP, this also requires lifestyle measures such as moderate exercise, use of low-fat and low sugar diet. Fresh vegetables and seasonal fruits work better. Meditation like pranayams and yoga are good accompaniments.Cardiac patients, on the other hand, need extreme care to avoid a high-risk event like a heart attack. All preventive steps for BP and diabetes apply here as well. But aspirin, cholesterol-lowering medicines and the ones administered to improve heart function – such as ACE inhibitors (ramipril) and ARB’s (losartan and valsartan), angiotensin receptor-neprilysin inhibitors (ARNI) (sacubitril and valsartan combination), beta blockers (metoprolol and bisoprolol) diuretics (furosemide) – must continue. The yearly flu and the four-yearly pneumonia vaccination must be administered.The asymptomatic Covid-19+ve patients should consult their doctor before altering the dosage or stopping the usage of regular medication. Since there is an overlap of symptoms in cardiac conditions and Covid-19 – cough, shortness of breath, and chest discomfort – patients must seek an expert opinion without any delay. They may require investigation and immediate hospitalisation to avoid complicating the situation.It is important that Covid-19 infection should not increase the mortality rate of treatable diseases. You just need to be a bit more vigilant.Dr Upendra Kaul is a cardiologist, former president, Cardiological Society of India and SAARC Cardiac Society, editor-in-chief, Asia Interventions, and recipient of Padma Shiri and Dr BC Roy AwardsThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-few-tips-for-high-risk-individuals-to-keep-away-covid-19/story-ACvWslI14WcrWRKZZDraYM.html
