22-05-2020||News||Reimagining abundance in post-Covid-19 India||As people return to life and work post the lockdown, some predictions point to a mad rush to do even more than before. Travel more, buy more, meet more people, eat out more — do more of more. The government too is expected to do more to restore economic growth and livelihoods. Much more is anticipated from the State. Some see it as an opportunity to overtake China.To achieve this, many states might roll back labour laws that took decades of human rights movements to build, and push aside hard-won environmental protection. If we succumb, will we return to the old normal, or an even older 19th century normal? Will the “more” being planned heal the economy or plunge us faster into the next disaster? Is there another imagination to achieve the common goals of opportunity and prosperity for all?This crisis has demonstrated that prosperous, healthy and well-governed communities can tackle public health emergencies well. But how do we define prosperity and move towards such a society? For centuries, prosperity has been easy to define in material terms. At a personal level, by how much one earns; how much one has. At a societal level, through Gross Domestic Product (GDP), a computation of all assets and interactions within an economy. GDP cannot discount products and services that are bad for society, such as the output of polluting industries, or of sweatshops. Several attempts to retool GDP have made little headway.However, during the pandemic, most people, including the elite, experienced different forms of frugality, simplicity, and dignity associated with personal labour. After decades, urbanites also encountered purity — of air and water, and diversity — of flora and fauna. Simple things acquired fresh value for many. The time may be ripe to retool GDP. We now hold a brighter vision of how things can be, and can converse creatively with our future from an altered present.One pathway is to shift from a mindset of scarcity to a mindset of abundance. For there is abundance everywhere, if only we look for it. If this profusion of resources goes from being just abundant to being effective, perhaps we could lean away from economic choices that appear inevitable, but that destroy natural capital and human well-being.Let’s list some things that are abundant in India.At a societal level, India has the world’s largest working population. At 13 million, it also has the most number of teachers. It has health care professionals, from super-speciality doctors to accredited social health activists (Asha). At a physical level, India is blessed with a rich biodiversity of flora and fauna. We have a predictable monsoon, and a vast network of rivers and water bodies. We have one of the longest coastlines. We have enormous access to solar energy. We also have among the world’s most sophisticated digital infrastructure, and an increasing penetration of Internet services and smartphones.At a spiritual level, we have a plethora of practices and leadership across religions. And we enjoy the affluence of volunteer energy, as evidenced recently. This is not just an inventory of our assets, but the robust foundation for what we want to achieve. During the pandemic, food bloggers came up with a simple and potent idea. They asked what was left in people’s refrigerators, and helped them cook up wonderful new recipes with existing ingredients. They re-purposed what existed, and allowed people to experience plenty from paucity.This is a perfect analogy for what the nation could put into practice, and, is already experimenting with.Using digital infrastructure, like Diksha, millions of teachers are creating and sharing better content and classroom practices, both physical and virtual. Parental creativity and peer groups, both plentiful resources, are also being engaged to help children learn better.Using the Extension of Community Healthcare Outcomes (Echo) model, health care workers are receiving virtual, guided mentoring. This moves knowledge instead of people, to build faster, more sustainable capacity across the chain.Overnight, you can overturn an apparent scarcity — the lack of good teachers or skilled health workers — into an abundance of distributed, empowered talent. Opportunities are everywhere — in energy, in mobility, in agriculture, and in livelihood generation. If we can use this flipped thinking, it can create more headroom for those who genuinely need resources — more carbon for the energy-deficient; more land for the landless; more mobility for transport deficit areas, and more potential for sustainable and meaningful livelihoods everywhere. For example, India’s ubiquitous building infrastructure can be re-purposed to harness solar energy, or for vertical and terrace farming. Work from home will relieve the pressure on urban infrastructure and land, which can be released for mass housing or public transport, and critical lung space. Last but not least, let’s unlock our spiritual treasure trove. Most disciplines invite us to more mindfulness, and more contentment. Not by consuming more externally, but by harvesting more from within, and by sharing more without. Neurosciences and behavioural sciences increasingly corroborate this ancient wisdom — joy can come from giving, and unlimited happiness from bonhomie.Flipping to an abundance mindset is a creative-yet-practical task for samaj (society) first, but also for the bazaar (market) and sarkaar (State). We know now that we need to emerge from this crisis together. Let’s boldly use the stimulus to redefine prosperity and redirect resources to make abundance effective.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/reimagining-abundance-in-post-covid-19-india/story-18YfUYERpERAYtyeJQPoPO.html
22-05-2020||News||Lipu Lekh: The past, present and future of the Nepal-India stand-off| Analysis||Two of the world’s closest neighbours, India and Nepal, are locked in a cartographic, diplomatic, and to an extent, a political stand-off. The dispute is over the ownership of nearly 330 sq km of land called Kalapani near Nepal’s western tri-junction with India and China. The dispute was triggered in November 2019 when India issued a new map to indicate the changed status of Jammu and Kashmir into a Union Territory. Nepal raised objections because the Kalapani area was shown as being in India. Indian maps have always shown it that way; therefore, there was no change in the map. This was followed by Nepal’s objections to the inauguration of a road from Darchula to Lipu Lekh Pass, aimed at strengthening India’s defence supply lines as well as facilitating smooth passage for pilgrims to Kailash Mansarovar in Tibet. Nepal said this road is an encroachment on its sovereignty. There have been street protests, parliament has agitated, and now the Nepal government has issued its map showing Kalapani as its territory. New Delhi has reiterated that the area belongs to India, and would be willing to resolve the dispute through diplomatic negotiations after the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis is over.Nepal’s claims are rooted in the Sugauli Treaty signed with the British in March 1816. In this, Nepal renounced “all claims to or connextions (as in original text) with the countries lying to the west of river Kali…” (Art.V). The land east of the Kali thus remained with Nepal. This claim is reinforced by some old revenue records and gazette notifications.India accepts this position, but its claim arises from the ambiguity in the treaty on the identification of the Kali river and its origin. According to India, the river originates from Lipu Lekh and then merges into other streams and tributaries to become the Mahakali. Nepal’s contention is that Kali originates from Limpiyadhura and the stream originating from Lipu Lekh is called Lipu Khola. Hence the dispute. The area between these two streams is Kalapani. The treaty underwent some revisions to accommodate Nepal in the Terai (southern part) and was finally endorsed by the British government on November 15, 1860.The maps issued by the British between 1816 and 1860 generally favour the Nepali position. But, the maps issued afterwards endorse India’s position. It is possible that the British administration changed this position through proper surveys or subsequently decided to manipulate this position, to serve its larger strategic and commercial interests in using the Lipu Lekh pass for access to Tibet. Independent India was handed over access to Kalapani and Lipu Lekh by the British. Blaming India for any encroachment is baseless. It must be borne in mind that much before the British came, or the Gurkha kings annexed Kumaon and Garhwal regions — then surrendered under the Sugauli Treaty — Indians were using this route for the pilgrimage to Kailash Mansarovar. The route has deep spiritual and civilisational significance for India. China accepted Lipu Lekh as one of the cultural and commercial transit points with India under its 1954 Peaceful Co-Existence Agreement. This was reiterated in 2015 in a joint statement during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to China.Nepal has endorsed India’s position for nearly 150 years. It used Indian maps showing Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipu Lekh in India. Objections to this were raised in the 1980s, but were ignored by the royal regimes. Since 2000, the two surveyed the length of their boundary to resolve outstanding issues, except in two areas, including Kalapani. It is mutually agreed that these issues will be resolved through diplomatic negotiations. Why then has the Nepal government turned up the heat on the Kalapani issue? Prime Minister KP Oli faces serious internal opposition at the moment, including from within his ruling Nepal Communist Party. This is largely on account of his governance failures and lack of action on combating the pandemic. He has consolidated his nationalist image since 2015 by fighting India’s ill-advised diplomatic intervention on the constitution issue and the counterproductive economic coercion (partial economic blockade) that followed. He perhaps hopes that this face-off with India on Kalapani will give him a new lease of political life. The strategic community in India apprehends that Nepal is also being prompted by China to get India out of Kalapani. Indian Army chief General MM Navrane’s indirect reference in an Institute of Defence Studies and Analyses lecture may be recalled here. This apparently conflicts with China’s endorsement of the Indian position in 1954 and 2015. However, China is seldom straight in diplomacy. It is unhappy with India’s growing strategic proximity to the United States. It has also objected to India’s defence infrastructure upgradation projects all along the border. The Darchula-Lipu Lekh road is one such project. Needling India and alienating Kathmandu from New Delhi serves China’s broader purpose. This explains why is it is playing an active role in preserving the unity of the Nepal Communist Party and protecting the Oli regime.Prolonging this stand-off is not in the interest of either Nepal or India. It will be exploited by the third parties to their advantage. India and Nepal, keeping in mind their mutual stakes and concerns, should through resilient and mutually accommodative diplomacy, resolve this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/lipu-lekh-the-past-present-and-future-of-the-nepal-india-stand-off-analysis/story-wy3OvSD0G0nkxtGQTOIp2I.html
22-05-2020||News||Framing an agenda for the Opposition||Already battling the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), West Bengal has been battered by Cyclone Amphan. While preparatory arrangements and evacuations of five lakh people by the state government ensured that the loss of life was minimised, the devastation suffered by families and the damage to public and private properties as well as the ecology of Bengal has been incalculable. The cyclone is a national calamity. In this hour of pain and tragedy, Bengal seeks everyone’s cooperation. All stakeholders, state and central, have to come together to provide relief and solace to those who are suffering. It is against this backdrop that Opposition parties meet on Friday, for the first time since Covid-19 hit India. There is much to discuss. Many states are run by parties that are in Opposition at the Centre. They will share experiences. They will also compare notes on the Centre’s response and on the gap between its words and deeds. The political impact of the Covid-19 response and the spirit of federalism will inevitably come up.ALSO WATCH | TMC MP counters low testing charge; accuses BJP of politicising Covid fightIt is important to note that all Opposition parties were not always on the same page. In early March, the Trinamool Congress, and a few others, were aggressive in urging adjournment of Parliament and taking coordinated steps. The National Democratic Alliance government would not listen. Some Opposition parties decided to trust its judgment. Meanwhile, in West Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee began preparing, regardless of New Delhi’s views.When the 21-day national lockdown was announced, at just four hours’ notice and without consultation, the Opposition parties and their state governments continued to be supportive. They abided by Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s request to eschew politics in this hour. It is another matter that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) sought to politicise the response to Covid-19 in the states, with the bulk of the party-sanctioned online drivel being reserved for Bengal.The BJP and the Centre have showboated their efforts. They have grabbed publicity, but left the states to handle the crisis. I will illustrate with two sets of examples: Testing and cost of treatment; and the so-called economic stimulus announced last week.On April 22, the West Bengal government was the first to announce free treatment for Covid-19 patients in private hospitals requisitioned by the state. The government undertook the cost. On April 30, the Maharashtra government imposed a price cap on Covid-19 treatment by private hospitals. It took a leaf out of West Bengal’s book and extended free treatment to all residents of the state under the state health insurance scheme.This is how states learnt from each other. What did the Centre do? It confused everybody on the testing protocol and was at sixes and sevens when it came to providing overarching guidance to states, both before and after March 24. Testing labs could be cleared for Covid-19 only by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The Union health ministry and ICMR took their time. In states where 20 laboratories were required, and available, only two were cleared. Once the clearances came, the states got to work. Laboratories have been working in double and triple shifts to ramp up testing. Bengal is testing close to 9,000 samples a day, among the highest in India. If we could not test so many earlier, it was because the clearances and kits from the Centre did not arrive. That is not an excuse; it is a fact. Governments from Bengal to Chhattisgarh and Kerala to Punjab have complained of such over-centralisation. While many states have gradually increased their testing numbers over two months, I must point to the curious case of Gujarat. It showed a jump from 3,000 to 10,000 tests in a single day. Is there something more than meets the eye? The Centre has been talking about Ayushman Bharat and its role in the Covid-19 fightback. How credible are such claims? Let me give you some numbers. Of the 2.5 million tests done, only 3,000 — 0.12% — have been covered by Ayushman Bharat. Of the 100,000 people who have tested positive, only 2,000 — about 2% — have been treated under Ayushman Bharat. Make your own assessment.Now I come to the stimulus package. We are in a crisis and standard macroeconomic principles say the government must immediately stimulate demand. Of the 500 million-strong Indian workforce, 93% work in the unorganised sector. Many have lost livelihoods, without savings or any safety net. A massive direct cash infusion — one can debate the exact quantum — is unavoidable. But the Centre has carefully avoided this.The Centre has placed the burden on the state governments, telling them it has raised the borrowing limit under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act from 3% of the Gross State Domestic Product to 5%. The states would have welcomed this, if not for the fine print. The increase is only from 3% to 3.5%, after which it becomes conditional on impossible benchmarks that include one nation-one ration card; power sector reform (a pipedream in the midst of an economic crisis); or augmenting urban local body revenues (at a time when city economies are reeling). Then, there is the abandonment of guest (migrant) workers. Clearly, there’s much on the Covid-19 response to discuss at today’s Opposition meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/framing-an-agenda-for-the-opposition/story-CzbmZ4YSpFECWMZAafPcUM.html
22-05-2020||News||On economics, the Sangh and the PM are united||On April 26, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) Sarsanghchalak (head) Mohan Bhagwat addressed swayamsevaks for the second time in a month. While not unusual, this time it was different. He called India’s 1.3 billion people his own. Critics may think this was just a convenient turn of phrase. But his sentiments are a true reflection of the Sangh’s thinking.People who heard the three-day lecture series at Vigyan Bhavan two years ago will know that this is no new development. Bhagwat expressed similar thoughts in his annual Vijayadashami address as well. The Sangh considers every Indian to be a Hindu. Since this is the foundation of its thinking, then the mistakes of a few shouldn’t be seen as a reflection on society as a whole. And those who have made mistakes should accept them, and move on. ALSO WATCH | PM Modi’s stimulus for self-reliant India. Enough to reboot Indian economy?Bhagwat spoke of swadeshi (indigenous) and self-reliance. Sangh-inspired organisations such as the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh and the Swadeshi Jagran Manch have also been making efforts to realise these objectives. Recently, in his Panchayati Raj Day address, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi also spoke about being self-sufficient right from the village level. On May 12, the PM spoke about Aatmnirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India). RSS ideologue, Dattopant Thengadi, who was instrumental in creating these organisations, was one of the most vociferous proponents of swadeshi and Aatmnirbhar Bharat. Thengadi, in his book Third Way, laid out a road map for a self-dependent India. Most critics of swadeshi are confused about the concept. For them, swadeshi implies turning the wheel back to the 19th century. Thengadi said, “we require computer chips and not potato chips”. Swadeshi is the practical manifestation of patriotism. Patriotism should not be seen as isolationism. Patriots are not against internationalism. He added, “Their pleas for national self-reliance are not incompatible with international cooperation, provided that latter is on equal footing — with due regard to the national respect of every country.”In his lectures, he quoted the effect of Mahatma Gandhi’s influence on Motilal Nehru’s lifestyle that was initially considered lavish by that era’s standards. But Motilal Nehru switched to khadi at the Mahatma’s request. In his address to the nation, the PM also emphasised the use of local brands. The origin of the coronavirus disease in China and the subsequent news about the supply of substandard Chinese goods to different countries have given India a big push to become self-reliant. On the other hand, India has given appropriate aid and assistance to many countries following the spirit of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam (the world is one family). Indian scientists and industrialists have also contributed towards making India self-reliant. The Sangh chief also urged the government to fulfil its obligations in this regard. He said that the administration will have to become more responsible and people-oriented. Recently, the Bharatiya Shikshan Mandal, an organisation inspired by the Sangh, also announced a competition for an indigenous video conferencing app. Both the Sangh and the PM are unanimous about the economic direction of the country. According to the PM, in a post-Covid-19 world, the country should head towards self-reliance, organic farming and a swadeshi-based economy. These are issues that the Sangh chief mentioned in his Vijayadashami speech. He also mentioned that foreign investment should also come to India only on India’s terms. The government has rightly made recent changes in its foreign investment policy in this context. The lockdown has resulted in huge improvements in the quality of the environment. The clear air and clean flowing rivers are proof. The need for a lifestyle based on the conservation and the protection of nature is imperative for India. The sarsanghchalak has also emphasised the need for society to move forward without exploiting nature.At this crucial time, the swayamsevaks are engaged in several services to help all Indians, irrespective of differences, who are vulnerable at this time. Today, more than 340,000 swayamsevaks are offering services at about 67,000 locations across India.Apart from delivering ration kits to more than five million families, they have delivered over 300 million cooked food packets to people and have made over 22,466 blood donations. The government and administration can maintain the lockdown in the country only for a certain amount of time. Society can emulate the practices of the Sangh to maintain disciple post the lockdown. Even after the lockdown is lifted, people have to learn to stay away from crowded places. Similarly, the State and the administration too will have to change according to the needs of society. Overall, we must move towards a new nature-based self-reliant society and governance.Rajiv Tuli is a member of the RSS’s Delhi state executiveThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/on-economics-the-sangh-and-the-pm-are-united/story-ieqegDNyVQ40939pCN3cdM.html
