24-05-2020||News||Covid-19: Fight uncertainty with data| Analysis||Arguably the most important scientific statement on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was made by Dr Anthony Fauci, director of the United States (US) National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease, in his testimony to the US Senate, “But I am very careful, and hopefully humble in knowing that I don’t know everything about this disease.” This is the reality one is confronted with and, therefore, the biggest challenge, political and scientific, is to make decisions in uncertainty. Our best hope perhaps in the short- and medium-run is that we urgently invest in building our knowledge about the virus, while hoping in the long-run that we will have a vaccine.In the early days of the pandemic, limited data availability led the first generation epidemiological models to predict that hundreds of millions would be infected with the virus, and millions of lives lost. Fortunately, the reality so far has turned out to be very different. However, the situation is still worrisome. From 657 cases on March 25, India has more than 125,000 cases today. Even more troubling is that active cases continue to grow, despite a significant slowdown since the national lockdown.To understand the future trajectory of the pandemic and to frame appropriate policy responses, we need granular data based on contact tracing at the level of a city or district to provide information on three important epidemiological parameters. One, incubation period, which is the interval between infection and symptoms. The distribution of this parameter helps the government and experts understand the nature, extent and possible future scenarios of the outbreak. It also informs in the evaluation of the disease-control strategy.Two, the serial interval, which is the time between the onset of the illness in the primary case (infector) and illness onset in the secondary case (infectee). If the estimated average of the serial interval is shorter than the estimated average incubation period, then pre-symptomatic transmission is more likely to happen than symptomatic transmission. Research from Japan has indicated that the median serial interval for Covid-19 is 4.1 days, which is less than the mean incubation period of approximately five days. The public policy implication of this is that containment via case isolation might be a challenging task. Containment would, therefore, require to be guided by an aggressive testing and rapid contact tracing strategy.Three, the basic reproduction ratio (also popularly known as R0), which is the average number of secondary cases per primary case. There has been a great deal of focus on this parameter, because if the R0 is greater than one, then the probability that there will be an outbreak is extremely high.Given the importance of the parameter R0, one has to exercise great caution in interpreting and estimating it. Most models that estimate this parameter assume that all individuals have a homogenous transmission and constant recovery rate. Therefore, a population-based R0 is estimated with the implication that if this is greater than one, then outbreaks from a single infected person is highly likely to happen. However, research based on the previous Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (Sars) epidemic in 2003 has shown that there is a great deal of variability in individual infectiousness. For example, research on Sars epidemic from Singapore revealed that the majority (approximately 73%) of the cases were mildly infectious; in other words, they had an R0 of less than one, while a small proportion of them (approximately 6%) was highly infectious or “super-spreaders” with an R0 > eight.The variability of R0 plays an important role in the dynamics of an outbreak. Models that account for individual variability show that even if the population-based R0 is greater than one, an outbreak could still be a low-probability event. Introducing individual-level variability in the model thus explains why during the Sars epidemic in 2003, several cities did not witness explosive outbreaks despite undetected exposures to infectious cases. In these models, outbreaks are typically caused by super-spreader events (SSEs).In the Indian context, this might explain why Mumbai is experiencing an explosive outbreak, while many other large, highly-dense cities with significant populations dwelling in slums, are not experiencing such an outbreak.The above point becomes apparent when one compares Kasaragod to Mumbai. On April 2, Kasaragod had 127 confirmed cases, while Mumbai had 185. However, by April 16, there were zero new cases in Kasaragod while Mumbai experienced a devastating outbreak. In late March, the police in Kasaragod, adopted an aggressive contact tracing model, and identified approximately, 20,000 potential “super-spreaders” — these were primary and secondary contacts of those who returned from Gulf countries. A strategy of “triple lock down” was adopted by the police, whereby these potential super-spreaders were put under a more stringent home quarantine compared to the rest of the people in the district.This prevented an SSE in Kasaragod and minimised the risk of an outbreak. A key implication of this from a policy perspective is that if highly infectious individuals or super-spreaders can be predictively identified, we could avert more general lockdowns in the future. Moving forward, armed with more granular data and a better understanding of the Covid-19 virus, we could move away from a policy of general lockdown towards a policy of a smart lockdown.It is important to remind ourselves that we know very little about the virus. Our best hope, until the vaccine is discovered, is to collect as much granular and disaggregated data as possible on the epidemiological parameters that have been outlined here. This should inform our real-time policy in the collective fight against the Covid-19 virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-fight-uncertainty-with-data-analysis/story-Hew2Ly0LuusbOWwTjuvICJ.html
24-05-2020||News||Use the armed forces in dealing with the crisis | Analysis||Last Monday, lockdown 4.0 with some relaxations was promulgated. But this did not end, as the Supreme Court noted, the deluge of migrants making their way home. The question being asked by many, including serving and retired military personnel, is why the armed forces, the most-trusted instrument of the State, has not been more actively involved in containing the biggest internal security crisis facing the country. A serving lieutenant colonel, a retired commodore and two former Navy chiefs — the first two on this page — and others on social media have urged the armed forces be requisitioned to aid the civil administration in assisting citizens in distress. On day 48 of the lockdown, the government issued instructions to the states not to let migrants walk home. Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, in an interview to this newspaper last month, said the coronavirus chain had to be broken by April 14 through the lockdown and social distancing, adding that the “military is totally prepared to meet up to the demands made by government and people”.The question was prompted by two sad events: Endless columns of hungry and tired migrant workers with families trudging home and their inhuman treatment by the police; and a media briefing by the CDS and three service chiefs where it was expected he would announce some major humanitarian intervention by the military. Instead, he narrated events that the three services would conduct to commemorate coronavirus warriors. After their appearance, veterans expressed dismay and rebuke. Given the unprecedented cuts underway in the defence budget, the countrywide flights of transport and fighter aircraft and helicopters and lighting up warships was expenditure better invested in providing succour to migrants. The visibility of the Army would have been a balm for distressed migrants.Following the nullification of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, the surgical ground and airstrikes and Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s warning of Indian false flag operations, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government has chosen to keep its powder dry. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said recently that he would not call in the Army as it is guarding the borders. But other than those deployed, sufficient forces are available for mitigating the humanitarian crisis. The Army has a strategic surplus of 8,000-10,000 personnel earmarked for United Nations Peacekeeping and deployable formations in peacetime. Should the armed forces have been deployed? The answer is a resounding yes. The country is confronted with an unprecedented human security challenge. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has made saving lives and livelihoods, in that order, the national objective. In 2003, at an international security conference at Berlin, then deputy national security adviser, Satish Chandra, presented an elaborate paper on pandemics. Some contingency planning was done in the National Security Council and operational directorates of the armed forces. According to statistics with the defence archives, after Partition, India has faced 529 national disasters till 2017 with 200,000 deaths. The military played a key role in rescue and relief operations. The spotlight, so far, has been on the director-general of the Armed Forces Medical Services who dedicated large portions of his medical resources and services to civilian administration across the country, including establishing quarantine camps and coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-only hospitals. Ordnance factories have belatedly been ordered to produce medical equipment, including ventilators and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and other material. Naval warships have evacuated diaspora from the neighbourhood and for the first time charged $40 — certainly bad optics for civil-military relations. The Indian Air Force has flown medical teams and stores to many foreign countries. The armed forces in the neighbourhood are involved in helping State authorities in dealing with the pandemic. In Sri Lanka, the National Operations Centre for Management of the Covid Outbreak is under the CDS. In south and southeast Asia, the military is assisting the State in handling the pandemic. Has the military become a holy cow in India? Especially when, for the first time, the military response mechanism has been catalysed with the appointment of a CDS and a powerful department of military affairs. The armed forces have the capacity, staying power and discipline to assist the State in weathering this storm in several ways. In mobilising national and state capacities, the military will act as a force multiplier. People, including the CDS, were hoping the first lockdown would contain the virus but uncertainty prevails. The pandemic is expected to peak in June-July with the likelihood of a second and third spike. The Army should be immediately directed to establish a task force for Organisation and Management of Safe and Secure Movement of Migrants and remain on standby for emergency missions. Every state is networked with Army formations in a location with Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) on aid to the civilian authority. While remaining sanitised, the military must be more optimally utilised in this national humanitarian crisis. That will be reason enough to ring bells and shower petals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/use-the-armed-forces-in-dealing-with-the-crisis/story-hhdLJAy4jcTJXYJXd12MQN.html
24-05-2020||News||China’s tactical play in Ladakh isn’t just about the boundary||In the wake of the economic slowdown owing to the Covid-19 pandemic in China, paramount leader Xi Jinping and the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) are facing one of the biggest crises since the party came to power in 1949. The challenges before the party and the leader are being deliberated since May 22 at the National People’s Congress and a parallel Chinese People’s Consultative Conference, the most powerful political advisory body in the country. The move is already on to pre-emptively counter any dissatisfaction in handling the pandemic and the consequent surge in economic distress. While there is no political challenge to President Xi, who is also the Chairman of the Central Military Commission, it is the economic collapse that Beijing fears coupled with growing resentment against China, fuelling nationalism and the kindling of old Chinese fears against foreign threats.While the NPC was called to deliberate on the next five-year development plan, the session will also provide a platform to President Xi to respond both domestically and internationally to the pandemic. The expected message will be conciliatory to the domestic audience, while the international assertion can be expected to be robust and defiant.It is in this context that the current stand-off between India and China at multiple points along the 3,488 kilometre Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh and Sikkim should be seen. The Chinese move is multi-pronged as it not only diverts attention from the domestic economic crisis, Hong Kong and Taiwan, but is also engineered to paint India as a villain constantly at odds with Pakistan and more recently, Nepal. With China believing that India is catalyzing resentment against Beijing over poor handling of the pandemic that originated in Wuhan, the People’s Liberation Army’s tactical play along the LAC is also seen by its people as teaching a lesson to the “Gweilo Club” and its perceived proxies. The use of party tabloid Global Times to paint India as an aggressor in Sikkim and Ladakh also is designed to force India to reassess its strategy of perceived alignment with the US against China.Even though the PLA is using a 1960 map released by then Premier Chou En Lai to present the cartographic expansion in Ladakh, there is little resemblance of the ground situation to either 1962 skirmishes or 1999 incursions in Kargil sector. The only coincidence is that President Xi may use the Ladakh military option to divert attention of his domestic audience, just as the then Chinese leader Mao Zedong used the 1962 skirmish to cover the massive Chinese famine due to failure of the Great Leap Forward revolution. Another Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping used the 1979 border war with Vietnam to divert internal dissatisfaction before embarking on economic recovery of the middle kingdom. While Ladakh may tactically serve the political objectives of Beijing, India under Prime Minister Narendra Modi is no pushover. It is the third largest market after the US and ASEAN, and could even be the key to economic revival of China. Militarily, it serves neither the interest of China nor India to raise the red flag as there will be huge economic and political costs to such a move. Pakistan and Nepal don’t add up to cost-benefit analysis. And the Doklam stand-off message did not exactly work with Bhutan in 2017.The fact is after the construction of strategic Darbuk-Shyok-DBO road in eastern Ladakh and rapid construction of strategic roads in both the middle and eastern sector, it is China that is concerned about India’s military objectives. At present, both sides are matching on the ground, whether it is Galwan valley or Pangong Tso lake and are constantly talking to each other through institutionalised diplomatic and military channels. With the LAC being undefined by nature at least in the western and eastern sector, the option of emphasizing its own cartographic interpretation is also available to the Indian Army.Even though China is playing to its long-term plan to use the LAC to destabilise India, Delhi does need to get its act together when it comes to Beijing as any conciliatory move with the best of intentions will be viewed as a sign of weakness. Rather than leave it to its military or diplomatic commanders, the two leaders need to have a candid conversation on the lines of the Wuhan or Mahabalipuram dialogue to carry out course corrections and take the bilateral relationship beyond third party suspicions. This may sound simple but is terribly complex as another challenge is looming on the horizon with Tibetan leader in exile Dalai Lama, now 84 years old, and still without a designated reincarnation. The Dalai Lama’s nomination of Panchen Lama, the second most important priest after Dalai, is now 31 and still under the Chinese Communist Party’s tutelage since he went missing on May 17, 1995. Given the scale of problems involved and its impact on sovereignty of both the countries, the only option left is for PM Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping to keep communication channels open 24 X 7. Because the NPC may get over on 28 May but China’s bilateral troubles with India won’t.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/china-s-tactical-play-in-ladakh-isn-t-just-about-the-boundary-analysis/story-aJy8XQDURYzT6nN70GsxzK.html
24-05-2020||News||The migrant worker crisis needs a multipronged response||The images of migrant labourers’ trudging home, some on top of trucks or walking barefoot, with women and children in tow, have shaken the nation’s conscience. Tragic accidents with injuries and loss of life have evoked sympathy. However, the images of the Narendra Modi government’s Operation Shramik Express, which has helped over four million migrants return home by buses and special trains, is reassuring.In India, migrant labour are woven into the waft and weft of the economic fabric. It is a measure of the national economic integration as also of regional and rural-urban disparities that force migrants from weaker states to go to metros and other states in search of livelihood. They contribute to the prosperity of their home and destination states, while empowering themselves.The sudden and unavoidable coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related lockdown threatens to unravel this fabric. The fragility of the migrant worker-based productive capacities stands exposed. Of the 40 million migrant labourers affected, the blue-collar – the informal sector – workers are the face of multidimensional poverty, inequality and unrealised demographic dividend. Their mass exodus from host states has created a humanitarian and health security challenge and an unprecedented logistical nightmare.It complicates the government’s attempts to stem the contagion. It poses a longer-term risk of labour dislocation and atrophy. It has already impacted post-lockdown economic activities announced under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan.The Opposition parties have both stoked and used migrant workers’ conundrum to critique the government’s Covid-19 strategy. As concerned stakeholders, they must recognise the gravity of the calamity and the enormity of the response it requires. Modi, on his part, is driving India’s stupendous response to the crisis in the spirit of cooperative and consultative federalism of antyodaya, with empathy for the predicament of the poor, including the pravasi shramiks (migrant labourers).A highly infectious and novel virus, Covid-19 has pushed the state and central governments into the uncharted policy and action territory, without the availability of any vaccine or treatment. Unlike China, which militarily enforced the lockdown of a similar scale and scope, doing so in a democracy like India – a socially and federally diverse, but economically weak country – poses a unique challenge. The migrant crisis is emblematic of this, and needs special initiatives.States are empowered to decide on the extension and enforcement of the lockdown, and are responsible for providing migrants relief in situ. The Centre, therefore, had to persuade states to agree to the mass transportation of workers with attendant risks of contagion. Some chief ministers have been proactive, while others are hesitant and unprepared. For instant impact during disasters, a Centre-state protocol must be established. It is equally important to collect and update comprehensive migrant worker-related data and statistics, going beyond the 10-year Census exercise – categorising them into skill, sector and gender at the state and national level. Its absence has blindsided us on the scale of the migrant labour challenge and frustrated efforts to reach them to help with food, cash transfers, health services, shelter or relocation to home/host states.The other side of the coin is the information asymmetry poor migrants faced. Many were unable to access information on the relief, benefit and transport provided by various governments. Many became prey to disinformation, unscrupulous touts, and motivated panic-mongers. Establishing well-functioning hotlines, building outreach systems, and providing low-cost smartphones and IT education are crucial.Many migrant workers left cities due to the fear of disease and stigma, evictions by landlords, confinement in congested conditions, job losses, income and food insecurity and the psychological impulse to be with their families. Yet, many continued to stay in cities due to pull factors of better wages, jobs, prospects of better economic and upward social mobility. To allow workers to exercise real choices, India must maximise the development of all the states in a sustainable manner.The challenge migrant workers face on return to home states includes resistance from their communities fearing infection and a lack of income and employment. As economic activities rekindle, many workers have already started moving back. Governments should provide for their sustenance, local employment and return to host states. Targeted and ecosystem support to migrant workers is a substantial chunk of the mega-economic revival and transformation package of Rs 20 lakh crore. An abhiyan or a movement for migrant workers’ welfare and empowerment must be driven in collaboration with state governments on a warfooting.It should: One, ramp up and prioritise direct and short-term food, cash, shelter and health support. Two, fast track the implementation measures on local infrastructure and supply chains, technology diffusion, liquidity, employment, income and entrepreneurship generation. Three, synergistically implement measures to support other vulnerable groups and micro, small and medium enterprises. Four, ensure migrant workers’ wellbeing and utilisation of their potential.In this moment of creative destruction, migrant workers’ wellbeing and unleashing the Ganga of their potential is vital to our survival and India’s economic rebirth.Lakshmi Puri is a former assistant secretary general, United Nations, former deputy executive director of UN Women, and former acting deputy secretary general of UNCTADThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-migrant-worker-crisis-needs-a-multipronged-response/story-NRCjV7PFFnjJTqlOpi8bYJ.html
