27-05-2020||News||When US threatened to leave WHO | Opinion||United States (US) President Donald Trump recently suspended financial support to the World Health Organization (WHO) and has threatened to quit the world body. This news took me back nearly 40 years when, while serving in the Union ministry of health and family welfare, I was involved in dealing with a similar threat from the US.It was May 1982. I was in Geneva to represent India in the annual session of the World Health Assembly (WHA) which, at that time, had over 160 member countries and met for two weeks to deal with varied health and medical issues. The large agenda was split and discussed in two commissions, named “A” and “B”. The 1982 WHA unanimously elected me to chair the functioning of commission “B”. Our then ambassador in Geneva, AP Venkateswaran, reported this event as a “diplomatic victory” for India, especially as it came without lobbying. As in the functioning of any United Nations organisation, WHO member-countries also never lost an opportunity to raise health issues which provided an opening for airing their views on current political controversies. Before the WHA proceedings began, I carefully read every agenda item entrusted to my commission. Neither I, nor the more experienced secretariat personnel, realised that a certain matter would generate an upheaval that would threaten the existence of WHO. This related to a draft resolution, moved by a group of Afro-Arab countries, which sought to focus attention on the poor health conditions of the Palestinians living in the Israeli-occupied territories. I was not overly concerned by this as there were similar items which sought the provision of health assistance to refugees in Cyprus and Lebanon and to the flood-affected in Yemen.Former WHO director-general, Halfdan Mahler, was on the dais with me when the aforesaid agenda item came up and I allowed the leader of the Palestine delegation to introduce it. Inter-alia, the agenda note referred to an expert committee report on the subject and to the reports presented by the Palestinian Liberation Organization, the Israeli health ministry and the specialised UN agency for providing relief to the Palestinian refugees. While calling for the establishment of WHO-supervised health centres in the occupied territories, reference was also drawn to an earlier UN General Assembly resolution on this matter. Before I could announce the name of the next delegate to speak on the subject, the leader of the US delegation, Dr John Bryant (also a member of the executive committee), wanted to make an urgent statement. Normally, comments from the floor were allowed only after the sponsoring country representatives complete their statements. Bryant raised serious objection to a portion of the operative paragraph of the draft resolution which, if accepted, would have the effect of cutting-off the membership rights and services of Israel. He announced that if this matter was discussed any further, he was under instruction to state that his country “here and now suspends its budgetary support” (which was about half of WHO’s annual budget) and withdraws from WHO. As soon as Bryant completed his statement, delegates from Israel and several other countries stood up and pronounced full support for the US’ stand. Delegates from Palestine and many Arab and African countries stood up and voiced support for the Palestinian cause. The ensuing pandemonium was unprecedented.I kept striking the gavel and calling for order till there was a lull in which I announced a break to consider how WHA could proceed further. After a brief exchange with Mahler, I stepped into the assembly hall and for the next hour-and-a-half held discussions with the leaders of the warring groups. I found that there was no ready meeting point and also realised that if the situation was allowed to go unchecked, there would be grave consequences for WHO, besides the failure of my chairmanship. It was already past the lunch hour. Getting back on the dais, I informed WHA that my parleys would continue and the commission would reassemble next morning at the scheduled time. For the next 12 hours, I held intensive discussions with protagonists on both sides and also met several eminent health ministers (attending WHA). I also met the iconic Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat arrrived late in the evening.After several rounds of negotiations with the Arab, African, Israeli, American and other delegations concerned, I managed to soften their earlier positions. Also, in the course of these discussions, I had virtually redone the original draft resolution. In the early hours of the next morning, I called a senior secretariat staff to arrange for copies of the revised draft resolution to be distributed before WHA commenced its work.An uneasy calm prevailed in the hall when I called the meeting to order. I spoke briefly about my efforts since the previous day and about the agreed changes made in the original draft. I read out the revised resolution and asked if there were any observations from any quarter. There was silence. I announced that the resolution was passed and struck the gavel to move on to the next agenda item. There was a perceptible sigh of relief . WHO had been saved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/when-us-threatened-to-leave-who/story-iyTyvGg6wQnhqEZm5qsiWO.html
27-05-2020||News||A blueprint to make local Indian brands truly global||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, on May 12, said, “Today it is the need of the hour that India should play a big role in the global supply chains”. With global supply chains disrupted by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, India can and must turn this crisis into an opportunity. A close reading of the PM’s speech revealed his vision for an aatma nirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India). It is about making India self-confident and self-reliant to take global competition head on. A passion for quality and excellence, achieving cost competitiveness through size and scale to penetrate global markets are the mantras that we need to follow to make India truly aatma nirbhar.Champion companies like Jio in telephony, Tatas in Steel, Mahindra in automobiles, Vedanta in metals and mining, ITC Limited in the fast-moving consumer goods sector, Amul in the dairy sector, among others, are making a name for themselves on both domestic and global stages. These brands, while gaining significant franchises across the world, are also creating enormous value for India. The nation needs to transform our local champions into global ones. Brands such as ITC and Amul have the processing capabilities and market linkages to serve the world, benefiting farmers in the process. ITC has invested in cutting-edge research and development to anchor domestic agri-value chains. The Amul success story bears no repetition. In automobiles, brands such as Tata, Mahindra, Hero and Bajaj are internationally recognised. FabIndia in garments and Forest Essentials in wellness and cosmetics are other examples. India must create a policy environment that enables local brands to thrive on the global stage.Many countries have enabled the creation of global giants, and we must learn from them. Japan’s auto companies such as Toyota and Honda have dominated the world. South Korea has created technology giants such as Samsung and LG. China has enabled the creation of giants in the electronics, toys, apparel and solar energy sectors. The Japanese economic miracle saw a war-ravaged country transform into a global leader. South Korea’s per capita income was $158 in 1960, compared to $82 in India and $89 in China. Its per capita income in 2018 was $31,362. China and India had similar levels of per capita income in 1990. By 2018, China’s per capita incomes accelerated to $9,770, compared to $2,010 for India. These countries nurtured domestic industry, focused on cost competitiveness, quality, size, scale and adoption of cutting edge technologies to enable global expansion.The government must facilitate the creation of an aatma nirbhar Bharat. The first avenue is to enable economies of scale in Indis’s manufacturing. For this, action will be required at the state level. Cross-subsidisation of energy, making it cheaper for consumers at the expense of industry, needs to go. We need to provide industries with a regular and cheap supply of power to boost their competitiveness, along with the creation of plug-and-play facilities. The second avenue is land. States must identify and develop large tracts of land and provide them with infrastructure. States must also ease the process of labour laws. Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have phased out older labour laws. Other labour-sending states must do the same, while taking care of the concerns of workers. Easing the regulatory environment will ensure that we attract both domestic and foreign capital to our industrial hubs.Related to all of this is urbanisation. Self-sufficiency in job creation and domestic demand will be driven by urbanisation. Urban innovation, decentralisation and municipal finance will serve as great tools to ensure that we implement the PM’s vision. Decentralisation will ensure that cities are able to govern themselves without depending on the state and central governments excessively. Next, we must connect our urban and industrial hubs through efficient infrastructure.The Centre must continue its push in elevating infrastructure to world-class standards. Timely land acquisition, environment clearances and release of funds must be ensured so that projects are completed on time. The ministry of road transport and highways has created a portal “Bhoomi Rashi” to fast-track the land acquisition process. All other government departments should adopt this model.Next, the government must drive efficiencies in the logistics sector. India’s port turnaround time is around 60 hours; China’s 20 hours and Korea’s 12 hours. So there is room for improvement. Digitisation of ports, moving processes to an online system will reduce compliance costs. Port collaborative decision-making must be implemented at the earliest. The development of 200 minor ports, through public-private partnerships, must be pursued.The government’s role is to create an enabling environment for large-scale manufacturing and sourcing. The private sector must also work to develop flexible and resilient supply chains. They must achieve cost competitiveness through frugal innovation, technology adoption and leadership, along with a focus on process efficiencies. The PM emphasised that we must raise the quality of products. Therefore, the adoption of global quality standards is imperative. The reforms in agriculture are being hailed as a 1991 moment for the sector. Commercial coal mining and putting out more than 500 mines for bidding will see our dependency on imports of minerals reduce. Reforms in the civil service and the judiciary are needed to reduce regulatory burdens. India must create an ecosystem encouraging innovation and the development of new technologies. Reforms in apprenticeship and education, along with expanding public investments in human capital are required so that our workforce is prepared to take the challenges posed by global competition head-on.Aatma Nirbhar Bharat is not anti-globalisation. It is about making India self-confident and self-reliant to take on global competition. It is about driving India’s socioeconomic transformation.Amitabh Kant is chief executive officer, NITI AayogThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-blueprint-to-make-local-indian-brands-truly-global/story-XUvbyw0ASjftpG5saeZOxM.html
27-05-2020||News||The five Ps of disaster management, writes Abhishek Singhvi||Representing West Bengal (WB), as I do in Parliament, I recall it seeing the deadliest cyclones in the world, especially the oxymoronically named Bhola (1970) which claimed 500,000 lives. Amphan was the first super-cyclone in the Bay of Bengal after 1999 (ie, wind speeds beyond 220 kph). Though the temporal stretch of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) seems bigger, chief minister (CM) Mamata Banerjee may be accurate, at least in temporal proportionality, when she calls Amphan “a bigger disaster than Covid-19”. A constitutional authority cannot be ignored if she says that 70% of the state’s population has been severely affected and when she underlines the quadruple whammy of Covid-19, the lockdown, migrants’ resettlement and the cyclone.In less than two days, Bengal lost around Rs 1 lakh crore. The cyclone left 80 dead, hundreds of thousands homeless, uprooted trees, ravaged houses, marooned dwellings, knocked out electricity and phone lines, flooded cities and villages, plundered embankments, fencings and boundaries. It wreaked ecological destruction and devastation, especially in the eco-sensitive Sundarbans. Not least was the ruination of Kolkata’s iconic Great Banyan Tree, among the world’s largest.Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s aerial tour yielded a relief package of Rs 1,000 crore ($132 million) for WB and Rs 500 crore ($66 million) for Odisha. These figures underestimate both the size of the disaster and, consequently, the size of the palliative.The Gujarat earthquake led to the central government releasing Rs 500 crore (at 2001 value, 20 years ago) plus ad hoc release of share in central taxes. The Centre is yet to release to Bengal the pending Goods and Services Tax refunds of approx Rs 2,400 crore for last quarter of FY 2019-20 (To be sure, Bengal is not alone in this regard). The CM has rightly reminded the PM about Rs 53,000 crore on account of social security refunds from central government schemes (such as the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, Food Security Act and so on) owed to the state. Elementary but elemental steps are needed to be taken on an emergency basis to ensure efficient rehabilitation and effective growth of the affected areas. First, there is a need for a genuinely non-discriminatory and equal approach qua all states. The Gujarat episode led many international agencies to come up with financial assistance including the European Union, United States (US) Agency for International Development, Canadian International Development Agency and World Bank ($300 m) and Asian Development Bank ($500 m). Irrespective of Bengal’s eligibility, capacity or political orientation, the Centre owes it to such states to specially reach out to international institutions. Second, there is a need to exponentially increase government allocation to fight natural disasters. We should not be afflicted by the same “fiscal stimulus inflexibility” syndrome, reflected in the PM’s supposed Rs 20 lakh crore Covid-19 package.Third, we cannot, on the one hand, rightly project India as a global leader and, on the other, pale when it comes to justifiable proportionate global comparisons. In the 2011 tsunami-earthquake, Japan allocated $167 billion for rehabilitation and recovery. It made a five-year plan to do so comprehensively. Similarly, the US Congress allocated $121.7 billion in hurricane relief in 2005 and 2008. Earthquake-prone Iran allocated 2% its national annual budget towards disaster risk reduction, including $4 billion in 2012. Though precise figures for allocation “per head of vulnerable group” are not available, it is clear that comparisons with India on per-affected-population basis yield a dismal picture.Fourth, random allocation is far less useful than targeted and focused relief measures. Japan’s targeted five-year plan focussed on each stakeholder — from fisheries to housing and power. Knee-jerk reactions in grand mega-announcements after cyclones, without specific sub-allocations, lose their limited vigour and vitality by the time they reach the ground target.Fifth, planned and targeted measures need to be coupled with a robust institutional framework. After 2011, the Japanese government enacted the “Act on the Development of Tsunami-resilient Communities”, to efficiently combine structural and non-structural measures to minimise damage. All municipalities had to draft their reconstruction plans based on modelling and the plans were based entirely on urban planning, land management, structural mitigation and relocation. Such innovations have barely been conceptualised in India, much less implemented and even medium-term thinking, much less long-term planning, is conspicuously overwhelmed by short-term ad hocism.Finally, and ironically given our cyclical annual natural disasters, we have very little policy focus on pre-disaster countermeasures. Prevention is always better than cure, and such countermeasures will be highly effective as well as cost-effective. Many countries in their disaster-prone coastal regions have constructed high seawalls to protect vulnerable communities. Odisha’s cyclone shelters are a praiseworthy-but-partial achievement, deserving emulation.We need five “Ps” to cope up with recurring disasters — prominence, as in the role of governments; a pool of funds; planning, especially long-term, of rehabilitation and development; policy qua institutional support; and preparedness qua countermeasures. There is light after the longest tunnels and only with these five “Ps” can we dream with French impressionist Paul Gauguin, who said, “The cyclone ends. The sun returns; the lofty coconut trees lift up their plumes again; man does likewise. The great anguish is over; joy has returned; the sea smiles like a child.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-five-ps-of-disaster-management/story-zi7NiH5Zloec7QueUay0DK.html
