28-05-2020||News||India can recover from the recession. Here is a plan | Analysis||The ~20 lakh crore package announced by Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi on May 12 will help energise the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) affected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. If the Centre and states would give them priority status, they can become viable, produce goods and create employment. The money provided by the government to revive industrial and business activity could generate a modest multiplier effect. But this does not mean that India can stave off a deep economic recession.Whether and to what extent the government’s efforts will succeed in attracting foreign companies exiting China to invest here remains to be seen. In the Shenzen cluster of China’s Special Economic Zones (SEZs), companies were provided road, water and electricity infrastructure free of cost, and quick access to ports. The government also built accommodations close to work sites for labour brought in from remote areas. Single-window clearances for projects were in 30 days or less. The duty on exports was a flat 15%. Perhaps we could learn from Hanoi’s success in attracting companies exiting China, but now, United States (US) President Donald Trump has thrown a spanner in the works by saying that exiting American companies must return to the US or face punishment.The key to pulling the economy out of deep recession is to increase the multiplier effect — the speed at which money moves. The government must immediately initiate a huge programme involving new construction. The construction sector uses a lot of labour and is a hub multiplier for other industries such as steel, cement and paints. It will increase the demand for goods and services, a primary factor in driving economic growth. The infusion of money through massive public works that helped end the recession of the 1930s is the only real parallel to the current crisis.The government building a new Parliament house, a large secretariat building and houses for the vice-president and the prime minister would be a good beginning to a new construction programme. Add to this, a centre of Indian arts and an iconic building to house a new national library on the lines of the American Congressional Library. The construction of a large modern port each on the eastern and western coasts will fill an important need. The ongoing road-building programme could be expanded to include link-roads to nearby villages. Haryana should have a new capital: Chandigarh was built for Punjab. It is also time to begin work on some aspects of the river-linking plan.The government must consider creating a dozen or more clusters of research and development (R&D) universities and specialist institutions to promote science and technology in different regions. Each cluster should comprise an advanced information technology institute, a telecommunication centre tasked to develop Indian 5G, a medical complex for research and development in pharmaceuticals, a skills training and upgrading institute, a business centre for demand promotion and a design R&D centre.Roughly two-thirds of global trade was being conducted by multinational corporations (MNCs) via their own supply chains for resources and components, plus for direct final product entry into foreign markets. In the post-Covid-19 global market, some of the western-based MNCs will shift their supply chains from China to other countries, or they may opt for development of resources and components in their own or neighbouring countries. A major example of such a policy has been the European Union Common Market Food Programme.The global market is becoming increasingly competitive as more countries participate in producing and supplying goods and services. Clearly, India has to develop global dominance in certain niche sectors in which our footprint is sustainable. India’s exports are too diverse and lack a sustainable competitive advantage, and we must focus on developing clusters of excellence to support exports. Lead countries have firms with a sustainable competitive advantage acquired through developing products suited to their culture and knowledge. For example, Germany and cars, France and perfume and wine, Italy and leather shoes. We have to encourage the development of industries that can be upgraded for global markets such as gems/jewellery, pharmaceuticals and certain value-added agricultural products. We should make an effort to regain, with improved design and quality, at least a part of the textiles market.Some small and medium-sized companies are born globals (BGs) ie, small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in western countries that grow globally at over 20% per year. They are founded by entrepreneurs with the vision to go global. Some have become sizeable enterprises relatively rapidly such as Austria’s Red Bull and Finland’s Angry Birds. Many battleship MNCs are looking for such companies to use in their networks. Promising Indian startups should be advised and encouraged to learn from BGs.Many Indian SMEs have a low price strategy. This is fundamentally unsound in the long-term as it tends to commoditise its offerings. Advanced countries build brand equity for its country and firms. They treat brands as valuable assets. The consequent benefits of customer loyalty and rising profits strengthen their firms. With overproduction and international competition, a distinguishing factor is design. Customers are searching for better-designed products and are willing to pay more for them. Witness the success of brands such as Armani, Polo, and Scandinavian/Danish wood furniture. India should set up a training programme for BGs which combines design, technology, commercialisation and internship.The government should allocate 2% of the GDP for this (in addition to the 10% committed). This will set us on the path for the economy to emerge from a deep recession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-can-recover-from-the-recession-here-is-a-plan/story-0nMRX6OS97wHDoNJllRziK.html
28-05-2020||News||How Kerala is planning to tackle Covid’s third phase||Kerala has the dubious distinction of reporting the first three cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India. But the state government handled the first two phases in an exemplary manner, setting a template for political leadership and the global health community. Kerala is now bracing for the third round of the coronavirus pandemic, with people returning to the state from foreign countries, many of which are Covid-19 hotspots. Therefore, many of the returnees are likely to be positive. But I am clear about one thing: When Keralites return from abroad or other states in the country, we have to embrace them, unreservedly. But things cannot be as before. In the first two phases, around half a million people arrived at airports and railway stations, crossed border roads and forest paths that have no checkpoints, resulting in 512 positive cases. Of these, 70% are from abroad and 30% contracted the virus through contacts. Checking the returnees is straining the state’s financial and human resources. However, the state government is trying its best to keep them under surveillance and, thereby, protect others from getting infected. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has been involved in the management of the pandemic from the word go. Kerala is also fortunate because it has a dedicated administration and committed health workers, and most people have behaved in an extremely responsible manner. But when a large number of people are kept under surveillance in homes and institutions, it becomes impossible to take care of everyone and ensure the day-to-day management of non-Covid-19 diseases. The government has contacted 4.3 million people, and their condition is monitored daily by the control room. We have also to ensure that patients, including the ones with lifestyle diseases, take daily medications. Drug delivery plans, using the non-communicable disease control wings in the department of health, were started during the lockdown. Police and firefighters have also helped in delivering medicines. Heart transplants were done despite the shutdown of coronary therapies and operations in many other states. Kerala’s involvement in mental health has been praised by the Centre and other states. Over 8,000 counsellors have been helping more than 0.8 million people for various psychological ailments. In the third phase, the state’s challenge is two-fold: Reduce the spread of contacts, and therefore, unrestricted access to cities and villages in vehicles will pose a serious problem; and ensure that all of those who have returned undergo preliminary tests. Sending them to observation centres is no easy task. Therefore, the government has set some restrictions on the number of arrivals by land, sea and air while arranging for the police, revenue and health departments and volunteers to help test the maximum number of people each day. The state’s focus in the third phase is on the category that is most likely to be easily infected, and the most likely to be fatal. A large scheme has been planned to exclude elderly persons, pregnant women, small children, persons with disabilities and co-morbidities from the coronavirus-affected areas. Besides the health, police and social justice departments, anganwadi and accredited social health activists and volunteers are in contact with these cohorts. A national lockdown and closing the borders can help prevent the spread of Covid-19. Yet, no country can keep daily activities in limbo for too long. The shortage of food, job losses and stagnation of development activities can spell collective devastation. Kerala is also planning to relax the regulations, without adversely affecting agriculture and industry.The state also needs to be on guard against rumour-mongers and naysayers. I am hoping that the never-say-die spirit of the people from Kerala will prove up to the task of facing down the third phase of the invidious virus. Today, we are in a better position compared to many other states. The interventions we made with great precision have helped to reduce the spread of the virus and mortality. But this should not make Kerala complacent against a dangerous and invisible enemy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-kerala-is-planning-to-tackle-covid-s-third-phase/story-gz4Sk7WuBFmAJu6LYZ0DJJ.html
