01-08-2021||Jharkhand||Judge's death: Auto owner's husband, who filed false FIR, arrested||Police, investigating the alleged killing of a Dhanbad judge,arrested the husband of the owner of the autorickshaw that was used to run him over late on Saturday, and conducted searches across 50 locations in Dhanbad district till Sunday morning during which time officers questioned over 200 people. Ramdev Verma, the husband of the auto owner Saguni Devi, lodged a false FIR at Patherdih police station, alleging that his auto was stolen on July 27, the day before judge Uttam Anand was hit with the auto while he was on his mornoing walk, leading to his death in hospital. The false FIR, filed to seek insurance claims, came to light after the regular driver of the auto, Gopal Lohar, was arrested and taken into police custody on July 30. A special investigation team is probing the death of the judge that the Supreme Court says "constitues the larger issue of safety and security of judicial officers in the country". Chief minister Hemant Soren recommended a CBI probe into the alleged killing on Saturday. ADJ (operations) Sanjay Anand Latkar,  who is heading the state-level SIT team, is camping in Dhanbad to supervise the probe. The police,that had on Thursday arrested two youths alleging one of them was driving the auto when it hit the judge, took the auto’s regular driver Gopal Lohar into custody for questioning on Friday. So far, the police have refused to divulge details of their findings. But sources claimed that the duo, Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma, had told police that the judge's death was an accident since they were drunk and could not control the vehicle when it hit Anand. On Sunday,  ADJ Latkar and his team inspected the site of the incident once again with a large number of policemen, including City SP R Ramkumar. He also took stock of CCTV camera placements at the site and at the nearby intersection. Dhanbad SSP Sanjeev Kumar has suspended OC of Patherdih police station Umesh Manjhi for lodging Ramdev Verma's false FIR without proper verification  and also for failing to arrest him. Later, ADJ Latkar held a marathon meeting with the senior police officers of the district to go thrpugh detaiols of their findings so far.  Sources said the police were thinking of conducting Narco tests on the suo that was in the vehilce at the time of the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
01-08-2021||Jharkhand||Inter-state buses back on the road after 3 months||Inter-state bus services from the Sitaramdera Bus Terminus, Kolhan's biggest bus depot, resumed on Sunday after three months as the state government made further relaxations in lockdown rules. The inter-state long distance bus services had to be stopped in the last week of April this year due to a spike in Covid-19 cases during the second wave. On Sunday morning, bus operators came to the bus terminus with their staff and started booking tickets from passengers for various destinations in Bihar, Bengal and neighbouring Odisha. Over 300 inter-state buses ply from Sitaramdera bus terminus to different states. "Today, being the first day, the number of passengers was less. Buses for various destinations are expected to run in full capacity in the next couple of days," said Upendra Sharma, chief patron of Jamshedpur Bus Owners Association. He said that with the steep rise in diesel prices they would be forced to hike the bus fare for various destinations. "During the last three months the diesel price witnessed a rise of about Rs 40. So, it is very difficult for us to sustain with the old fare.  The bus operators will meet here on Tuesday for a discussion on the fare hike, "said Sharma. Most of the inter-state buses start their journey from the Sitaramdera Bus Terminus in the evening and night. Notably, the inter-district buses have resumed operations from July 1. The state government had on Friday further relaxed Coronavirus-induced curbs as part of the unlock process, following a dip in Covid-19 cases. The provisions related to observance of the Health Safety Week in the context of Covid-19 shall stand extended till further orders. Vegetable, fruit, grocery stores remained open in the steel city on Sunday. All shops barring vegetable-fruit grocery/restaurant/bar, eatables and essential services (milk and fuel outlet) remained closed  in steel city on Sunday. People flocked to the vegetable and fruit stalls at Sakchi, Bistupur and other places. The curbs which came into effect on other shops from 8 pm on Saturday  will remain effective till 6 am on Monday. As per the government directive all shops in all districts can remain open till 8 pm between Monday and Friday. However, restaurants and bars can remain open till 10 pm. "Because of the weekend lockdown for the last couple of months we had  to make necessary purchases - vegetables, fruits, fishes  and other foods on Saturday  itself. But, with the government providing further relaxations it enabled me to buy vegetables and groceries on Sunday, " said  Anita Gupta, a homemaker at Sakchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
01-08-2021||Jharkhand||Bengal rain disrupts train services for third day||Train services in Howrah- Mumbai main line via Tatanagar and several other routes remained affected for the third consecutive day on Sunday, due to water logging at Howrah and Tikiapara railway yards in Bengal. Several South Eastern Railway trains were short terminated and rescheduled on Sunday. The Howrah-Mumbai CSMT Special (02260) scheduled to leave Howrah at 2.05 pm on Sunday will originate from Santragachi at 3.15 pm instead of Howrah railway station. The Howrah-Yesvantpur Special (02245) scheduled to leave Howrah at 10.50 am on Sunday  will originate from Shalimar  railway station at 12.05 pm  instead of Howrah. The Howrah-Bhubaneswar Special (02073) scheduled to leave Howrah at 1.25 pm on Sunday will originate from Kharagpur railway station at 3.10 pm instead of Howrah. Garden Reach, the headquarters of South Eastern Railway issued a list of trains which would short-terminate at Santragachi instead of Howrah railway station on Sunday, August 1. The trains included Mumbai CSMT-Howrah Special ( 02259),  Ahmedabad-Howrah Special ( 02833 ), LTT-Howrah Special ( 02101)  Pune-Howrah Special ( 02279 ) and Mumbai CSMT-Howrah Special (02809 ) . All these five trains travel via Tatanagar railway station. Apart from this four more trains - Hyderabad-Howrah Special ( 08646), Adra-Howrah Special ( 08012 ),  Ranchi-Howrah Special ( 02803) and  Puri-Howrah Special ( 02838 ) would also short - terminate at Santragachi railway station. The couple of trains including   Purulia-Howrah Special  ( 02228) and Bhubaneswar - Howrah Special ( 02074)  will be short terminated at Kharagpur instead of Howrah  on Sunday. A spokesman of South Eastern Railway said that apart from opening help desks and special counters for providing refunds for cancellation of tickets  at Howrah and Santragachi railway stations, necessary measures have been taken to ensure that passengers are not inconvenienced. SER gets new GM Archana Joshi, an officer of Indian Railway Traffic Service (IRTS) of 1985 Batch assumed the charge of general manager of South Eastern Railway on Saturday. She replaced Sanjay Kumar Mohanty, the erstwhile general manager who had served the zone for about two years. Prior to joining as general manager, SER, she worked as an additional member (Tourism & Catering), Union ministry of railways, Railway Board. She is the first lady officer to become the general manager of South Eastern Railway. She is also the first lady IRTS Officer to become a general manager. Joshi has worked in different zonal railways viz. Northern Railway, North Western Railway, West Central Railway and North Eastern Railway in various capacities. She also has the distinction of having worked in the Ministry of Culture and Ministry of Environment and Forests dealing with international cooperation issues in both the ministries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
01-08-2021||Jharkhand||Virtual kick off for XLRI human resource conclave||The two-day XLRI’s flagship Human Resources Conclave KRONOS -21, kicked off on Sunday on a virtual platform. The theme for the conclave was "Re-defining the Role of Human Resources for the Future.” The conclave was inaugurated with the Dean Academics of the B-school Ashish K. Panis delivering his speech. The inaugural session of the conclave was also addressed by Anita Sarkar, chairperson, HRM Area, XLRI and chief guest  Deepa Narayan, vice-president, Employee Success at Salesforce. This was followed by a keynote address by Rajlakshmi Saikia, vice- president, Global Learning Operations, Genpact on “Next-Gen HRM”. This was followed by a panel discussion  on "Decoding Diversity and Inclusion" and the session was moderated by Shreyashi Chakraborty, chairperson, Centre for Gender Equality and Inclusive Leadership, XLRI. There was an experience sharing session by Susan Mathew, HR Head India, LinkedIn - Human Resources Planning on the Covid-19 situation. The first day of the conclave concluded with a session "Experts ki Pathshala" conducted  by  Anish Raj, director HR, Sentieo and Vipin Sharma, head HR  Strategy, Analytics and HR Innovation Lab, Tata Steel. The audience comprised an eclectic mix of professionals and students across various fields like IT, manufacturing, banking, finance, insurance, construction etc., faculty members, and guests. On the first day, the conclave witnessed HR experts and leaders from various industries which include  Sweta Mohapatra, associate director HR, Fortune 500;  Shriya Dutt, director HR, Qualcomm;  Monica Dhar, general manager HR, Reliance Industries and  Puneet Rajput, HR head, Thermofisher Scientific. In her welcome address  Anita Sarkar, chairperson, HRM Area, XLRI said, ”  The two-day conclave is a unique initiative by our Executive Post Graduate Diploma in Management ( Ex PGDM) students where industry and academia meet and together explore the role of HR, and employees and employer relationship. A very relevant theme has been chosen - Redefining the role of Human Resource for the future’. The pandemic has taught many lessons and has similarly posed many questions. I believe the two-day conclave will help us to seek answers to many such questions and even help us to generate a few more infringing questions.” While speaking on Rethinking HRM Amidst Disruptions Deepa Narayan, vice- president, Employee Success at Salesforce said, “What happened to all of us a year and a half ago, Covid came like whiplash, it nudged all of us hard to think and it redefined our choices. We are talking about how we can be optimistic at the same time to be grounded with realities. The world going forward will require leaders that can blend courage and compassion together”. The concluding day of the conclave tomorrow will start with a keynote session on Leadership Agility by Suresh Narayanan, chairman and managing director, Nestle India Ltd and How to be the best candidate for hiring? by  Anurag Patnaik, Head of Human Resource, Nestle. It will be followed by a plenary address by author-cum- management consultant Abhijit Bhaduri who will speak on the topic "Careers in a Hybrid Corporate World."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
01-08-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad-Sindri train back on track after a year||The Dhanbad-Sindri passenger train, which served as a lifeline for Sindri residents, resumed operations from Dhanbad Railway station on Sunday morning after remaining suspended for 17 months. Sindri residents gathered at the station to welcome the train that reached the station at around 8.10 am. The gathering of around 100 persons of retired employees of fertilizer factory, traders and different social workers also offered shawl, water bottles and masks to the train staff members, including the driver, guard and other station officials. Dipak Kumar Deepu, President of Sindri Chamber of Commerce who was leading the gathering said, "The resumption of train services has solved the woes of more than 1 lakh residents of the town who were compelled to make extravagant and uncomfortable journey to district in auto rickshaw due to lack of train services." "A delegation of Sindri Chamber of Commerce would soon meet, Ashish Bansal, Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad requesting him to restore all the three ferries of the train as per pre lockdown schedule," said Deepu. The passenger train service was launched in October 1982. It used to make three journeys from Sindri at 8.30am, 1.40pm and 7.15pm till the pre-lockdown period before its suspension. After its resumption from Sunday, a special train has been allowed from Sindri at 8.40am. The fare, fixed at Rs 10 per passenger before its suspension, has also been increased three times to Rs 30 per passenger. D.N. Sindri a retired employee of Fertilizer factory of Sindri said, "We were facing a lot of difficulty due to suspension of passenger train as no regular bus service for Dhanbad also and we were compelled to make break journeys in autorickshaw to Dhanbad who used to charge exorbitant fare ranging up to Rs 80 per passenger taking advantage of situation." "We raised the issue several times before the district administration officials and railway authorities and also met Lalit Chandra Trivedi, general manager of East Central Railway, Hajipur during his Dhanbad trip on February 17 demanding restoration of passenger train service and today feel quite relaxed as railways restored the train," further said Singh. "Large number of students, office goers, daily wage earners were facing the most difficult time since the suspension of train service and in jubilant mood following the restoration of train services," said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
01-08-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS joins global research project on neurological impact of Covid||A team of doctors from the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi will be part of an international research project involving experts from the US and some European countries aimed at studying the effects of Covid-19 on the nervous system and brain of survivors, doctors from Jharkhand’s premiere healthcare facility said on Sunday. Research will be conducted under the guidance of the World Health Organisation (WHO) and American research agency National Institute of Health (NIH). RIMS Director and Padmashree awardee Dr Kameshwar Prasad, a globally renowned neurologist, who is already a member of the WHO’s expert team for neurology, will head the team of doctors from Ranchi for the project, RIMS sources said. The team of doctors from RIMS participating in the research includes the coordinator of RIMS’ Covid-19 task force, Dr. Prabhat Kumar. Besides, Dr. Surendra Kumar and Dr. Ganesh Chauhan, who have been treating patients at RIMS since the Covid-19 pandemic hit Jharkhand, will also be a part of the  team. Dr. Prasad was unavailable for comment on Sunday. However, Dr. Prabhat Kumar, who will be assisting the former in the research, said that the research will cover people from various countries and how the virus affected them. “Many Covid survivors have complained of neurological disorders after recovering from the viral infection. The research will be aimed at studying how the virus affects the nervous system and brain of survivors gradually after recovery and what are the major symptoms,” said Dr. Kumar. As of now, RIMS is the only Indian healthcare facility selected to participate in this research project, a source from the institution said. Several such scientific researches were being conducted across the world to study the long-term impact of SARS-CoV-2 on people belonging to different ethnicity and geographical locations, he added. According to the official website of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, a part of the US’ NIH, “In some people, response to the coronavirus has been shown to increase the risk of stroke, dementia, muscle and nerve damage, encephalitis, and vascular disorders. Some researchers think the unbalanced immune system caused by reacting to the coronavirus may lead to autoimmune diseases, but it's too early to tell.” The effect of Covid-19 on the neurological system of members of the tribal community in Jharkhand could also be a part of the research, a doctor from RIMS said. Doctors from the United Kingdom, Spain, Germany and Italy are also likely to participate in this research. RIMS will also use the data of patients admitted in the hospital due to post-Covid complications during the research, sources said. As per government data, over 3.47 lakh people have been infected by coronavirus in Jharkhand so far and 5128 of them could not survive. RIMS also functioned as a centre of excellence for treating mucormycosis, a Covid-induced fungal infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
01-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town residents demand trauma centre after judge 'killing'||Coal town residents raised the long pending demand for establishment of a trauma centre equipped with advanced facilities for treatment with sufficient manpower in the wake of the death of judicial officer Uttam Anand, who was hit by an autorickshaw and remained unattended till a passerby admitted him to SNMMCH. Gopal Bhattacharya, a Dhanbad based renowned social worker and General Secretary of Bengali Welfare Society, in a social media message said, “Had there been a trauma centre in Dhanbad. Life of Judge Uttam Anand could have been saved.” Responding to his post, Samiran Paul, a senior lawyer of Dhanbad, said,“True, even a lower level of trauma centre could have initially stabilized the traumatic injury and then referred to a higher level centre.” “We Dhanbad people don’t have adequate and far less sophisticated health care units,” added Paul. Madhurendra Singh, a citizen rights activist and former president of Bartand Chamber of Commerce wrote to the prime minister, demanding establishment of a trauma centre in Dhanbad. Singh in his letter, copies of which were sent to Chief Minister Hemant Soren, Supreme Court of India and Jharkhand High Court, pointed out, “There is no higher centre of treatment in a place like Dhanbad situated on National Highway -2 where regular road accidents besides mine mishaps take place.” “It is pathetic that we could not save the life of a sitting judge due to lack of a trauma centre in Dhanbad and thus we demand immediate fund allocation for a trauma centre in Dhanbad,” said Singh. In 2011, the trauma centre was to be launched in SNMMCH and a land was also identified for the purpose near its main gate at Saraidhela but due to dispute over the ownership with local residents the project was stalled. Several attempts to identify an alternative land near the national highway 2 near Panduki in Govindpur were also made during last year but all failed due to the inability of the district administration to find land for the purpose along the highway. In October last year, after the visit of Kailash Kumar, regional director of Directorate General of Health services of Union Ministry of Health and family welfare, a 10-bed trauma centre was established at the Emergency ward of SNMMCH without any extra manpower. Talking to Telegraph Online on Saturday, Arun Kumar Chaudhary Superintendent of SNMMCH, said,“The existing trauma centre at Emergency of our hospital is devoid of any advance equipment and extra manpower and we are just operating it on an ad hoc arrangement basis due to lack of any separate building and manpower.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
01-08-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro reports first mucormycosis death||The first incident of death due to black fungus was reported in Bokaro on Saturday, which took the mucormycosis toll in Jharkhand to 31, the latest data with the health department revealed. The state, however, did not report fresh cases of the fungal infection on the day. As per data compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), the state has so far reported 104 confirmed and 58 suspected cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis, a disease that was notified as an epidemic by the Jharkhand government earlier this year. Ranchi has reported 40 confirmed and 22 suspected cases of black fungus, which claimed 11 lives here – the highest among Jharkhand districts. Of the 162 confirmed and suspected patients, at least 108 have been discharged from the hospital so far. The state on Saturday vaccinated over 1 lakh residents, including over 75,000 from the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years, against Covid-19, provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per NHM data, the first dose of vaccine was administered to 75,362 residents, while at least 30,171 beneficiaries got their second jab. At least 1337 session sites for vaccination were operational on the day, as per the Co-Win platform. As many as 84 vaccination centres were open in Ranchi, while 46 session sites administered vaccines against Covid-19 in East Singhbhum. As per figures released by NHM on Saturday evening, the state has administered at least one dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to close to 95 lakh residents. The state had 4.7 lakh vaccine doses in stock on Saturday, the figures highlighted. Jharkhand distributed 91,130 doses of Covaxin among the 24 districts in the past two days. Ranchi got the highest share of 7430 doses in the latest allotment, while 5300 doses were given to East Singhbhum. The state distributed 31,130 doses on Thursday and 60,000 more doses on Friday. Meanwhile, 44 Covid recoveries against 36 fresh cases brought the active caseload of Covid-19 down to 252 in the state, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. The state did not report fresh Covid casualties on the day and the toll remained 5128. Ranchi reported the highest spike of eight cases against the same number of recoveries. At least 49 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi by the end of Saturday. At least 10 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on the day, while Bokaro continued to witness a spike in active cases as it reported seven cases against four recoveries. The state on Saturday tested 56,045 samples and 0.06 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. So far, over 3.47 lakh people have been infected by the virus and 98.45 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
01-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren calls for CBI probe into Dhanbad judge's death||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday recommended a CBI investigation into the alleged murder of Dhanbad judge Uttam Anand, which the Supreme Court says “concerns the larger issue of safety and security of judicial officers in the country”. Currently, a special investigation team (SIT) formed by state police is probing the case and has been directed by Jharkhand High Court to hand in its report by August 3. Additional district judge Anand was knocked down and killed on a Dhanbad street around 5am on Wednesday by an apparently stolen auto-rickshaw that, CCTV footage shows, had swerved sharply from the middle of the lane. Judge Anand had recently rejected the bail petitions of Abhinav Singh and Ravi Thakur, two alleged shooters. The suspected shooters were linked to Uttar Pradesh gangster Aman Singh who is in custody over the murder of former Dhanbad deputy mayor Niraj Singh. Judge Anand was also hearing the murder case of Ranjay Singh, aide to former Jharia MLA and BJP politician Sanjeev Singh, who too is in jail custody over Niraj Singh’s murder. On Friday, the high court bench of Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan said: “We are directing the SIT to submit a report on the next date of hearing (August 3). Let an affidavit be filed disclosing as to when the information regarding the occurrence was received by the police and the time when the FIR was registered.” Relatives of Judge Anand have expressed dismay that the FIR was registered only around 12.30pm on Wednesday and that a copy of the post-mortem report has not been given to them. “Let information be also given to us as to whether the procedure of post-mortem was video-graphed or not,” the high court said. It also directed Jharkhand DGP Neeraj Sinha to submit a report on the crime rate in the state since February 2020. Soren met Judge Anand’s relatives on Friday. The family requested him to provide the judge’s wife with a job on humanitarian grounds. Auto ‘intrigue’ The police, who had on Thursday arrested two youths alleging the stolen auto was in their possession, on Friday took the auto’s regular driver Gopal Lohar into custody for questioning. Police sources quoted Gopal as saying that Ramdev Lohar, husband of the auto’s owner Sugni Devi, had said on Monday he would get the three-wheeler stolen and claim the insurance. “We are trying to trace Ramdev, who is known to be involved in the sale of illicit liquor and has gone into hiding since Thursday,” an SIT member said. “He can tell us whether the auto was deliberately stolen to hit the judge, or whether it was an accident.” The police are scanning the mobile call details of the two arrested youths, Lakhan Kumar Verma and Rahul Verma, who officers say were inside the auto when it hit the judge. “Some eyewitnesses are being questioned,” said additional director-general of police (operations) Sanjay Anand Lathkar, who heads the SIT.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
01-08-2021||Jharkhand||At least seven persons die as rain wreaks havoc in Jharkhand||At least seven persons have died in Jharkhand since Friday afternoon in incidents triggered by incessant rainfall. Low-lying areas have been submerged and roads waterlogged in different parts of the state. A 40-year-old villager identified as Subhash Hembrom was swept away in the strong current of the Subernarekha river on Friday afternoon when he went to take a bath in Hatia under Jagannathpur police station of Ranchi. An NDRF team has been pressed into service to trace his body. In Latehar district, brothers Shankar, 10, and Monuwa Oraon, 6, died and their parents were critically injured after the mud wall of their house in Kuldaga village under Manika police station collapsed in the heavy rain on Friday night. Father Sohrai Oraon, 41, and mother Chinta Devi, 38, were admitted to the Sadar Hospital in critical condition. In Jamtara district, three persons lost their lives after the car they were travelling in fell off a bridge on the Narayanpur-Karmatand main road into the Loharangi river under Narayanpur police station on Friday night. Police on Saturday said the driver who was speeding failed to notice the water-filled potholes on the bridge and lost control and the vehicle plunged into the river. The deceased are Sourav Suman, 28, Avinash Singh, 25, and Sitanshu Nayan, 30, while another occupant Ranu Singh managed to swim to safety. Police said the passengers were going to Bhagalpur in Bihar after buying the second-hand car in Ranchi when the mishap happened. In Giridih district, Surajlal Murmu, 38, of Beldih village under Gandey police station died on Friday night after his thatched hut collapsed in the heavy rain. Police recovered his body on Saturday morning after villagers informed about the incident. Disaster management minister Banna Gupta on Saturday asked the department’s secretary to direct all district heads to send a damage assessment report at the earliest so that compensation can be disbursed to affected families. “I have asked the secretary (Amitabh Kaushal) to direct all the 24 deputy commissioners to send a damage assessment report to the headquarters at the earliest. We will disburse the compensation at the earliest,” said Gupta. Almost all the major rivers, including the Subernarekha, Kharkai and Damodar, were in spate with dam gates opened to release excess water. Opening of two gates of the Bankabal Dam in neighbouring Mayurbhanj district of Odisha led to the water level in the Kharkai crossing the danger level which raised the threat of inundation of low-lying areas in Jamshedpur. In state capital Ranchi, most of the important roads, including Argora-Harmu Road, Ratu Road and Kanke Road, were waterlogged, while basements and parking spaces of several residential apartments were submerged. Congress spokesperson Alok Kumar Dubey blamed Ranchi BJP legislator and former urban development minister C.P. Singh for the waterlogging. “During the tenure of the erstwhile Raghubar Das government, more than Rs 400 crore was spent on building drains and sewage system. But all drains are overflowing which shows that there was only mismanagement of government funds in the name of urban infrastructure projects. We demand a high-level probe into the projects,” said Dubey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
