02-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand HC seeks Hemant's reply in case related to objectionable remarks against him||The Jharkhand High Court on Monday issued a notice to Chief Minister Hemant Soren and sought his reply in a case related to an individual making objectionable remarks against him on social media.  In this case, the accused has filed a petition in the Jharkhand High Court seeking bail.  The matter was heard in the court of Justice Rajesh Kumar of the High Court.  The court said that under section 15 (a) of the SC-ST Act, the court cannot pass any order without hearing the victim.  Therefore it is imperative to hear the victim (CM Hemant Soren) in this matter.  On being asked by the state government to continue the trial, the court has issued a notice to Soren asking him to present his side.  A case has been registered against the accused Rishikesh Kumar, a resident of Garhwa, under the SC-ST Act for making objectionable remarks on social media against CM Hemant Soren.  During the hearing, the counsel for Rishikesh said that no criminal case is made out against him in this case. Therefore, they should be given the facility of bail.  Additional Advocate General Sachin Kumar told the court that if someone writes a post on social media to humiliate any person, then it is considered a criminal case under the provisions contained in the SC-ST Act.  It was also told at present the investigation in the matter is going on.  On June 4, an FIR has been registered in Garhwa regarding this. On this, the court issued notice to the CM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
02-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand records 13% surplus rain in July||The second monsoon month of July ended with 13 per cent surplus rain in Jharkhand. Met statistics revealed that against a normal of 522.2 mm till July 31, the state actually recorded 588.9 mm, an excess of 13 per cent. Last year, July had ended in 13 per cent deficit rain. Data revealed that this year's June, the first monsoon month too, ended in a surplus rain of 34 per cent. Weathermen said that this was for the first time in recent years both the initial monsoon months - June and July - ended on a surplus note. July had begun well with most districts finding place in rain gainers list but after mid- July due to subdued monsoon activity the rainfall reached a deficit figure. But, heavy to very heavy rainfall because of the impact of a low pressure originating from the Bay of Bengal towards July - end helped in turning the deficit rain to surplus. According to rain data, Lohardaga district with 81 per cent surplus rain topped the districts registering excess rain. Jamtara with 70 per cent surplus rain was placed second followed by Koderma which at the end of July recorded surplus rain of 53 per cent. Dhanbad was next with 51 per cent surplus rain while Ramgarh followed close with 47 per cent surplus rain. According to rain data,15 districts figure in the rain surplus list while nine other districts including Godda, Gumla, Pakur, Garhwa and Simdega figure in rain losers list. Data further revealed that on July 31, Ranchi recorded 182.4 mm, the second highest rainfall ever. The capital has in its credit recorded the highest ever rainfall of 204.8 mm on July 26, 2017. On July 1, 1990 Ranchi had recorded 146.2 mm. Head of Ranchi Met Centre Abhishek Anand said widespread heavy rain in the last few days of July helped in recovering the deficit and registering surplus rain. He said that rainfall activity would be restricted in the next one week due to a subdued monsoon. However, the Met official said that they were expecting normal monsoon rain in August. IMD - New Delhi had already announced that the monthly rainfall in August over the country as a whole is likely to be normal - 94 to 105 per cent of Long Period Average (LPA ). The normal rain in the month of August, calculated on the basis of a 30-year long-term average is around 280 mm. This year, the southwest monsoon arrived three days early in Jharkhand on June 12. After a good shower show and heavy rains in several districts due to a vigorous monsoon, the surplus figures kept increasing and reached 109 per cent around June 19. The figures witnessed a gradual decrease later as the monsoon currents became weak over Jharkhand as the trough shifted towards the foothills of Himalayas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
02-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town students protest JAC 'faulty' evaluation||More than 200 examinees of Jharkhand Academic Council who were declared unsuccessful (fail) in the recently issued Plus Two results, on Monday, carried out a massive demonstration at Dhanbad district headquarter protesting against the alleged erroneous system of evaluation followed by the board. The protesters, belonging to different colleges of the district including, P.K. Roy Memorial College, SSLNT Women’s College and BSS Women’s College, congregated at Randhir Verma College at around 11am and continued their demonstration for more than two hours till 1 pm during which they also shouted slogans against the JAC administration and later also blocked the Luby Circular for around 15 minutes. Some of the agitating students however charged their respective college administration of not conducting their practical examination on time due to which they were marked absent leading to them being declared unsuccessful by JAC. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, Rohit Kumar, a Plus two Commerce candidate of P.K. Roy Memorial College, Dhanbad said, “I have been marked absent in the practical examination due to which I was declared unsuccessful but the fact remains that the practical examination was not conducted for several candidates including me due to fault of the college administration.” “Our practical examinations were being conducted in phase wise manner as per the roll number of students and since the government declared lockdown on May 22 the practical examination of several candidates could not be held in our college,” said Kumar. Kumar said the issue was brought up several times but the P.K. Roy Memorial college administration did not bring it forth before the JAC administration leading to their failure. Soni Kumari, an unsuccessful candidate of Arts stream of BSS Women’s College who also took part in the demonstration said, “The JAC administration has adopted faulty policy of evaluation due to which some to candidates who have secured less than 180 marks been declared pass while several others who have secured over 250 marks have been declared fail.” “When we enquired with college authorities today about the reasons for our failure they conjectured that as the evaluation was carried out on previous year performance and since we remained unsuccessful in 11th examination also we were declared fail in 12th final examination also,” said Kumari. Akansha Kumari, another Arts candidate of SSLNT Women’s College said “The JAC has made provision for reappearing in examination for candidates who are unsatisfied with their results but we also protest against this provision because it means only those who were declared unsuccessful due to faulty evaluation of JAC will have to appear for examination while others who were declared successful due to same erroneous evaluation will not be required to write examination.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
02-08-2021||Jharkhand||At Salima Tete's home in Jharkhand, they got a genset to watch the match||Olympian Salima Tete’s village in Badkichapara in Jharkhand’s Simdega district was without electricity since Sunday owing to incessant rain during the last few days. So, her family and a few neighbours pooled in resources to arrange for a generator set watch their girl play against Australia in Tokyo. As the hockey eves stunned their opponents with a  1-0 victory in a nail-biting finish on Monday, the whole of Simdega erupted in joy, celebrating India women's maiden entry to the hockey semi-finals of the Olympics. Even chief minister Hemant Soren joined the rest of India to heap praise on the national women's team for inching closer to a medal. Congratulations to the entire women’s team for the historic feat by entering the semi-finals and prayers for further success, he said in a Hindi tweet. Two players from Jharkhand—Salima Tete (Simdega)  and Nikki Pradhan (Khunti) _ played Monday's high-octane quarter finals. While this is Salima’s first exposure on the Olympics stage, Nikki is representing the country in the Olympics for the second time. The Indian women will now take on Argentina in the semifinals on August 4. Celebrations in Salima’s native district of Simdega, known as the hockey cradle of Jharkhand, continued through Monday.  Players of all ages sang songs and danced to the beat of the nagada at the local astroturf hockey stadium built by the state government to nurture talent. Some players even took out a  rally that marched through town areas hailing the team’s success. Salima’s father Sulakshan Tete, a former player and now a  small-time farmer, told  local media that every family member harboured a single dream — a medal.  “We are naturally excited to see our daughter in the Olympics. But we are more happy to see  the team doing well after a poor start in the earlier matches. We are all  praying that Team India returns with a medal,” he said. An official of Hockey Simdega said that everyone in the village was worried after power lines tripped due to inclement weather. “We contacted the district administration for help and officials tried hard to repair the transformer. But  due to the erratic weather, power wasn't restored. However, Salima’s family, along with local residents, managed to organise a  generator set to watch the match,” the official said. Hockey Simdega president Manoj Konbegi said that the ongoing Olympics would help hockey regain some of  its lost glory in the country. “Both the  men's and women’s teams have entered the semifinals. The entire country is now pinning hopes on them like never before. Win or lose, this tournament is sure to help the game and scores of budding players will start to dream big once again,” he said. Also, Simdega, he added, would live up to its reputation of being  the nursery of hockey in the state and churn out more promising players. "Emotions are running high within the sporting fraternity. Currently,  it’s hockey, hockey, hockey everywhere in the district. People are excited even more because two daughters of Jharkhand  are also playing,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
02-08-2021||Jharkhand||New heads for MGM medical college and hospital ||The superintendent and principal of the MGM medical college hospital and medical college were replaced on Monday. Established in 1961, the MGM medical college hospital is the largest government-run health hub across Kolhan. Presently it is a 610-bed facility. Patients from the twin districts of Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan visit the hospital for treatment. While the hospital superintendent Dr Sanjay Kumar was replaced by Dr Arun Kumar, the principal of the medical college Dr R.K. Mandhana was replaced by Dr K.N. Singh. The outgoing superintendent Dr Sanjay Kumar had started in May 2019 and had to cope with the first and second wave of Covid-19 during his 21 months stint. A highly-placed source of the medical college hospital said the number of medical negligence cases had increased considerably during his stint prompting the hospital to find a replacement. "Though running this medical college hospital with limited resources is a tough job, anyone can see the difference in the overall performance of the hospital soon," said Dr Arun to The Telegraph Online after taking charge as the hospital superintendent. Dr Arun, working in the ENT department of the hospital, said cleanliness and security of the patients will be his top priority, but at the same time he would try to ensure that no instance of medical negligence may come to his notice. The new superintendent, when asked, said that the hospital has received adequate funds for the treatment of Covid-19 and informed that he would gear up preparation for combating the third wave of the ongoing pandemic. Dr K.N. Singh who was earlier posted at the Dhanbad Medical College in Dhanbad took charge as principal of MGM medical college from the outgoing principal R.K. Mandhana on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
02-08-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi to get direct flights to Lucknow, Bhubaneshwar ||Passengers travelling to Uttar Pradesh and Odisha will soon have the option of taking direct flights to Lucknow and Bhubaneshwar from Ranchi. Indigo Airlines is set to launch direct passenger flight service to Lucknow four days a week later this month, while Alliance Air will start flights connecting Kolkata, Ranchi and Bhubaneswar from August 11, officials from the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi said on Monday. The Indigo flight to Lucknow will be the first direct flight to any of the cities in Uttar Pradesh from Ranchi. As per details shared by the airport authorities, the flight will take off from Lucknow at 10.55am and land in Ranchi at 12.05pm. The aircraft will take off from Ranchi at 12.45 pm and land in Lucknow at 1.40pm. “Direct flights to Lucknow will begin in the first week of August. The exact date for the first flight has not been announced by the airline as yet,” said the director of Birsa Munda Airport, Vinod Sharma. The business community in Jharkhand had a long-pending demand for direct flights to Lucknow. The Airport Advisory Committee (AAC) had also stressed on starting flights to Tier Two cities from Ranchi, and the new flights have been launched as a part of the initiative. Alliance Air is also set to operate new flights on Kolkata-Ranchi-Bhubaneshwar route. The company will use its 70-seater aircraft with only aisle and window seats for the service and this will be the first ever direct flight to Bhubaneshwar from the Jharkhand capital. "Flight 9I 720 will depart from Kolkata at 0800 hrs and arrive in Ranchi at 0940 hrs further departing from Ranchi at 1010 hrs and arrive in Bhubaneswar at 1115hrs," a communique from the airlines company stated. The Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) has been pressing for new flight services from Ranchi, while the transport department has held several meetings in the past with the focus on connecting Ranchi to tier two cities like Guwahati, Trivandrum, Bhubaneshwar and Chandigarh by air. The trade body had also expressed displeasure over the delay in construction of the Deoghar airport, which once ready, will be the second largest airport in Jharkhand after Ranchi. At present, at least 20 flights connect Ranchi to New Delhi, Bangalore, Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad. The Birsa Munda Airport, which bagged the top position in Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) last year, at present has a 75-meter basic strip, which is the minimum length required for any airport. The state capital was likely to get more flights earlier this year, but the second wave of Covid-19 caused a delay in the process, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
02-08-2021||Jharkhand||70,000 residents vaccinated in Jharkhand ||Jharkhand on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to about 50,000 residents and the second dose to nearly 20,000 beneficiaries, taking the total count of those who have received at least one dose of vaccine closer to the 1 crore mark, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 49,460 residents got the first jab of vaccine, while 19,822 beneficiaries got their second jab on Sunday. Close to 50,000 residents between 18 and 44 years were inoculated on Sunday, NHM data highlighted. As per government data released on Sunday evening, the state had about 5 lakh doses of vaccines in stock. The state is likely to receive fresh supplies on Monday, health officials said. Jharkhand on Sunday reported another Covid death, which took the Covid toll to 5,129, while the active caseload also witnessed a marginal spike as fresh cases outnumbered Covid recoveries, a separate report from the NHM highlighted. As per NHM data, at least 27 fresh cases of infection against 24 recoveries took the active caseload to 254 on Sunday. The sole casualty was reported in Bokaro, a district which has so far seen 285 Covid fatalities. At least 12 of 24 districts in the state did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on the day, while East Singhbhum reported the highest spike of six cases and the active caseload there rose to 16. The district reported four Covid recoveries on Sunday. Two cases against three recoveries brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 48, the highest among Jharkhand districts. Bokaro reported five cases against the same number of recoveries and Dhanbad was among the districts that did not report fresh cases on the day. Jharkhand on Sunday tested 47,907 swab samples and 0.05 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. So far, over 3.47 lakh people have been infected by the deadly virus and 98.44 per cent of them survived, while 1.47 per cent of patients died. No fresh cases of Covid-induced Mucormycosis were reported in Jharkhand on Sunday. The state has so far reported 104 confirmed and 58 suspected cases of Black Fungus and 31 patients have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
02-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand  news digest: Dhanbad new superintendent takes charge||Dhanbad: Dr Arun Kumar Barnwal, newly appointed Superintendent of Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital took  charge as office and post on Sunday from the outgoing Superintendent Dr Arun Kumar Chaudhary. Talking to media after assuming charge he said, "providing best possible health care facility to the people during the time of pandemic will be my top priority." "I am fortunate to have a  good and cooperative team and, Dr Shailendra Kumar,  principal of the College is my batchmate, who has assured to extend all cooperation in the smooth operation of the hospital" said Barnwal. "The previous team under the leadership of my predecessor Dr Arun Kumar Chaudhary has done a tremendous during the time of pandemic and I will try to carry forward their legacy" said Barnwal. (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: Concerned with inordinate delay in execution of the multi-crores sewage and drinking water projects in Adityapur, a local social outfit in Adityapur has declared to launch agitation. Jan Kalyaa Morcha (JKM), the social outfit has on Sunday in a meeting of its executive members resolved to stage a day-long dharna at Patel Chowk in Adityapur on August 14. "The one-day dharna will be staged to protest the excessive delay in the two Megan projects being executed by the state urban development department in Adityapur. If the department fails to expedite the pace of ongoing works, then we will be compelled to intensify the agitation, " said Om Prakash, president, JKM while talking to The Telegraph Online. Stressing on the need to launch an agitation, Om Prakash said that the two projects concerning the basic civic necessities are not only getting delayed, but also have thrown the local residents' life out of gear. "Due to the sewage and drinking water projects, the executing agencies have dug up the roads, lanes and bylanes in the residential as well as the industrial areas in Adityapur. As a result of which the rest are finding it very difficult to negotiate through.  The situation has aggravated due to the waterlogging during the current rainy season," said the JKM president. He pointed out though the executing agencies have repaired the dug up roads at most of the areas, but the repairing work were done in haphazard and substandard way, causing the waterlogging. The sewage project worth Rs 235 crores was supposed to be completed in December 2020 and the drinking water project worth Rs 400 crores was supposed to be completed in May this year. As there is a forest clearance hurdle in the way of both the projects, it may take another year or more for the completion of them. City manager, Adityapur Municipal Corporation (AMC), Ajay Kumar who monitors both the projects on behalf of the AMC confirmed about further delay in completion of these projects due to the forest clearance hurdle. (Kumud Jenamani)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
02-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand government to offer jobs to a dozen sportspersons||The Jharkhand government will offer jobs to a dozen sportspersons on Tuesday, besides presenting cash awards to some prominent others. This may please a section of sportspersons but may not help the state government to live up to the expectations raised by its earlier announcement of observing 2021 as “the year of employment”. In order to promote sports in the state, the Hemant Soren government first offered employment to 24 sportspersons by appointing them as sports officers in as many districts of the state in October last year. It was followed up by appointing 27 other sportspersons — 17 women and 10 men — as police constables in March this year. Though 27 of the selected 39 sportspersons were given appointment letters in March, the rest 12 will be given those on Tuesday, informed sports secretary Pooja Singhal. “Three of them — Madhumita Kumari, Ritesh Anand and Bhagyavati Chanu — would be offered the job of sub-inspector (of police),” she informed,  adding others would receive offer letters for the posts of constables that day. Those who will get the offer letters for joining as constables are Biplab Kumar Jha, Dinesh Kumar, Krishna Khalko, M. Vijay Kumar, Lovely Choubey, Lakhan Hansda, Santa Tirkey, Farzana Khan and Reena Kumari. Besides, some prominent sportspersons “who excelled in their games and brought glory and honour for the nation as well as Jharkhand” would also be given cash awards that day, the sports secretary further informed, adding those would include archer Deepika Kumari and hockey players Nikki Pradhan and Salima Tete who represented the country in Tokyo Olympics. This gesture may please a section of the sporting community but the youths in general who are seeking employment will not be impressed, feel many who consider this to be too less compared to the need. There is already a sense of disappointment among such youths, more so because they did not find much employment opportunities despite the government declaring 2021 as the year of employment. Some of their organisations have already planned to organise protests at district level on August 8 and then also at state level in Ranchi on August 10. “Unemployment is a major issue at present and we will also organise a series of programmes at block and distract levels for mobilising youths towards their right to employment between August 15 and 30,” informed CPI-ML state secretary Janardan Prasad, adding their protest would be against failure of both the state and Central governments in providing employment to the youths. Meanwhile, the BJP also declared the party would demonstrate across the state from August 20 for expressing support to the youths and pursuing other issues including that of law and order. Addressing the media at the party's state headquarters in Ranchi on Sunday, BJP state president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash alleged that the Soren government "was cheating the youths by not offering them them jobs though there are 3.29 lakh vacancies in the state ".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
