03-08-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro students shine in CBSE Class X exams||Covid-19 pandemic created difficulties for the students, but still many overcame the challenges to their perseverance and academic excellence this year. As many as seven students in the district have scored 99 percent and above marks in the CBSE class X examinations. Meanwhile over 252 students have secured above 95 percent marks in their board examinations. The results were announced on Tuesday. Atleast, 760 students scored above 90 percent marks in about a dozen of CBSE schools across the district. It is to be mentioned that the class board exams had been cancelled due to Covid-19 second wave. The board chose to prepare the results through an alternative means of assessment. The schools credited the collective hard work, consistency and sincerity of both the teachers and the students for the remarkable result. Of the toppers, Aditya Kumar of DAV Public School, Dhori and Risita Ahana of Chinmaya Vidyalaya have scored the highest 99.6 percent in the district. Meanwhile, Saurabh Kumar Pandey of DAV Public School, Dhori achieved 99.4 percent marks followed by Anwesha of Pits Modern School, Gomia with 99.2 percent. The Delhi Public School (DPS), Bokaro got their three students – Anamika, Prince Kumar and Tanushree – scored 99 percent marks in the results of Class X Board announced by CBSE today afternoon.  There were 98 students in DPS, Bokaro who scored above 95 percent marks while 169 students achieved above 90 percent. Similarly, 103 students have got above percent in Chinmaya Vidyalaya while 15 of them obtained 95 percent and above marks. “It is not difficult to bag the perfect score if students cancel out all the distractions from life wholeheartedly and concentrate on their goal,” said Mahesh Tripathi, secretary of Chinmaya Vidyalya. Aayush Kumar Singh of Pentecostal Assembly School scored 98.8 per cent marks followed by Sujal Kumar, Anurima and Kirti Kumar who obtained 98.4 per cent. There are 31 students of this school who scored above 95 per cent while 64 of them obtained above 90 per cent. In Guru Gobind Singh Public School (GGPS) Nafisha Khatun and Unnati, both, scored 97.8 per cent marks. There were 99 students who scored above 90 percent while 34 of them achieved 95 per cent and above. Another MGH Higher Secondary School has also claimed 89 students bagged above 90 per cent marks. Of them, 33 students scored above 95 per cent. In Sree Ayaappa Public School, seven students achieved above 95 per cent marks while 43 students have scored above 90 per cent. The students of other schools including Holy Cross School, BSL-run Schools, Saraswati Vidya Mandir, Dav Public School, Kendriya Vidyalaya, Cresent Public School, Aadarsh Vidya Mandir, Bokaro Public School have also performed well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
03-08-2021||Jharkhand||DPS-Ranchi students shine in CBSE Class 10 exams||Students of Delhi Public School (DPS)-Ranchi pulled off an exceptional performance in the CBSE Class 10 exams, the results of which were declared on Tuesday, with over 60 per cent students scoring over 90 per cent marks that were evaluated using an alternative system based in part on internal assessments of schools. While 99.66 per cent students of the Patna region, under which Jharkhand falls, passed, several hundred students from Ranchi secured more than 90 per cent marks. Girls trumped boys in the toppers' list announced by various schools. Two students of DPS-Ranchi – Arshia Hussain and Shreya Bhaskar – scored 99.6 per cent marks, while 218 of the 353 class students from this school secured more than 90 per cent, as per data released by the school administration. As per details shared by Jawahar Vidya Mandir, another Ranchi school with a reputation of producing toppers, Sandeepa Sarkar and Abhinav Raj secured 99.4 per cent. Of the 328 students of JVM-Shyamli, at least 105 scored more than 90 per cent marks. “Our students have performed really well even under the stress and panic of a global pandemic. This year was not a normal year for them and they should get credit for not letting the negativity affect their academic performance,” said Ram Singh, the principal of DPS-Ranchi and also coordinator of CBSE schools in Ranchi. CBSE results were based on internal assessments and performance of students through the course of their academic year in the school. CBSE Class 10 board exams were scheduled to start on May 4, but the board had to do away with the idea of in-person exams due to a spike in the cases of Covid-19. According to the alternative assessment plan, 20 marks are based on internal assessments which have been conducted by schools, 10 marks are allotted to periodic/unit tests, 30 marks are allotted to half-yearly exams, and 40 marks are allotted to pre-board exam scores. In case any school has not conducted a particular component of assessment, a Result Committee has been formed in every school to decide on the criteria for awarding marks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
03-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant hands over job letters to sportspersons, cash reward for Nikki Pradhan too ||Team India defender Nikki Pradhan is going through a mix of emotions ahead of the women's hockey semi-finals against Argentina in Tokyo on Wednesday. Around 5.30pm (IST) on Tuesday when it was 9pm in Tokyo, Nikki rang up her elder sister Shashi Pradhan to share her feelings and seek the blessings of her parents. “Tomorrow is a high-pressure match. She sounded confident for sure. But, I also sensed a bit of nervousness in her tone ahead of the big day. It was 9pm and she was off to bed after dinner and just wanted to speak to us and seek blessings," Shashi told The TelegraphOnline. On Monday, Indian women’s team scripted history by entering into semi-final for the first time since 1980 when female hockey began in Olympics. The Indian side thrashed Australia 1-0 in a nail-biting match that went down the wire. On the Indian men’s team lost to Belgium by 5-0 in their semi-final match on Tuesday and all eyes are now glued on the women’s squad. Shashi, who has played hockey herself, and is currently working for Indian Railway in Ranchi, added that Nikki told her the team morale was high after the quarter-final win against Australia. "But she was upset the team couldn’t do well in the earlier matches. Extreme heat conditions could be a reason, she said.  She said Monday's match brought back confidence and coordination among team members also improved. In the end, it all depends how they play as a unit on a particular day.” Earlier on Tuesday, Shashi and her parents Soma Pradhan and Jitan Devi were at Project Building where the state sports department organsied a function to hand over  job letters to 12 sports persons and also provide special cash awards to those taking part in the Olympics. This year, three players—Nikki Pradhan and Salima Tete (both hockey) and archer Deepika Kumari _ are representing the country from Jharkhand in the Tokyo Olympic Games. Chief minister Hemant Soren provided their parents with Rs 5 lakh as a token of appreciation. He also promised to sanction more funds after the players returned from Tokyo. “Our beti (girls) who have made it to Olympics are our pride. I have planned many more things for them upon their return,” he said, adding that his government was committed to promotion of sports and games in Jharkhand. State sports secretary Pooja Singhal said that out of 40 players who were selected for direct jobs under the new sports policy, 12 couldn’t get appointment letters in the past due to technical reasons. “Today, all 12 received their letters. Players were from disciplines like archery, cycling, wushu, athletics and karate. They were inducted as sub- inspectors and inspectors of police,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
03-08-2021||Jharkhand||International cyclist Lakhan Hansda gets a job with police, finally||Lakhan Hansda, the lone international cyclist of Jharkhand, heaved a sigh of relief after bagging a job on Tuesday. Chief minister Hemant Soren handed over appointment letters to a dozen sportspersons, including Hansda, at a function hosted at Ranchi’s Project Bhavan. Hansda has been appointed as a police constable and has been posted in Ranchi. The 33-year-old cyclist, who lives with his family at Damodih village in Potka block of East Singhbhum, about 25 km from Jamshedpur, turned emotional when contacted for a comment. “It is difficult for me to describe my happiness. I had lost all hopes of ever getting a job. I had run from pillar to post seeking employment under sports quota. Was even ready to work as a security guard since I was finding it hard to keep my family afloat,” Hansda said over phone from Ranchi. The international cyclist represented India in Asian Cycling Championship held in Punjab in 2007. He also clinched the bronze medal (in time trial event) at the 2011 National Games hosted in Ranchi. However, despite being a top cyclist, job always eluded him. The unassuming tribal was among the 39 sportspersons who were called to Ranchi where the Chief Minister handed over job letters earlier this year, in the month of March. However, he had missed the chance. Since then he had kept his fingers crossed, despite frustration creeping in. However, a phone call from the sports department on Monday morning informing him about the job, made the pedal star jump with excitement. “I was so happy after the phone call that I straightaway boarded a bus and reached Ranchi Monday evening. I thank the Chief Minister for the appointment letter. I have already informed my family (wife Bijola and son Sidam) and parents about the appointment letter. They were very happy and have asked me to come home with sweets,” Hansda said, adding he would return home on Wednesday to take his belongings as he would be joining from Thursday. “With job in hand, I am looking forward to bringing my cycling career back on track. I intend to win more medals for Jharkhand,” he said. The cyclist's father Sidam is a retired employee of Uranium Corporation of India Ltd and mother Fulmani a homemaker. His elder brother Sanatan runs a cycle repairing shop in Rajdoha (East Singhbhum) and younger siblings Samu and Babulal are cyclist and footballer, respectively. A disillusioned Hansda had left training and started farming. His father had mortgaged his land to buy Hansda an imported racing cycle seven years back. With cycling taking a backseat, Hansda joined Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) as a cycling coach. He accompanied the Indian cycling team to Abu Dhabi as one of the coaches for the Special Olympics World Summer Games in 2019. SOJ assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota, who is also a former secretary of Jharkhand Cycling Association, said he feels extremely happy for Hansda getting a job. “Hansda is a decent example of hard work and perseverance. He also worked very well as a cycling coach of the national squad.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
03-08-2021||Jharkhand||Two Dhanbad students emerge state toppers in CBSE Class X exams ||Two Class X students of Delhi Public School-Dhanbad, who emerged state toppers by securing 99.82 % marks each, say regular studies is what made it possible. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Tuesday, Aditee Jha, daughter of pharmaceutical company owner CN Jha and Rinki Jha, said, “Regularity is the key to studies as one can’t achieve success through occasional efforts” “I would also suggest to my juniors to shortlist topics on priority and complete them as per priority and also make regular revisions of the completed topics,” she said. “As I have remained completely off social media during my entire studies and even stayed away from YouTube and video games, I would also suggest not to use social media platforms as it distracts attention from studies,” said Aditee, who gave full credit of her success to her school teachers who helped her to clear all doubts even during the online classes. Manish Kundu, son of station manager of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Gomoh Station Tapas Kumar Kundu and homemaker Aparna Das Kundu, also laid the emphasis on concentration on class studies. He said, “I felt that online classes are more efficient than than offline classes as there is no wastage of time in terms of waiting for teachers and attendance requirement etc. There is less commotion compared to off line classes” “I used to carry out self-study of topics taught during the online classes every day before the beginning of classes and later used to carry out revision after the completion of classes everyday," said Manish, who also has plans to pursue engineering after plus two. “Concentrating on NCERT books as base book is an old and trusted rule of preparation for board exams. I also followed the rule while carrying out self study," said Manish, who said he owed his success to his school teachers and parents. When asked whether he felt that offline examinations would have been better, he said, “As the results have been published primarily on pre- board examination basis, which were held offline, we have never felt that we didn’t get opportunity to appear for offline exams.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
03-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand state digest: RJD workers stage massive demonstration against fuel price hike and unemployment in Dhanbad||Over 100 workers affiliated with the district unit of Rashtriya Janata Dal besides its youth and women’s wing today staged a day-long dharna and demonstration near Dhanbad district headquarters. They were protesting against anti-people policies of the central government that have led to steep price rise, unemployment and poverty. The protesters congregated at Randhir Verma Chowk at around 10 am under the chairmanship of district president of RJD later also had a memorandum addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind demanding sacking of the central government. Talking to media, Hatim Ansari, state Vice President of RJD said, “When LPG cylinders were available at Rs 400 during the UPA II period these BJP leaders including, Hema Malini and Smriti Irani used to protest holding LPG cylinders and we would like to know where they are now when the same LPG cylinder price now costs Rs 862.” “The same BJP leaders used to send bangles to the then Prime Minister, Manmohan Singh when diesel was available at Rs 40 per litre. We want to know why they are not protesting when fuel price has crossed Rs 100 per litre mark,” he said. Ansari further added, “The Narendra Modi government has lost all moral right to remain in power under the present circumstances and we would request the President to sack the government and hold fresh elections.” District president of RJD, Tarkeshwar Yadav, added, “We will intensify our protest if the government fails to take any step to provide relief to common people by decreasing the fuel, LPG and even food prices.” (Praduman Choubey) Bokaro police has sped up its drive against sale of medicines without prescription to youths. The move comes to deter youngsters who have been using medicines made to relieve pain and allergies for intoxication. On Tuesday Bokaro police raided Sunita Medical Store in Jhopdi Colony and recovered around 4000 Nitrosun-10 tablets and 190 Onerex syrup bottles. Many used syrup bottles were also recovered. The owner of the medical store, Hareram Sharma has been detained by the police for questioning. Drug inspector is also probing the matter. OC said, “Acting on a tip-off, the police team raided and recovered a huge stock of medicines which was being sold to youths for intoxication. Investigation is on.” In addition to cigarettes, marijuana and alcohol, demand for easily available over the counter drugs (syrups and tablets) has shot up among the youths as they are cheaper. Medical stores are selling these drugs illegally without seeing a doctor's prescription for their little benefit, despite the government having banned the open sale of such drugs. According to health experts, Nitrosun-10 is mainly used to treat anxiety disorders, insomnia and prevention of seizures (fits) due to epilepsy. And, Onerex cough syrup has high alcohol content and hence is being used by youth for drug addiction. (Our Correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
03-08-2021||Jharkhand||4000 Covaxin doses reach Jamshedpur from Ranchi||Covid-19 vaccination drive swung into operation at various urban and rural centres of East Singhbhum district on Tuesday, as a lot of 4000 Covaxin shots reached here last night from Ranchi. People especially those in the age group of 18 to 44 years flocked jab centres to get vaccinated. Five centres including Rabindra Bhawan in Sakchi and Rajendra Vidyalaya School inoculated seekers through online slot booking while two other centres were meant for those above 45 years. A total of 15 centres in various rural blocks of East Singhbhum provided the vaccine doses to 18 plus individuals while two centres were earmarked to vaccinated those 45 years and above. Two rural centres also offered walk-in vaccination to jab seekers. Vaccination in the district resumed after five days. Sources in health department said that several centres in both urban and rural areas had to be closed due to short supply of vaccine doses. District surveillance officer Sahir Pal said, “We are expecting more doses of both the vaccines from Ranchi today.” Meanwhile, East Singhbhum district sprung a surprise with not a single case of Covid-19 being reported on Monday. In all 6,359 people underwent Covid tests on Monday. “It is a welcome relief that no Covid positive cases or deaths were reported on Monday. We are continuing with RT-PCR, trunet and Rapid Antigen Tests at the same pace in various district,” said the district surveillance officer. Earlier, on July 26 East Singhbhum had not reported a single positive case or death. No positive cases were reported at The Tatanagar railway station also. In all 2,102 passengers had to undergo Covid tests for incoming trains but none were found positive. Data available from the health department revealed that the recovery rate in the district in 97.92 per cent while the death rate is 2.04 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
03-08-2021||Jharkhand||Health Minister inaugurates ICU for children at Ranchi district hospital ||Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta inaugurated a 27-bed paediatrics intensive care unit (PICU) and a 24-bed high dependency unit (HDU) at Sadar Hospital in Ranchi on Tuesday for “effective” and “affordable” treatment of children who suffer from severe symptoms of Covid-19 during a possible third wave of the pandemic. The state government, Gupta said, was concerned about the health of children and committed to providing the best possible health facilities to avert possible tragedies during a third wave of Covid-19. “Ensuring safety of children is our priority. We are working day and night to strengthen the health infrastructure in our state to ensure that nobody dies due to lack of facilities,” said Gupta, adding that the state was also working on creating an atmosphere wherein doctors from different disciplines and specializations can work as a team for the larger good of the public. With the inauguration of the intensive care unit at Sadar Hospital, children suffering from severe illnesses will not have to be referred to private hospitals or the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) for better treatment, said Gupta. “We have all the modern facilities in this ICU. Children will now be able to get effective and affordable treatment at Sadar Hospital itself,” he added. Additional chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh, who accompanied Gupta in Sadar Hospital, said that besides improving the infrastructure in all the hospitals across Jharkhand, the government is also setting up at least 69 oxygen plants to ensure supply of liquid medical oxygen to hospitals. It is feared that around 7 lakh of the 1.43 crore population in the age bracket of 0 to 18 years may get affected by Covid-19 in the third wave in Jharkhand. While 2.86 lakh of the patients are likely to be symptomatic, about 8,610 of them may show severe symptoms and need intensive care, an expert committee for tackling the third wave of Covid-19 in Jharkhand has predicted on the basis of trends across the world and in India. The Jharkhand government had earlier directed each of the 24 districts in the state to set up at least a 20-bed special ICU for children to combat the third wave of the pandemic. An expert committee of doctors and health officials suggested setting up at least 1,000 ICU beds for children in the state. While 500 beds would be set up in government hospitals, the remaining 500 should come up in private facilities, the committee recommended. These ICUs have colourful interiors and play areas designed to keep children in a better mood during their treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
03-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand ‘no AC, no fare hike’ diktat upsets bus operators||Latest government diktat that prohibits use of ACs in interstate buses and restricts fare-hike is incurring double damage for the bus operators. Rubbing salt to the injury of fleet owners is lesser occupancy as around 40 per cent of the inter-state buses are still lying grounded. Questioning the logic behind the restriction, Sanjay Singh, vice president of Dhanbad Bus Owners Association said, “Different sets of rules for different buses are incomprehensible. Many interstate buses plying between Dhanbad and Asansol (63.5 kms) or Dhanbad and Purulia (59.8 km) cover less than the distance covered by intrastate buses plying between Dhanbad and Ranchi (149.6 km). But there is no ban on AC usage in such intrastate buses. In buses covering lesser distances, chances of Covid infection spreading due to AC usage is slimmer.” Explaining how the ban is affecting their already ‘in doldrums’ business he said, “Lack of permission for use of ACs in interstate buses is acting as a deterrent in getting passengers. Most prefer travelling comfortably.” Another blow to their business is the steep rise in fuel price and ban on fare-hike. “We are facing severe financial blow due to the hike in diesel prices. Now costing Rs 95 per litre, we are incurring heavy losses as there is a ban on fare-hike. We will be compelled to stop operations,” Singh added. The state level body of fleet operators - Jharkhand Bus Owners Association led by president has already pleaded before the state government to reconsider its decision on banning fare-hike and AC usage in interstate buses. Elaborating about the situation of lesser occupancy, Singh said, “Out of five buses of Asansol only two are running even when we are willing to operate buses. We come to the Bartand bus depot with full crew members but have to return back as we don’t even get 10% of what we used to get as passengers.” He further elaborated that the average occupancy in interstate buses is around 30%. “We are somehow operating the buses despite incurring heavy losses hoping that occupancy will gradually improve and that the government will allow us to increase the fare,” said Singh. Echoing similar sentiments, Sunil Singh, owner of Sunil Deluxe, General Secretary of Dhanbad Bus Owners Association, said, “Only around 20 out of 40 buses of Bengal route have been relaunched since August 1. This is primarily due to lack of passengers and other constraints.” He added, “Covid test for interstate passengers is being conducted at Bartand. This is also preventing many interstate passengers from venturing out on a journey. Many are waiting for the condition to improve and Covid restrictions being relaxed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
03-08-2021||Jharkhand||Almost 65,000 residents get vaccinated in Jharkhand ||Jharkhand on Monday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to at least 43,888 residents, while the second dose was administered to 21,652 beneficiaries, provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. At least 45,000 residents who got the jabs were below 45 years. The state, as per data released by the health department on Monday evening, has received over 1 crore doses of vaccines from the Centre and utilized 97,22,066 of them. The state had about 4.4 lakh doses of vaccines in stock to continue the immunisation drive until fresh supplies arrive from the Centre. Jharkhand also distributed at least 60,000 Covaxin doses among the 24 districts on Monday. As per vaccine allotment figures of the health department, Ranchi received the highest share of 5,000 vaccines, while 4,000 doses were sent to East Singhbhum as well as Dumka. Palamua received 3,900 doses of Covaxin, while 3,200 doses were sent to Dhanbad. Covid cases continued to drop in Jharkhand on Monday. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, the state on Monday reported 23 fresh cases of infection against 38 Covid recoveries, which brought the active caseload down to 239. While none of the 24 districts reported a double-digit-spike, Bokaro, Lohardaga and Deoghar reported four cases each – the highest among the districts. At least five Covid recoveries against three cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 46, while the active caseload in East Singhbhum dropped further down to 12 as the district reported zero cases against four recoveries, NHM data highlighted. At least 16 Jharkhand districts did not report fresh cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection on Sunday. No casualties caused by the viral infection were reported in the state on Monday. So far, the deadly virus has claimed at least 5,129 lives in the state. Jharkhand on Monday tested swab samples of 41,744 residents and 0.05 per cent of them were found infected by coronavirus. Of the 3.47 lakh people infected by the virus in the state, at least 98.45 per cent patients have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. The state did not report fresh cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis on the day, while the black fungus toll remained 31. So far, at least 104 confirmed and 58 suspected cases of the fungal infection have surfaced in Jharkhand. At least 108 patients have been discharged from hospitals after being treated for either suspected or confirmed mucormycosis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
03-08-2021||Jharkhand||Pegasus: Snoop list journalist in Supreme Court plea||Rupesh Kumar Singh, a freelance journalist based in Jharkhand whose phone number and the numbers of his two family members figure in the leaked list of potential targets of surveillance by the Israeli firm NSO Group’s Pegasus spyware, has filed a petition in the Supreme Court praying that the installation and use of such software should be declared illegal and unconstitutional. Rupesh, 36, based in Ramgarh district, whose phone number along with that of his wife and sister-in-law feature in the leaked database, filed the writ petition in the Supreme Court on Saturday under Article 32 claiming that the installation and use of malware or spyware such as Pegasus is ultra vires of Part III of the Constitution. “I have also prayed to the Supreme Court to issue a direction/order or writ directing the respondents (Union ministries of electronics and information technology and home ministry) to produce and disclose to the honourable court all materials and documents with respect to all investigation, authorisation and orders pertaining to the use of Pegasus on my phone,” said Rupesh. The petitioner has asked the court to issue a direction/order or writ directing the Union government to take suitable steps to protect citizens from the use of cyber weapons/malware such as Pegasus and also put in place a judicial oversight mechanism to deal with any complaint on illegal breaches of privacy and hacking and punish all government officials allegedly responsible for such breaches. “I and my wife have filed a petition as my right to privacy and that of my wife and my sister-in-law, which the Supreme Court has termed as a fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution, has been breached,” said Rupesh, who was released after spending six months in a Bihar jail on “fabricated” charges of being a Maoist. Rupesh has alleged that he was targeted by the Union government for his reports on violence by security forces against Adivasis. He claims this happened more after a report about a tribal man, Motilal Baskey, of Giridih district, whom the security forces claimed to be a Maoist carrying a reward of Rs 10 lakh. Baskey was killed by the CRPF in an encounter in June 2017. “But when I started investigating, I found that Baskey was a porter ferrying pilgrims to the Parasnath Hills. There was a massive protest on the issue by Opposition party leaders (Raghubar Das-led BJP government was in power in 2017), including current chief minister Hemant Soren and now BJP leader Babulal Marandi (who was then the JVM chief),” said Rupesh, a native of Bhagalpur in Bihar. “I think all these reports made me the target not merely of surveillance by Pegasus software but also led to my arrest in June 2019 under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) after security forces planted gelatin sticks and detonators in front of my eyes in my car,” Rupesh alleged. He was released on bail in December 2019 from the Gaya jail after Bihar police failed to file a chargesheet in the case even after the stipulated 180 days lapsed since the filing of the complaint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
03-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Twin robberies jolt coal town||Dhanbad: Two incidents of snatching took place at two different locations of Dhanbad on Monday within the interval of less than three hours, including one near Godhar old office of BCCL under Kenduadih police station during which Rs 2 lakh was stolen from an elderly couple and another incident near Madhav Apartment of Hirapur where Rs 50,000 was robbed from a contractor. The first incident took place at around 12 noon when Arjun Beldar a resident of Beldar Basti of Godhar was returning to his house along with his wife Radha Devi by an auto rickshaw after withdrawing Rs 2 lakh from Bank More Branch of Canara Bank. Two bike-borne criminals who arrived from behind snatched the cash bag from Radha Devi as soon as the elderly couple disembarked from the auto rickshaw near their house. A team of Kenduadih Police station led by Officer in Charge Binod Oraon  reached the house of victim family after getting information took details from Beldar and his wife and later began investigation into the case. “My son’s marriage was scheduled next week and I withdrew money along with my wife from the bank for marriage expenses but two youths who arrived from behind snatched the cash bag as soon we started heading towards our street after getting down from auto rickshaw,” said Beldar and added that the bag snatched by the criminals also contained the bank pass book and some other documents. Binod Oraon officer in Charge of Kenduadih Police station said, “We have already started conducting raids in connection with incident and trying to find more information from video footages of the incident.” The second incident took place near Madhav Apartment. Two bike borne criminals snatched a cash bag containing Rs 50,000 form a Bhui Phore area based contractor, Talkeshshwar Mahto at around 2.30pm when he was walking toward his car parked near Madhav Apartment after withdrawing money from a bank. Mahto told police that two youths who arrived at high speed from behind snatched the cash bag and then fled towards Binod Nagar. “The incident took place when I reached near my car after withdrawing Rs 50,000 from SBI Hirapur Branch and since the incident took place at electrifying speed within minutes, the criminals fled before I could understand anything and raise alarm,” said Mahto. (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: Seasoned English defender Peter Hartley is set to captain Jamshedpur FC in the upcoming Indian Super League (ISL) season 2021-22. The 32-year-old Hartley showed good leadership qualities when he led the Tata Steel-owned club in the cash-rich tournament in Goa last season. Besides his leadership qualities, he is known for adding a sense of cohesiveness in the team, one of the key elements in the high-octane engagement. Sources in the JFC team management revealed Hartley was the first choice for captaincy for the second successive time. "The name of the captain would be announced after the team lands in Goa for the pre-seasons in October. Head coach Owen Coyle will have a major say when it comes to appointing the captain," one of the sources said on condition of anonymity. Hartley has a good understanding with Scotland-born Coyle who is aware of the qualities of the Englishman. "The entire squad, including Coyle and the support staff, would assemble in Goa (the venue of the tournament) for the pre-seasons over a month before the ISL begins in November," the source added. JFC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari said Hartley should be the one who would lead the side in the tournament. "He (Hartley) is experienced and has good leadership qualities. Moreover, he is a good human being," he added. The robust defender signed a two-year contract with the Men of Steel last season. He joined JFC at the back of a highly successful season with Motherwell FC in the Scottish Premiership. Hartley, He captained the team to 3rd place in the league, only behind Scottish legacy teams – Celtic and Rangers, thus qualifying Motherwell for the UEFA Europa League 2020-21. Hartley is a Sunderland AFC Academy product. The left-footed centre-back was scouted into the Sunderland AFC youth system and rose up to the ranks with his impressive performances. He played and trained with the former English Premier League side’s senior team too and made his debut in 2007 versus Leicester City under Roy Keane’s tutelage. The defender has played in prestigious tournaments in England like the FA Cup and the League Cup where he represented his clubs against the likes of Chelsea and Everton, Sheffield United, Wartford and Wigan Athletic. He played versus Burnley in 2009, which was then under the management of Owen Coyle. Hartley and Nigerian Stephen Eze combined well to foil some dangerous forays into the JFC backline last season. He is expected to come up with the same form this season too. However,  the team would miss the services of Eze who is more keen to play in the European circuit. Jamshedpur finished sixth, four points behind fourth-placed FC Goa last season, with 27 points (20 matches, seven wins, as many loses and six draws) in last season’s ISL. (Jayesh Thaker)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
