04-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Railways sends fifth Oxygen Express to Bangladesh||Jamshedpur: The South Eastern Railway on Wednesday sent the fifth Oxygen Express train to Benapole in Bangladesh from Rourkela railway station under Chakradharpur division. The train left Rourkela carrying 183 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) in 10 containers. The train will cover a journey of around 700km to reach its destination in Bangladesh from Rourkela. Notably, the first Oxygen Express train was sent to Benapole in Bangladesh, originating from Tatanagar on July 24 for the treatment of Covid affected patients in the neighbouring country. Till now, four Oxygen Express trains have been sent to Bangladesh from Tatanagar, each carrying 200 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO). With the despatch of Wednesday’s train from Rourkela, altogether five Oxygen Express Trains have been sent to Bangladesh from SER jurisdiction with total 983 tonnes of LMO. In order to meet the growing demand of oxygen for treatment of Covid affected patients, the South Eastern Railway has been running Oxygen Express trains since April 23 to different parts of the country to ensure quick transportation and smooth supply of oxygen. As the Covid cases reduced and demand for Liquid Medical Oxygen witnessed a fall, the running of Oxygen Express trains within the country was stopped at the end of June. Bangladesh is the first overseas country where the consignment of Liquid Medical Oxygen was sent for treatment of Covid patients. (Pinaki  Majumdar) Dhanbad: Water- water everywhere not a drop to drink. The age old adage seems to be true for more than five lakh residents of Jharia who face water crisis during every monsoon season due to rise in water level of river Damodar. Weeds being carried along with the strong water current during monsoon block the inlet pipeline of the intake well of Jamadoba based water treatment plant of civic body Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority affecting the water treatment work and resultant supply of treated water. The latest water crisis which arose six days ago however is coupled with a leakage problem in the main water supply pipeline around 200 meters away from the treatment plant further delaying the resumption of water supply. “No initiative has been taken by the district administration or JMADA to take direct connection for Jamadoba Water Plant from DVC to ensure continuous water supply despite the fact that more than five lakh residents are dependent on it,” said Anup Sao, former councilor of ward number 37 of Jharia who has staged agitation against the perennial water crisis of Jharia several times. “Not only the leakages in water supply pipeline or obstruction in the inlet pipeline of intake well of JMADA water treatment at Jamadoba but water supply is also frequently disrupted in Jharia due to lack of continuous power supply to the Water Treatment plant as eight hours of continuous water supply in a day is required for treatment process to complete,” pointed out Sao Pankaj Kumar Jha, Sub Divisional Officer of Water Supply Division of JMADA, said, “We have completed the pipeline repair work and water supply for Digwadih, Jorapokhar etc is likely to resume by tomorrow while the inlet pipeline blockage has already been cleared much earlier.” (Praduman Choubey) Bokaro: The additional district judge (ADJ)-1 cum special judge of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO), Janardan Singh, on Wednesday awarded 30 years rigorous imprisonment to a man who raped his minor step-niece over a period of two months during lockdown. The court has also fined Rs 1 lakh on the accused. The trial related to the case was completed within six months after examining all the nine witnesses, said special public prosecutor S.K. Jha. The incident occurred with the 17-year-old girl after her parents were unable to return from Uttar Pradesh during the lockdown imposed in March to June in 2020. The court held the accused Kamal Ansari, 29, guilty of the crime under section 6 of POCSO (Punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) and awarded him 30 years RI. The victim in her complaint had mentioned that her parents had gone to Moradabad (Uttar Pradesh) to finalise her marriage but were unable to return due to the lockdown. In their absence, the victim and her siblings were facing problems with food in the house, so her parents, called her step-maternal uncle to take care of them. Following her parent’s request, Ansari came and took them to their house where he lived with his mother, wife and children. Jha said, “Victim had stated Ansari intoxicated her and raped her. He repeated the offence for two months. He also threatened her with dire consequences.” (Our correspondent) Jamshedpur: The much-hyped cable-stayed bridge project at Govindpur locality of the steel city was shelved on Wednesday. The bridge project which was modelled on Calcutta's Vidyasagar Setu and was being considered to be a signature bridge for this region was shelved despite the spade-work starting for the ambitious project. The proposed cable-stayed bridge was supposed to be set up over the picturesque Hudco lake in Govindpur which is located at the eastern fringe of the steel city and about 12 kms away from the heart of the city. The main purpose behind setting up the cable-stayed bridge was to ease the vehicular traffic congestion, especially the industrial vehicle congestion from the city. Executive engineer, Road Construction Department, Ramvilas Sahu confirmed the shelving of the project, but did not give any specific reason behind it. "The cable-stayed bridge project in Govindpur was shelved today by the state government. It is not known whether this project will be executed in future or not," said Sahu to The Telegraph Online. The executive engineer pointed out the spade-work for the Rs 138 crore project had stopped since last year due to the pandemic, but now it has been shelved. He, however, informed that the work for the 13-km-long road project linking Anna Chowk in Govindpur to NH-33 at Pipla is on. (Kumud Jenamani)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
04-08-2021||Jharkhand||Expect widespread rain across Jharkhand till Friday||A fresh cyclonic circulation prevailing over the Bay of Bengal is likely to result in widespread and isolated heavy rain in Jharkhand during the next 72- hours, said weathermen on Wednesday. Head of Ranchi Met Centre Abhishek Anand  said the system, extending upto 5.8 km above mean sea level, would  bring more rainfall over the next three days till August 6. The monsoon traffic at mean sea level was on Wednesday passing through Ganganagar , Narnaul Varanasi,  Patna, Shanti Niketan ( West Bengal ) and culminating at North East Bay of Bengal. Tuesday was exceptionally humid and sweaty  in most parts of the state but intermittent rain  on Wednesday due to the impact of the cyclonic circulation brought some relief. Jharkhand started feeling the impact  of the cyclonic circulation since last evening. According to Met data, between 8.30 pn of Tuesday and 8.30 am of Wednesday several places including Sikatia in Godda and Jamtara recorded over 100 mm of rain. Deoghar too recorded heavy rain of 67.7 mm. Several other places including Tenughat in Bokaro, Rajmahal in Sahibganj and Chakradharpur in West Singhbhum experienced moderate rainfall. Jamshedpur and several other places in Kolhan, Khunti, Simdega and Ranchi experienced intermittent showers on Wednesday. The forecast indicated heavy rain in isolated areas of north eastern and south western parts of the state till Friday In Met parlance, 60mm or more rain in 24 hours qualifies as heavy. The Met office also issued an alert of moderate lightning and thunderstorm activity till Friday. Weathermen said the cyclonic circulation was over north Bay of Bengal. It is unlikely to intensify into a low-pressure area. But the system will lead to a wet spell for next three days. So far this monsoon,  Jharkhand as a whole actually recorded 612.9 mm against a normal of 566 mm, a surplus rain of eight per cent. The rain surplus figure is expected to rise in the next few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
04-08-2021||Jharkhand||In the face of women's hockey defeat, Salima Tete and Nikki Pradhan's kin hail players for valiant fight||The Indian women’s hockey team may have missed the chance of winning the gold or silver in Tokyo Olympics but it can still grab the bronze medal. That was the common sentiment at Barki Chhapar, a nondescript village in Simdega district of Jharkhand that had a local girl, Salima Tete, in the Indian team that lost the semi-final match against Argentina by 1-2 on Wednesday. “Our girls played well and lost by a slender margin but the results would be different if they could perform a little better,” said Salima’s father, Sulakshan Tete, who was also a hockey player once. “Our girls played well but the Argentines performed much better in all aspects, so losing the match against such a powerful team was perhaps natural,” said Manoj Konbegi, the president of Hockey Simdega who watched the match with Salima’s neighbours at her village. “Not only the villagers, we all are keeping our fingers crossed, with the hope that Indian girls would grab the bronze,” he further said when asked how Salima’s neighbours reacted to the defeat. Earlier, chief minister Hemant Soren had directed the district administration of Simdega to install a television set at Salima’s home so that her parents and relatives could witness the match live and the same was done before the match, informed the chief minister’s office in Ranchi. “The parents and relatives of the girl who is toiling so hard to make the country proud must get to see her in action,” the CMO quoted Soren as saying. “It was like a festival at Barki Chhapar today,” Konbegi informed when asked about the mood at Salima’s village, adding the villagers had gathered in front of the TV set that was placed at a pandal specially erected for the purpose and where chairs were also arranged for the villagers. “Salima would inspire others and thus help promote sporting activities,” said Simdega deputy commissioner Sushant Gaurav who got the television set installed at Salima’s place. “The form of any team can change, so the possibility can't be ruled out,” Konbegi argued when pointed out if the Indian women could grab the bronze by defeating the same Great Britain team that won against the Indians by 4-1 in the pool match a days ago. “We all are keeping our fingers for Friday when the match for the bronze will take place,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
04-08-2021||Jharkhand||Rs 300cr GST fraud detected in Jharkhand, says Centre ||A financial fraud to the tune of about Rs 300 crore has been detected in Jharkhand by the Central Goods and Service Tax (CGST) department, it announced on Wednesday, releasing  names of 19 dubious entities that have forged bills and invoices to illegally claim input tax credit (ITC). In an official press statement issued in Wednesday, CGST explained that the input tax credit was then transferred to other companies to further claim tax benefits from the government. “The GST scam worth Rs 300 crore on fake bills and invoices in Jharkhand was detected following thorough data analysis of 17 firms in the state based on  tip-offs. During the investigation, it was found that out of these 17 firms, seven were shown as registered in one address and five other in another single address. It was also found that some of the firms had got themselves registered on the GST portal with a single phone number and e-mail id. "In all,19 dubious firms have been detected so far,” said the press statement. The press note added that investigations had revealed that some of the firms claiming to be  registered in Jharkhand actually belonged to other states. “We are in the process of tracing their origin state to communicate with the GST department there for further action,” it read. All the 19 dubious firms have been named by the GST department with the quantum of fraud. They are  M/s T N M Enterprises (Rs 58.22 crore), M/s Singhania Construction (Rs 15.22 crore), M/s Shiv Shakti Enterprise (Rs 59.23 crore), M/s Vishal Traders (Rs 3.94 crore), M/s Dharam Enterprises (Rs 3.58 crore), M/s Radhe Traders (5.37 crore), M/s Mishra traders (Rs 3.64 crore), M/s Lakhvir Singh (Rs 1.70 crore), M/s Firoz Hussain (Rs 5.26 crore), M/s Krishna Traders (Rs 4.98 crore), M/s Om Enterprises (Rs 17.64 crore), M/s Ma Laxmi Enterprises (Rs 10.37 crore), M/s Ganesh Traders (Rs 8.53 crore), M/s Shivnath Kumar (Rs 1.77 crore), M/s Tarachand Enterprises (Rs 68.54 crore), M/s S D M Enterprises (Rs 6.25 crore) and M/s Vinayak Enterprises (Rs 5.76 crore).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
04-08-2021||Jharkhand||CBI takes over Dhanbad judge death probe||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has formally taken over the probe into the alleged murder of Dhanbad’s additional district judge Uttam Anand last month, it announced on Wednesday. In a statement issued by its headquarters, the CBI  said, “The Central Bureau of Investigation has today registered a case related to alleged murder of Shri Uttam Anand, Additional District Judge, Dhanbad on the request of Jharkhand Government and further Notification from Government of India.” A 20-member team has been set by the CBI to probe the matter. It has left for Dhanbad, they said, adding that it will be followed by a Central Forensic Science Laboratory team. It added, “The case was earlier registered by state police on a complaint from wife of deceased vide FIR No. 300/2021 dated 28.07.2021 at Police Station Dhanbad u/s 302, 34 of IPC against unknown auto driver. Two persons have been arrested by local police. CBI has taken over the investigation of the said case and constituted a Special Investigation Team. The team is proceeding today to Dhanbad.” Jharkhand government on Saturday recommended a CBI probe into the death of Uttam Anand in Dhanbad on July 28. Even though Jharkhand police had constituted an 11-member special investigation team (SIT) to probe the incident, chief minister Hemant Soren recommended a CBI probe on July 31, a day after the slain judge’s family members met him in Ranchi. Deceased judge was on a morning walk on the morning of July 28 when an unidentified auto hit him near Randhir Verma Chowk and sped away. Later, the police recovered the auto from Giridih district and initially arrested two persons. The incident led to massive uproar in the country with the Supreme Court describing it as an assualt on the judiciary. The central probe agency had informed the Jharkhand High Court on Tuesday that it has received the state government's letter to take over the probe a day earlier. The bench of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad had directed the CBI to initiate a probe at the earliest. It had also directed the government to hand over all the documents of the case to the CBI. Taking cognizance of a letter filed before the court by the Dhanbad principal district judge in the case, Justice Ranjan had converted it into a writ petition and ordered the formation of an SIT headed by Additional Director General of Police Sanjay Latkar to look into the matter. The bench, dissatisfied with the progress report, had questioned why there was a delay in registering an FIR into the case. The incident occurred at 5.08 am, and the FIR was registered at 12.45 pm when it was clear from CCTV footage that the judge was picked up from the spot and taken to a hospital, the court had said. "Do the police register an FIR only on the basis of a statement? Do the police not register an FIR on their own? Why did the police take six hours to register the FIR?" it had asked. The court said that there is fear among judicial officers following the incident and directed that the security of courts, including the high court, and judicial officers be strengthened. The Supreme Court on July 30 had also taken suo motu cognizance of the "sad demise" of the Dhanbad judge. "We direct the Chief Secretary and Director General of Police (DGP) of Jharkhand to submit a report in a week's time on the status of the investigation on the sad demise of additional district and sessions Judge Uttam Anand, a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
04-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town street vendors protest 'unwarranted' eviction drive||Coal town street vendors are compelled to wander from pillar to post seeking justice after being rendered jobless during the peak of monsoon following the eviction drive carried out by Railway police. Around 30 street vendors of the station road area of Dhanbad would manage to eke out a living by selling tea, fruit and other fast foods to railway passengers. The aggrieved vendors on Wednesday wrote to chief minister Hemant Soren seeking his intervention on the issue in the wake of a series of steps taken by the state government to prevent harassment to street vendors including the recent survey launched to provide QR Code based Smart Identity Cards and QR code Smart Certificate of Vending. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Mohammed Tanvir, a street vendor of station road, said, “We have been evicted without any priority notice by Railway Protection Force last evening in presence of Government Railway Police and Dhanbad police in the name of anti encroachment drive.” “We showed them our identity cards meant for street vendors, provided by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) way back in 2017 and also the user charges receipt provided by the DMC but they were not ready to listen and demolished all the shops within an hour without providing any opportunity for many to shift their articles,” said Tanvir and added that no eviction order copy was given to them despite repeated demands. “At the time of pandemic when the income of all including us have been greatly affected such a step is beyond any comprehension as I am concerned about the sustenance of life for my family as we are not in a position to shift to any other place during monsoon,” said Tanvir. Bijay Gupta, a tea stall owner who has also become the victim of eviction drive said, “More than 40 individuals’ livelihood is dependent on my stall as besides me four to six staff members were also working with me all of whom have become jobless.” Sneham Sinha, district coordinator of National Association of Street Vendors of India,  a nation level NGO  working for street vendors said, “We have raised the issue before the chief minister Hemant Soren today by writing a letter to him in which we pointed out that one hand state government has started survey for providing QR code based smart identity card and also QR Code based Smart Certificate in order to prevent any harassment or encroachment against them but on the other hand they are evicted without any valid reason.” “We had also raised the issue with Purnima Singh, Jharia MLA, yesterday who in turn contacted Ashish Bansal, divisional railway manager;  Satyendra Kumar, Municipal Commissioner and Sanjeev Kumar but all of them expressed their ignorance about the eviction carried out yesterday,” said Sinha. Repeated efforts to contact Akhlish Kumar Pandey, Senior Divisional Manager of Dhanbad Division and RPF inspector Avinash Karosia failed in this regard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
04-08-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city students shine in CBSE Class X results||16-year-old Shazia Sultan of DAV NIT, Adityapur made the steel city proud by emerging at the top by scoring 99.20 per cent marks in CBSE Class X examination, results of which were declared on Tuesday. Shazia wants to serve people by becoming a doctor. She wants to pursue medical education by studying Biosciences. "I am thankful to my teachers who have always provided me with online help in my studies as and when required in the prevailing pandemic, " she said over phone. Shazia, who stays with her grandparents at Jugsalai, scored 496 out of 500 including 100 in English, 100 in Hindi, 100 in Social Studies, 99 in Science and 97 in Mathematics. The second position was bagged by Rupali of the same school who scored 99 per cent. Forty students of the batch scored 90 per cent and above, while 114 students secured 75 per cent and above. This year’s board examinations, originally scheduled to be held in May and June, were cancelled due to the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. Thus, the marks were calculated on the basis of internal assessments, including unit tests, mid terms and pre-board exams. Students of Bistupur-based Jusco School South Park also proved their merit by scoring 100 per cent pass percent. A total of 122 students comprised the batch for 2021. Twenty-six students of the school scored 90 per cent and above, while 27 students achieved a score between 80 – 89 per cent. Principal of Jusco School South Park Mili Sinha said, “It gives me immense pleasure to report the stupendous result of the sixth batch of students of the school.  We secured a cent per cent result. I thank the school management, teachers and parents for their constant support and motivation. I congratulate the students and parents for their stupendous performance and wish them all the best for their future.” Students of DBMS Kadma High School too achieved 100 per cent result. Of 177 students, 15 secured 90 per cent and above, 30 students secured 80 per cent and above, and the rest of the students secured 70 per cent and above. Gurpreet Bhambra, principal of DBMS Kadma High School congratulated the students on their excellent performance and wished them all the best in their future endeavours. Several other CBSE schools including DAV, Bistupur, St. Mary's English High School and Sheyn International School also registered cent per cent results. "The pandemic resulted in a shift from classroom learning to digital learning. Hence, we focussed on developing strategies to improve academic achievement which was reflected in the performance of our students in the board examinations. Eagerly taking up the academic challenges the teachers and students worked hard throughout the year for a good performance, "said Pushpa Bhalla, principal of Sheyn International School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
04-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town hospitality sector inches towards normalcy||The hospitality sector has started limping back towards normalcy after the recent relaxations provided by the state government in terms of permission for opening restaurants and food outlets during the weekends and also operational time limit increased to 10 pm from 8 pm during weekdays. The occupancy rate at the majority of the 200 hotels of Dhanbad has increased to around 50 per cent to 60 per cent while the restaurant business has also improved to around 50%. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Anutosh Bagchi, senior general manager of Skylark hotel said, “The restaurants, bars and banquets are the important outlets of hotel without which the full steam operation of hotels can’t be imagined and yes indeed the recent relaxations have increased the confidence of the guests for weekday stay although the weekend stay is yet to improve due closure of offices during weekends.” “Our guest occupancy has increased to 40 per cent for the total 37 rooms and restaurant operation rule relaxation has played a crucial role as a result of which we have now reached the break even position where we are successfully managing all the overhead expenses including the staff salary, GST, electricity charges,” said Bagchi and added that he is hopeful they will start earning profit if the situation improves. Arka Ghosh, General Manager of Hotel Sonotel, said,“The eating out culture has started reviving following the relaxations as a result of which we are witnessing increase in booking of all tables in our restaurant and even some guests keep waiting as per the norms we the operating the restaurants with 50 per cent seating capacity.” “The restaurant rule relaxations have also led to the increase in room occupancy as we are witnessing more than 65 per cent occupancy during the weekdays,” said Ghosh and added that they are expecting the situation to improve further. Satnam Singh, owner of La Piaza restaurant in Dhanbad who is also the president of Dhanbad Restaurant owners association said,“Yes indeed the customer flow has increased  following relaxation in norms but we are still far behind the normal situation as out of bookings of 15-16 tables per day of  the pre lockdown period we are getting 7-8 table bookings per day at present.” “Apprehension about Covid-19 is still persisting among the customers working as a deterrent against the full revival of restaurant dining culture but with the passage of time we are expecting the situation to improve,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
04-08-2021||Jharkhand||State-run RIMS to get two ECMO machines soon||Jharkhand’s premiere healthcare facility Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi will soon become the first government-run hospital in the state to offer Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) facility to critically-ill patients with severely damaged lungs, health officials said on Wednesday. State health minister Banna Gupta recently asked the RIMS administration to procure at least two ECMO machines, used for artificial breathing, in order to provide the facility of this life support system to patients suffering from Covid-induced lung fibrosis. “No state-run hospital in Jharkhand has ECMO support for patients at present. RIMS will have these machines soon and we will be able to save more lives,” Gupta said. Through ECMO, blood is pumped outside of a patient’s body to a heart-lung machine that removes carbon dioxide and sends oxygen-filled blood back to tissues in the body. When a patient with damaged lungs is on ECMO support, the gas exchange happens outside the body through the machine instead of the lungs. Once the blood is oxygenated and carbon dioxide is removed, it is given back to the heart, from where it circulates to other parts of the body. ECMO was used by several private and some government hospitals across the country to save lives of Covid patients during the first and the second waves of Covid-19, say doctors. State education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who is back in Jharkhand after his lung transplant at MGM Chennai, was also kept on ECMO support for several days in the Tamil Nadu capital. Many patients suffering from lung fibrosis recover after being kept on ECMO for a couple of weeks, say doctors. Keeping patients on this life-support system buys time for finding a lung donor if the patient does not respond to ECMO and needs a transplant. In Ranchi, only Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital, a private hospital near Booty More, has an ECMO machine. Many other private hospitals in the state have also started procuring the machine after several deaths due to lung damage were reported in the state and other parts of India. With RIMS getting the facility of ECMO, many patients suffering from severe Covid-induced respiratory ailments will not have to move to bigger cities for treatment, at least during the initial phase, doctors from the state-run hospital said. Even during the second wave of the pandemic, several patients had to move to Hyderabad, Chennai or Mumbai because very few hospitals in the state had this facility, doctors involved in the fight against Covid-19 said. Doctors and technicians will also be imparted special training on operating the ECMO machines, said health officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
04-08-2021||Jharkhand||Fallout of Stan Swamy’s persecution highlighted at release of memoirs||The State should understand that the persecution of Father Stan Swamy, the Jesuit priest and rights defender who died in judicial custody last month, had brought international shame to the country, Ranchi Auxiliary Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas has said. “Father Stan has become an international figure after his death and it is time for the State to understand the international shame brought to our country by the persecution of the undertrial. We hope that the government and the political representatives wake up after this episode,” Bishop Mascarenhas said on Tuesday. The bishop was speaking at an event where the memoirs of Fr Stan, I am not a silent spectator: Why Truth has become so bitter, Dissent so intolerable, Justice so out of reach, was released by the central zone Jesuit province on the Ranchi campus of the Xavier Institute of Social Service (XISS). The book, described as an “autobiographical fragment, memory and reflection”, was released in Tamil Nadu, too. Published by the Indian Social Institute, Bangalore, the book includes the writings of Fr Stan during his visit to south India and poems and diaries written during the imprisonment in Mumbai. It has been edited and compiled by Father Joseph Xavier, director of the Indian Social Institute, Bangalore. “Fr Stan has made us proud, as he carried out the message of Jesus and fought for people’s rights and truth. He stood for the rights of the Adivasis and the undertrials,” Bishop Mascarenhas added. Fr Stanislaus Jerome D’Souza, SJ, president of the Jesuit Conference of South Asia, said in his address delivered as the guest of honour: “There are two types of memories, one which happen and one which are made. We all stand here because Fr Stan’s memory has touched us and moved us. His enemies want us to believe that he was against the law… but the truth is he believed in the court of law and died fighting for the poor and the marginalised.” Welcoming the gathering, Fr Joseph Marianus Kujur, director of XISS, said: “The title of the memoirs is very apt because we all know that it is indeed true that Fr Stan was never silent when he was alive. He is not silent even after his death. Through his writings, friends, associates and admirers, his voice is still reverberating everywhere. We hope to keep his spirit alive amongst us as we come together to release his memoirs.” Fr P.M. Tony, director of Bagaicha (the institution founded by Father Stan), discussed the scholarship of Rs 25,000 to be given in the name of Fr Stan to the children of two tribal undertrial prisoners. “Fr Stan had been conferred the Mukandan C. Menon Award last year and since Father was in prison, it was collected by Father Joe Xavier. Fr Stan expressed the wish that the amount be distributed among the children of undertrial prisoners. We have selected two deserving children — Kiran Barla, a seventh grader at Rajkiya Madhya Vidyalaya at Lapung in Ranchi, and Sandhya Oraon, a sixth grader at St Mary’s Girls Middle School, Kanke,” said Fr Tony. Development economist and social activist Jean Drèze said in a video message: “Fr Stan, while leaving for prison, had said that he is going to pay the price for fighting for social justice. The right tribute would be to carry forward his movement for social justice.” Mihir Desai, Fr Stan’s legal counsel and senior advocate in Bombay High Court, pointed out: “He was penalised not for any crime he committed but for raising his voice for justice to Adivasis and the poor.” In the morning, the ashes of Fr Stan were interred at the Jesuit Cemetery at Mango in Jamshedpur. The mass was attended by Fr D'Souza, the provincial and president of the Jesuit Conference of South Asia; Fr Xavier,  director of Indian Social Institute, Bangalore; Fr Ajit Xess, provincial Ranchi Jesuit; Fr Santosh Minz, provincial Hazaribagh Jesuit; and Fr Father Jerome Cutinha, Jamshedpur Jesuit provincial. Fr Xavier Lakra, former director of Bagaicha, described Fr Stan as one of the tribal martyrs. "He used to seek blessings for tribals daily and dedicated his life to the well-being of tribals, Dalits and the marginalised. A martyr's blood doesn't go in vain," Fr Lakra added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
