05-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town Sadar hospital workers boycott work over salary dues ||The ongoing Covid vaccination and other health services at Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad was disrupted for more than four hours from 8am to 12 noon after 148 health workers boycotted work demanding immediate release of three months pending salary. The agitating workers including ANM, GNM, compounders, lab technicians, dressers, ward boys, etc protested against the Sadar Hospital administration and district administration also demanded incentives for their work during the pandemic. The protesters charged that while health workers of other hospitals of the district, including National Rural Health Mission workers are getting their regular payment and incentives, only 148 health workers of Sadar Hospital recruited through District Mineral Foundation Trust Fund in 2017 are facing the salary delay and other incentives due to payment. Meanwhile, due to the disruption of vaccination, over 200 people of 18 above age group faced difficulties until the issue was resolved at around 12 noon after the intervention of nodal officer of Sadar Hospital Dr Rajkumar Singh. Talking to the media during the agitation at Sadar Hospital, Shivli Banerjee, a GNM of the Hospital said, “We are facing salary delay almost every month ever since we joined work four years ago despite the fact that we are serving the people risking our and our family members life during the time of pandemic.” “While our colleagues in other hospitals of the district including Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital and different Community Health Workers are getting regular Salaries only the staff of Sadar Hospital are facing the problem of delayed Salary and other incentives compelling us to resort to work boycott today,” said Banerjee and added that they have been assured payment of salary within four to five days and if the payment doesn’t come they will be compelled to go on an indefinite strike. Satyendra Kumar Rawani, a resident of Gaya in Bihar, who was standing in long queue of Covaxin administration at the hospital since 8 am said, “Due to lack of vaccines in Gaya I booked the slot at Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad but faced a lot of difficulty here due to work boycott of the health workers and finally got vaccinated at around 12.30.” Dr Rajkumar Singh, nodal officer of Sadar Hospital admittedly said, “There was some disturbance due to pending salaries and other issues but the issue was resolved as we apprised the staff that their May salary allotment has already arrived while June and July salary is also likely to be credited in their account within three four days.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
05-08-2021||Jharkhand||CBI begins Dhanbad judge death investigation||After taking over the case of Dhanbad Judge Uttam Anand's death, the CBI team from Delhi swung into action Thursday to crack the issue that triggered nationwide outrage. The probe team of the premier investigative agency is headed by Additional Superintendent of police (ASP) Vijay Kumar Shukla. The CBI had on Wednesday taken over the investigation into the death of 49-year old judge who was allegedly mowed down by a heavy autorickshaw while he was on a morning jog on July 28 in Dhanbad. A 20-member team has been sent by the CBI to probe the matter. Besides visiting the accident spot, six members of the team also reached Dhanbad sadar police station and discussed with senior police officers of the district who were involved in the probe as part of special Investigation team (SIT). A senior police officer said besides Dhanbad sadar police station, the CBI team in different groups visited varied places associated with the tragic incident and questioned people in connection with the incident. At sadar police station the CBI team took information from city superintendent of police R Ramkumar, additional superintendent of police Manoj Swargyari and police station officer in-charge Vinay Kumar. All these police officers were also members of SIT. The 20-member team under ASP Shukla had reached Dhanbad on Wednesday and took over the case from Dhanbad senior superintendent of police (SSP) cum SIT member Sanjiv Kumar. The team has started investigation after lodging FIR in Dhanbad sadar police station making auto driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma as accused under IPC Section 302. Both the accused are in jail after their five days police remand ended on Tuesday. Anand was killed by a heavy autorickshaw on July 28 at Randhir Verma Chowk close to district court while he was on morning walk at around 5.30 am. CBI received the Jharkhand government's request, routed through the Centre, to investigate the matter. Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren had on last Saturday decided to hand over the probe into the hit-and-run case of the 49-year-old Dhanbad judge to the Central Bureau of Investigation. CCTV footage showed that the judge was jogging on one side of a fairly wide road at Randhir Verma Chowk when a heavy auto-rickshaw veered towards him, hit him from behind and fled. Doctors at hospital declared him brought dead. The bench of Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad had directed the CBI to initiate a probe at the earliest. It had also directed the government to hand over all the documents of the case to the CBI. Taking cognizance of a letter filed before the court by the Dhanbad principal district judge in the case, Justice Ranjan had converted it into a writ petition and ordered formation of an SIT headed by Additional Director General of Police Sanjay Latkar to look into the matter. The bench, dissatisfied with the progress report, had questioned why there was a delay in registering an FIR in the case. The incident occurred at 5.30 am, and the FIR was registered at 12.45 pm when it was clear from CCTV footage that the judge was picked up from the spot and taken to a hospital, the court had said. The Jharkhand High Court had Tuesday pulled up the police for the manner in which it was investigating the death by unnecessarily "feeding question" to doctor about possibility of head injuries by fall on a road surface when the post-mortem report clearly stated that the death was due to the head injuries. The court expressed its dismay over Special Investigating Team (SIT) ways of probing the matter while hearing a PIL on the issue the previous day. The court said it posed questions to the investigating officer regarding the probe in the presence of the Director-General of Police and head of the Special Investigating Team (SIT). The Supreme Court had on July 30 also taken suo motu cognizance of the "sad demise" of the Dhanbad judge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
05-08-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad JMM activist robbed of Rs 2.5lakh||Two days after the twin robberies during which Rs 2.5lakh was stolen from two different persons at Kenduadih and Hirapur area, two more incidents of robbery of Rs 4.70lakh took place in broad daylight on Thursday from two more persons. The first robbery, Rs 2.5 lakh, was taken from the car of Kusum Vihar resident and property dealer Abhishek Kumar at around 11.30 am near the city centre market complex. The CCTV footage was taken from a chemist’s outlet. Kumar, who is also a JMM activist, later lodged an FIR in Dhanbad Sadar Police station against the unidentified person. He claimed that the youth captured in the CCTV footage was also present in the Axis Bank branch from where he withdrew the money. “I withdrew Rs 5lakh from the City Centre branch of Axis Bank at around 11.30am out of which I kept Rs 2.5lakh with me and put the remaining amount on the rear seat of the car and went to a chemist’s shop,” said Kumar. “As soon as I returned near the car parked in front of city centre I was stunned to find the glass of the rear seat broken and the cash bag missing,” said Kumar who raised an alarm after which a team of Dhanbad police reached the site and lodged an FIR and also scanned the CCTV footage of a chemist shop. In the second incident, two unidentified bike borne criminals snatched a bag containing Rs 2.2 lakh from Mohal Bagan locality resident Jitni Das at around 1.30pm when she was returning to her house after withdrawing the money from Kumbarbadi branch of State Bank of India. “I withdrew the money for purchasing land and was returning back to my house on foot along with my son and since I was firmly holding the bag the handle of the bag remained in my hand while the criminals who arrived on bike from behind took away the remaining portion of the bag containing the cash,” said Das. Nirsa DSP, Pitambar Singh, said, “An FIR has been lodged on the complaint of the victim while we are questioning the bank staff and also scanning the video footage of the bank to investigate the case.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
05-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand opts for single stage exams for government jobs||Examinations conducted for Jharkhand  government jobs will henceforth follow a single stage format as opposed to mains and prelims, a senior official revealed after Thursday's cabinet meeting, adding that  preference would be given to local candidates. The state cabinet meeting, chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren in the evening, okayed amendments to recruitment rules according to which Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission conducts competitive exams to hire employee's for state government jobs at the matric, intermediate and graduate levels. The examinations will now be of single stage format  for various segments as opposed to the earlier pattern of a two-step format of preliminary test (PT) and mains. Cabinet coordination secretary Vandana Dadel said, “Earlier, a two-step exam was held—PT and Mains. That has been done away with and only one exam will be held by JSSC for recruitments. However, aspirants having knowledge of local and indigenous languages, about local rituals/customs etc will get more weightage. Preference will be given to those who have passed matric or intermediate or both from the state.” The examinations would now comprise three papers. “The first paper comprising English and Hindi will be called as qualifying in which an applicant must score a minimum of 30 per cent jointly. Paper II will be based on tribal and indigenous languages in which minimum score must be of 30 per cent. Paper III will be general knowledge with a minimum score requirement of 30 per cent. The final merit list will be made on the basis of scores of paper II and III,” she said. Sources said that the idea was to provide locals more opportunities to get jobs in the state government. An official of the state personnel department said, “The new rules have been devised after studying the pattern of different states to provide more opportunity for residents of this state to get jobs here.” The state cabinet also decided to hold the monsoon session of the Assembly from September 3 to 9 with five working days.  Dadel said, “A proposal in this regard was moved by the state parliamentary affairs department to which the cabinet has given its nod." A total of 27 proposals were taken up at the cabinet meeting. These included nods to several road projects in rural districts, extension of 22 special fast-track POCSO courts for  another two years for speedy disposal of cases, amendments in appointment rules for contractual teachers in colleges and universities at  graduation level, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
05-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand likely to get genome sequencer soon||Jharkhand is likely to get a genome sequencer soon to detect and study new variants of the SARS-CoV-2 virus amid the growing fear of Delta Plus variant and new mutated variants of concern that may pose higher risk than the earlier  strains that have affected people globally, health officials said on Thursday. A proposal for procurement of a genome sequencer machine is likely to be floated during the next Governing Body meeting of the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), a source closely associated with health minister Banna Gupta said. “We are already planning to set up a department of genome and genetics biology at RIMS. A genome sequencing machine will also be procured soon,” the source said. Jharkhand had sent a proposal for procurement of a genome sequencer machine to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare back in March. However, the proposal was not approved for several months and the state was asked to send RT-PCR samples of Covid patients to the Institute of Live Sciences (ILS) in Bhubaneshwar for genome sequencing, officials said. The health department recently asked  civil surgeons of all the 24 districts to ensure at least 300 swab samples were sent to Bhubaneswar for genome sequencing every month. As per the directive, each of the 10 sentinel sites for collection of Covid samples will have to send 15 samples every fortnight to Bhubaneswar for genome sequencing – a practice that is likely to help in identification of mutated strains of coronavirus. However, this process was time consuming and the state would be in a better position to detect new variants of coronavirus if genome sequencing was done in Ranchi itself, officials said. State health minister recently asked the RIMS administration to work on starting a department of genome studies in the premiere state-run hospital. Gupta, during a meeting earlier this week, said that genome sequencing was an important part of the state’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and the infrastructure will also help in combating diseases caused by viruses in future. “We are trying our level best to improve the health facilities in our state, and genome studies appears to be an important part of the fight against various diseases in future,” said Gupta. In the last lot of samples sent to Bhubaneshwar for genome sequencing from Jharkhand, it was found that the Delta variant of coronavirus was the most prevalent variant in the state. The state, however, is yet to report cases of infection caused by the Delta Plus variant, which is said to be even more lethal than the Delta variant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
05-08-2021||Jharkhand||Celebrations erupt across Simdega and Dhanbad after men's hockey team wins Olympic bronze||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
05-08-2021||Jharkhand||Shalimar station to take off load from Howrah||South Eastern Railway (SER) has decided to shift the terminals for some of the trains from Howrah to Shalimar station with an additional stoppage being at Santragachi. The move is an attempt to ease the traffic load of Howrah station – the busiest railway junction of the eastern region. The move will affect five pairs of Jharkhand-bound trains that fall under the jurisdiction of SER. The trains being Howrah-LTT Mumbai-Howrah Samarsata Bi-weekly Express (12152/12151), Howrah-Sambalpur-Howrah Weekly Express (22803/22804), Howrah-Puri-Howrah Garib Rath Bi-weekly Express (12881/12882), Howrah-Puri-Howrah Weekly Express (12887/12888) and Howrah-Puri-Howrah Weekly Express (12895/12896). “The date for the implementation for the change of terminal from Howrah to Shalimar will be notified soon,” said railway officials at Garden Reach, the Calcutta-based headquarters of SER. Timing for services from Shalimar station instead of Howrah station after shift of terminal will be as: Trains - Howrah-Puri-Howrah Garib Rath Bi-weekly Express, Howrah-Puri-Howrah Weekly Express and Howrah-Sambalpur-Howrah Weekly Express will leave Shalimar at 8.45 pm on their respective days of journey and will depart from Santragachi at 9 pm. For the downward journey, trains -  Howrah-Puri-Howrah Garib Rath Bi-weekly Express, Howrah-Puri-Howrah Weekly Express and Howrah-Sambalpur-Howrah Weekly Express will depart from Santragachi at 6.15 am and will arrive Shalimar at 6.50 am. The terminal for Howrah-Sambalpur-Howrah Special will be shifted to Shalimar and will run as per mentioned timings. The Sambalpur-Howrah Special (08306) leaving Sambalpur from December 3 this year will arrive at Shalimar instead of Howrah and Howrah-Sambalpur Special will depart from Shalimar from December 4 onwards instead of Howrah. The Howrah-LTT Mumbai-Howrah Samarsata Bi-weekly Express (12152) which goes via Tatanagar railway station will leave Shalimar at 7.55 mm and will depart from Santragachi at 8.10 pm. In the return direction the train will depart from Santragachi at 6 am and will arrive at Shalimar at 6.25 am. Though additional stoppage will be provided at Santragachi in Up direction but there will be no change in timings for all these trains from Kharagpur and onwards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
05-08-2021||Jharkhand||Immunisation pace slows down in state, around 50k get jabbed||Jharkhand on Wednesday vaccinated about 50,000 residents against Covid-19 and almost 40,000 of the beneficiaries who got jabbed on the day were younger than 45 years, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 37,860 residents were administered the first dose of vaccine on Wednesday, while 14,759 beneficiaries got their second jab. As many as 29,477 residents in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years got their first dose of vaccine, while 8,496 beneficiaries from the same age group got their second jab, NHM data highlighted. The momentum of the immunisation drive in the state witnessed a marginal drop on the day. The vaccination numbers in Jharkhand did not cross the 1-lakh-mark in the past three days despite sufficient doses available in stock. The state, officials said, was not going all out with the vaccination campaign in order to ensure that sufficient doses are available to achieve decent jab counts daily until fresh supplies arrive. Data available on the Co-Win portal highlighted that at least 834 session sites were operational across Jharkhand on the day. Close to 4000 Ranchi residents were inoculated at 27 session sites, while 19 session sites administered vaccine jabs to almost 3000 residents in East Singhbhum, as per data on Co-Win platform. As per data shared by the NHM on Wednesday evening, Jharkhand had 4,76,210 doses of vaccines available in stock, enough to last about four days. According to NHM, the state has so far received 1,01,66,910 vaccine doses from the Centre and administered 98,78,690 doses. Meanwhile, the active caseload of Covid-19 continued to dip on Wednesday as the state reported 41 Covid recoveries against 30 fresh cases of infection, highlighted a bulletin from the NHM. As per NHM data, as many as 223 Jharkhand residents were battling a Coronavirus infection by the end of Wednesday. However, the active caseload in Ranchi, Dhanbad and East Singhbhum witnessed a spike as fresh cases outnumbered recoveries in these districts. As per NHM data, at least seven cases against two recoveries took the active caseload in Ranchi to 52, while six cases against only one recovery took the active caseload in Dhanbad to 19. In East Singhbhum, three fresh cases surfaced and two patients recovered. The active caseload there was 14 on Wednesday. At least 15 of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on the day. The state on Wednesday tested swab samples of 49,946 residents and 0.06 per cent of them were found infected by the deadly virus. So far, over 3.47 lakh people have been infected by coronavirus in the state and 98.45 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. Jharkhand did not report fresh cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis on Wednesday and the fungal infection did not claim any lives. As per data with Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), the state has so far reported 104 confirmed and 58 suspected cases of black fungus. The fungal infection has claimed 31 lives in the state so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
