06-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Bokaro police arrrest members of Koda gang||Bokaro: A special police team headed by DSP of Chas, Mukesh Kumar, arrested two members of the infamous Koda gang by conducting a raid at Nagnagar area of the neighbouring district of Dhanbad. Police busted the gang after it triggered the first theft incident in Kalapathar area under Chas Muffasil police station. According to DSP, both the accused had committed theft of Rs 91,000 in cash from a motorcycle three days ago. Those arrested have been identified as Amar Kumar Nat and Vipul Gowala. The accused were arrested by Bokaro police team from their hideout in Dhanbad. "During interrogation, they confessed that on August 8, they had stolen cash by breaking the trunkof a motorcycle parked in front of a grocery shop at Kalapathar, adjacent to National Highway-32,” said the SDPO. The members of Koda gang belong to Korah village of Katihar district. The gang takes full preparation before carrying out the robberies. The gang members own high speed bikes. Before committing the crime, they do complete recce which prevents them from getting caught by police. "The recovered black colored Pulsar 180 motorbike contains fake engine number and chassis number. The accused used this motorcycle to carry out the theft. The stolen amount of Rs 91,600 is recovered. Police also recovered their fake Aadhar cards, 7 mobile phones and additional five SIM cards from the possession of both the accused," said the DSP. (Our correspondent) Daltonganj: The anti corruption bureau officers of Daltonganj on Friday caught Palamau district welfare officer Subhash Kumar and his assistant Manoj Kumar taking bribe worth Rs 20,000, said K.N. Ram the deputy superintendent of police and officer-in-charge of the divisional office of the ACB. Ram said the two were arrested in the district welfare office located in the Palamau collectorate. He said a trap was laid on the written complaint of Uma Shankar Baiga. Baiga had given in writing to the ACB that district welfare officer Subhash Kumar was pressuring him to give him a bribe of Rs 20,000 in lieu of a Rs 12 lakh worth scheme. Ram said the scheme was of a community hall for the tribal community. This kind of hall is called Dhoomkoorya in tribal lingo. Ram said Baiga was not ready to give this bribe and so he had lodged his complaint with the ACB. During a search operation at Subhash Kumar’s house, ACB sleuths seized cash worth Rs 2,83,000. The two have been remanded in judicial custody.  (Our Correspondent) Hazaribagh : A renowned doctor couple’s Shiv Nandan Estate-1 apartment at Harangunj locality in Hazaribagh town has been robbed of Rs.4lakh in cash and jewellery worth Rs.3lakh along with other expensive items. According to police, the couple were not in their flat when the robbery took place. An FIR has been registered followed by raids to catch the thieves. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
06-08-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad police lathicharge protesting JAC examinees||A team of Dhanbad district administration and police led by Surendra Kumar, Sub Divisional Officer of Dhanbad, on Friday carried out a lathicharge on JAC plus two examinees when they were trying to forcibly enter the conference room of District Collectorate to meet health minister Banna Gupta while he was holding a review meeting with senior officials. The police also arrested some of the agitating students who allegedly tried to break furniture of the district collectorate. The lathicharge took place at around 2.30pm when over 100 students reached the collectorate. Though, the policemen deputed at the collectorate tried to convince the agitators to come later after the conclusion of the meeting but they were adamant to meet the minister. The lathicharge evoked sharp criticism by opposition leaders as senior leaders of BJP led by district vice president, Sanjay Kumar Jha who reached the Dhanbad police station in support of the JAC plus examinees, termed the incident as barbaric. “The barbaric lathicharge carried out by administration and police against the innocent students is inhuman, highly condemnable and uncalled for,” said Jha. “The action of the sub divisional officer who is facing various corruption charges, and carried out the lathicharge himself on the girl students shows the anti-people face of the administration under Chief Minister Hemant Soren,” he said. “We will carry forward the agitation of the students protesting against the faulty evaluation and publication of results by JAC leading to failure of a large number of students to a logical conclusion,” said Jha. Mukesh Pandey, former district President of young wing of BJP said, “The lathicharge carried out by the administration under the leadership of Sub Divisional officer against the students can’t be justified by any sense.” Soniya Kumari, one of the agitating students who was present during the lathicharge said, “Despite the presence of women constables, we were beaten by policemen and manhandled by them.” “On hand the government is giving the slogan of beti bachao and beti padhao and on the other hand the girl students protesting against the injustice against them are being beaten by policemen and administrative officials,” she further said. Notably, over 200 unsuccessful plus two examinees of JAC have been protesting continuously since August 2 against its faulty evaluation at Randhir Verma Chowk. Sandeep Kumar, Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner on Thursday also held a meeting in district collectorate with the agitating students in the presence of district education officer besides the officials of different colleges and schools during which he instructed the officials to take up the issue of the students with JAC but the students continued their agitation and tried to meet minister Banna Gupta during his Dhanbad visit on Friday. Banna Gupta, later talking to media, said, "The lathicharge on the students is not justified and action will be taken against the responsible persons by conducting a probe and if the sub divisional officer is found guilty, action will be taken against him."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
06-08-2021||Jharkhand||Monsoon breather in Jharkhand till Monday||After experiencing three days of heavy rain, most districts of Jharkhand can look forward to a dry spell, courtesy subdued monsoon activity. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre, in its forecast issued on Friday afternoon, hinted at a dry spell for the next few days as the monsoon currents is expected to become weak over Jharkhand from Saturday. "In the absence of any favourable system, monsoon currents would become weak over Jharkhand resulting in a dry spell for at least three days from Saturday, " said Abhishek Anand, the head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. On Friday, the monsoon trough was passing through Daltonganj and Digha (in Bengal). Satellite pictures indicated a cyclonic circulation over southeast Bangladesh but it is unlikely to impact  Jharkhand. Met data of last 24 hours - from 8.30 am of Thursday to 8.30 am of Friday - indicated highest rainfall of 44.4 mm in Ranchi while Hindgiri in Ranchi district recorded moderate rainfall of 30 mm. Several places in Dhanbad and Lohardaga districts recorded around 20 mm of rain while Gumla, Bokaro and Jamshedpur recorded around 12 mm of rain. As many as 15 IMD observatories recorded around 10 mm of rain. The forecast between Saturday and Tuesday ( August 7 to August 10 ) suggested  light cloud with light rain at one or two places. No alerts have been issued for the next 72 hours . But weathermen said a few isolated places might experience light thunder and lightning. Rain data suggests that so far since the onset of monsoon in June, Jharkhand has actually received 620.4 mm of rain against a normal of 587.5 mm, a surplus of six per cent. Except for nine districts - Chatra, Garhwa, Godda, Gumla, Khunti, Pakur, Seraikela-Kharsawan, Simdega and West Singhbhum  _ which figure in rain deficit list, the remaining 15 districts recorded surplus rain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
06-08-2021||Jharkhand||Twin minor rapes shock Hazaribagh||The father of an 11-year-old girl was arrested for raping his minor daughter in a village of Katkamdag block of Hazaribagh. The minor’s mother had passed away last year following which her father tried to take advantage of her which compelled her to take shelter in neighbours houses at night. On July 3, the father raped her and she fled and informed some villagers of the incident. A member of Jharkhand Chhatra Morcha, Vicky Kumar, and a village woman Sunita Devi brought the girl to Katkamdag police station after which she was provided treatment and an FIR lodged. Her father was arrested. Officials said they will ensure speedy trial for punishment to the father. In another shocking incident, a 15-year-old was raped at the foothills of the famous Canary hill forest in Hazaribagh town on Wednesday night. The victim has lodged an FIR against a Suraj Kumar with Korra police on Thursday, According to sources, the minor girl had stepped out of her house to look for her mother who worked as a daily wage labourer when she didn't return from work on Wednesday evening. The accused Suraj Kumar, living in Brambe House, a locality close to Canary, offered to help. She sat with him on his bike but Suraj took her to Canary. He raped her at the foothills of Canary and later dropped her home in the morning. The victim’s mother approached Korra police and informed them about the incident. An FIR has been registered under Pocso act against Suraj who escaped. Officer-in-charge of Korra police station, Prashant Mishra said raids have started to nab Suraj. Canary is a famous tourist spot but remains deserted due to cases of eve teasing in the past including a college girl who was also raped a few years ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
06-08-2021||Jharkhand||Geological museum and lab for Dhanbad's premiere college||A state-of-art Geological Museum and Microscopic Lab established in the Geology department of Dhanbad’s P.K. Roy Memorial College was inaugurated on Friday by Anjani Kumar Srivastava, vice chancellor of Binod Bihari Mahto Koyalanchal. The newly established museum cum lab spread over around 600 square feet area established on the line of IIT (ISM) Geological Laboratory contains the rare specimen of a wide variety of fossils like dinosaur and shell; ores like raw silver & platinum and minerals like raw pyrite and rose quartz, which were collected from different sites across the country over the last two months. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Friday, B.K. Sinha, Principal of PK Roy Memorial College Dhanbad said that the museum cum laboratory established through the internal fund of the college is meant to provide opportunity to the students of Geology department as well as other relevant departments including Chemistry, Botany, Zoology and Geography departments to carry out a study of rare specimens of different categories and enhance their ambit of knowledge. The museum cum laboratory comprising of wide range of microscopes including, Petrographic microscope, optical microscope and Stereo microscope will help the students and researchers to identify rocks and minerals in thin sections and other equipment like rock hammers, compasses, hand lenses will help them to understand the techniques and delicacies associated with of collection of specimens from the sites and on site study of the specimens. He further said that the move to establish the museum cum laboratory is also aimed at strengthening the infrastructure of different departments of the college, ahead of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council for fetching better, A grade for the college which at present possesses B grade. Notably, the better grade of NAAC ensures more fund flow through various bodies like University Grants Commission, Department of Science and Technology etc. Sagar Kumar Swain, Head of the Department of Geology of PK Roy Memorial College who is also in-charge of the newly established museum cum laboratory said, “The specimens collected in the museum have been grouped  into three broad categories including Fossil, Ore and Minerals.” Elaborating more about the different categories of specimens Swain said, “The fossil specimen collections of museum comprise of Brachiopod, Othoceras, Ammonite, Trilobite, Rhineastes, Dinosaur, Petrified Wood Fossil,  Shell Fossil, Edicarian, Echinoid, Crinoid and Glyptodon species while the Ore species collection include, Zinc, Lead, Nickel, Coal, Platinum Palladium, Raw Silver, Manganese, Iron, High Grade Cobalt, Gold, Copper and Platinum. He further said mineral species of the museum include, Actinolite, Argentiferous Galena,Biotite,Botrite, Botryoidal Purple Smithsonite, Chalcopyrite, Green Selenite, Kyanite, Orpiment, Pectolite, Pentlandite, Raw Pyrite and Rose Quartz.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
06-08-2021||India||CBI does not help when judges complain of threats, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court Friday termed "serious" the incidents of judges being threatened and asked the states to file status reports on the security they are providing to the judicial officers. A bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant also issued notice to the CBI which has taken over the investigation into the recent incident of alleged mowing down of a judge at Dhanbad. The apex court was informed by the counsel appearing for Jharkhand that the probe into the July 28 incident has been handed over to the CBI. The bench told Attorney General K K Venugopal that there are several cases, which involve gangsters and high-profile persons and there are instances of judges getting threats or abusive messages. "There is no freedom to the judges to even file a complaint," the bench said, adding that police or the CBI is not helping the judiciary if such complaints are filed. "The CBI has not changed its attitude. When Judges complain to the CBI, Intelligence Bureau on threats, they do not respond. Investigating agencies do not help at all and I am making this statement with some sense of responsibility," CJI Ramana was quoted as saying by ndtv.com. "We will hear the Jharkhand matter on Monday (August 9). We are issuing notice to the CBI," the bench said. In wake of the Dhanbad incident, the top court has taken suo motu cognizance on the issue of safeguarding courts and protecting judges. A 20-member team has also been set by the CBI to probe the matter. It has left for Dhanbad, officials said, adding that it will be followed by a Central Forensic Science Laboratory team. District and Sessions Judge-8 of Dhanbad court, Uttam Anand, was out on a morning walk on Wednesday when he was killed by an auto-rickshaw at Randhir Verma Chowk near the district court in the Sadar police station area, stepping up investigations into his death that has led to a nationwide outrage among the legal fraternity which believes he was murdered. Judge Anand, a Hazaribagh native posted in Dhanbad six months ago, had been handling several cases of mafia killings in Dhanbad city. He had denied bail to Ravi Thakur and Anand Verma, suspected shooters who have been linked to alleged Uttar Pradesh gangsters Abhinav Singh and Aman Singh. Even though Jharkhand police had constituted an 11-member special investigation team (SIT) to probe the incident, chief minister Hemant Soren recommended a CBI probe on July 31, a day after the slain judge’s family members met him in Ranchi. The central probe agency had informed the Jharkhand High Court on Tuesday that it has received the state government's letter to take over the probe a day earlier. The bench of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad had directed the CBI to initiate a probe at the earliest. It had also directed the government to hand over all the documents of the case to the CBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
06-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand administers vaccines to 1 crore beneficiaries ||The total count of Covid-19 vaccines administered in Jharkhand since the launch of the nationwide immunisation programme on January 16 crossed the 1 crore mark as the state inoculated almost 60,000 residents on Thursday, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data shared by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state administered the first dose of vaccine to 42,595 residents on Thursday, while 16,197 beneficiaries got their second jab. The total number of vaccine doses – both first and second – administered in the state so far reached 1,00,03,374, highlighted government data. Over 80 lakh residents have received the first dose of vaccine and close to 20 lakh beneficiaries have got their second jab in the state so far. At least 826 session sites, including 24 private ones, were operational in the state on Thursday, as per data available on the Government of India’s Co-Win portal. At least 53 session sites were operational in Ranchi, while 36 session sites in East Singhbhum opened their doors for vaccine beneficiaries. More than 8,000 residents were inoculated in Ranchi, while over 5,000 got jabbed in East Singhbhum. As per data with the NHM, the state has almost 3 lakh doses of vaccines in stock, enough to last around three days. So far, the state has received 1,01,66,910 doses of Covishield and Covaxin from the Centre, while additional doses of Sputnik V were procured by private facilities, highlights NHM data. Jharkhand on Thursday reported 28 Covid cases and also 28 recoveries, which kept the active caseload at 223, a separate bulletin from NHM highlighted. At least 10 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19, while the active caseload in Ranchi rose to 55 as the district reported five cases against only two recoveries. East Singhbhum reported one fresh case of infection and two recoveries. The active caseload there was 15 by the end of Thursday. The state on Thursday tested swab samples of 54,894 residents and about 0.05 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. So far, over 3.47 lakh people have been infected by the lethal virus in Jharkhand and 98.4 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. The state did not report fresh cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis on the day, while three patients of the fungal infection were discharged from hospital. As per data with the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), the state has reported 163 cases of black fungus so far and 111 patients have recovered, while 31 died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
06-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Manipuri winger Len Doungel signs for Jamshedpur FC till 2024||Jamshedpur: Jamshedpur FC has signed Manipuri winger Seiminlen Doungel for the upcoming Indian Super League season of 2021-22. The Tata Steel-owned club signed the 27-year-old Len on a permanent deal after impressing with his seasoned performances in the second half of 2020-21, including a Man of the Match in 8 appearances with the JFC. He will ply his trade for the club till May 2024. Fondly known as Len, the winger, who was capped for the Indian national team, brings with him a trophy-winning pedigree, having previously won the I-League in 2015-16 and Federation up in 2012 and 2017. He was the runners-up in the AFC Cup in 2016 and played an important role in the FC Goa team that finished top of the league in the 2019-20 ISL season, thereby helping them become the ISL Premiers (shield winners). Len exclaimed his delight at extending his tenure under the Owen Coyle mentored side as he said: "Jamshedpur FC has the ambition to do well in the ISL. The gaffer is extremely committed to qualifying for the playoffs and try to win the league for the first time. I want to create history with the club. I am glad to continue as I had the coach's faith in me, and I want to play as much as I can to contribute to help the club achieve silverware." Head coach Owen Coyle was extremely delighted to have Len in his ranks. "I think everyone will agree that Len impressed and improved the team when he joined Jamshedpur. He is fast and is a good finisher too -- two very important qualities for a winger. He is one of the top Indian players in the ISL and I am glad he's here to say," he said. (Jayesh Thaker) Dhanbad: Lone state-run engineering institute of Dhanbad BIT Sindri on Thursday signed a memorandum of understanding with Steel Authority of India Limited, IISCO Steel Plant Burnpur in an online programme for joint collaboration in terms of finding solution of technical hurdles of operation & production and also for providing internship and project opportunities for students. A.V. Kamlakar, Chief Executive officer SAIL-ISP Burnpur said,‘The MoU will be beneficial for both BIT Sindri and SAIL-ISP Burnpur as it would help to solve the technical difficulties of our industry and simultaneously provide internship and project opportunities for student and faculty members of BIT Sindri.” (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: Railway police on Thursday arrested a 25-year-old youth for allegedly stealing two sacks containing human hair from Pune-Howrah Duronto Express near Tatanagar station on the evening of July 11. The arrested person identified as Mohammed Golu had stolen the sacks by breaking the seal of the train's parcel van at about 4 pm on July 11 when it was waiting for a green signal to arrive at the Tatanagar station. A resident of Garib Nawaz Colony in Jugsalai, Golu had, along with another associate, unloaded two sacks out of a total 27 sacks which were to be unloaded at Howrah. Sanjay Kumar Tiwari, inspector, Railway Protection Force (RPF), Tatanagar said the railway officials at Tatanagar station had discovered the broken seal of the train's parcel van when it arrived at the station but the theft of two sacks only after the train had reached Howrah. "The human hair consignment had come from Manmar in Maharashtra by the Duronto Express and a criminal gang must have kept a track of this before committing the theft at Tatanagar," the inspector pointed out. He said during interrogation the arrested person revealed that the human hair has a great demand in Chinese market and stated that they are trying to find out whether the stolen hair sacks were planned to be sent to China. Tiwari said Golu is a small entity in the racket, but the one who is still absconding is the kingpin, adding that the real intention behind stealing the human hair sacks will be known only when he is caught. (Kumud Jenamani) Jamshedpur: Tata Steel’s West Bokaro Division inducted 16 women Heavy Earth Moving Machinery (HEMM) operators through all shifts from Thursday under its flagship programme - Women@Mines promoting equal opportunity for all employees. ‘Women@Mines’ programme aims to provide technical training to the unskilled women workers and enable them to work in core jobs at mines. West Bokaro Division is the first coal division in the company to launch this initiative. It received over 446 applications of which 16 candidates were selected after a written test and a personal interview. The minimum qualification required was matriculation. The 16 women candidates will undergo intensive training for a year to hone their skills as HEMM operators. Post successful completion of their training, these women will be deployed as operations assistant to operate dumper, dozer, shovel, excavator, and drill. Atrayee Sarkar, vice-president, Human Resource Management, Tata Steel, said, “Tata Steel has always provided career opportunities to the talented youth from the community, and Women@Mines at West Bokaro is yet another milestone in this journey. Focused on industry-wide efforts to foster a diverse and inclusive culture, Tata Steel is making sure it provides a safe and an enabling environment to its workforce. We take great pride in welcoming onboard the new women recruit at our West Bokaro site and wish them an empowering career ahead.” (Pinaki Majumdar) Dhanbad: Twelve days after the surrender of notorious criminal Vikash Singh in connection with the murder case of BJP leader Satish Singh last year, one of the key conspirators of the case, Satish Sao on Thursday surrendered in the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate of Dhanbad. Senior advocate Jaya Kumar who was present in court on behalf of Sao said that his bail petition would be submitted later. Vikash Singh, the main conspirator of Satish Singh murder case, who is also named in several other murder cases including the murder case of Sudhir Singh, owner of Bundela travels of October 31, 2013 surrendered in court on July 24 and his bail application was submitted by Jaya Kumar on August 3. Satish Singh, a close aide of BJP MLA of Dhanbad Raj Sinha was shot dead on August 19, 2020 at around 3 pm near Matkuria Chhath Talab when he was heading towards Vikash Nagar area of Matkuria on foot after disembarking from a car. Though, he was rushed immediately to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital after the incident but he was declared brought dead. Dhanbad police in its earlier submission to the court informed that the murder Singh was carried out by Baburaja Chandraprakash acting on the indication of Vikash Singh and his gang member Satish Sao. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
06-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt makes regional languages mandatory in mains examination ||The Jharkhand government has made regional languages mandatory in the mains examination conducted by the state’s staff selection commission in an attempt to facilitate the selection of local and tribal population in government jobs. The state cabinet on Thursday included 12 regional languages for the second paper (language and literature) of the mains examination of the Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission and excluded English, Hindi and Sanskrit from the list. The list contains Santhali, Odiya, Bengali, Urdu, Mundari, Kurukh, Kurmali, Panchpargania, Nagpuri, Khadia, Khortha and Ho for the second or regional language paper. The third paper of the mains exam will be on general knowledge and current affairs. “Candidates will have to pass individually in both paper two and three with a minimum 30 per cent marks. The marks obtained in both the papers will form the basis for preparing the merit list. Candidates will also have to pass with a minimum of 30 per cent marks in paper one (Hindi and English) but that will not form the basis for the merit list,” said cabinet secretary Vandana Dadel. Till now, English and Hindi were included in the second paper but now candidates would have to know any one of the 12 regional languages to succeed in the exam. The cabinet has decided to allow only general candidates who have passed the matriculation exam from educational institutions based in the state, irrespective of the boards. The staff selection panel will conduct only one (mains) exam, instead of prelims and mains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
06-08-2021||Jharkhand||US initiative to aid women entrepreneurs in Jharkhand, Bihar||An initiative of the US state department’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs will provide guidance to budding women entrepreneurs of Jharkhand and Bihar, in partnership with other organisations. The Academy for Women Entrepreneurs (AWE), which is part of the White House-led Women’s Global Development and Prosperity Initiative, aims to empower 50 million women worldwide by 2025 to fulfil their economic potential. “This is the first time that the US Consulate General, Calcutta, in partnership with Startup India, Aroh Foundation and Nexus Start-up Hub at the American Centre, New Delhi, is announcing applications for the AWE in Bihar and Jharkhand. The AWE will support a selected cohort of 90 prospective women entrepreneurs and early-stage business owners from Bihar and Jharkhand by providing US-style online education with guided facilitation from the US state department alumni, local businesswomen and other partners,” said Richa Sethi from Women in Business, implementing partner of the AWE, who was in Jamshedpur on Wednesday. The selected participants will join an AWE network that will support access to peer-to-peer mentorship, business partners and scaling opportunities with businesses in the region and in the US. “We have completed roadshows in Jamshedpur and will be hosting one in Dhanbad and Ranchi this week. Simultaneously, there are roadshows being held in Patna, Nalanda and Begusarai in Bihar. So far we have attracted over 700 women entrepreneurs during the roadshows. State-level organisations such as Startup Bihar and Startup Jharkhand are supporting the AWE initiatives to nurture women entrepreneurs and help them set up innovative ventures in their respective states,” she said. The programme is running an Idea Challenge and aspiring women entrepreneurs can apply through a web link (https://lnkd.in/eakH-4Y) to win AWS (Amazon Web Services) credits worth $1,000. In the second phase, women entrepreneurs will need to undergo an online Dreambuilder programme from the University of Arizona. In the third phase high-potential women entrepreneurs will proceed to Calcutta for a boot camp and pitching session. At least six women entrepreneurs will receive AWS credits worth $5,000 and support at one of the state incubators. “The US Consulate General, Calcutta, is committed to strengthening the entrepreneurship ecosystem in east India, with a particular emphasis on empowering women. Our AWE program has already proven to be a success in the Northeast, and we are happy that we can now bring this program to Bihar and Jharkhand. I invite women entrepreneurs and early-stage business owners to apply for this unique US department of state opportunity,” said acting consul general Monica Shie in a communiqué.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
