07-08-2021||Jharkhand||CBI recreates Dhanbad judge crime scene ||The special team of CBI led by Additional Superintendent of police Vipin Kumar Shukla, investigating the Dhanbad judge Uttam Anand murder case on Saturday recreated the crime scene at the site of the incident near Golf Ground and also carried out the 3-D laser scanning to verify details like distances, lines of slight besides the suspect’s height and speed of vehicle. The CBI also took into custody the two arrested persons including the auto driver, Lakhan Verma and his accomplice, Rahul Verma at around 10am after visiting Dhanbad Divisional jail and commenced interrogation. The court of sub divisional judicial magistrate of Dhanbad, Shikha Agarwal had on Friday granted the duo five days remand to CBI. The CBI team, meanwhile, also continued questioning several persons as per the phone call details of the arrested duo ahead of the incident. The members of the CBI team engaged in recreation of the crime scene accompanied by personnel of its scientific department, central forensic science laboratory (CFSL) carried out their operation at the site of the incident for around three hours from 11.30am to 2.15pm. They also collected some samples including soil samples and some grass on which the blood stains of judge Uttam Anand had dropped after he fell down on the ground on being hit by the auto rickshaw on July 28. The 3-D laser scanning helps to create highly accurate models of crime scenes as the non intrusive technique helps the investigators prevent contamination of the scene which in turn helps the investigators, lawyers and judges to walk through the scene at any time and verify details like distances and lines of sight etc. 3-D scans when stitched with photos or video stills taken at the site helps to add points of interest to investigators and better understand what specificities of crime scene they are looking for. The stitching of the photos of video stills also helps to carry out the height analysis and speed analysis. Though, none of CBI team members present at the site refused to formally interact with the media but during informal interaction they hinted that the 3 D laser scanning of the crime scene recreation was carried out on Saturday in order to present the facts in the court during the hearing of the case. Notably, members of District level SIT under the leadership of Manoj Swargiyar the Additional Superintendent of Police of Dhanbad also recreated the crime scene on July 31 as part of the investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
07-08-2021||Jharkhand||MGM hospital introduces resuscitation trolley at emergency ward||The MGM medical college hospital will soon introduce a resuscitation trolley at the general emergency consisting of an ambu bag, life-saving drugs and other emergency medical equipment. The decision to keep the resuscitation trolley was taken by the new superintendent Arun Kumar on Saturday after he visited the hospital's emergency ward. The resuscitation trolley has already been brought in the emergency ward of the medical college hospital and is being set up with the necessary equipment and life-saving drugs. "There are a lot of negativities in this medical college hospital, which is visited mainly by poor patients. But we have to give a facelift to the hospital so that patients hailing from weaker sections of the society may come over here for a viable treatment. This is the reason we want to revive its overall standard by beginning with the hospital emergency ward," said Dr Kumar to The Telegraph Online. He said as the hospital emergency is the place where critical patients, including crime and accident victims are brought, they would try the best possible treatment as quickly as possible so that patients' lives can be saved. He stressed that a serious patient can be saved only if the necessary treatment is provided on time and for making this possible an arrangement like a resuscitation trolley is necessary. The superintendent said after reviving the general emergency, they would pay attention to the emergencies of the Gynaecology department and Paediatric department. He pointed out they would first rectify every small aspect relating to the treatment of patients and later focus on areas like cleanliness and security.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
07-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand minister reaches out to students protesting over JAC grades ||The Jharkhand education minister asked students on Saturday not to resort to protests to express their displeasure over the marks they had obtained in the state board exams, his appeal coming a day after police were forced to lathicharge an unruly students' rally in Dhanbad. Talking to reporters at his home, Jagarnath Mahto asked unsuccessful candidates of exams conducted by Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) to refrain from being influenced by certain groups and write to the JAC grievance cell. “Protesting on streets isn't justified. If anyone isn’t satisfied with the results, he/she can apply for scrutiny with the JAC grievance cell. If any deserving student has failed, his/her results will certainly be rectified. Also, unsuccessful students always have the option of appearing for supplementary exams, ” he said. Mahto did not specifically mention the Dhanbad lathicharge. On Friday, a team of officials from the Dhanbad district administration and police resorted to lathicharge to disperse a group of plus-two examinees when they were trying to forcibly enter the district collectorate to meet health minister Banna Gupta who was holding a review meeting with senior officials. Some of the students were arrested for trying to break furniture. The incident led to an uproar on social media with many demanding that the officials responsible for the lathiharge be pulled up. The Opposition BJP also criticised chief minister Hemant Soren. On Saturday too several student groups protested against JAC, calling its evaluation process faulty. The JAC, however, defended its 80:20 evaluation pattern based on marks obtained in class 9, 11 school exams and practicals or interneal assesments. JAC secretary Mahip Kumar Singh said this year’s results were historic _ matric pass percentage 95.92, intermediate science 86.89, commerce 90.33, and arts 90.71. “This year’s results were the best ever for the state in both matric and intermediate. Of around 8 lakh students, only around 35,000 had failed. We request these students to enroll for supplementary exams,” he said. On Saturday, JAC began enrolment for supplementary exams. The last date for enrollment is August 19. “After the enrolment, we will announce the date. Even those have passed can appear in the supplementary exams to improve their grades. Most important, the final results will not mention supplementary,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
07-08-2021||Jharkhand||Activists, BJP leaders call for action against lathicharge on protesting students||Student activists of Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parshiad on Saturday carried out a massive protest against the Dhanbad police lathicharge on plus two examinees of Jharkhand Academic Council by staging dharna at several places across the district. The protesting student leaders who were joined by senior leaders of BJP including Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha and Sanjay Jha district vice president carried out slogan shouting against the district administration, state government and Sub Divisional officer of Dhanbad, Surendra Kumar demanding immediate action against him. A group of protesters congregated at Randhir Verma Chowk marched to the district collectorate at around 1 pm and tried to enter the building when police carried out a lathicharge against them. Dhanbad SSP Sanjeev Kumar reached the site after Saturday’s police action and tried to pacify the agitated student leaders but they continued shouting slogans against the police. The students were adamant on their demand for action against the Sub Divisional Officer, Surendra Kumar who led the lathicharge carried out against the students. Talking to the media at Randhir Verma Chowk of Dhanbad, Dhanbad MLA, Raj Sinha said, “The barbaric lathicharge carried out by Sub Divisional officer, Surendra Kumar against the students, including the girl students was a black day in the history of Dhanbad.” “Though, we will demand the government to solve the problems being faced by the plus two examinees of JAC but we are here today to demand immediate dismissal of the Sub Divisional Officer of Dhanbad who showed his might against the female students and carried out lathicharge himself against them,” said Sinha. District vice president of BJP, Sanjay Kumar Jha said, “We have congregated here to extend support of peaceful dharna organised by students and though the issue being raised by plus two examinees is between them and government but we demand action on the sub divisional officer of Dhanbad who has proved to be mentally unstable and not worthy of the post through his action against the students yesterday.” Shadab Ansari , a Dhanbad based young lawyer, has raised the issue of lathicharge against the girl students by the Sub Divisional Officer of Dhanbad before the National Human Rights Commission. “The barbaric action against the students is not at all justified and also illegal  and thus we have raised the issue before the National Human Rights Commission,” said Ansari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
07-08-2021||Jharkhand||Class 9 -12 teachers to be vaccinated on priority by August 10 in Jharkhand||The state health department has directed the deputy commissioners of all 24 districts of Jharkhand to ensure that the second dose of the vaccine is administered to teachers of class 9 to 12 on priority by August 10 and ensure that no teacher starts visiting schools unless he/she is fully vaccinated. “It has come to light that some teachers of classes 9 to 12 have not received both doses of vaccine against Covid-19. In such circumstances, all the district education officers are hereby directed to ensure complete vaccination of such teachers on priority basis through special drives by August 10,” a letter from National Health Mission (NHM) Director Umashankar Singh, dated August 6, stated. The directive comes close on the heels of the state government’s decision of reopening in-person classes for students of class 9 to 12 in schools across Jharkhand. In a recent meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA), a host of relaxations were announced according to whihc schools and coaching institutes were allowed to hold offline classes for senior students from August 2. “As per Covid protocol, only such teachers who have been completely vaccinated should be allowed to visit schools and take classes as a precautionary measure,” the letter further stated. Most of the teachers in government and private schools have received at least one dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 in Jharkhand, said health officials, claiming that special vaccination drives were run in different schools to ensure that teachers get vaccinated. A few teachers, mostly those below the age of 45 years, have only been partially-vaccinated and were waiting for their second jab, said an official, adding that such teachers would be vaccinated on priority so that they can take in-person classes in schools. The government’s decision of reopening schools for students of classes 9 to 12 has drawn a mixed response from parents and academicians amid the fear of a possible third wave of the pandemic. Experts have also warned that the third wave may mostly affect children and the state should take extra precautions to keep them safe. Schools have remained closed for regular classes since the pandemic first hit Jharkhand in March 2020. While in-person classes for some students were allowed after the first wave, the government had to again close schools as the second wave of the pandemic hit the state. As per government data, the state has so far administered the first dose of the vaccine to at least 80 lakh residents and the second dose to around 20 lakh residents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
07-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hazaribagh mega LPG plant to begin operations in April 2022||An LPG bottling plant in Hazaribagh will begin operations by April next year and will supply cylinders to Hazaribagh, Koderma, Giridih, Chatra, Palamu, Deoghar, Dumka, Godda, Sahibgunj, Pakur as well as districts of other states including Bihar and Odisha. The ambitious, Rs.161.5crore project of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited(HPCL), will be completed in a couple of months in Barhi spread across 26acres of land. Barhi is known for intersection of three national highways including GT road and Ranchi-Patna Highway(NH-33), 40km away from Hazaribagh district headquarter. On November 1, 2019, the foundation laying for this project was done here with the aim to start the plant by April.2021. The then Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan, former chief minister Raghubar Das, and former union minister of tribal affairs Arjun Munda were present during the online ceremony. But it got delayed due to covid but now officials said work is going on a warfooting to start this plant in next few months. Project engineer Kshitiz Gupta said this plant was made with advance security facililties and modern techniques. “Those working here will get insurance cover also,” he added. According to him, civil construction work has been completed and the final stage of mechanical and electrical work is in progress. “We will start this bottling plant by April.2022,” he said. The plant will have the capacity to refill 45,000 LPG cylinders daily and store 1050 metric ton of gas in the tanks constructed here.  Officials said at this plant, different types of LPG cylinders will get refilled including 5kg, 14kg, 19kg, 35kg and 45kg. The plant will also employ around 150 local youths. “We kept visiting the plant and have been told that only 30 per cent work is left for completion of project, “said one of the youths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
07-08-2021||Jharkhand||Railways starts trial stoppage of special trains in Odisha||The South Eastern Railway on Saturday announced the stoppage of several special trains on an experimental basis at Bamra in Odisha. Railway officials at Garden Reach, the Calcutta-based headquarters of South Eastern Railway said such a decision was taken keeping in view the demand of passengers. It has been decided that Howrah-Ahmedabad Special  ( 02834/02833) and  Rourkela-Bhubaneswar Special ( 02861/02862)  will stop at Bamra while another train Rajendranagar-Durg Special (03288/03287) will stop at Bamra as well as Bagdehi, also in Odisha  on an experimental basis upto August 31. The decision will be implemented from Sunday. According to a schedule released by the office of chief passenger transportation manager ( ( CPTM),  the Howrah-Ahmedabad Special which runs via Tatanagar railway station will arrive at Bamra at 6.54 am and will depart at 6.55 am. In the opposite direction, the Ahmedabad-Howrah Special will arrive at Bamra at 5.54 am and will depart at 5.55 am. The Rourkela-Bhubaneswar Special will arrive at Bamra at 6.11 am and depart at 6.12 am. In the opposite direction, the Bhubaneswar-Rourkela Special will arrive at Bamra at 8.01pm and will depart at 8.02 pm. The Rajendranagar-Durg Special will arrive at Bamra at 12.09 pm and Bagdehi at 12.20 pm . In both the stations the train will have a stoppage of one minute. In the opposite direction, the Durg-Rajendranagar Special will arrive Bagdehi at 1.57 pm and Bamra at 2.08 pm. In the return direction too the train will have stoppages of one minute at both the stations. On getting a good response the stoppages would be made permanent, said a SER spokesman. SER registers remarkable growth in freight earning South Eastern Railway has loaded 64.96 million tonnes ( MT ) of freight in the first four months i.e. April to July of the current financial year ( 2021-22), registering a growth of 42.08 per cent in comparison with the corresponding period of last financial year. There is also a rise of 49.44 per cent in originating freight revenue in comparison to the first four months of the last fiscal. During April to July 2021, the revenue generation from originating freight loading was Rs 5327.54 crores against Rs. 3565.03 crores in the same period of the previous year. The main commodities of freight led during the first four months of 2021-22 comprised iron-ore, coal, pig iron, finished steel, cement, fertilizer and petroleum products. SER has loaded 37.14 million tonnes of iron-ore during this period, which is 31 more than the corresponding period of previous fiscal. Despite the pandemic situation especially during the first two months of the current financial year, SER has continued with freight transportation to keep the supply chain intact and has registered a steady growth both in loading and revenue generation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
07-08-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma elephants begin migratory journey to Bengal ||Elephants at Dalma wildlife sanctuary have begun their annual migratory journey to Bengal as around a dozen left for the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura on Thursday. Other jumbos would also follow them as the elephants usually migrate to the neighbouring state in August-September. "The elephants have started moving to Bengal even though there is abundance of food and water at the sanctuary. Most of the elephants are presently scattered inside the sanctuary while a few are at the foothills,” a forester said. He added that food would not be an issue as ample vegetation grows along the migratory corridor. "The trackers spotted around a dozen elephants, including calves on the migration route to Bengal," the forester said on condition of anonymity. Villagers living along the corridors have been asked to be vigilant and not tease the elephants. The elephants migrate to Bengal via two designated corridors – one from Jhunjka, leading to Nutandih, and the other from Burudih, passing through Narsingpur, Dalapani, Suklara and Aamdapahari. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said most of the elephants are expected to leave the sanctuary this month. "Some elephants remain anchored at the sanctuary throughout the year as they don't migrate. The elephants would be back to their Dalma home by February-March next year," he added. Jumbos, who thrive in peaceful environments, had migrated early to Bengal in 2018 as well, owing to an encounter between Maoists and paramilitary forces that affected their normal schedule. Herds had also migrated to Bengal early (July) last year. Dalma elephants may extend their stay in the neighbouring state if water and food is found in abundance. They also stay anchored to a place on the return journey for the same reason. But usually, the pachyderms return to their abode in February-March. Depending upon their mood, jumbos may also go back home in January.Elephants kill man in Seraikela A 52-year-old old man was trampled to death by a herd of elephants in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan on Friday morning. The deceased, Kalicharan Mardi, along with his three children, had gone to Kanki jungles under Kandra thana to pluck leaves for goats when he came across the herd. His children ran away but Mardi was trampled by the elephants. He died on the spot. The forest team is bursting crackers to drive away the herd which is anchored at Kanki jungles for around a week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
07-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand announces Rs 50 lakh each for Salima, Nikki ||Impressed by the spirited  performance of the Indian women's hockey team in the Tokyo Olympics, chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday announced a reward of  Rs 50 lakh each to Salima Tete and Nikki Pradhan, two players from the state who were part of the squad. Announcing his appreciation on Twitter, he also said that the state government would also rebuild/ refurbish their houses  with concrete (pucca). "Even though our women hockey team missed out from winning bronze, they displayed an exceptional game during the Olympics. Our players (from Jharkhand) in the team also exhibited excellent performance. The state government has decided to give them Rs 50 lakh each and make their houses concrete (pucca) as a token of appreciation," Hemant's Hindi Tweet read in translation. Salima is from Simdega district, considered and the hockey nursery of Jharkhand. She is the third hockey player and the first woman from the district to have represented the country in the Olympics. In the past, the  legendary Michael Kindo and Sylvanus Dungung, both also from Simdega,  took part in the 1972 and 1980 Olympic Games respectively. For Nikki, Tokyo was her second consecutive participation in the Olympics. Despite a valiant comeback on Friday against Great Britan during the match for the Bronze, the  Indian women  lost the match 3-4.  However, the entire country hailed the team's efforts while putting up a spirited fight all through the tournament, especially after a poor start. Hockey Simdega president Manoj Konbegi hailed state government's announcement. "We welcome state government's announcement for the players. A few other states have also made similar announcements for their players. The entire nation, specially Jharkhand Hockey is waiting to welcome their players back home. Yes, we missed on the Bronze, but this team and its performance will be etched in history and act as an impetus for revival of  hockey among girls," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
07-08-2021||Jharkhand||Chhattisgarh receives 10 national awards for excellent performance in procurement of forest products ||Chhattisgarh on Friday received 10 national awards for excellent performance in procurement, processing and marketing of forest products and also for new products and innovations. The state topped in eight categories in procurement, processing and marketing of minor forest products and implementation of the Van Dhan Yojana and was conferred two awards for new products and innovations by the Tribal Cooperative Marketing Federation of India. Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda presented the awards to Chhattisgarh during a virtual function in New Delhi organised on the 34th foundation day of the federation. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel congratulated forest minister Mohammad Akbar and all the officials and employees of forest department as well as the self-help groups engaged in collection and processing of forest produces for the achievement. Baghel said that Chhattisgarh has set a new record by purchasing maximum forest produce in the country. “The procurement of minor forest produce from tribals at maximum support price has played an important role in providing employment to tribals and forest dwellers and improving their economic condition during the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. The Chhattisgarh State Minor Forest Produce Association is engaged in collection of forest produces. Chhattisgarh bagged the first positions for inclusion of maximum number of forest products under the minimum support price scheme for minor forest produce in 2020-21, for procurement of minor forest produce at the highest price using state as well as central government funds, maximum utilisation of the funds sanctioned in 2020-21, completion of maximum survey under the Van Dhan Yojana, for maximum training for forest development centre clusters, for manufacturing maximum products through value addition and for maximum sale of products after value addition. Under the “new product and innovation” category, Chhattisgarh was awarded for the innovative manufacturing of sanitiser from mahua tree and for producing new products from tamarind. Fifty-two types of minor forest produces have been included under the MSP scheme of Chhattisgarh, followed by Maharashtra, which has 21 products included under its scheme. Chhattisgarh procured minor forest produce at maximum value worth Rs 180.51 crore utilising central funds, followed by Andhra Pradesh, which came second by procuring products worth Rs 4.51 crore. Similarly, for procurement of minor forest produce from central and state government funds, Chhattisgarh bagged top spot by buying products worth Rs 1,173 crore, while Odisha stood second by procuring produces worth Rs 30.32 crore. In the category of maximum utilisation of funds in 2020-21, Chhattisgarh had utilised Rs 127.09 crore and second place Odisha Rs 30.32 crore. For completing the maximum survey under the Van Dhan Yojana, Chhattisgarh bagged the first place followed by Nagaland. In the category of providing maximum training to Van Dhan Vikas Kendra clusters, Chhattisgarh got the first place, followed by Nagaland. In the category of manufacturing maximum products through value addition, Chhattisgarh got top spot for manufacturing 121 products while Maharashtra came second with 120 products. Similarly, under the category of maximum sale of products after value addition, Chhattisgarh got top spot for selling products worth Rs 4.24 crore and Manipur came second with sale of products worth Rs 1.98 crore. Under the category of new products and innovations, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra were jointly awarded for production of sanitisers from mahua. Besides, Chhattisgarh was awarded for the innovative product called Tamarind Chaska. Around 44 per cent of the area in Chhattisgarh is covered by forests and the major source of livelihood for the forest dwellers is the collection of forest produce. More than six lakh forest produce collectors have benefited from the minimum support price scheme of the state government which buys 52 minor forest produces instead of the earlier seven. For the last two years, Chhattisgarh has maintained the top rank among states in procurement of forest produce. The forest produces are being procured through 4,785 women self-help groups in the state. More than 13 lakh poor and tribal people engaged in minor forest produce collection are earning an additional income of Rs 501.70 crore per annum, sources said. As many as 139 Van Dhan Vikas Kendras have been established in the state for primary processing of minor forest produce and nearly 17,424 beneficiaries are getting the benefit, they said. Around 70 Van Dhan Vikas Kendra are engaged in processing minor forest produce as herbal products and these products are being sold under Chhattisgarh Herbals on e-commerce platforms like Amazon. Chhattisgarh Herbals, which was established as a nationwide brand in 2021-22, has set a target to sell products worth Rs 10 crore in 2021-22, officials said. The sale will benefit about 5,000 members of women self-help groups engaged in the processing work, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
