08-08-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad: CBI team recreates crime scene of judge's death again ||The 20-member CBI team investigating judge Uttam Anand murder case of July 28 on Sunday recreated the crime scene for the second consecutive day. The focus of the investigation of the crime scene recreation and 3D laser scanning was on the auto speed measurement, the angle on which the auto took a truck while it hit the judge to ascertain whether it was an intention diversion to hit the judge or natural diversion. The CBI team which reached the crime spot near the golf ground in the early morning along with arrested auto driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice, Rahul Verma at around 5 am recreated the crime scene this time almost at the same with the same auto rickshaw through which the judge was hit on July 28. The 3D laser scanning of the entire scene recreation was also carried out for the second time on Sunday with 3D laser cameras. Earlier, the seized auto rickshaw lying at Dhanbad police station was brought to the crime spot. The CBI team also carried out the design study of the road using the 3D AutoCAD software with which the state SIT team also carried out the road design, slap and slant analysis on July 31 while carrying out investigation with the help of the road construction department team. The CBI team members however evaded media interaction during the crime scene recreation. The district police team accompanying the CBI team however removed all the vehicles lying near the crime scene to facilitate the better recreation of the incident almost in similar fashion in which the incident took place on July 28. A one way traffic arrangement was also enforced by the police during the crime scene recreation by CBI to ensure hassle free completion of the entire process. Notably, the CBI team led by Additional Superintendent of Police Vipin Kumar Shukla which reached Dhanbad on August 5 earlier questioned the several persons including the doctors and other medical staff of SNMMCH where the judge was admitted after being hit by the auto rickshaw. The team also took on remand the two arrested persons, including Auto driver, Lakhan Verma and his accomplice, Rahul Verma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
08-08-2021||Jharkhand||Environmentalist Jamuna Tudu to tie rakhis to over 100 trees on Raksha Bandhan ||Environmentalist Jamuna Tudu and her team will tie rakhis to over 100 trees at Sunsunia jungles in Chalulia block of East Singhbhum on Raksha Bandhan. The members of Van Suraksha Samiti (VSS), which is led by Jamuna, will shortly make rakhis at their homes while some would be bought from the market in Chakulia, around 90m km from Jamshedpur. "We tie rakhi to trees every year. But this Raksha Bandhan we have a target to cross the 100 mark. We tie rakhis to the trees for their well being. It also sends a message about the importance of protecting the environment,"Jamuna, a Padma Shri awardee said over phone from her village Maturkham. She added they would adopt the required Covid-19 protocols while celebrating Raksha Bandhan. All members will wear masks and maintain social distancing. "Long strings will be used for tying rakhis to trees. Generally we tie rakhis to around 65-70 trees but this time it is going to be different," the feisty tribal promised. According to her, they will also invite guests on the occasion and take pledge to continue protecting the jungles with more vigour and determination. "Some of VSS members would also speak about the environment and the need to protect it. Raksha Bandhan is an occasion we look forward to," the green crusader said. Formed in 1998, the Samiti is currently limited to East Singhbhum. It has over 300 women members in the district, including Bahragora, Ghatshila, Potka, Patamda and Dhalbhumgarh. VSS committees have also been formed in Dumka, Giridih, Godda and Pakur. Known as Lady Tarzan for the ferocity with which she fights the timber mafia, Jamuna added she feels immensely happy to see tree felling come down. "However, we would not sit down and continue to fight the timber mafia. Laxity on our part would not help the cause for which we are fighting," she pointed out. Born in Odisha, Jamuna settled in Muturkham after marriage. Surrounded by 50 hectares of forest land, Muturkham was plagued by the forest mafia and poachers before she decided to take the matter in her hands. The Samiti has intensified daily patrolling in  Beladih, Madhupur, Laubera, Dhalukdingha, Baraghat and Muhulbera forests. The members patrol the forest on rotation from early morning to late evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
08-08-2021||Jharkhand||Breastfeeding saves lives, it is the best gift to your child||Breastfeeding, within the first hour of life, is recognised as the most important intervention for infant survival. The first week of August every year is celebrated as the World Breastfeeding Week. These seven days aim to highlight the huge benefits that breastfeeding can bring to the health, survival, and wellbeing of babies, and for mother’s health. The Lancet Journal in 2016 provided evidence that breastfeeding can raise Intelligent Quotient (IQ) by 3 points in all children and is associated with higher income in adult life. Optimal breastfeeding means that all newborns are initiated breastfeeding within one hour of the birth and are exclusively breastfed for the first six months (even water or honey or anything except mothers’ breastmilk should not be given). Further, after 6 months along with introduction of semi-solid foods; breastfeeding should be continued for two years or beyond. Global Scientists indicate that undernutrition is a predominant risk factor for 62 percent of all under- 5 year deaths in India. WHO 2021 suggests that over 820 000 children's lives could be saved every year among children under 5 years, if all children 0–23 months were optimally breastfed. Jharkhand envisages a state, where the breastfeeding should be optimally high to ensure survival, growth, and care for children to effectively combat the high rate of malnutrition, mortality and morbidity among children and also remain protective to Covid-19 pandemic. Overall, there has been little improvement in nutrition outcomes in Jharkhand between 2006 and 2016. While the initiation of breastfeeding indicators shows substantial improvement since past 10 years, many infants are still deprived of the highly nutritious first milk (colostrum) and the antibodies it contains, still all children are not initiated breastfeeding within 1 hour, many are fed water, animal milk, honey etc. which is not good for the health of the newborns. Breastfeeding practices in Jharkhand need further improvement to save more lives and extend benefits to the children and breastfeeding is not the sole responsibility of the mother. The only ideal food for a child below 6 months is mother’s breast milk. It is safe, clean and contains antibodies which help protect against many common childhood illnesses. Breastmilk not only provides all the energy and nutrients that the babies need for the first months of life, but also provides up to half or more of a child’s nutritional needs during the first year, and up to one third during the second year of life. Current evidences suggests that breastmilk is not likely to give vertical transmission of viral infection in new-born and infants. Rather, high prevalence of antibodies in breastmilk might lead to passive immunity in many breastfed infants and may serve as protection against Covid-19. This means that continuing to breastfeed is the best way to fight the virus and protect your baby. Exclusively Breastfed children also more intelligent and are less likely to be overweight and less prone to have diabetes later in life. Women who breastfeed also have a reduced risk of breast and ovarian cancers. Right now, in COVID-19 pandemic, many mothers and parents are confused whether they should breastfeed their children or not. Let me tell you a few things that you can do if you are worried: Ensure good hygiene So far, the virus has not been found in breastmilk and all mothers are advised to continue breastfeeding, while practicing good hygiene during feeding. Breastfeeding should be promoted irrespective of the mother’s or baby’s Covid status. In case, mother is Covid positive, she must continue breastfeeding following the 3 Ws mantra- wear a mask during feeding; wash hands with soap before and after touching the baby; and wipe and disinfect surfaces regularly. Mother and the baby should never be separated and skin to skin contact should be encouraged. If the mother is critically ill, is hospitalized or is critical with Covid, she can express the breastmilk (in a bowl) after washing hands for at least 40 seconds and while wearing a mask. Expressed breast milk can be fed to her own baby without pasteurization at room temperature for up to 4 hours. Expressed milk should be fed using a clean bowl and spoon. Father or any other elder in the family can help in breastmilk feeding. Mothers should be encouraged to breastfeed and here, the family support and encouragement is very important. If a mother does fall ill with symptoms of fever, cough or difficulty in breathing, medical care should be sought and follow instructions from a health care provider. Further as the infants grow, their nutrient and diet need also increases. After the first 6 months of life, an infant’s nutrient demands start to exceed what breastmilk alone can provide. To keep up with these growing demands, it is recommended to begin giving semi solid food to children and continue breastfeeding upto 2 years at least. The right to adequate nutrition is a fundamental right for every child. I further appeal to all officials, decision makers, hospital staff, health workers must protect, promote, and support breastfeeding and not promote baby foods which is a violation of the Government of India Infant Milk Substitute Act, 2003. Breast Milk indeed is the best milk for your babies. As nothing can be more safer and nutritious than that. Important days like the first week of August marks as World Breastfeeding week however, we need 52 breastfeeding weeks for promotion of breast-feeding round the year. (The writer is women, child development and social security minister of Jharkhand)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
08-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town traders in a fix over trade licence norm||The state government rule with regard to the holding tax receipt being mandatory for issuing trade licenses is weighing heavy on a large number of traders of the district and particularly those who are operating their businesses from rented outlets. Lack of a holding tax receipt from landlords is deterring the traders from applying for trade licenses. Due to lack of trade license the traders are unable to open the commercial accounts in banks since a trade license is mandatory for opening of such accounts. The agitated Dhanbad traders are also holding the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) responsible for the situation as a large number of them who have already submitted the fees for the trade license during the camps organized by DMC from February 12 to February 23 in different branch office of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry are yet to get their trade license till date. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Md Sohrab, former president of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce who sent a tweet to Chief Minister Hemant Soren requesting him to intervene in issue and make changes in norms said, “Traders of the district have been assured by the Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner, Satyendra Kumar earlier this year that there will no requirement of holding tax receipt for those operating  their business from rented outlets and convinced us to apply for trade license in camps.” “Believing his promise, traders under the banner of Federation of Dhanbad Zila chamber of commerce provided the space at its different offices for organising trade license camps,” claimed Sohrab. “Six months after the camps, now we are feeling cheated as when we are demanding a trade license from DMC they have completely changed their earlier stand and claim that as per rule only those who can submit their holding receipt can be provided a trade license,” said Soharab. Echoing sentiments, Prabhat Surolia, President of Bank More Chamber of Commerce said, “many of the landlords of the shop owners despite having the holding tax or allotted holding numbers are not willing to share the same with the tenant shop keepers due to ignorance or other issues while the landlords of many shopkeepers have are not in possession of holding numbers at all so how can the shopkeepers be deprived of their due trade license due to fault of their land lords” Amit Sahu, president of Jharia Chamber of Commerce said “The private agency hired by DMC for issuance of trade license is now making phone calls to traders who have submitted the trade license fee during the DMC camps of February but could not submit the holding tax due to their landlords fault,” and added that how can the traders submit the same holding receipt to the DMC when their landlords do not have the receipt as tenants can’t have their own holding receipt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
08-08-2021||Jharkhand||New Adityapur industry outfit chief promises better times||Santosh Khaitan, the newly elected president of Adityapur Small Industries Association ( ASIA ), the state's largest and oldest industry outfit promised development of Adityapur industrial area, a hub of around 1,200-odd micro, small and medium enterprises ( MSME ) in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district. Soon after winning the keenly contested biennial polls of the industry outfit on Saturday, Khaitan told The Telegraph Online that all his actions would be focussed on development of industries and infrastructure at Adityapur, the state's largest industry hope. Much emphasis would also be laid on exploring opportunities for exporting industrial products manufactured in Adityapur-based industries to other countries. "Currently, a couple of industries have been exporting their products to other countries. We will focus and promote foreign tie-ups for technology transfer and product sale. We will also get in touch with various export promotion councils which function under the Union commerce ministry for export promotion," said Khaitan adding that several industrial units operating at Adityapur industrial area have potential for exporting their products but they lack necessary knowledge and know- how. According to Khaitan, the Covid-19 induced pandemic and the series of lockdowns has posed several challenges for industries. But, he hoped that things will change for the better in the days to come. In an interesting contest, Khaitan, who served the previous committee as a vice-president defeated his rival Rajiv Ranjan, also a vice-president in the previous committee, by a margin of 128 votes. The results of the biennial polls, held through a secret ballot, were declared late on Saturday evening. For the first time the ASIA biennial polls took place for electing the president only. Those in the other 10 posts of office-bearers of the industry outfit were earlier elected unopposed. Rajiv Ranjan got 133 votes while Santosh Khaitan polled 261 votes. Four votes were rejected as they were found invalid. Khaitan said that he would also ensure that the industrialists and entrepreneurs in Adityapur industrial area get the best facilities. The new ASIA team is headed by Santosh Khaitan as president. Dasrath Upadhyay was elected as the general secretary while Ratan Lal Gupta was elected as the treasurer, unopposed. The office bearers of the executive body of ASIA also comprises four vice-presidents and four secretaries - all elected unopposed. The four elected vice- presidents included Deepak Dokania, Sudhir Kumar Singh,  Santokh Singh and K Murlidharan. The four new secretaries included Mandeep Singh, Ashok Gupta, Divyanshu Sinha and Tapas Kumar Sahu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
08-08-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city truckers call for indefinite strike ||The Jamshedpur Truck and Trailer Owners Association have called for a 'Chakka Jam' from August 10, in support of their various demands. Movement of around 3000 heavy vehicles including trucks, trailers and dumpers will come to a grinding halt. Members of the association met here on Sunday to chalk out a strategy of the indefinite stir. "The rise in diesel prices has led to a huge business loss for us. Diesel prices have crossed Rs 95 in Jamshedpur while in several other states including neighbouring Bihar diesel prices have touched around Rs 100. The hike in prices of diesel coupled with no increase in freight and transportation charges by our vendors has taken a heavy toll on our business," explained Hassan Khan, vice- president of Jamshedpur Truck and Trailer Owners Association. He went on to say that if such a situation continues many truck owners would be compelled to withdraw from the business. There are about 2,000 operators who run their heavy vehicles for transporting steel metal, billets and TMT bars from Tata Steel and other companies to different parts of the country. The transporters outfit had earlier on Friday approached the East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar and had submitted a memorandum with the latter's office highlighting their demands. The association through a memorandum also apprised the state transport minister Champai Soren, about their difficulties. The association asked all the truck and trailer owners to park their vehicles at Transport Nagar in Mango and participate in the indefinite agitation. Transport department sources said the agitation would affect movement of raw-materials as well as finished products from the companies here to various parts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
08-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: CRPF jawan dies during training||Hazaribagh: A 25-year-old CRPF jawan, Simranjeet Singh, who was resident of Kedli Bazar area under Huntergunj block in Chatra died after falling sick during training. According to sources, four jawans including Singh fell unconscious during training in Jaipur and were immediately shifted to hospital. The three other jawans regained their consciousness but Singh's condition kept deteriorating. On Saturday evening, his death sparked grief in his hometown. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: More than 350 people including rickshaw pullers, beggars, street dwellers and daily earners enjoyed a wide variety of delicacies, including puri, potato and pointed gourd vegetable, etc during a grand feast organised by a group of over 300 social workers, under the banner of Rising Charitable Trust at Rajendra Park of Dhanbad on Sunday. The occasion was the 100th day of the monthly feast programme being organised by the group for the last nine years for the street dwellers of Dhanbad. The organisers also decided to extend the monthly feast programme to twice in a month. (Praduman Choubey) Hazaribagh: Two groups engaged in war of words took an ugly turn on Sunday morning when one of the youths fired on another which missed the target hitting the shutter of a closed shop at the heart of the town in Jhanda Chowk, only 50m away from Sadar police station. Subdivsional police officer Mahesh Prajapati reached the site immediately with a team of police officers and started a raid to nab the youths. Later by the evening, five youths were rounded up on suspicion and their interrogation had begun. Ranchi: Taking cognizance of the lathicharge on JAC examinees in Dhanbad on Friday by a team led by SDM Surendra Kumar, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) on Saturday shot a letter to deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh seeking detailed report of the incident and administrative probe within three days. Upping its ante against the state government and Dhanbad district administration, Opposition BJP on the other hand announced to send a three member delegation to Dhanbad for fact-finding mission and demanded FIR against SDM Kumar. “Through social media, we have come to know about the lathicharge on minor students during their peaceful and silent protest in Dhanbad yesterday. The SDM has lathicharged many students to stop their protest as per the videos which had gone viral on social media and it was clearly evident that many juveniles sustained injuries. Hence, it is directed to inform the Commission with detailed report of the administrative probe and action taken as per the provisions of the law along with the disposition/submissions of the protesting students and other relevant documents within 3 days,” read the letter. (Our correspondent) Jamshedpur: The police and paramilitary forces have begun de-mining operation in the Dalma hills from Sunday morning after unearthing over a dozen landmines on Saturday. The police felt the de-mining operation as an urgent need because such subversive act like planting landmines is not only dangerous for the police and paramilitary forces, but also risky for the wild elephants as well as the forest department staff as Dalma is also an elephant sanctuary. "It was for the first time that serial landmines were detected in the Dalma hills. We suspect that a CPI-Maoist's squad led by the outfit's Purulia commander Akaash might have planted so many landmines in the hills. We have begun a de-mining operation on Sunday as we assume that the outlawed naxal outfit must have planted more such serial landmines in other spots in the hills,” said Subhash Chandra Jat, superintendent of police (City) who is doubling up as SP (Rural) while talking to The Telegraph Online. (Kumud Jenamani)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
08-08-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi to have direct  flights to Pune by end of this month||After direct flights to Lucknow and Bhubaneshwar, Ranchi is set to get a new flight connecting the state capital to Pune, a city which has a sizeable population of students and working professionals from Jharkhand but did not have direct air connectivity with the state, officials from the Birsa Munda Airport said on Sunday. Two private airlines – Indigo and Spicejet – have offered to start direct flights between Ranchi and Pune by the end of August, airport director Vinod Sharma said. While the exact dates and schedule of the flights are not final yet, it is confirmed that Ranchi will get direct air connectivity with Pune this month itself, Sharma added. “We have received proposals from Indigo Airlines and Spicejet for direct flights to Pune. Passenger flight services from here to Pune are likely to start in the last week of August,” said Sharma. Several students and working professionals, especially those employed  with IT firms, travel regularly from their hometowns in Jharkhand to Pune. So far, these frequent travellers had to either travel by trains or take connecting flights either via Mumbai, Bangalore or New Delhi, airport officials said. Connecting flights, officials said, were not only more time consuming, but also more expensive than direct flights. Tickets may cost around Rs 5,000 for direct flights to Pune from Ranchi, sources said, claiming that the first Indigo Airline’s flight from Ranchi to Pune was likely to take off on August 21, departing  around 2pm and reaching  Pune around 4pm. Indigo Airlines has already started direct flights to Lucknow, while Alliance Air has launched flight services connecting Kolkata, Ranchi and Bhubaneshwar. Earlier this year, Ranchi also got new flights to Ahmedabad and Chennai. The Airport Advisory Committee (AAI) in Ranchi and trade bodies have been pressing for new flights to tier- two cities across India with the hope that it may grow business prospects. At a meeting of the transport department, it was decided that the government will focus on connecting Ranchi to Trivandrum, Patna, Guwahati, Chandigarh and other tier two cities. At present, at least 20 flights connect Ranchi to New Delhi, Bangalore, Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad. The Birsa Munda Airport, which bagged the top position in Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) last year, at present has a 75 meter basic strip, which is the minimum length required for any airport. The State capital was likely to get more flights earlier this year, but the second wave of Covid-19 caused a delay in the process, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
08-08-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1.15 lakh get vaccinated in Jharkhand ||Jharkhand on Saturday vaccinated more than 1.15 lakh residents against Covid-19 as over 1,086 session sites remained operational across the state, inoculating at least 100 residents each on average, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 92,071 residents were administered the first dose of vaccine on Saturday, while at least 24,999 received their second jab. Almost 85,000 beneficiaries were  in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. More than 20,000 residents were vaccinated at 83 session sites across Ranchi, while 85 session sites inoculated over 18,000 residents in East Singhbhum, as per the Co-Win portal. At least 68 session sites opened their doors for beneficiaries in Dhanbad on Saturday and more than 11,000 residents got vaccinated. Vaccine figures shared by the NHM on Saturday evening highlighted that the state had more than 4 lakh doses in stock, enough to last about four days. Jharkhand has so far received 1,01,66,910 Covishield and Covaxin doses from the Centre and inoculated 1,00,99,082 residents by utilizing the vaccines sent from the Centre and additional Sputnik V doses purchased separately by private hospitals. Jharkhand on Saturday reported another confirmed case of Covid-induced mucormycosis, which took the total count of confirmed black fungus cases to 105, data released by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) highlighted. The fresh case was reported in Ranchi, the worst-affected district which has reported 41 confirmed cases of black fungus and at least 11 fatalities caused by the fungal infection. According to IDSP, Jharkhand has also reported 59 suspected cases of this fungal infection, while at least 31 patients suffering from black fungus have died in the state so far. Meanwhile, the active caseload of Covid-19 dropped further down to 221 in Jharkhand on Saturday as the state reported at least 42 Covid recoveries against 37 fresh cases of infection, the daily Covid-19 bulletin released by the NHM highlighted. However, the active caseload witnessed a spike in Ranchi, Dhanbad and Bokaro. The count of active cases increased in Ranchi for the second day in a row as at least nine fresh cases were reported in the district against only five recoveries. As many as 61 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi by the end of Saturday, stated the NHM bulletin. The active caseload also rose to 8 in Bokaro as seven fresh cases were reported there against five recoveries, while four cases against one recovery took the active caseload in Dhanbad to 22. At least 14 of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report fresh Covid cases on the day. As per government data, East Singhbhum reported three cases against the same number of recoveries and the active caseload there remained 15. No Covid casualties were reported in the state on Saturday and the toll remained 5130, the NHM bulletin further stated. Jharkhand on Saturday tested swab samples of 52,947 residents and 0.06 per cent of them were found infected by coronavirus. So far, over 3.47 lakh people have been infected by the virus in the state and 98.45 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
08-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Police recover 14 landmines from Dalma hills ||Jamshedpur: In a significant breakthrough against rebels, the police and paramilitary forces recovered 14 landmines from Dalma hills on Saturday evening. The landmines were detected during a special anti-insurgency operation carried out by East Singhbhum district police and paramilitary forces in the Bodam thana area of Dalma about 30km away from the heart of the city. Superintendent of police (City) Subhash Chandra Jat, who is also in-charge as SP (Rural) confirmed about the recovery of the landmines from Dalma hills. "During a special operation in Dalma hills, the police and paramilitary forces detected landmines Bodam thana area of the hills. There were in all 14 landmines, weighing six kgs each, suspected to have been planted by the outlawed naxal outfit CPI (Maoist) targetting the paramilitary forces, "said Jat, adding that all those IEDs have been defused. (Kumud Jenamani) Hazaribagh: A truck overloaded with iron met an accident on GT road in Danua Ghati of Chouparan killing the driver and cleaner on the spot. Police officials said the truck was travelling at a high speed while crossing Danua Ghati known for accidents. Due to high speed, driver Umesh Kumar, a resident of Champaran in Bihar lost control of the vehicle hitting the divider. Due to collision and overload, the truck got dismantled. Driver Umesh and cleaner Chandrashekhar Kumar died on the spot. Police took the dead bodies and sent it for postmortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
08-08-2021||Jharkhand||Problems of para-teachers will be addressed soon: Jagarnath Mahato ||Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahato on Saturday assured para-teachers that their demands for regularisation of service and proper payscale will be addressed soon. After holding a meeting with a delegation of para-teachers at his official residence in Ranchi on Saturday, Mahato told the media: “It has been decided in today’s meeting that the problems of para-teachers would be addressed and solved in the same manner as it was done in Bihar.” During the meeting, the para-teachers demanded that their service be regularised in the same way the Bihar government did it for their Siksha Mitras and Mahato agreed. “Once that is done and our services are regularised, we shall get a monthly salary beginning from about Rs 25,000,” said Hrishikesh Pathak, a para-teacher leader who attended the meeting. “It was a fruitful meeting held in a friendly atmosphere and we have made significant progress,” the minister said, adding that the final decision on pay scale would be taken in another meeting on August 18. “The norms have now been decided and we will finalise the payscale on August 18,” Mahato further said, adding that he would work out the details with senior departmental officials. “In Bihar, these teachers were asked to clear an evaluation test in three chances,” said Santu Singh, a para-teacher who was present at the meeting, adding that the Bihar teachers were also given payscales according to their qualifications. The meeting was also attended by school education secretary Rajesh Sharma and primary education director Shailesh Chourasia. The government had engaged the para-teachers in 2000 for schools that faced an acute shortage of teachers by paying a fixed monthly remuneration. At present, around 65,000 para-teachers are working on a monthly remuneration ranging between Rs 12,000 and Rs 15,000, depending on their qualifications.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
08-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Academic Council rules out demand for reassessment of unsuccessful students||The Jharkhand Academic Council on Friday ruled out the demand for reassessment of unsuccessful Class X and intermediate students. The council conducts matriculation and intermediate examinations of institutions affiliated to the Jharkhand state board. Council chairperson Arbind Prasad Singh told The Telegraph that since there has been no physical examination this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it is not possible to carry out reassessment. “There has been no examination due to the Covid pandemic. Hence carrying out reassessment is not possible and the demand raised by students who failed is not justified. It is not possible to pass everybody and the results this year have been the best in the history of the state. The only option left for the unsuccessful students is to appear for the supplementary examination. It is the responsibility of all to guide the students in the right manner,” said Singh. He said any unsuccessful student can apply for the supplementary examination between August 7 (Saturday) and 16. “We have to seek permission from the state government for dates of the supplementary examinations. We are hopeful of conducting the examination in the first week of September,” said Singh. In the Class X exam, the pass percentage was 95.92, while 89.31 per cent passed the Intermediate examination. The average pass rate in the science stream was 86.89 per cent, arts had a pass percentage of 90.71, while in commerce it was 90.33 per cent. Singh said the results in matric and intermediate exams were the best in the history of the state. A senior council official said on the condition of anonymity that information about the supplementary examinations has been sent to all the high schools and intermediate colleges well in advance. “Students know about the supplementary examination. However, a handful of unsuccessful students are being incited by vested persons for their own political agenda. In fact, we will be announcing on Tuesday that students passing the supplementary examinations will not have it mentioned in their marksheet under special circumstances,” the  official said. Members of the RSS-affiliated Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad staged demonstrations in different parts of the state and burned effigies of chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday in protest against the alleged lathicharge on students in Dhanbad on Thursday. Police had to resort to lathicharge to disperse a section of ABVP protesters who had blocked the road near Randhi Verma Chowk in Dhanbad. Dhanbad sub-divisional magistrate Surendra Kumar reportedly ordered the lathicharge on Thursday and wielded the baton on nearly 100 unsuccessful intermediate students who were trying to forcibly enter the conference room at the district collectorate to meet health minister Banna Gupta, who is in-charge minister of the district, while he was holding a review meeting with senior officials. The police also detained some of the agitating students who allegedly tried to break furniture at the collectorate. They were released later in the evening. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) registrar Anu Choudhary on Saturday sent a letter to Dhanbad deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh to submit a detailed investigation report on the lathicharge incident within three days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
