09-08-2021||Jharkhand||Meet Rashmi, the first student from Birhor community to pass class 12||Rashmi, a member of the Birhor tribe which is on the verge of extinction, has become the first student from the community in Jharkhand's Ramgarh district to pass the higher secondary examination, a senior district official said. Rashmi Birhor is the first-generation student of her family at Birhor Tola in west Bokaro, which falls under Ramgarh district, to attend school and clear the class 12 board examination in the second division, Deputy Commissioner Madhavi Mishra said. The district administration is serious about uplifting the condition of the members of the primitive tribe. We will encourage her to pursue higher studies. Tata Steel has contributed in her achieving the feat, Mishra said. She was a student of St Robert School in Hazaribagh. Birhor is one of the primitive tribes that trace their origin to Jharkhand. There are nearly 11,000 people from the tribe residing in the state currently. The girl had passed her class 10 board examination two years back under Project Aakansha', supported by Tata Steel Foundation. The project, initiated in 2012, aims to bring about positive change in the lives of the vulnerable Tribal communities in the country by supporting the education of the children from these communities, especially girl children, a statement issued by Tata Steel Foundation said. "My parents want me to study hard and get better results in the future as I have enormous support from the Tata Steel Foundation, the statement quoted her as saying. Rashmi said her parents want her to keep moving forward, and never feel herself to be in a disadvantageous position. She intends to pursue a diploma course after having consulted her teachers and mentors at Tata Steel Foundation. " Project Aakansha has impacted several lives ever since and has 220 Birhor children enrolled under this project who are supported academically and counselled to encash on the learning they receive through formal education," the statement said. Earlier this month, a 16-year-old girl of the same tribe in Hazaribagh district had passed the matriculation examination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
09-08-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city celebrates International Day of the World's Indigenous Peoples||The steel city celebrated the International Day of the World's Indigenous Peoples on Monday with a bike rally, awareness programmes and donations for tribal upliftment. Adivasi Ekta Manch, a tribal frontal organisation took out a bike rally from Jamshedpur to Narga on NH-33, covering around 20 km. The members of the outfit first paid rich floral tributes at the statue of Tilka Majhi at the Dimna Chowk. Tilka Manjhi was a tribal freedom fighter. He was the first Adivasi leader from Santhal community who took up arms against the British in the year 1784. The bike rally was flagged off by JMM's Jugsalai legislator Mangal Kalindi. A separate function was organised on the premises of the district collectorate in Sakchi, where the deputy commissioner, Suraj Kumar, on behalf of the East Singhbhum unit of agriculture and animal husbandry department disbursed loans amounting around Rs 2.50 crore to various tribal beneficiaries including farmers. Baharagora MLA Samir Mohanty who was also present on the occasion donated an ambulance and a vehicle for hearse service from MLA Local Area Development Fund. Tribal people at a function organised at Karandih near the Tatanagar railway station also vowed to protect their indigenous identity and culture on the occasion of International Indigenous Day. Addressing the function, a tribal leader Ramesh Biruli expressed concern over the dwindling population of indigenous people in the state. “The number of tribals are decreasing which is a matter of concern. Jharkhand has always been the homeland of tribals, but at present they have been reduced to minority due to outsiders’ population,” he explained. Several tribal outfits undertook plantation work at Sundernagar , Mango and Galudih in Ghatshila sub-division. Ghatshila legislator Ramdas Soren extended his wishes to members of the tribal community living within and outside the state. The International Day of the World's Indigenous Peoples is observed on August 9 every year to raise awareness and protect the rights of the world's indigenous population. The event also recognizes the achievements and contributions that indigenous people make to improve world issues such as environmental protection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
09-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant dedicates day of the world's indigenous people to farmers ||On the occasion of International Day of the World's Indigenous Peoples on Monday, chief minister Hemant Soren handed over kisan credit cards to a group of farmers and rolled out a Mukhyamantri  Pashudhan Yojana by dedicating the special day to farmers. Soon after, benefits of various agricultural schemes of the state government were distributed among 2 lakh farmers across Jharkhand. Hemant also provided a letter of appreciation to Hazaribagh Krishi Bazar Samiti for being featured among the nation's top 10 samitis (mandis) for successful utilization of e-NAM, a Government of India-supported online market platform for agricultural trading. He also provided 50 vans to vegetable growers of Vegfed. Addressing the state-level programme at Project Building, Hemant said that all farmers of Jharkhand would henceforth be recognised as Birsa Kisan. He also promised to provide eggs in meals of children in government schools six days a week to fight malnourishment. “This is the land of the great Bhagwan Birsa Munda. Farmers are our annadata. Hence, we have decided to name them Birsa Kisan from now on. It is to give them a distinct identity among farmers in the country.” He explained that in Jharkhand the International Day of the World's Indigenous Peoples was dedicated to farmers as they are the backbone of the state and country. “Farmers are my government’s priority. Our aim is not just to assist in farming but set up a holistic ecosystem so that the tradition of farming is strengthened. Ironically, over the years, farmers have turned into labourers due to various challenges. My focus is to reverse that,” he said, adding that while the state was known for its mineral resources, his government’s priority was to look beyond it. “In the last 100 years, only minerals have been excavated by the rich from here to make others prosper. People here are still struggling for basic resources. Agriculture is one such thing which was once a tradition among every household in the village. It needs to be revived and strengthened in order to prosper,” he said. Agriculture secretary Abu Bakr Siddique said that in the last two months, the government had held special drives in all the districts to enroll farmers for kisan credit cards. “Of the 6,51,531 people enrolled, banks have approved cards for 1,23,405. The remaining will be approved gradually. About 38 lakh farmers don’t have KCC,” he said. About the pashudhan scheme, he said Rs 147.71 crore had been earmarked to provide welfare measures to 62,644 beneficiaries. Under the scheme, farmers will be provided all kinds of assistance for setting up diary, poultry or piggery. Among those present at the function were state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh, agriculture department officials and farmers. Patralekh spoke on the achievements of his department, especially the loan waiver scheme for farmers which was being implemented for the first time in Jharkhand. “Currently, farming contributes to 12 per cent of state’s GDP. We want to increase its contribution to 20 per cent," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
09-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC retain goalkeeper T.P. Rehenesh till 2024||Jamshedpur FC has retained T.P. Rehenesh as the goalkeeper after he signed a three-year extension with the club. The shot-stopper will be seen wearing the Jamshedpur colours up to May 2024. The 28-year-old from Kozhikode was delighted to continue playing under the tutelage of Owen Coyle. "I had a fantastic season with Jamshedpur FC and I had amazing support from the goalkeeping coach Ezequiel as well as the entire squad. I haven't been able to meet the fans personally, but the love they show for me and the club drives me to perform better every match and win for them. I am glad to continue here and I hope I can help to bring glory and trophies to the club in my time here -- the fans deserve it," Rehenesh said. Rehenesh was one of the top performers of JFC in the 2020-21 ISL season having made 54 saves in 19 matches (save percentage of 74 per cent) and 9 clean sheets. His performances brought him great praise from the fans who deservedly selected him as the Fans 'Player of the Season.' Head coach Owen Coyle was delighted to retain Rehenesh for the coming season as he said:"Every top team needs a goalkeeper with great command and instinct. There's no doubt that Rehenesh is one of the best goalkeepers in the country at the moment. He was outstanding in between the sticks and I expect him to take the same form into next season as well as to help us to the playoffs." Rehenesh has made a total of 147 club appearances with a total of 44 clean sheets since making his debut with ONGC in the I League in 2012. He went on to represent Rangdajied, Shillong Lajong, East Bengal, Northeast United and Kerala Blasters before joining Jamshedpur FC in 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
09-08-2021||Jharkhand||Former employees of closed Sindri factory prep for legal battle||The widows of the closed Fertilizer Corporation of India employees, living in the quarters leased out to their husbands after the closure of the Sindri Factory, have been served eviction notices by the company. A meeting of  FCI VSS Employees Welfare Association of former employees of Sindri Fertilizer factory was held on Monday during which a three member committee including Uma Shankar Singh, R.C. Prasad and Surendra Shah were constituted to explore legal options to tackle the problem arising out of the eviction notice given by FCI to 217 widows of deceased former employees. The meeting held under the chairmanship of Sewa Singh, former Public Relation Officer of FCI Sindri unit further also decided to raise the issue with the President of India, Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi by writing letters to them on Tuesday. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, Sewa Singh who is also the president of FCI VSS employees association said, “The dual policy of FCI at its two different locations is beyond comprehension as over 40 widows of former employees of its Gorkharpur unit who are also living in FCI quarters allotted to their husband have not been served notice as that to 217 widows of FCI Sindri unit and rather their lease amount is also being realised by FCI regularly.” Around 2000 employees of FCI Sindri unit who lost their jobs on December 31, 2002 due to the closure of the factory have been provided short duration leases of quarters of the company in which they were living. The lease of 11 months which was renewed subsequently was granted following the district administration’s intervention in 2003 after protests carried out by them when all the former employees were served eviction notices after the closure of the factory. "The retirement benefits of each quarter allottees ranging from Rs 90, 000 to Rs 4.5lakh have been withheld by FCI in the name of security deposits for the lease for which no interest is provided to them and instead they are charged an annual amount in the name of getting electricity and water supply," said Singh and added that they are demanding for the long period of lease instead of 11 months. On July 12, 2018, the former employees of FCI under the banner of FCI VSS Employees Welfare Association also launched a gherao of the FCI office in Sindri over the same issue over the lease transfer of quarters to dependents of deceased employees during which some assurance was given to send a proposal to ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers in this regard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
09-08-2021||Jharkhand||58-year-old walks 50km to spread Covid awareness||Jayant Kumar Bhuyan, an international chess arbiter, walked 50km to spread awareness about Covid-19 and also thanked doctors and nurses for their relentless effort during the pandemic. Bhuyan, 58, a Jamshedpur resident, started his walk from near the JRD Tata Sports Complex at 7am on Monday and walked till Rargaon, a village along the NH 33. He visited 10 villages along the way to tell rurals about the importance of wearing masks, using sanitisers and maintaining social distance. He also distributed 100 masks among the villagers. He was seen-off by Jharkhand highest blood donor (158 times) Surendra Kumar Jha and FIDE (Federation International des Echecs) arbiter Chandan Kumar Prasad. Bhuyan reached his destination at about 3pm and returned to the steel city by bus. "It was a tiring journey to say the least. The heat was unbearable but I continued walking since I thought my effort stands nowhere in comparison to the tireless job done by our doctors and nurses who put their lives at risk while treating Covid patients," Bhuyan, chief coach at Tata Chess Centre said. According to him, it is one year since his mother passed away due to Covid after undergoing treatment at Tata Main Hospital for 20 days. "I have seen the doctors and nurses operating at the hospital. They tried their best to save my mother but their effort proved futile. Now the doctors are talking about the third wave and ready to take risks yet again," Bhuyan, who loves trekking, added. He thanked Tata Steel sports wing for giving him an opportunity to work at the Covid testing testing centre at JRD Tata Sports Complex. "I got motivated during my stint at the testing centre. I request the state government to please declare those who have died due to the virus as Covid warriors since doctors and society have learnt a lot because of their demise," Bhuyan signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
09-08-2021||Jharkhand||Deceased civic workers' kin  protest job delay in Dhanbad||Dependents of 50 deceased employees of coal town civic body Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA) who are awaiting for jobs on compassionate grounds, staged a day-long dharna at its headquarters on Monday. The protesters, who have lost their family members during the service period, have planned a fast unto death programme scheduled to start from Tuesday. The dependents, including some of such candidates who have been assured employment in writing on June 23, 2017 by the then Managing Director of JMADA, Dharnidhar Mandal following an agreement held with him under the mediation of then Tundi MLA, Late Rajkishore Mahto charged the present administration of backtracking on its promise. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Md Ajharuddih Khan, 32, son of Md Mujibuddin, a disinfector of JMADA who died during his service period said, “We have duly submitted applications as per the laid provision of job on compassionate ground to JMADA administration much ahead of agreement held with JMADA MD in 2017 who in turn assured us to launch the employment process of dependents of deceased employees since January 2018, but it is yet to begin.” “After several subsequent meetings with JMADA administration we have been  told that as JMADA is passing through financial constraints there is no scope for new employment,” said Ajharuddin and added that the fact is contrary as the JMADA’s financial condition has improved recently due to a threefold increase in the water rentals as well as  due to regular payment of bazar fee by the companies like BCCL. Indresh Shukla, executive manager cum technical member of JMADA said, “All recruitments, including fresh recruitments and recruitments on compassionate ground are lying pending since 2009 in JMADA due to its extremely poor financial condition but as there is some improvement in financial condition since a few months we are now considering to prepare a fresh list by taking application from the dependents of all deceased employees as the number of such job seeking dependents may have increased after 2017 agreement.” “After preparing the list we will recruit some of the skilled dependents as we are facing shortage of plumbers, fitter, electricians and mechanics etc, ”said Shukla.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
09-08-2021||Jharkhand||Over 70,000 get vaccinated in Jharkhand   ||Jharkhand on Sunday vaccinated more than 70,000 residents against Covid-19 with over 900 session sites remaining operational across the 24 districts, while at least 1 lakh doses of Covishield were distributed among districts to continue the immunisation drive, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data shared by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccines to as many as 53,531 residents, while the second jab was administered to 17,918 beneficiaries. More than 50,000 beneficiaries were between 18 and 44 years. Ranchi got the highest share of 7,000 doses from the 1 lakh Covishield vaccines distributed among districts, while Dhanbad and East Singhbhum received the second highest share of 6,250 doses each, a report from the NHM stated. At least 4,550 doses were sent to Bokaro, while Giridih received 6,000 doses and 4,800 doses were sent to Palamau. According to information available on the Co-Win portal, only 26 session sites opened their doors for beneficiaries in Ranchi on Sunday and administered jabs to around 3,000 residents. In East Singhbhum, 15 session sites were operational  and about 3,000 residents got jabbed. Jharkhand, as per figures with the state health department, has received over 1 crore doses of Covishield and Covaxin from the Centre. At least 82,58,307 residents have received the first dose of vaccine in the state, while the second jab has been administered to 19,60,756 beneficiaries, a report shared by the NHM on Sunday evening stated. The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped further down to 211 on Sunday as the state reported 29 Covid recoveries against 11 cases, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. At least 13 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of infection on the day, while zero casualties occurred in the state. Jharkhand on Sunday tested swab samples of 45,604 residents and 0.04 per cent of them were found infected by coronavirus. So far, over 3.47 lakh people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand and 98.46 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. At least 11 recoveries against two cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 52, while three recoveries against two cases brought the active caseload in East Singhbhum to 14. Deoghar reported the highest spike of four cases among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The state did not report fresh cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis on Sunday. As per data compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), the state has so far reported 105 confirmed and 59 suspected cases of black fungus. The fungal infection has claimed 31 lives in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
09-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt should include Hindi in job tests: Raghubar Das||The Jharkhand government should immediately include Hindi in the paper for state staff selection commission examinations, failing which the BJP would consider seeking legal action. Former chief minister Raghubar Das told this in Ranchi on Sunday, adding the new recruitment policy of “the Hemant government is not only unconstitutional but also against the interest of the local people who will be actually deprived of employment by this policy”. “Most of the students study in Hindi medium but the government removed it from papers the candidates seeking group III and IV jobs will be required to clear for the purpose,” he said at a press meet at BJP state headquarters, adding such a recruitment policy would actually deprive many from bagging jobs. “We favour tribal and regional languages and even welcome inclusion of Bangla and Odiya but not removal of Hindi,” Das further said, referring to the policy that required candidates to clear any one of a dozen tribal and regional languages — Santhali, Mundari, Kurukh, Ho, Kharia, Nagpuri, Kurmali, Panchpargania and Khorta, besides Bengali, Odiya and Urdu. “I advise the state government to amend the policy failing which someone from BJP would surely seek legal action for getting it rectified,” Das further said. The outsiders can also become eligible for local jobs if they clear examinations of Classes X and XII in Jharkhand, he further said. “The recruitment policy my government had formulated in 2016 made only those eligible for such jobs who were born and also studied in this state,” he further said to emphasise their policy was better. When contacted, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya, however, trashed the claims made by former chief minister Das. “One can surely come here and clear exams for Classes X and XII but can’t learn a tribal and local language so easily,” he told The Telegraph, adding Hindi was not neglected at all. “Candidates can write the recruitment examinations in Hindi,” he clarified, adding Hindi was excluded in the language and literature paper only and that would rather facilitate entry of local candidates in state government jobs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
09-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt to conduct Covid test on passengers from other high-rate states||The Jharkhand government will conduct Covid-19 test on passengers reaching the state by train from other states that have high positivity rate. It also decided to quarantine all police and paramilitary personnel who would be coming from other states for joining duties in Jharkhand or will return after availing leave. Despite the Covid situation looking under control in Jharkhand, the government did not want to take risk and preferred these precautionary measures for checking the spread of the disease. Arun Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health), wrote letters to the state’s director-general of police (DGP) and also deputy commissioners of some districts, highlighting the necessity of such precautionary measures. In his letter addressed to the deputy commissioners of Ranchi, Ramgarh, Bokaro, Dhanbad, Deoghar, East Singhbhum and West Singhbhum districts, Singh directed them to monitor arrival of trains from Kerala, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh and conduct Covid-19 tests on those disembarking at stations within those districts. Informing that it was necessary to do so for containing spread of infection, Singh also pointed out that “positivity rate in those states were much higher” and “Delta plus mutant strain was also found in some districts of those states”. Singh also requested the DGP to put all police and paramilitary personnel, arriving in the state and reporting for duty after availing leave, under quarantine for a week and also to hospitalise those who would be found Covid-19 positive. “Such measures are welcome,” commented Dr Prabhat Kumar, head of the Covid-19 task force at Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, adding the number of positive cases, though not looking alarming at present, was increasing slowly. There were only 221 active Covid-19 patients in Jharkhand at 9pm on Saturday. Though 37 new positive cases were found that day, 14 of the total 24 districts of the state had no new infection while 42 patients recovered and no Covid-19 death was reported that day. With nine new infections, Ranchi district had the maximum new cases in the state on Saturday followed by Bokaro (7), Deoghar (5), Dhanbad (4), and West Singhbhum (3). While Ranchi district had maximum active case load of 61 on Saturday, Palamau and Dumka districts, with not a single active case, became Covid free that day. “The number of new cases that was just two in Ranchi on August 1 increased to nine in a week,” Dr Kumar said, adding strict monitoring of outsiders reaching the state and increased testing would help buy time for more immunisation and thereby contain spread of the disease. The state had, till Saturday, administered 1,00,99,082 doses of Covid-19 vaccine, giving at least one dose to around 30 per cent of state’s population and both the doses to about six per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
