10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand State Digest: Senior SP’s surprise inspection of Jamshedpur civil court||East Singhbhum’s senior SP, M Tamil Vanan conducted a surprise inspection of Jamshedpur civil court to check the existing security arrangement within and outside of the court premises. The surprise inspection was carried out as a sequel to maintaining security especially of the judges and other judicial magistrates in the light of the suspected murder of Uttam Anand, the second additional district judge of Dhanbad in July. During the hour-long stay within the civil court premises located at Bhuinyadih in Sitaramdera, Vanan looked into the deployment of policemen and the number of CCTV cameras installed inside the court premises. Deputy superintendent of police (Composite Control Room) Animesh Gupta accompanied the senior SP to reshuffle the deployment of police in accordance with the observation made during the inspection. “The surprise inspection at the civil court was in the backdrop of the recent tragic incident that took place with the ADJ-II, Dhanbad, Uttam Anand, resulting in his death. After the incident, we had a meeting with the director general of police, Jharkhand over the security aspect of the court premises. Today's inspection was in sequel to maintaining the security of judicial officials here in the light of the Dhanbad incident,” said Vanan while talking to The Telegraph Online. He pointed out that since the past one-and-half years, virtual courts are being held for online hearing, but soon the court will be functioning in its normal way. He added, “80 policemen were deployed when the court was running normally one-and-half years ago. We will ensure security arrangement once the court starts functioning normally. This is why we reviewed the security arrangements and made the necessary changes.” He has recommended the installation of more surveillance cameras within the civil court premises. Ramgarh: The Sikh Regimental Centre organized a Military Band Display at the historic Ashoka Stambh located at the Centre’s precursor to Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav to commemorate 75 glorious years of India’s Independence. During the event the band played a theme to salute the spirit of the freedom struggle, the fine music left the audience enthralled. The event was organized to pay tribute to the martyrs who selflessly laid down their lives for the freedom of our country. The iconic Ashoka Stambh situated within the Sikh Regimental Centre, Ramgarh Cantt was erected in remembrance of 53rd executive meeting of Indian National Congress at Ramgarh on 14 March1940. Maulana Abdul Kalam Azad, the then President of INC presided over the meeting, while Mahatma Gandhi, Jawahar Lal Nehru and Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel were some of the dignitaries who attended the same. Manoj Sinha Garhwa: Unidentified motorcycle-borne armed men robbed a customer service point (CSP) operator of Rs 3.50 lakh, on Garhwa-Dandai road near Tasrar village which falls under Dandai police station of the district on Monday evening. The operator, Chandan Kumar of Jarihi village was on returning back to his hamlet on his bike after drawing the cash from Panjab National Bank, when he was looted. According to the police the victim had set out for his village on a bike, when two criminals following him on another bike intercepted him near his village and looted him. The assailants overpowered him. They snatched the bag containing cash at gunpoint from the operator. Before other commuters could react the criminals fled. Following which the victim lodged a complaint with Dandai police station. The officer-in-charge Sunil Kumar Patel along with his team rushed to the spot and started investigating the case. Garhwa Superintendent of police Anjani Kumar Jha confirmed the news and said, “Police are working on technical evidence and other options. We will soon crack the case and arrest the accused.” N N Dubey||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Panchayat panels get fresh lease life owing to delay in polls ||The tenure of three-tier panchayat bodies in Jharkhand has been extended till fresh elections are held, the state panchayati raj department announced on Tuesday, notifying what will be the second such extension. Tuesday's extension has been affected through an ordinance as the Jharkhand Panchayat Raj Act 2001 does not have any provision for granting a second extension. The Hemant Soren government had extended the tenures of panchayat bodies for six months the first time in January since fresh elections could not be conducted because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The first extension was till mid-July. Rural development minister Alamgir Alam said that with the second wave of Covid-19 on the wane, the state government had prepared the ground work to hold rural polls by the end of the year. “The state election commission has started its homework for the polls, and if all goes well with no resurgence of Covid-19, we should be able to hold panchayat polls by this year-end,” he said. Panchayat elections were held in 2015 and fresh polls were due on December 7, 2020. As per the latest notification, the fresh extension is till elections are held. The notification reads, “The extension of tenures of the working committee of panchayat bodies would be effective till the elections for local bodies take place.” The notification added that deputy commissioners will be empowered to reconstitute working committees in three-tier panchayat bodies. Mukiyas, deputy mukhiyas and ward members of gram panchayats of both general and the reserved areas, pramukhs, deputy pramukhs and members of panchayat samitis and the chairman, deputy chairman and members of zila parishads have all been retained in the new working committees. “The working committees of gram panchayats, panchayat samitis and zila parishads enjoy all the powers and functions under the Jharkhand Panchayat Raj Act. Block development officers and deputy development commissioners will continue to discharge their responsibilities as per the existing provisions of extension,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Eight karatekas to represent Jharkhand in national championship ||Eight karatekas will be representing Jharkhand at the National E-Kata Karate Championship which will be conducted on a virtual platform from August 25 to 27. The three-day event is being organised by the Karate Association of India (KAI) to mark Sir Dorabji Tata’s birth anniversary and National Sports Day. The championship will be hosted by Jharkhand State Karate Do Association (JSKA) and will be supported by Tata Steel sports wing, Jamshedpur. The state karate outfit selected the Jharkhand squad after a day-long trial organised at JRD Tata Sports Complex on August 8. Forty-eight karatekas from different districts of the state participated in the trial which had five qualified judges to select the representatives. The selected karatekas include Ishan Singh, Pranab Paul, Adarsh Kumar Singh, Niraj Kumar, Bandana Singh (all from East Singhbhum), Vaishnavi, Poonam Munda (both from Ranchi) and Somari Hembrom (West Singhbhum The nationals will be conducted in the under-13 to above 18 age group. Four of the selected karatekas are from Tata Steel Karate Training Centre. According to JSKA general secretary Shihan L. Nageshwar Rao, 240 karatekas (120 boys and as many girls) from 30 states will participate in the national meet. The event will be hosted in compliance with the guidelines and rules and regulations of World Karate Federation (WKF) and Asian Karate Do Federation (AKF) under qualified judges of world and Asia bodies. Rao, coach at Tata Steel karate cradle said Jharkhand karatekas are expected to win medals at the national meet. “Our players are in form and are expected to do well. We are very optimistic about it,” he added. The cradle at JRD Tata Sports Complex have performed well at state and national championships. Rao, on his part, has produced several talented karatekas. “There is no dearth of talented karatekas in Jharkhand. They can come up with good performance through proper guidance,” Rao said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi records rare case of black fungus in lungs of 82-year-old||A case of mucormycosis in the lungs, possibly Jharkhand’s first, has come to light at Ranchi's Medanta Hospitalafter bronchoscopy and biopsy of a Covid survivor’s lung tissues confirmed that the patient was suffering from black fungus, which affected his lungs instead of eyes, nose or brain, doctors from the hospital said on Tuesday. “This Covid survivor complained of difficulty in breathing. We first conducted a CT Scan to see if there was a problem in his lungs. Later, during bronchoscopy, a fungal ball was found in his lungs. Biopsy of his lung tissues confirmed that the patient’s lungs were affected by black fungus,” said senior pulmonologist at Medanta, Dr Tejveer Singh, adding that it was a rare case as mucormycosis usually affects the eyes or nose of a patient. As per government guidelines, the patient, Mohammad Ibrahim (82) has been shifted to state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) where he is undergoing treatment at the New Trauma Centre. Dr Pradeep Bhattacharya, who is in-charge, said Ibrahim was stable and responding to medication. “He is still suffering from shortness of breath, but his condition is stable,” the doctor said. A doctor assisting Bharracharya at the RIMS trauma centre said that even though cases of mucormycosis in lungs were rare, some patients have been diagnosed with black fungus infection in lungs in different parts of India. Mucormycosis is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. The line of treatment includes surgery and administering anti-fungal drugs, mostly Amphotericin B. Following an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guideline, the state government has also included Posaconazole injections in the list of medicines that can be administered to Mucormycosis patients. Several thousand cases of Covid-induced Mucormycosis were reported in India earlier this year and doctors claimed that use of high dosage steroids for treatment of severely-ill Covid patients was one of the reasons for the spike. However, in almost all these cases, the fungus affected either eyes, nose or brain of the patient. As per data compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), Jharkhand has so far reported 106 confirmed cases and 60 suspected cases of black fungus. The fungal infection has claimed as many as 31 lives in the state so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad holds special vaccination drive for the vulnerable||Over 200 construction site labourers including the likes of masons, carpenters, electricians, rickshaw pullers, housemaids, servants, some beggars and other street dwellers have been vaccinated at IIT (ISM) shopping complex today during a special vaccination drive organized by district administration for vulnerable. The drive organized was part of the special vaccination drive series flagged off by the district administration. It was held as per the instruction of the government which asked the district administration to carry out  vaccination drives for different vulnerable sections of the society for Covid by organizing special camps. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Dr Vikash Rana, District Reproductive and Child Health Officer (DRCHO), Dhanbad who is also the nodal officer for Covid vaccination in the district said, “we began the vaccination drive at around 10 am as per the schedule and carried out the vaccination as per the onsite registration process” “Majority of beneficiaries who were vaccinated today belonged to Lahbani, Korangabasti, Mandal Basti and Maira Basti situated in the vicinity of IIT (ISM) campus including some staff of IIT (ISM) belonging to these villages” said Rana. “Earlier we have carried out awareness camps in the villages to sensitise the masses about the vaccination drive with the help of some local social organizations besides the centre for societal mission of IIT (ISM) which is engaged in social work in these villages,” said Rana. He added that since many of the beneficiaries do not possess smartphones on the spot certificate distribution of these beneficiaries was organised for future reference while availing the second dose. The message concerning their vaccination has also been sent on their registered mobile phones. “We will be organizing a special camp again for these beneficiaries after 84 days. All of them have been administered with Covishield jab today,” said Rana. He added that ISM Authorities including, professor Dhiraj Kumar, Dean (Innovation, Incubation and Entrepreneurship) of the institute and others were also present during the vaccination camp. “The awareness level among the beneficiaries was quite encouraging as the response in camp was better than our expectation” said Rana. Notably the special series of vaccination drives was flagged off in the district on June 9 at Pehla Kadam school during which 60 physically and mentally challenged people were vaccinated. This was followed by the vaccination of 60 delinquents at a child reformatory centre on June 16. Then 80 petrol pump staff were vaccinated on July 4 across various petrol pumps of the district. Over 150 auto rickshaw drivers and LPG delivery men were vaccinated on July 9 while on July 15 a special camp was organised for the inmates of Barmasia Rehabilitation and Training Centre for Leprosy cured persons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant stays at home on birthday; Modi, Stalin extend wishes||Hemant Soren turned 46 on Tuesday with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several senior politicians extending greetings to the Jharkhand chief minister on Twitter. Hemant spent the day at home, choosing only to meet people who had come to seek his help on their personal issues.  An official in the chief minister's office said, "CM preferred to stay at home today. He met some people who came from different districts to submit grievances before him to seek his intervention." The Prime minister was among the first leaders to wish Hemant in the morning. “Best wishes to Jharkhand CM Shri @HemantSorenJMM Ji on his birthday. Praying for his long life and good health,” he tweeted. Hemant's Tamil Nadu counterpart M.K. Stalin tweeted: “Wishing my brother and Jharkhand Chief Minister @HemantSorenJMM who has been emerging as one of the powerful voices of federalism & secularism and a true torchbearer of tribal people's rights, on his birthday.” Jharkhand governor Ramesh Bais too prayed for CM’s good health. Many from the Opposition BJP in the state also wished the chief minister. The only sour point was a massive jobs protest at Morabadi ground, a kilometre away from the official residence of the chief minister. Over 500 job aspirants across the state observed "Berozgar Diwas", demanding that the chief minister gift the unemployed by fulfilling his promise of offering five lakh jobs. They also ran a twitter campaign # Jharkhand_Berojgar_Diwas which for a while was the top political twitter trend with 266k likes and retweets. Ranchi police were on their toes throughout the day with a large posse of policemen deployed in the area since morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rain alert sounded for north Bengal, Jharkhand till Sunday||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) warned of heavy rain in isolated pockets of Jharkhand during the next five days while neighbouring Bengal was expected to experience heavy to very heavy showers till Sunday. IMD's Regional Met Centre at Alipore in Calcutta and Ranchi Met Centre issued special bulletins saying the downpour would be due to shifting of the monsoon trough towards the foothills of the Himalayas. " The intensity of rain would be more in north Bengal districts and places in northern Jharkhand and Bihar which are closer to Himalayas. Whenever the monsoon trough shifts towards the foothills of Himalayas, it results in heavy rain in north Bengal and isolated areas in Bihar and Jharkhand with the intensity of rain reducing in Central India," G. K. Das, director of Alipore Met Centre in Calcutta, explained over telephone. The rain is expected to be of maximum intensity between Friday, Aug 13 and Sunday, August 15. Based on the IMD forecast of enhanced rainfall, Bengal government's disaster management department has asked several districts, including Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, Coochbehar, Alipurduar, Kalimpong, Malda, South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas, Nadia, Murshidabad and Birbhum, to remain alert as heavy rain might result in abrupt rise in water levels of rivers, leading to floods and landslides. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre also issued an alert of heavy rain in isolated pockets of north- eastern Jharkhand (Jamtara, Pakur, Dumka, Giridih and Sahebganj) during the next four days. Head of Ranchi Met Centre Abhishek Anand said they were expecting heavy showers at a few isolated places in north-western Jharkhand, comprising Daltonganj, Latehar and Garhwa, due to the formation of a cyclonic circulation over eastern Uttar Pradesh extending up to 4.5 km above mean sea level. The monsoon trough at mean sea level was on Tuesday passing through Amritsar, Kurukshetra, Meerut, Gorakhpur, Muzaffarpur and Jalpaiguri in north Bengal. High Discomfort Index Several cities in Jharkhand experienced high discomfort index which is determined on the basis of temperature, humidity, wind pattern and other factors. The weather remained humid with the sun playing hide and seek. The average discomfort index was as high as 64 degrees, nine degrees above normal, on Tuesday. In Jamshedpur, the discomfort index was 67 degrees, 12 degrees above normal, and in capital Ranchi, it was 64 degrees, nine degrees above normal. Daltonganj recorded a discomfort index of 62 degrees, seven notches above normal. In several other districts like Dumka, Ramgarh, Hazaribagh, Pakur, Godda, Latehar, Chatra and Simdega, the index breached 60 degrees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||XAT 2022: Registration begins, online test on January 2||Registration for Xavier Aptitude Test (XAT- 2022), the entrance exam that one needs to crack to seek admission in premier B-school XLRI began on Tuesday. “XAT will be held online on January 2 (Sunday), 2022,” announced the B-school today. The last date to apply or get registered is November 30, 2021. The duration of the online test will be three hours. The B-school has been conducting XAT exam for more than 70 years at all India level to select the most appropriate students for management studies. XAT 2022 will accept applications for XLRI-Jamshedpur as well as XLRI’s new campus at Delhi-NCR. A candidate can choose two preferred cities to take the test. The XAT score is used by more than 160 institutes for admission process. Notably, XAT, despite being one of the oldest competitive examinations in the country, has always kept pace with cutting-edge testing methodology. XAT’s multi-dimensional testing framework strives to assess the aptitude of candidates for business management education meaningfully. “XAT has a multi-pronged examination structure and in-built fairness to evaluate candidates aspiring to be future business leaders,” said an XLRI official XAT-2022 would be conducted across various Indian cities. Among them are Agra, Ahmedabad, Aurangabad City (Maharashtra), Allahabad, Ambala, Amravati, Amritsar, Bengaluru, Berhampur, Bhatinda, Bhilai Nagar, Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Bokaro Steel City, Chandigarh/Mohali, Chennai, Coimbatore, Cuttack, Dehradun, Delhi-NCR, Dhanbad, Dibrugarh, Durgapur, Asansol, Ernakulam, Gandhinagar, Goa, Gorakhpur, Guwahati, Gwalior, Hooghly, Hubli, Hyderabad, Indore, Jabalpur, Jaipur, Jammu, Jamshedpur, Kannur, Kanpur, Kolkata, Kota, Kottayam, Kurnool, Kurukshetra, Lucknow, Ludhiana, Madurai, Mangalore, Mumbai, Mysore, Nagpur, Nashik, Patna, Pune, Raipur, Rajahmundry, Ranchi, Roorkee, Rourkela, Sambalpur, Siliguri, Surat, Thiruvananthapuram Tiruchirappalli, Tirupathi, Tiruvallur, Udaipur, Udupi Vadodara, Varanasi, Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam and Warangal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt announces creating unique database of farmers||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday announced a unique identity scheme for the farmers of the state on World Indigenous Peoples Day to help the government create a database of all peasants. “This scheme would give financial strength and help farmers linked to the government welfare schemes. It is a government effort to provide timely training, guidance and financial assistance to all farmers (those possessing land or not). On this auspicious day we have decided to honour our farmers and from today all of them would be known as Birsa Kisan,” said Soren. The chief minister also announced plans to form a federation for marketing and processing of forest products to boost cottage industries of lac and silk production. State agriculture minister Badal Patralekh said that the Birsa Kisan scheme would help over 45 lakh farmers in the state link with government schemes through a database. “All the farmers would be given a unique ID card linked with their Aadhaar card through a bar code and the government would have information about each and every farmer, including the welfare schemes to which they are linked, their land details (for farmers having land). It will also help farmers without land with training and benefit of poultry schemes. We hope to provide the unique ID cards to at least two lakh farmers before the rabi season (November),” said Patralekh. The database would avoid duplication in welfare schemes and also help in providing benefits of the Kisan Credit Card and loan waiver schemes, officials said. “As of now only few progressive farmers get benefits of government schemes on various heads due to duplication and a major portion remain deprived. But we do not have any data on it. “However, with the database, the government will be able to reach out to all farmers,” said agriculture director Nisha Oraon. Soren distributed assets worth Rs 734 crore among two lakh farmers in 24 districts on Monday. “I would like to appeal to the farmers to reap the benefits of all the government schemes. The government would also audit all schemes to see if their benefits are reaching the beneficiaries,” said Soren while interacting with farmers of Dumka and Bokaro districts on a virtual platform. Agriculture department data shows that the state government has waived off loans worth Rs 2,000 crore of nearly nine lakh farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Close to 85,000 get vaccinated in Jharkhand||Jharkhand on Monday vaccinated almost 85,000 residents against Covid-19 as close to 1000 session sites, including at least 960 government-run centres, remained operational across districts, figures released by the state health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Monday administered the first dose of vaccine to as many as 64,529 residents, while the second jab was administered to 19,966 beneficiaries. At least 60,000 vaccine beneficiaries inoculated on the day fell in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. According to figures available on the Co-Win portal, at least 37 session sites opened their doors for vaccine beneficiaries in Ranchi on Monday and inoculated close to 7,000 residents, while 43 session sites remained operational in East Singhbhum and vaccinated more than 8,000 residents. In Dhanbad, 16 vaccination centres inoculated close to 2,000 residents. Till Monday evening, the state had administered the first dose of vaccine to 83,20,232 and the second dose to as many as 19,80,050 beneficiaries. Another case of Covid-induced mucormycosis surfaced in Ranchi on Monday, taking the total count of confirmed cases of black fungus to 106 in Jharkhand and 42 in Ranchi alone, figures compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) highlighted. Besides the 106 confirmed cases, the state has also reported 60 suspected cases of black fungus so far and 31 people have died of the fungal infection. The recovery rate of mucormycosis patients has improved in Jharkhand lately with at least 115 of the 166 patients, including suspected patients, recovering from the fungal infection. However, doctors have warned that any complacency may lead to a rise in cases if the Covid-19 trajectory in the state sees an upward trend. The active caseload of Covid-19 continued to drop in Jharkhand as 23 patients recovered from the infection while 14 people were found infected on Monday, a bulletin from NHM stated. At least 17 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of infection on Monday, while Ranchi reported the highest spike of five cases against six recoveries. At least 51 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi by the end of Monday. East Singhbhum reported zero Covid cases on the day and two recoveries brought the active caseload there down to 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Police recovers 5 IEDS from Chaibasa forest||Security personnel have recovered five IEDs planted by outlawed CPI (Maoists) to target the forces on anti-naxal operation, from a jungle in extremist-hit West Singhbhum district, a police statement said. Acting on a tip-off, the district armed police and CRPF 60 battalion personnel launched a massive search operation and recovered the explosives, each weighing two kg, planted in the forest near Surbura Jharjhara New Market on Monday, the release said. The explosives have been defused by the bomb disposal squad of CRPF on the spot, it said, claiming the explosives were planted to target security personnel on anti-naxal operations. Police said an FIR has been registered in this regard. Meanwhile, police arrested another extremist from a banned extremist organization from Bandgaon police station area of the district and seized arms and ammunition from his possession. Based on information, a police team conducted a raid in Katua jungle and arrested Lodro Hassa, an active PLFI member, and seized a country-made firearm, two live cartridges, PLFI posters and mobile phones, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Trade unions, tribal, farmer outfits protest against Centre in Jharkhand||Trade unions joined hands with tribal and farmer outfits in Jharkhand to protest in almost all the 24 districts of the state against the central government. The Kisan Mazdoor Samanway Samity (Farmer Worker Coordination Committee), which was formed earlier this month specifically for this movement, has decided to submit its demands through district administration officials to President Ram Nath Kovind. “This is a part of the nationwide protest called by central trade unions against the policies of the central government and for observing August 9 as ‘Save India Day’ which is also the day which witnessed the start of the Quit India Movement by Mahatma Gandhi,” said Praful Linda, a member of the Samanway Samity and a Left leader. “Since Jharkhand is a tribal state and the day is also observed as the International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples, tribal outfits also joined our agitation against the anti-tribal policies of the Union government. We will be submitting a joint memorandum addressed to the President through administrative officials on Tuesday as Monday is a state holiday in Jharkhand,” Linda said. Farmers, tribal outfit leaders and trade union members took out rallies holding placards against the policies of the Narendra Modi government. “Farmers across the country are agitating against the anti-farmer laws and demanding their immediate repeal since last year. But so far the Union government has not bothered to spare a thought about the plight of farmers. “Surprisingly, our Prime Minister has not even spoken to the agitating farmers,” said Sufal Mahato, state convener of Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangharsh Samanvyay Samity, an outfit formed last year to coordinate the farmers’ agitation in Jharkhand against the farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hockey pill for Simdega children ||The residents of Jharkhand’s Bandisember village of Simdega district were not aware that August 9 was being observed as the International Day for the World’s Indigenous Peoples for the past many years. “I never heard of the day till I was told about it today,” said Ramnath Gond of the village that is also referred to as Nawa Toli, adding there were 58 families with about 450 members residing there. “Not only us, none of the village was aware of this day,” Lakhan Besra, another villager, said about the day that is as also known as the World Tribal Day and celebrated with much fanfare across the globe. All those residing here are tribal people, making it one of those 2,451 villages of the state that were identified as fully inhabited by the tribals during the 2011 census. “We face many problems,” Gond said, adding the village lacked approach roads, drinking water facilities. Though their village have a primary school, children interested in pursuing education have to go to another village about 5km away for attending high school. There is a primary health centre about 10 m away but the villagers have to travel to Simdega, the district headquarters about 30km away, for getting better treatment. “We came to know about the importance of this day from the office bearers of Hockey Simdega who came to meet us today,” Lakhan replied when asked. “We came here about a fortnight ago when Komli Besra, a girl of the village who was a promising hockey player, died of snake bite,” informed Hockey Simdega president Manoj Konbegi, adding they thought of visiting the village again as they found them facing many problems. The body of the girl had to be carried through a waterlogged nala on a cot for about 2km before sending it for post-mortem that day, he informed to illustrate their plight. Besides lack of basic amenities, they also found most of the children were malnourished. The 2011 census had found that 85 per cent of the tribal women were anaemic and 64.3 per cent of their children were underweight. “We tried to do what we can do best,” informed Hockey Simdega treasurer Kamleshwar Manjhi who accompanied Konbegi, adding they spoke to the children in presence of their guardians and motivated them to play hockey for which they also presented them some balls they had taken for them. “Playing hockey will help them get exposure to the outer world and will also create an awareness among them,” Konbegi tried to justify their efforts, adding the children could also draw attention of the authorities by playing the game well which, in turn, will help improve the condition of their village. “We will level an open space near the village and will certainly motivate our children to play hockey there regularly,” Lakhan promised. He said they would organise a match on the tribal day next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Former MLA driver murdered over land dispute||Hazaribagh: Former MLA Loknath Mahto's driver Rahul Saw was gunned down in Rajabagi area close to Barkagaon-Tandwa road under Barkagaon police station on Sunday night. Police officials said Rahul was having dispute with few local residents of Sikri village over a piece of land. His family suspected that he was murdered for the land dispute. Rahul was working for the MLA at his petrol pump in Barkagaon as tanker driver. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: Members of different local trade unions affiliated to All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) on Monday staged dharna at district headquarters and also took out a protest march in association with All India Trade Union Congress on the occasion of August Kranti Divas or Quit India Movement Anniversary day. The protesters shouted slogans against the alleged anti-labour policy of the central government which has amended the 40 labour codes. The agitators also voiced their ire against the farm bills and claimed that these amendments of labour laws and farm bills have been brought to favour the corporate houses. Vinod Mishra, a senior leader of CPI said, "All the policies and actions of the present central government are aimed at favouring the  corporate houses." (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: Unidentified bike borne crìminals carried out fatal attack against Chandan Kumar son of Katras based renowned doctor Uma Shankar Singh on Sunday night at around 10.30 pm while he was heading towards his house at Nichitpur  in his car along with his five-year-old daughter. Chandan who somehow saved his life by reaching at Rajganj police station said, "Three bike borne criminals and attacked him with iron rods as soon as he reached at Nichitpur more and later they were joined by two local youth in attack." "The attackers were taking the name of JMM leader Karu Yadav," he said. Notably, an incident of clash between a relative of Karu Yadav and some staff of Katas based hospital of doctor Uma Shankar Singh took place on July 22 over the negligence in treatment charge. (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: The decomposed body of a male which police had recovered from a nalla near Gokul Nagar under MGM thana area along NH-33 on Sunday evening was identified on Monday as that of Zayad Kureshi. A resident of Varisht Colony at Azadnagar in Mango, Zayad, 18, was missing since August 1 morning after he had come out of his house along with a friend Mohammed Samir. Zayad would work as a delivery boy in e-commerce company Myntra. OC, MGM thana, Mithilesh Kumar said that though they have started investigation into the case, but they have registered a case of murder on the FIR lodged by the deceased's brother. The MGM thana OC said on August 1 morning, Zayad and Samir had snatched a mobile phone from someone near Dimna lake under adjoining Bodam thana area and being chased by some people the duo had sped away towards Azadnagar. (Kumud Jenamani)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
