11-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town vending zone construction commences||The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation has initiated the process for rehabilitating street vendors by constructing vending zones to help more than 10,000 such traders who face a perpetual threat of eviction in the name of anti- encroachment drives. The new vending zones that would be constructed at the three different places including the Zila Parishad ground of Dhanbad, Hirapur Hatia, and Katras Hatia would be equipped with all the basic facilities, including drinking water facilities, proper lighting arrangement, toilets and bathrooms, shades to protect against the rain water, have been planned several years ago under the National Urban Livelihood Mission of the central government. Chandra Shekhar, City Manager of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, said, “Though several sites had been earlier identified across the district for construction of vending zones but finally after the land clearance, we have zeroed in for the three sites for vending zones for which the tender was issued today.” “Though, the detailed project report of the vending zones of all the three sites is yet to be prepared but overall the facilities at the three proposed vending zones will be in line with National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM) norms,” said Chandra Shekhar. “The overall aim of establishing the vending zones is to provide a permanent site for trading activities to street vendors and also shield them against any displacement from one place to other by any private party or even by the police of administration under the anti encroachment drives etc” said Shekhar. “As part of our initiative of state government initiative to provide better facilities to street vendors and shield them against any eviction we are also in process of survey to provide them QR Code based Smart Identity Cards and QR Code Certificate of Street vending as we have also provided data of around 5000 street vendor to Ritika Printech, a agency hired by the state government for issuing them Smart Identity cards and Smart Certificates,” said Chandra Shekhar. Welcoming the DMC initiative for constructing vending zones, Sneham Sinha, district coordinator of nation NGO for street vendors-National Association for Street Vendors of India (NASVI) , said, “The long pending issue of rehabilitating the street vendors is likely to be resolved with the construction of vending as we are awaiting for construction of vending zones since 2017 when a survey of street vendors was conducted and identity cards have also provided to altogether 3879 street vendors of the district.” “The construction of vending zones will also add a cleaner look to the city as the street vendors gathered here and there at every street corner of the district will be shifted to permanent locations where people can visit and carry out purchasing etc,” said Sinha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
11-08-2021||Jharkhand||Steel City plans low-key Independence Day for second year||The 75th Independence Day celebration at the Gopal Maidan in Bistupur here on August 15, will be a low-key affair for the second consecutive year due to Covid-19 pandemic. The event will be streamed live on the Facebook page of East Singhbhum district administration. The function will start at 9.05 am with the hoisting of the national flag by state health minister Banna Gupta, who is also the legislator from Jamshedpur West assembly constituency. Apart from hoisting the national tricolour he will also inspect the parade where Indian Reserve Battalion(IRB), Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP) , home guards and NCC cadets will participate. The function would also witness participation of East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar, senior SP Tamil M Vanan  and other senior district administrative officials. The first rehearsals for the event took place at the Gopal Maidan on Wednesday. The final rehearsals will take place on Friday. A Covid testing camp was organised at the venue - Gopal Maidan. All the 142 cops who took part in the parade during the rehearsals along with other participants had to undergo Covid test. All of them were found negative and thus they were allowed to take part in the rehearsals which continued for over two hours. One of the highlights of the Independence Day celebration will be felicitation of coronavirus warriors. The administration banned participation of children and other people at the event. The function will be organised with limited participants. It is mandatory for all participants to wear facemasks and follow social distancing norms. The district administration is also taking necessary measures to maintain law and order. Patrolling will be enhanced on National Highway-33 and State highways from August 13, Friday along with positioning of cops at all sensitive and strategic places including border check posts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
11-08-2021||Jharkhand||Football tournament for girls on the cards in steel city||There may be uncertainty over the popular Jamshedpur Sporting Association (JSA) football league for men but a fixture for girls is on the cards. Officials have planned a tournament for girls next month or October to mark the platinum jubilee year of JSA football league (for men). The platinum jubilee of the league was last year but the celebrations could not materialise in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The JSA league again looks like a non-starter due to the Covid-19 restrictions imposed by the state government and the JSA managers are keen to conduct a football fixture for girls at the landmark JRD Tata Sports Complex. "We are seriously planning to organise a tournament for girls. But the fixture would go ahead only after the government lifts the restrictions which bar conduct of body contact games. But we are hopeful the government would relax the restrictions. In that case, we would organise the tournament for girls next month or in October," said JSA secretary Avinash Kumar. He added that they don’t want the platinum jubilee celebrations to again become a blank affair this time. JSA officials said the JSA football league (for men) is a lengthy fixture, which stretches for over a month, and they can wrap up the girls’ event in two-three days. “We can conduct the girls' event on a knock-out basis with the participation of eight teams, '' an official said. Around 80 matches are played in the annual JSA league (for men), one of the oldest sporting fixtures in the country, and as many as 44 clubs and institutions are part of the event. Even if the state government relaxes the restrictions, conduct of the JSA league would not be possible since a lot of logistics shall have to be worked out. The logistics include decking up the grounds, drawing fixtures and conducting qualifiers. It is time consuming. The Covid-19 situation has improved in Jharkhand and things have opened up. This has made JSA officials optimistic about the conduct of the fixture for girls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
11-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to implement law on doctors' safety soon, promises state health minister||Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta on Wednesday felicitated at least 45 ophthalmologists of the state for their relentless effort to help Covid patients and their families during the pandemic. Addressing the felicitation ceremony organised by the Jharkhand Ophthalmological Society in Ranchi, Gupta reiterated the state government's commitment to implement the Medical Protection Act (MPA) for safety of healthcare professionals and doctors in Jharkhand. “The issue of the Medical Protection Act has been raised in the State Assembly as well. We have been studying existing laws of four states to implement a similar law in our state. I have had a discussion with the Additional Chief Secretary (Health) on the issue. I assure the doctors of Jharkhand that we will soon bring the Medical Protection Act in our state,” said Gupta, adding that any attack on doctors would be seen as an attack on the prestige and pride of the state. Lauding the efforts of  "Covid warrior" doctors during the first and second wave of ter pandemic, Gupta said he had to wear a PPE kit during the course of his work for a few minutes and in that brief amount of time, he realised how challenging it was to wear such protective gears for several hours. “It is the good work of doctors and their coordination with the government that helped the state to beat Covid-19 during the second wave, for which Jharkhand has been hailed by one and all," said Gupta. Dr Bharti Kashyap, secretary, Jharkhand Ophthalmological Society, pleaded that fast track courts be set up to punish all those found guilty of assaulting doctors and caregivers to ensure speedy justice. "These brave ophthalmologists, abandoned their comfort zones, transcended professional boundaries and put their own lives at risk to ensure that people in distress got all the necessary help to fight the second wave of Covid-19. Even at the peak of the pandemic, there were many cases of violence against doctors and medical personnel. Even women health care professionals were not spared. We need fast track courts and Medical Protection Act in our state to ensure safety of our doctors,” said Dr. Kashyap. Those felicitated included Dr Nagendra Pandit, Dr Bharat Singh, Dr Priyanka Priydarshi, Dr Ashima N R Tigga, Dr Preetish Pronoy, Dr Sarwar Alam, Dr Smita Anand, Dr Tanisha Ojha, Dr. Pinki Pal, Dr. Neha Shilpy, Dr. Sarojini Murmu, Dr. Bibha Kumari, Dr. Kumari Reena Singh, Dr. Vivek Kumar, Dr Shilpa Sanjeeta Singh, Dr. Shakti Nath Singh and Dr. Pallavi Purnima Singh. The health minister also presented shawls and mementos to the kin of doctors who died on the line of duty during the pandemic. Families of Dr.Krishna Murari Sahu, Dr.Sujit Kumar Paul and Dr.Chandrika Kishore Thakur, all eminent doctors of the state, who had fallen victim to the Corona pandemic were felicitated. Gold medals were conferred upon Dr.Bibhuti Kashyap, for the Dr.V.S.Gupta Best Free Paper and Dr.Rahul Prasad for the Manjul Pant Best Video Session at the virtual conference of Jharkhand Ophthalmological Society organised in 2020. Dr.Lalit Jain was felicitated for his Extramural Oration at the annual conference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
11-08-2021||Jharkhand||Latehar family lives with snake for four years||A family in Latehar has adapted to live with an 8 feet long snake identified as common bronzeback with ruddy brown skin. The family of Govind Pathak, a  Latehar district tourism coordinator, knows well that there is a big snake around his house at Rajhar but he and four other members of the family just remain careful but never do any harm to it. It appears the snake too has developed an affinity for Pathak’s family. The common bronzeback is a tree snake. It is harmless but its length is frightening. It is an active snake but doesn't want to confront human beings unless otherwise it has no option to slither down. "This camouflaged tree top snake identified as a common bronzeback has been living in my orchard over the last four years. It has not harmed us so far. We have also not harmed it," said Govind Pathak to The Telegraph Online. Asked how he vouches that this snake is the same one which he and his family claim to be around their house over the last 4 years, Pathak said, “Its ruddy brown colour, speed and activity all are embedded in our memory to confirm it is a loner snake living in our backyard for years now.” He said his wife Pragya is however mortally afraid of this snake and she prays for the snake to migrate from their house. "We are grateful to this snake as it has wiped out the rat menace. Our house has no rats. Credit for it goes to this snake," added Pathak. However Pathak feels sad for the birds residing on the trees as this snake devours their chicks and eggs. "There is hardly a week when we do not hear the panic chirrupings of the birds. When we hear it we get confirmed this snake has finished the progeny of the birds," lamented Pathak. The snake preys on chicks and eggs of birds like Robin and Common Myna, abound in Pathak’s orchard where he also grows mangoes, pears, Indian blackberry or Java Plum commonly known as jamun.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
11-08-2021||Jharkhand||Fans cheer as Nikki, Salima return to a heroes' welcome in Ranchi ||Nikki Pradhan and Salima Tete, the two poster girls of Jharkhand hockey received rousing welcome upon their return on Wednesday after representing the country in this year’s Tokyo Olympics as part of Indian women’s team, which scripted history by reaching this the semi-finals for the first time. Nikki Pradhan and Salima Tete, two Jharkhand girls who were part of India's women's hockey team that won over the nation for a spirited performance in the Games, received a rousing welcome upon their return to Ranchi on Wednesday. Amid chants of "Chak de India", the two boarded two jeeps decked up with flowers, and were driven to Project Building for a meeting with the chief minister while young hocky players stood by the side of the road from Ranchi airport waving the Tricolour. Soon after, chief minister Hemant Soren handed each of them a cheque of Rs 50 lakh, a scooty, a laptop and a smartphone. The duo was also promised a 3000 sq feet "pucca house" of their choice. Later, talking briefly with Telegraph Online, Salima said that they  had not expected such a grand welcome. “I didn’t expect such a warm welcome in Ranchi today. I am happy for all that that state government and Hockey Jharkhand has done for us. I can only say that I will work doubly hard from now on so that in the next Olympics, we can win a medal,” she said. Nikki and Salima, accompanied by Hockey Jharkhand president Bholanath Singh, reached Ranchi airport from Delhi at 12.45pm. They were received by  state sports minister Hafizul Hassan Ansari and several officials. There was excitement all around the airport as hordes of fans, many of them sportspersons brimming with energy, had gathered there to receive the duo. They jostled for space to get a look at the two players amid chants of "Bharat Mata ki Jai," and "Chak de India". Outside the terminal, several budding players stood by the side of road near the airport holding Indian flags in their honour. In view of the ongoing Covid pandemic, security was tight at the reception area to ensure that the returning players and officials don’t get caught in the crowd. The state government had  arranged two open jeeps, decked up with garlands. Nikki and Salima boarded them with their families for a drive down to Project Building where a felicitation ceremony had been planned with none other than the  chief minister. While Nikki represented the country in the Olympics for the  second  consecutive time, this was Salima’s maiden stint on  the global stage. Both  defenders were an integral part of the national team throughout the Tokyo Games where the team ultimately lost out to Great Britain in keenly flight semi-final that went down to the  wire. “Even though our women's team missed out on winning a medal by a whisker,  no one can discredit them for the way they played throughout the tournament," said Hemant.  "Nikki and Salima, our daughters, deserve all the applause and recognition for their contribution. Whatever gifts we are giving them today is only a token of appreciation for their hard work and achievements accrued after battling numerous challenges.” Hemant promised them that his government  would ensure that the two get a pucca house  wherever they wish soon. “I had promised them to get their house refurbished into a pucca one, which we will  do. The state government will provide it either in their native village or somewhere else as per their wish. A concrete house of 3000 sq feet will be given to them and they are also free to choose the layout and architecture of their house,” he said. Reiterating his government’s commitment to the  promotion of sports, Hemant said as per the state sports policy, every deserving national and international  player will get  direct jobs,  besides a host of other facilities. In another significant announcement, he said that the government  will soon come up with a plan to provide assistance to players and coaches who meet with injuries or untoward incidents while playing. “We have taken an in-principle decision in this regard and a proper plan will be worked out soon. The government will bear the entire hospitalization cost of any player or coach  in case he/she meets with any injuries while playing,” he underlined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
11-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand has enough vaccine doses to last the week ||Jharkhand on Tuesday vaccinated over 75,000 residents, including around 55,000 below 45, against Covid-19, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data shared by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Tuesday administered the first dose of vaccine to 55,920 residents, while the second jab was administered to 20,861 beneficiaries. The state distributed 2,64,200 doses of Covishield vaccine among all 24 districts to continue the immunisation campaign against Covid-19 in the state. As per data shared by the health department, Ranchi got the highest share of 20,000 vaccine doses from the lot, while East Singhbhum and Dhanbad received 17,000 doses each. Bokaro and Palamau were given 13,500 doses each. With the fresh arrival of vaccines, the state now has about 5 lakh vaccine doses in stock, enough to carry out aggressive vaccination for the next five days at least, officials said. As per records shared by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Tuesday evening, the state has so far received 1,02,66,910 vaccine doses from the Centre. The state has administered 1,03,89,481 vaccine doses, including Sputnik V separately procured by private hospitals, to residents in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, the active caseload of Covid-19 jumped to 208 on the day as the state reported 34 cases against 28 recoveries, an NHM bulletin highlighted. Ranchi reported the highest spike of 17 cases against eight recoveries, which took the active caseload here to 60. As per NHM data, all other districts reported a single-digit-spike in Covid cases. At least 14 of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of 51,844 and 0.06 per cent of them were found infected. Jharkhand did not report fresh cases of Covid-induced Mucormycosis on Tuesday. The state has so far reported 106 confirmed and 60 suspected cases of Black fungus. At least 31 state residents have died of the fungal infection so far, as per Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
11-08-2021||Jharkhand||All-India campaign by civil society, labour and farmers’ organisations on Independence Day||Over 160 civil society, labour and farmers’ organisations will as part of a nationwide campaign on Independence Day take a pledge to fight draconian laws, uphold the right to question and show dissent and oppose State actions that “deprive us of the freedoms of speech and opinion”. The movement, named National Campaign to Defend Democracy and spearheaded by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), the Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (a conglomeration of human rights organisations) and trade unions, will also seek justice for Father Stan Swamy. The pledge, framed as part of the national movement, says: “We pledge to campaign for repealing all draconian laws and assert the right to bail of every citizen. We believe that the right to question and the right to dissent are the foundation of our democratic, secular and socialist republic. We commit to campaign against all ideologies, laws and State actions that deprive us of the freedoms of speech and opinion, conscience, association, and to non-violent opposition”. In Jharkhand, participants will read out the pledge in almost all 260 blocks of the 24 districts on August 15. “Although all district units have been given the liberty to stage their own programmes, across Jharkhand there will be a common agenda of reading out the pledge circulated as part of the National Campaign to Defend Democracy. But before reading out the pledge, members will read out the Preamble to the Constitution. We have circulated the pledge to the district representatives,” said Siraj Dutta of the Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha. PUCL national general secretary Kavita Srivastava said: “The countrywide movement between August 15 and August 28 will call for an intensive campaign and street action to defend the right to dissent, repeal the sedition law, the UAPA and other repressive laws, restore the right to bail and ensure justice for Fr Stan Swamy. The state units will be chalking out their own manner of protest but the pledge, which has been drafted on the basis of consensus among all organisation, will be read out on August 15 all over the country.” Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Fr Stan, who spent nine months in jail after being arrested in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case, died in custody while waiting for bail. While in jail, he had challenged the UAPA in court. Srivastava said the 165 groups that would be part of the National Campaign to Defend Democracy, including 50 national networks, would also organise programmes across the country on August 9 to demand justice for Fr Stan, seek compensation for all those booked under draconian laws and call for accountability of officials lodging such cases. The People’s Union for Democratic Rights (PUDR), an independent entity not affiliated to any political party or organisation and is committed to legally defend civil liberties and democratic rights, on Tuesday released in Delhi the soft copy of their report titled Framed to Die: The Case of Stan Swamy. “We released the report on August 6, which marked a month since Fr Stan Swamy passed away in judicial custody in a private hospital, a month in which no official inquiry, even the mandated magisterial inquest, had not been initiated. Framed to Die: The Case of Stan Swamy documents the manner in which he was framed, fettered and finally forced towards a fatal illness under due process of law called the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act,” said PUDR secretary Radhika Chitkara. The 50-page report also documents why Fr Stan was a dissenter and a true patriot and why the State feared him and criminalised his dissent under the UAPA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
