12-08-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city police thwart encroachment attempt||Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee officials and police on Thursday thwarted a section of political activists' attempt to grab land at a prime location in Sakchi. The land grabbers who are also functionaries of the local temple management committee had started constructing concrete pillars on Thursday for grabbing a vast stretch of land in the name of tree plantation. As the encroachment site was along a busy road, the matter came to the limelight in the morning, leading to the officials of the civic body to inspect the site. Soon, officials of the Tata Steel's land department also arrived at the spot.  In the afternoon, the police were called in at the encroachment site and it was cleared. The stretch of land which was attempted to be grabbed is situated at the landmark Ramlila Maidaan in Sakchi, along the Shitla Mandir Road linking the Sakchi-Sidhgora Road. Acting briskly, the land-grabbers had dug over a dozen pits and laid foundations with iron rods and cement concert in them for constructing pillars. Apparently the construction was aimed at setting up a row of shops along the road. JNAC's city manager, Ravi Shankar Bharti confirmed about the anti-encroachment drive that the civic body carried out with the help of police. "The land encroachers who belong to a leading political party besides being associated with a local temple had started constructing pillars at Ramlila Maidan in Sakchi. Initially, they had engaged labourers to dig pits in, declaring that they would do tree plantation there, but later started raising concrete pillars from the pits. We have dismantled the pillar-raising work, " said Bharti while talking to The Telegraph Online. The city manager pointed out that when the anti-encroachment drive was about to be started, the land grabbers claimed they were raising a fence for the tree plantation with an instruction of the local legislator Sarayu Roy. "But Roy expressed his unawareness about any such tree plantation drive at Sakchi. Then only we cleared the encroachment, "the city manager said. Sakchi thana OC, Kunal Kumar who had also reached at the said they will keep a close eye on the encroachers and ensure such anti-social act may not occur in future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
12-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town traders demand redressal for power cuts||A delegation of traders and industrialists from different parts of Dhanbad district on Thursday met senior officials of Dhanbad circle of Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Limited and expressed their concern over the problem of more than 10-12 hours of load shedding affecting trade activities. The delegation led by Rajiv Sharma general secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association also raised the issue of delay in redressal of complaints with regard to over billing and also delay in allotment of new electric connections, low voltage problem, lack of information about power cut scheduled in industrial areas and lack of any one time settlement scheme for bill defaulters. Ajit Kumar, General Manager of Dhanbad circle of JBVNL accompanied by Executive Engineer Shailendra Nath Dwivedi on the other hand explained the immediate reasons including the technical snag in transformers of the Putki Grid of Damodar Valley Corporation affecting the load shedding problem and assured to solve the problem by next Sunday (August 14). Talking to the media after the meeting, Sharma who was also accompanied by the traders and industrialists of different parts of the district, including Dhanbad town, Jharia, Sindri, Saraidhela, Katras, Govindpur as well as Kandra Industrial area said, “We prominently raised the issue of load shedding during the meeting which is creating operational difficulties to the traders and the JBVNL officials further assured that apart from the solution of temporary problem arising from Putki grid a long term solution is also being worked out which is likely to be completed by August end bringing some major positive change in the power supply scenario of the district.” “With regard to the problem of load shedding being faced by the residents of Saraidhela and surrounding areas of the district the JBVNL officials informed us that underground cable laying work being carried out in the area under the Jharkhand Sampurn Bijli Achchhadan Dhan Yojana is major problem affecting the regular power supply and is likely to be sorted out by month end after the completion of cable laying work,” said Sharma. “We have explained to the delegation members about our stand on different issues raised by them including the low voltage issue and overall assured them that the significant improvement in the power supply scenario is likely by the end of this month,” Ajit Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
12-08-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city special school extends help to three mothers||Jeevika, a Sonari-based special school, has brought smiles on the faces of needy mothers of three intellectually impaired students by giving them work. Dolly Francis, Satinder Kaur and Anuradha, all residents of Sonari, were facing hardships in managing their families till Jeevika chipped in with the much needed helping hand. While Dolly remains busy in packing Diwali diyas, Satinder does stitching. Anuradha, on the other hand, deftly paints diyas and paper bags. All are occupied and, more importantly, earning to keep their families afloat in difficult times. "We gave work to these mothers on humanitarian grounds. They are from poor families and badly needed earnings. So, we decided to engage them in our daily work and also pay them remuneration. They have been with us for the past two months," said Jeevika founder Avtar Singh, a former international cyclist. According to him, they make Diwali diyas and gift bags every year. "Some of our students put varnish and also paint the diyas. Around 10,000 diyas are being made. Some are ready while work on the rest is underway. We needed extra hands for packing, painting and wrapping ribbons on the gift bags. We thought of the mothers of our intellectually impaired students and subsequently roped them in," Singh, who was recently elected secretary of Jharkhand Para Sports Association, added. Remuneration of Dolly, Satinder and Anuradha ranges between Rs1,500 to 2,500 for three hours of work on weekdays. The Jeevika founder added mothers' work was need-based since making diyas and gift bags are not made throughout the year. "But we'll certainly help them out whenever we need hands. We understand that several families are facing financial crisis in this pandemic. Dolly, Satinder and Anuradha are good at their respective work and this gives us immense satisfaction," Singh added. Dolly, whose son Ryan is a medallist in para athletics, said she loves working at Jeevika and thanked Singh and his wife Sukhdeep (secretary of Jeevika) for the timely help. "It's a great gesture from Jeevika in providing me work and remuneration," she added. Jeevika, an NGO, promotes special athletes through the medium of sports. It has taught them the importance of Covid protocols. One of the students N. Sai Krishna claimed medals in athletics at the Special Olympics International World Summer Games in Abu Dhabi in 2019. Other students have achieved success in national competitions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
12-08-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS gets COBAS 6800 for quick RT PCR tests with minimal human intervention||Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi has procured a COBAS 6800 machine, which is an automated device that can perform 1,200 RT PCR tests in 24 hours with minimal human intervention, doctors from Jharkhand’s premiere state-run hospital said on Thursday, claiming that this machine was the first such device to be installed in any government-run healthcare facility in the state. “We have procured a COBAS 6800 for fast and safe RT PCR tests. The machine has arrived at our facility and it will be installed within a couple of days,” said Dr Prabhat Kumar, the coordinator of Covid-19 Task Force at RIMS. The COBAS 6800 performs RT PCR tests with minimal need for human intervention, and therefore, reduces the chances of infection in healthcare workers while they perform tests of nasal and throat swabs collected from suspected Covid-19 patients, doctors said. The COBAS 6800 was first introduced in India at the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) back in May 2020. During the inauguration of the machine, then Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said that COBAS 6,800 is a sophisticated machine enabled with robotics that minimizes the chance of contamination as well as the risk of infection to the health care workers since it can be operated remotely with limited human intervention. As the machine requires a minimum BSL2+ containment level for testing, it cannot be placed at just any facility. COBAS 6800 can also detect other pathogens like Viral Hepatitis B and C, HIV, MTb (both rifampicin and isoniazide resistance), Papilloma, CMV, Chlamydia, Neiserreia etc. The machine will be set up at the microbiology department of RIMS. The head of the microbiology department, Dr. Manoj Kumar, was not available for a comment as he was off duty due to health reasons. However, another doctor from the department said that the machine will be extremely helpful in detecting different kinds of viruses even in future. RIMS suffers from a shortage of lab technicians and a machine that requires minimal human intervention is expected to lower the burden on the technicians who usually work around-the-clock at the facility, sources said. The state health department has already asked RIMS to set up a genome studies department in the facility, while the procurement of a genome sequencing machine is also likely to get a nod from the governing body of RIMS in its next meeting scheduled later this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
12-08-2021||Jharkhand||Elderly parents of officer found murdered in Daltonganj||The elderly parents of an officer posted in the Chief Minister Office were found brutally murdered in their house at the Fauji Gali in Daltonganj on Thursday. The officer, Arvind Kumar, is the secretary to the principal secretary to the chief minister. Kumar’s father Rajeshwar Ram, 75, and his mother Parmilla Devi, 70, were found murdered with a 'sharp edged weapon.' Police sources said the elderly couple were murdered on Wednesday night. Rajeshwar Ram who had served in the Indian Army was in the BJP currently after three decades of being in Lalu Yadav's RJD. He was a popular civil society activist. Parmilla Devi was a homemaker. She was found to be wearing a mask on her face when her body was discovered, said a police officer. SP Palamu Chandan Kumar Sinha said the ex-army man had multiple injuries inflicted with a sharp edged weapon. Police sources said his throat was slit and his chest was punctured. "The body of his wife Parmilla Devi was found with less number of injuries in the kitchen," said SP. The SP reiterated the twin murders didn't appear to be for any loot or theft of cash or any other valuable. He said one almirah was found broken but it could be just a ploy of the killer to pass it as murder for cash etc. Motive behind the murder is yet to be ascertained. A team of forensic experts have arrived from Ranchi. “This twin murder case will be investigated and cracked by a special investigating team,” said SP. Footages of the CCTV camera installed in the Fauji Gali are being scanned by the police. Police sources said the couple lived alone but there were three cups of tea found in the morning. The couple’s son Arvind Kumar had arranged for security guard for his parents to look after them. SP Sinha said police have kept the crime scene intact. Former minister K.N. Tripathy was the first politician to reach the house of the deceased on Thursday. Tripathy said he believes this case will be solved soon. He quoted the police to  say the killer or killers seem to be known to the family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
12-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Assembly and  SAIL at loggerheads over dolomite mining ||Jharkhand Assembly committee and steel manufacturing PSU SAIL are at loggerheads over the resumption of dolomite mining activity at Bhawnathpur in Garhwa district, 260km from capital Ranchi. Jharkhand Assembly general purpose committee’s chairperson and Jamshedpur East MLA Saryu Roy during a review meeting over the fate of the open cast dolomite mine at Tulsidamar under Bhawnathpur police station area, at the Garhwa on Tuesday evening went to the extent of recommending for cancellation of the mining lease. “The mining activity has been closed since 2020 and the SAIL official seems not keen to resume it. They should have sorted out contentious issues including payment of fines for violations at the mines secretary level so that the mines would have resumed. Nearly thousand contract workers are at the brink of starvation due to the closure of the mines and delay in clearance of their payments. We would recommend to the Assembly that if the SAIL authorities are not serious in resuming mining operation then steps should be taken to cancel their mining lease and put it for auction as per legal provisions so that new party can start mining activity on a serious note,” said Saryu Roy after the review meeting. Significantly, the open cast Tulsidamar dolomite mine under raw materials division of SAIL is in operation since 1975 and covers an area of 118.72 hectare and is located in Tulsidamar and Jangipur villages in Garhwa district of Jharkhand with a production capacity of 5 lakh tonnes per annum. The mine was started as a captive mine to Bokaro Steel Plant for supply of blast furnace grade dolomite to be used as flux, situated at a distance of about 375km from the mine. However, later dolomite from the Tulsidamar dolomite mine was dispatched to other SAIL’s steel plants also as per requirement. Roy told The Telegraph that the officials of the mines hinted that they were getting dolomite from Rajasthan at cheaper rates. “The Tulsidamar mines general manager Manoj Kumar informed us during the meeting that after the closure of the mines they were getting the dolomite from Madhya Pradesh at cheaper rate for SAIL plants at Bokaro and other parts. They were not keen on paying the penalty for various violations to the state government amounting to over Rs 8.59 crore. It would be better if they surrender the lease so that the government auctions it,” said Roy. Senior official of SAIL associated with Tulsidamar mines informed that unlike other states, Jharkhand is giving lease for minor minerals (like dolomite) for one year. “Our lease expired in March 2020 and we got the lease renewal from the Jharkhand government in February 2021 for a period of one year (till 2022) with a penalty of Rs 8.59 crore to which our corporate office objected. We are yet to get environmental clearance from the Union ministry of environment and forest and by the time we get environment clearance our lease period would get over and we would have to reapply for a fresh lease with another penalty. The government should give us a lease for a longer period,’ said the local official. Bokaro Steel Limited (which looks after SAIL’s raw material division units in Jharkhand) chief of communication, Manikant Dhan confirmed the meeting with the state Assembly committee over the dolomite mines in Garhwa. “We are aware of the matter and it is being looked into,” said Manikant Dhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
12-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: JMM backs caste based census||Ranchi: The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha has welcomed the 127th Constitution amendment Bill, 2021 (OBC Bill) which was passed by the Lok Sabha on Tuesday but demanded the Narendra Modi government to remove existing cap of 50 per cent on the reservations in the country and inclusion of caste based census in the upcoming nationwide census. The passage of the OBC bill will restore states' power to make their own OBC list and notify it for reservation as per their needs. In Jharkhand, OBCs are demanding for 27 per cent reservation from existing 14 per cent. Almost all the political parties promised to work for it in their poll manifestos during the 2019 assembly elections in the state. The JMM and Congress, part of ruling alliance too individually promised for 27 per cent OBC reservation. Addressing a press conference in the evening, JMM's general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee welcomed the developments in the Lok Sabha but raised doubts on Centre's intention behind the move. He said, "We welcome the passage of 127th amendment bill of the Constitution giving rights of deciding reservation of OBCs to the states. It is a welcome break from Modi government's attempts to destroy country's federal system." (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: A 60-year-old farmer, Banshi Saw, was beaten to death by his wife and son in Pundri village under Simaria police station in Chatra district on Monday evening. Officer-in-charge of Simaria police station, Gobind Kumar said after a dispute over some family related matter, Saw's wife Jirwa Devi and son Deepak Kumar started beating him with a lathi at home killing him on the spot. He said both have been arrested with his minor son Deepak being sent to a correctional home. He said they had recovered the lathi used to kill Saw. An FIR has been lodged against the duo and the body handed over to relatives after post mortem at Chatra Sadar Hospital. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A joint team of Chatra district police and excise department arrested three smugglers with 14,300 bottles of country made liquor and 792 bottles of foreign liquor, who admitted that they were going to Bihar. Alcohol is banned by the Nitish Kumar government in Bihar. Due to this, many gangs are now active in bordering districts including Chatra, Koderma and Hazaribagh supplying liquor to the state, making huge profits. The arrested three smugglers were identified as Jaywant Kumar, Amit Kumar and Ranjeet. All three are residents of Hazaribagh. Subdivisional police officer Avinash Kumar confirmed the recovery. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
