13-08-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rain threat ruled out on Independence Day in state ||The IMD Ranchi Meteorological Centre has forecast a fair weather with one or two spells of rain in the afternoon on Independence Day on August 15. In 2020, several places across the state including Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad and Hazaribagh had witnessed heavy showers on Independence Day due to the impact of a low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal. The Ranchi Meteorological Centre till Sunday issued an alert of light to moderate lightning and thunder. It also predicted cloud cover in several districts with possibility of light rain in next 48 hours till Sunday. However, from Monday onwards the state is expected to witness widespread rain till mid-week. An alert of heavy rain was also issued for Monday at a few isolated places in northern Jharkhand. Ruling out the possibility of heavy rain on the Independence Day on August 15 head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre, Abhishek Anand said, "We don't see possibility of heavy showers in the next two days in today's chart analysis and satellite images. However, the intensity of rain would increase from Monday and stay for a few days particularly in northern Jharkhand due to the presence of the monsoon trough in the foothills of Himalayas." The western part of monsoon trough was running close to the foothills of Himalayas and the eastern part of it was passing through Gorakhpur, Muzaffarpur, Shantiniketan,  Haldia and north east Bay of Bengal. A cyclonic circulation over north Bihar and Uttar Pradesh was also hovering 3.1 Km above the mean sea level. Anand said the cyclonic circulation would assist in rainfall activity from August 16. Meteorological data suggest that southwest monsoon activity was normal over Jharkhand during the past 24 hours. The highest rainfall of 25 mm was recorded at Maheshpur in Pakur district while Nandadih in  Koderma district recorded 20 mm of rain. Several other places including Jamtara, Daltonganj and Kolhan region witnessed light rain in the past 24 hours. Weathermen at IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta also ruled outv heavy showers in Jharkhand on August 15. "We find no weather system over the Bay of Bengal or over the plains which may trigger heavy showers on August 15 ," said a duty officer at the Calcutta weather office. So far, Jharkhand has received 586 mm rain against a normal of 655 mm, leading to a five per cent excess rain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
13-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur tops BSNL fibre Net connections in Jharkhand||Central government owned telecommunications service provider BSNL has recognised Jamshedpur as its largest business area in the fibre to the home (FTTH) internet sector in Jharkhand circle. According to Sanjeev Verma, general manager, BSNL’s Jamshedpur secondary switching area (SSA), there are around 36,925 FTTH connections in the state and the bulk of these are in Jamshedpur (16,367), which is nearly 44 per cent, followed by Ranchi (8,598) which is nearly 23 per cent. “It is a proud moment for all of us to state that because of the huge response received from the citizens of Jamshedpur, around 45 per cent of the total growth of FTTH in Jharkhand circle is because of Jamshedpur. As a result , recently Jamshedpur has been officially designated as the largest business area in Jharkhand circle in FTTH,” said Verma. According to data shared by BSNL, there are 1.6 million FTTH customers in India and every month around 1 lakh connections are being added. “BSNL’s Bharat Fibre service is a true enabler in synergisng the work from home culture along with seamlessly providing e-education or ability to connect with each other. It has received good response across country,” said a senior BSNL official. There has been an 80 per cent increase in the new FTTH provisioning in the current financial year. From a monthly average connection figure of 724 in financial year 2020-21, the monthly FTTH connection has increased to 1,336 in financial year 2021-22. It is targeted to increase to 2000 per month as per the revised target given to Jamshedpur by BSNL headquarters. To boost FTTH services across three districts of East Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan and West Singhbhum (which falls under Jamshedpur business area)  FTTH services are provided in Jamshedpur city, Adityapur, Mango, Parsudih, in addition to rural areas and in Chandil, Ghatshila, Mosaboni, Dhalbhumgarh, Bahragora, Seraikela, Chaibasa, Noamundi, Meghatuburu. There are plans to provide the service at Chowka, Sini, Gua, Manoharpur, Chakradharpur along with augmentation in city infrastructure. BSNL has tied up with multiple telecom infrastructure provider for different areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
13-08-2021||Jharkhand||All set for I-Day bash at Morabadi in Ranchi, but children and elderly told to watch on TV||Jharkhand will mark the nation's 75th Independence Day on Sunday at Ranchi’s iconic Morabadi ground, hosting a gathering of an estimated 3,000 people, but the celebrations will be sans cultural events for the second consecutive year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Chief minister Hemant Soren will unfurl the Ttricolor in Ranchi while newly-appointed governor Ramesh Bais will do the honours in Dumka, the state’s second capital, as is custiomary. On Friday, as many as 11 platoons of various security forces performed a full dress rehearsal at the venue under the supervision of deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan and senior SP S. K. Jha. Considering the present state of the pandemic, Ranjan asked children (up to 10) and the elderly (above 60) to enjoy the Independence Day programme from home. “The state sponsored I-Day programme will be telecast live on the government’s web television (jhargov.in). The district administration is appealing to children and senior citizens not to come to the venue," he said. He said adequate arrangements would be made to ensure Covid-appropriate behavior. “The turnout will be a maximum of 3,000 people. All those who attend the programme at Morabadi on I-Day must wear masks, maintain proper social distancing at the venue and follow all prescribed Covid norms," he said. About half a dozen gates are being set up at the venue to regulate entry. As many as 12 giant LED screens installed at the ground permanently will also relay the live proceedings. As many as 11 platoons of CRPF, CISF, ITBP, JAP-1, JAP-2, Jharkhand Jaguar, JAP-10, Ranchi Police (women), Ranchi Police (men), SSB, and Jharkhand Home Guard (JHG), band parties of JAP-1, JAP-10 and JHG will take part in the I-Day parade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
13-08-2021||Jharkhand||PUBG crazed neighbour arrested for officer parents murder in Daltonganj||Police have arrested the neighbour of a state officer’s elderly parents found murdered in their house in Fauji Gali in Daltonganj on Thursday morning. SP Palamau Chandan Kumar Sinha at a media conference held on Friday evening said, “We have cracked this case in 12 hours.” He said the neighbour of the deceased couple identified as Shivam Pandey has been arrested. Pandey has confessed to have knifed the couple to death. However, the SP said the youth has given an odd reason for the twin murder. SP said the arrested youth is a player of PUB G. The youth told the police that Rajeshwar Ram, an ex army officer, used to snub and deride him and his family. The youth has also told the police that Rajeshwar was in the habit of browbeating him and his family. “The youth told us that this ex army man had made him feel he was a luckless fellow and could do nothing in life,” said Sinha. SP said such a long and incessant rapping of this youth had made him repulsive towards Rajeshwar. On Wednesday evening, Pandey was invited by Rajeshwar to his house for tea. SP said the youth told police that on that evening too Rajeshwar was at his jeer best for him and that enraged him and he took out his knife and killed the couple. Police have arrested the youth but have not found the weapon used in the twin murders. SP said, “We tried to find out the weapon of offence on the clues given by the youth but in vain.” SP said police have sent the arrested youth in judicial remand but will request the court for his police remand. Pandey had stolen Rs 40,000 from the almirah of the deceased couple which police have recovered. Sources said police will investigate all angles of the murder including caste anymosity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
13-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia social worker on mission to celebrate plastic-free Independence Day||A group of environmentalists of Jharia, one of the most polluted towns of the country, on Friday carried out an awareness drive on the ill-effects of plastic use by distributing cloth tricolour flags in the run-up to Independence Day. The drive was carried out under the leadership of Akhlaque Ahmad, founder of Youth Concept, a Jharia based social organisation. It began at around 11.30am at Gulgulia Basti, a slum situated near Katras locality, inhabited by street dwellers and daily wage earners and later in the afternoon to Durgapur Kusth Colony, a slum of leprosy affected persons, near the Jharia Railway station. The activists encouraged residents of these localities to avoid the use of plastic made tricolour flags and also handed over saplings of fruit bearing plants including mango and guava. Talking to Telegraph Online on Friday, Ahmad, who is also a special educator and speech therapist said,“We felt quite peeved over the scene of children waving plastic made tricolour flags on or before Independence Day since the last couple of years and thus decided to spread awareness on the use of cloth made tricolour by distributing them.” “I have purchased around 60 meters of cotton cloth from the wholesale market of Kendua yesterday for the drive and the tricolours were made at my home by the women of the family including by sister’s daughter, Sanya Parveen (18), a plus two student of RSP College of Jharia and others,” said Ahmad and added as Jharia is worst affected due to coal dust pollution the awareness drive was quite pertinent. Raman Gulgulia, a resident of Gulgulia Patti locality, who ekes out his living by carrying out sharpening of kitchenware, knife, scissors etc said, “We rarely get the opportunity to participate in the independence day functions as we  keep on wandering from one place to other on all 365 days for livelihood but since the awareness programme was held this morning we were present and promised to Akhalque Sir and his team members that we will never use the plastic made tricolour and instead use the cloth made tricolour.” Raju Gugulia, another daily wage earner of Gulgulia Patti said,“My son who is class V student in nearby private school, Indian School of Learning,  also advised me and his friends in the locality two years ago as told by his school teachers not to use the plastic made tricolour and when the group of visitors also provided us the cloth made tricolour and convinced us to use cloth made tricolour I felt quite happy that my son’s education is in right track.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
13-08-2021||Jharkhand||6 Tata foundation climbers in national squad for world youth meet||As many as six climbers from the Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) have found berths in the seven-member national sport climbing squad for the World Youth Championship scheduled in Voronezh, Russia from August 21 to 31. The climbers from the premier Jamshedpur-based adventure outfit are Anisha Verma, Aman Verma, Suraj Singh Sardar, Vidula Abhale, Ronit Banra and J Purty. Manuji of New Delhi is the other member in the Russia-bound side. Hemant Gupta, head of TSAF, and Bibhas Roy, route setter at the sport climbing cradle at JRD Tata Sports Complex, will accompany the team as manager and coach, respectively. The team will leave Jamshedpur on August 17 before flying to Russia the following day. The squad was selected on the basis of performance of climbers at the national qualifying trials organised by TSAF) in association with Indian Mountaineering Foundation (IMF) East at JRD Tata Sports Complex in Jamshedpur last month. A total of 24 aspirants (boys and girls), including 9 from TSAF, from across the country participated at the trials . Anisha Verma is the current national record holder in speed climbing in the girl's category while her brother Aman Verma is the first climber from India to reach the semi-final stage of World Youth Championship a couple of years back. TSAF cadets have won 20 medals at national level while more than 50 at zonal and state level. TSAF has invested heavily, to the tune of crores, to develop infrastructure and training center for sport climbing in Jamshedpur. Besides JRD Tata Sports Complex, it has also installed 5 modular climbing walls at rural schools around the steel city to increase the reach and awareness of the sport. The country’s first residential academy for sport climbing was set up in Jamshedpur last month. TSAF is training climbers with the Olympic Games in mind. Sport climbing made its maiden entry in the recently concluded Olympics in Tokyo, Japan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
13-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC retain captain Peter Hartley for another ISL season ||Jamshedpur FC has retained defender and club captain Peter Hartley for one more season. The Englishman has delivered consistently on the field and secured two Hero of the Match in 19 matches for the club. The strong defender quickly became a fan favourite and was influential in leading Jamshedpur to a club record number of clean sheets (9) and ended the season with impressive stats -- 52 tackles, 22 interceptions, 72 clearances and 23 blocks. He also scored two goals during the campaign. On signing the dotted line, Hartley exclaimed his joy at continuing in the red colours of Jamshedpur. He said, "I had an amazing season with Jamshedpur. We made a club record for the number of clean sheets in a season, and I hope we can better that record in the coming season and bring the ISL trophy home." He also underlined the importance of head coach Owen Coyle's presence. "We have a fantastic gaffer on Owen Coyle. I am thrilled to continue playing under his guidance and do well for him as for the fantastic supporters of Jamshedpur." Coyle himself was ecstatic to have the skipper continue. He explained the importance of having Hartley in the squad."We were mean in defence previous season and a lot of it was down to how the skipper organised things at the back of us. Like I said when we signed Hartley, he is a big player for us who hates conceding goals. He brings with him so much experience from the English and Scottish leagues, something that evidently rubbed on to everyone around him. It was essential for Jamshedpur to have him again." Hartley is a Sunderland AFC Academy product. The left-footed centre-back was scouted into the Sunderland AFC youth system as a 12-year-old in 2000 and rose up the ranks with his impressive performances. He played and trained with Sunderland's senior team too and made his debut in 2007 versus Leicester City under Roy Keane. He went on a loan spell to Chesterfield FC and then switched to Hartpool United in 2009, being the most capped player for Hartpool during his four-year stint as well as captain for two seasons. Later, the Englishman had stints with Stevenage, Plymouth, Argyle, Bristol Rovers and Blackpool before joining Motherwell FC. The defender has played in prestigious tournaments in England such as the FA Cup and the League Cup where he represented his clubs against the likes of Chelsea, Everton, Sheffield United, Wartford and Wigan Athletic. He also played versus Burnley in 2009, which was then under the management of Owen Coyle and also scored against Antonio Conte's Chelsea in the 2016-17 League Cup tie. Hartley will continue wearing number 29 in the coming season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
13-08-2021||Jharkhand||Nearly 1 lakh residents get vaccinated in Jharkhand  ||Jharkhand on Thursday vaccinated nearly 1 lakh residents against Covid-19 as at least 1,032 session sites remained operation across the state for inoculation of eligible beneficiaries, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), Jharkhand administered the first dose of vaccine to as many as 69,147 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 28,470 beneficiaries. As many as 54,276 residents in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years received their first jab on the day, while 17,848 beneficiaries from the same age group received their second jab. According to data available on Co-Win portal, at least 47 session sites were operational in Ranchi on the day and more than 7,000 residents got vaccinated here. As many as 35 session sites inoculated more than 6700 residents in East Singhbhum on the day, while almost 12000 beneficiaries got their jabs across 62 vaccination centres open in Dhanbad. As per government data, the state has so far received over 1 crore Covishield and Covaxin doses from the Centre. Data shared by the health department on Thursday evening indicated that the state had about 4 lakh vaccine doses in stock, enough to last about four days if the immunisation campaign runs at a decent pace. Fresh Covid cases outnumbered recoveries on Thursday, causing a spike in the active caseload in Jharkhand. The state, as per a bulletin from NHM, reported 44 cases against 29 recoveries, which took the active caseload in the state to 211. Ranchi alone reported 28 cases against only three recoveries and the active caseload here jumped to 87, the highest in the state. While none of the remaining 23 districts reported a double-digit-spike, East Singhbhum reported five cases against four recoveries and Dhanbad reported seven cases against one recovery. Another suspected case of Covid-induced mucormycosis also occurred in Ranchi on Thursday, taking the total count of suspected cases of black fungus in the district to 24 and that in Jharkhand to 61, figures compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) highlighted. The state has so far reported 106 confirmed cases of mucormycosis and 31 people have died of the fungal infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
13-08-2021||Jharkhand||Tribals pledge not to give up 'ancestral' land for coal mining||Over 200 tribals in Dumka district of Jharkhand have taken a pledge not to give up an inch of their “ancestral” land for coal mining. Over 1,703 hectares of land of 84 revenue villages in Shikaripara and Kathitund blocks of Dumka district were allotted to the Eastern Coalfields Limited (a subsidiary of Coal India Limited) in 2020 as part of the coal block auction by the central government. The villagers gathered at Pakulpada and Simanijod villages in Shikaripara block and took the pledge at a function to mark International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples on Monday. “The villagers have taken a pledge against giving up their ancestral lands for coal mining. We can go to any extent to stop land acquisition in our villages. We can sacrifice our life and also take life if the need arose but would not give up our land,” said Marsila Murmu, a youth of Hulasdangal village in Shikaripara. The villagers’ demand has also received support from local zilla parishad chairperson Joyce Besra. “We support the demands of the villagers. The Union government should have taken the local villagers into confidence through gram sabhas before putting up the coal blocks for auction. Even those who have bagged the bid should pay compensation and arrange for rehabilitation of the villagers before acquiring the land,” said Besra. The villagers have also met Shikaripara MLA and senior JMM leader Nalin Soren and received his support. “We stand with over 1 lakh villagers who will be displaced after their lands are taken away. The villagers claimed that a notice has been issued to residents of 84 villages about the coal mining. The central government should have taken into confidence the local gram sabhas before putting the coal blocks up for auction. The government cannot force people to give up their agricultural land. If the need arises I will speak to the chief minister too on this issue,” said Nalin. The Dumka district administration has also supported the villagers’ cause. “We will be reviewing the coal blocks auctioned to bidders. Under no circumstances would the land of tribal villagers be acquired without their permission,” said Dumka additional collector Rajesh Kumar Rai. Over 25 coal blocks in Jharkhand are in various stages of auction initiated by the Centre in 2020. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren had last year also criticised the Centre for starting the auction of coal blocks without taking the state government into confidence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
13-08-2021||Jharkhand||XAT 2022 for admission to MBA and post-graduate management courses to be held online on January 2||The XLRI-Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, on Thursday announced that the Xavier Aptitude Test (XAT) 2022 for admission to MBA and post-graduate management courses will be held on January 2 in the online mode. In a communiqué issued on Thursday, the XLRI, which has been conducting the XAT on behalf of the Xavier Association of Management Institutes for seven decades, said that the registration for the exam will close on November 30, 2021. The registration process began on August 10. “The test will be of three hours duration between 9.30am and 12.30pm. XAT 2022 will accept applications for XLRI Jamshedpur and XLRI Delhi-NCR campus and a candidate can choose two preferred test cities for the test. More than 100 institutes (mostly Jesuits) are using the XAT score for their respective admission process,” the communiqué said. “The XLRI has been conducting XAT on behalf of XAMI to select the most suitable students for management education. Though one of the oldest competitive examinations in the country, XAT has always kept pace with the cutting-edge testing methodology. The test’s multidimensional testing framework strives to assess the aptitude of candidates for business management education meaningfully. The XAT has a multi-pronged examination structure and in-built fairness to evaluate candidates aspiring to be future business leaders,” said XLRI director Father Paul Fernandes. Candidates who have a recognised bachelor’s degree of minimum three years duration or equivalent in any discipline and those completing their final examination by June 10, 2022, may also apply. All Indian candidates can appear for XAT 2022. However, NRI and foreign candidates may apply through their GMAT scores. The XAT 2022 will be conducted in 185 centres across India. The cities in eastern India where the test would be held include Berhampur, Bhubaneswar, Bokaro, Cuttack, Calcutta, Guwahati, Hooghly, Jamshedpur, Patna, Ranchi, Rourkela, Sambalpur and Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
13-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Dhanbad painting competition on patriotic theme ||Dhanbad: A card-making workshop was organised under the leadership of private tutor Pinaki Roy, founder of Jharia based NGO Institution for National Amity that was aimed at inculcating a sense of patriotism among 40 students of 12 to 19 year age group ahead of Independence Day. The participants belonging to different schools of the district including Carmel School, Digwadih; De Nobili School, Digwadih and Kids Garden, Jharia besides some other government schools of the district made paintings of Bharat Mata, Indian soldiers, the tricolour etc as part of the workshop. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Roy said, “At the time of the pandemic when several restrictions have been imposed by the union home ministry to avoid overcrowding during Independence Day celebration, we decided to propagate patriotic fervour among students by organising the workshop and the response was quite encouraging today.” (Praduman Choubey) Hazaribagh: A 54-year-old police jawan died under mysterious circumstances at Hazaribagh police line with police claiming that accidental firing from his own Insas rifle claimed his life. Rajkumar Mahto was a resident of Jori village of Huntergunj block in neighbouring Chatra district. He joined the service in 2018 and is survived by his wife, three sons and a daughter. Policemen on condition of anonymity said he died by suicide as he was suffering from depression for long. But those close to him as well as relatives opposed the suicide theory and said he was of jovial nature. They said he was diabetic and undergoing treatment in Ranchi. Inspector of Sadar Circle Lalit Kumar Singh said investigation has started keeping in mind all the possible angles. His body was handed over to relatives after post mortem at Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
