14-08-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma elephants fed on credit due to lack of funds||The state forest department failed to sanction funds for two rescued elephants and over 60 deers kept in Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary following which the sanctuary authority fed the animals in credit. The Dalma wildlife sanctuary gets Rs 15 lakh annually for feeding the rescued elephants and deers, but though about half of the current financial year has elapsed the required fund has not been sanctioned yet. The sanctuary authorities maintain that as the state government is coping up with the fund crunch due to Covid-19 pandemic, it has failed to sanction the fund so far. Dalma divisional forest officer, Abhishek Kumar confirmed about not getting the fund for the maintenance of the rescued elephants and deers this financial year. "We would get the fund for the maintenance of the elephants and deers in the month of March every year. But this year almost half of the current financial year has elapsed, the fund is yet to be sanctioned. As a result of which the animals in enclosure are being fed on borrowed food," said Kumar to The Telegraph Online. The DFO said the fund issue has cropped up not only regarding the enclosed animals' maintenance, but also on other heads also, including the fund required towards the remuneration of the trackers who use to work for the upkeep of forest cover of the sprawling sanctuary. Stationed at the Makulakocha in Dalma about eight km away from the heart of the city, the two rescued elephants -- Rajni and Champa --are fed 'khichdi', pumpkins and straw every day. Similarly, the 60 plus deers which have been kept in an enclosure are fed grams, chaff and straw regularly. Initially, there were three rescued elephants at Makulakocha, but one of them, Laxmi, succumbed to her illness two years ago. "Whereas on the one hand, the number of the rescued elephants has come down to two after Laxmi's death in 2019, on the other hand, the number of the deers has increased considerably, thus consuming the Rs 15 lakhs that the state government has been providing every year since the past one decade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
14-08-2021||Jharkhand||22 policemen named for Independence Day Awards||As many as 22 policemen from Jharkhand have been conferred with Independence Day awards for bravery and  meritorious service, according to list put forth by the Union ministry of home affairs on Saturday. While six policemen have been named for the  Police Medal for Gallantry, one has been named for the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service and 15 for the Police Medal for Meritorious service. Among those named for gallantry are Manish Chandra Lal (inspector), Suresh Ram (SI), Rohit Kumar Rajak (DAP), Anirudha Kumar Ojha (DPF-SAT-2) and Yashwant Mahto (DPF SAT-2). Lal, who is posted in Gumla as SDPO, has been rewarded for his bravery during his stint in Hazaribagh in 2015 when he and his team raided a village in Chouparan upon receiving a tip-off about the of assembly of over 70 dreaded rebels. Following a fierce gun battle, Lal and his team also managed to gun down three Maoists. Recalling the encounter while speaking with reporters on Saturday, Lal said that it was one of the most challenging experiences of his career. But, he said he was happy that they successfully managed to thwart a major plan by rebels. “The encounter took place on January 12, 2015 when my team and I headed to the jungles in Chouparan after SP’s directives upon receiving a secret information about presence of large squads of Maoists. As we ventured into the forest, one group of rebels opened fire on us. We were were attacked from all sides but we retaliated with full might, forcing the rebels to retreat. We were successful in killing three naxals. We seizesd lots of ammunition and illegally amassed money to the tune of lakhs,” he said. Lal is also known to have killed over half a dozen naxals in Garwah during his stint there in 2008 for which he was also awarded the President’s bravery medal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
14-08-2021||Jharkhand||49-year-old 'Tiranga Man' distributes free flags for seven years||49-year-old Shaukat Khan also known as the 'Tiranga Man' has been distributing national flags free of cost for over seven years. The recipients of his free national flags include people from various socio-economic and other backgrounds. I have been distributing national flags since 2014. It is my seventh year. If I am not wrong I have so far distributed 2,00,000 national flags free," said Khan to The Telegraph Online. He went on to say,"I have launched a programme called Rashtriya Tiranga Samman Samaroh. It is in honour of our brave jawans who do their selfless duties day and night on the borders far away from their homes and families." "I want to drive a message to our border heroes that the entire nation stands with them," said Khan. Khan, a Class ten graduate, said his son and daughter are in colleges pursuing undergraduate and intermediate courses respectively. Asked as to how he does this philanthropy to which he said he has a showroom of a popular bike brand in Garhwa town that brings basic food to the table. One average size national flag costs around Rs100 and Khan said he spends his own savings on it. "I don’t have an NGO of any kind. I do not raise funds. I trust my own savings. People's trust and love for me keep me going," he said. He said he has distributed national flags at temples, madrasas, jails, police and CRPF institutions etc. Khan made it very clear when he said he has no political agenda. It is his profound love for India and Indians. Khan said, "My heart aches when I see violence in the streets over the measurement of patriotism. This is too bad a thing. Patriotism is in blood. It can never be thrust upon. It comes as naturally as leaves or fragrance comes to trees and flowers." He said whenever there is a procession be it religious or political protest, there are numerous national flags in it. Khan sees this as a great change for the good of the society and the country. He runs four free banks- Kapra bank, Chawal bank, Sattu bank and Pustak bank- in memoriam of the martyrs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
14-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand archer Komalika Bari aims for gold at world meet||Jharkhand archer Komalika Bari will set her sights on bagging the under-21 recurve gold when she lines up to meet Spain's Elia Canales in the final of the World Youth Archery Championships in Wroclaw, Poland on Sunday. A win will put the 19-year-old Komalika at par with world number 1 Deepika Kumari as she will become the second recurve archer from India to hold the under-18 and under-21 world titles. She made it to the final after a come-back semi-final win over new Olympian Casey Kaufhold, 6-4. Deepika also hails from Jharkhand and presently lives with her husband and archer Atanu Das in Pune. Deepika completed the double in Legnica, Poland a decade ago. Jamshedpur-based Komalika, a cadet of elite Tata Archery Academy, rose to fame when she won the under-18 individual title at the World Youth Archery and Cadet Championships staged in Madrid, Spain in 2019. Considering her current form, the bespectacled archer should win the title in Wroclaw. Komalika and Jharkhandmates Deepika and Ankita Bhakat claimed the team gold at the recently concluded World Cup Stage 3 in Paris. An integral part of the women's recurve squad, she also picked up team yellow metal at the World Cup Stage 1 held at Guatemala earlier this year. Komalika, who is Jamshedpur-based, comes from a typical Indian middle-class household. Her father, Ghanshyam Bari, works as an LIC agent while mother Lakshmi is a homemaker. Earlier, she was a trainee at a cradle run by Indian Steel & Wire Product near Telco township in Jamshedpur. She made it to the Tata cradle in 2016. "Komalika is a very focussed archer who is least hesitant which are essential qualities in archery. She is a quality archer who is going to take big strides in the sport," Tata cradle coach and Dronacharya awardee Purnima Mahto had said to The Telegraph Online before the Indian team's departure for Poland. Purnima is the coach of the women's side in Wroclaw. Archery coaches in Jharkhand feel Komalika is the next Deepika in the making who is surely going to make it to the 2024 Olympic Games in Paris. "Komalika has all the qualities of a top-bracket archer. She is focussed and remains cool while shooting. Moreover, she's a hard working archer. A medal in Poland on Sunday will boost her confidence level. She is the next Deepika from Jharkhand," said B. Sriniwas Rao, chief coach at the government-run archery cradle in Dugni, near Seraikela.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
14-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town traders demand train fare hike rollback||Coal town traders have demanded the Indian Railways to immediately roll back the exorbitant hike in train fares implemented by the central government after the Covid induced lockdown. A letter in this regard has been sent by Sanjay Baid, president of Bokaro Chamber Commerce to Ashwini Vaishnaw, union minister of railway, demanding rollback of hike in train fare and simultaneously also demanded restoration of the pre-lockdown provision of concession for senior citizens, widow and defence personnel. Baid said that the fare of special trains ahead of lockdown was almost at par with the other trains but an exorbitant hike in train fare almost comparable with tatkal ticket fare has been carried out after the lockdown which is still continuing without any reason despite extension schedule of these trains several times. "As trains have been increased now on almost all the routes and situation has normalized there is no logic of running these trains as special trains putting the burden of extra fare on passengers including the senior citizens, widows students who have also deprived of their concession in reservation charges in name of special trains," said Baid. "For special trains, 500km of fare has been made mandatory which is not at all correct as the passenger travelling for 300 meters only will have to pay the fare of 500 kms of journey," said Baid who is also  member of Divisional Railway Users Consultative Committee. President of Sindri Chamber of Commerce, Deepak Kumar Dipu said, "The hike in fare has not only affected the long distance travellers but also those covering short distance like 28 km between Dhanbad to Sindri as the fare Sindri town passenger train has been increased to three fold to Rs 30 per passenger after its recent restoration from the pre lockdown fare of Rs 10 per passenger.” "We will soon meet Ashish Bansal, Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad demanding restoration of all three ferries of train and simultaneous restoration of old fare of Rs 10 per passenger," said Dipu. Book trader Rajesh Kumar Gupta who is also the patron of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry said, "At a time when the common people are badly hit due to decreased income due to impact of pandemic the realization of exorbitant fare from passengers is not at all justified."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
14-08-2021||Jharkhand||Visitors from South India dodging tests, causing spike in Covid cases in Ranchi||Passengers from southern states of India have led to an alarming spike in Covid-19 cased in Ranchi in the past one week, believe health officials who said on Saturday that a majority of the new Covid patients detected in the state were travelers coming to Ranchi from either Karnataka or Tamil Nadu. As per data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), the active caseload of Covid-19 in Ranchi was 52 on August 8. Cut to Saturday, at least 95 people were battling Coronavirus infection in this district. This last week has seen a rise in Covid cases after a sustained drop in cases over a period of several weeks owing to strict restrictions, health officials said. However, there are hardly any local patients with severe symptoms, said Ranchi civil surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar, adding that the Covid ward of Sadar Hospital in Ranchi had only one patient admitted on Saturday and he was stable. “Most of the new patients in Ranchi were travelers coming from either Karnataka or Tamil Nadu,” said Kumar, adding that the screening at railway stations, airport and bus stands needs to be intensified in order to check the spread of the virus among locals. “We have come across cases wherein passengers have tried to dodge Covid tests at the railway station and later tested positive for Covid-19,” the civil surgeon said. “I would suggest that security be beefed up around railway stations and bus stands, so no passenger can avoid the mandatory Covid test,” he added. Testing all passengers coming to Ranchi was important as undetected Covid patients may transmit the infection to local residents and the cases might increase, said Kumar, claiming that the easing of restrictions in the state did not play a major role in the spike in Covid cases. “If the spike was due to the relaxations provided by the government, then more local residents would have tested positive,” he said. Ranchi has been the worst-affected Jharkhand district in terms of caseload and fatality since the SARS-COV-2 virus made its entry in the state. As per government data, the district has reported 1,585 of the 5,131 casualties in Jharkhand and also accounted for 85,468 of the over 3.47 lakh Covid cases reported in the state so far. Ranchi is also well-connected to different cities of India via railways and airways, which increases the chances of infected people entering the district and spreading the virus among local residents, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
14-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: India women’s football camp in Jamshedpur from Monday||Ranchi: Jharkhand is set to host Indian women's football national camp in Jamshedpur from August 16 for preparations for the AFC Women’s Cup India 2022—a  flagship continental championship (Asia cup) which is scheduled next year, All India Football Federation (AIFF) has formally announced on Friday. Chief minister Hemant Soren’s office in a communiqué further informed that the state sports department has been directed to extend all the required logistic support and assistance to make this camp successful. India will be hosting this prestigious tournament from January 20-February 6, 2022, (AIFF) has noted. 2022 will also be significant year for women’s football in the country as India will also to host to the FIFA U-17 Women’s World Cup from October 2022 onwards. AIFF has released a list of 30 players who would take part in the upcoming preparatory camp in Jamshedpur. Jharkhand’s Sumati Kumari is also part of the probable squad. Sumati is among six forwards who would be vying for a spot in the national team from this camp. (Our correspondent) Jamshedpur: The East Singhbhum senior superintendent of police M.Tamil Vanan has put the entire district on high alert for three days from Friday in the run up to Independence Day. During this period, the police officials have been instructed to remain not only in surveillance mode, but also to carry out surprise checks at the hotels, guest-houses and restaurants. This apart, the officers-in-charge of the police stations in the district have been asked to make deployment of armed police at strategic locations across the district, especially in the steel city. A senior police official on condition of anonymity said that outside steel city, Ghatsila and Patamda areas of the district are in the special focus of the police. "As the outlawed rebel outfit, CPI-Maoist tends to show its presence by resorting to subversive acts in the rural pockets, especially in Ghatsila subdivision and Patamda area, bordering Bengal, these two areas will be in our focus outside the city," said the police officer to The Telegraph Online. Deployment of police forces at the strategic locations have already started to be made across the district. (Kumud Jenamani) Dhanbad: The fast unto death launched by dependents of more than 50 deceased employees of civic body Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority in front of its office since August 10 continued for the the fourth consecutive day on Friday. Two of the agitators, Manju Devi and Kuldip Mahto, who were admitted at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and hospital two days ago after deterioration of their health condition joined the agitation after returning from the hospital. (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: Nine employees of Tata Steel bagged Prime Minister’s Shram Awards (PMSA) for the year 2018 bringing laurels to the company as well as the steel city. The Awards Shram Bhushan (cash prize of Rs 1 lakh each), Shram Vir (cash prize of Rs 60,000 each) and Shram Shree (cash prize of Rs 40,000 each) are given to the workers employed in public and private sector companies ( which employs 500 or more persons) in recognition of their distinguished performance, innovative abilities, outstanding contribution in the field of productivity and exhibition of exceptional courage and presence of mind. The announcements were made by the Union government on Friday, August 13. Two employees of the company have been conferred with prestigious Shram Bhushan award, six employees with Shram Vir award and one employee has been conferred with Shram Shree Award. (Pinaki Majumdar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
14-08-2021||Jharkhand||Brinda blames Centre for disruption of monsoon session||CPM politburo Brinda Karat blamed the Central government for the disruption of the monsoon session as the BJP was trying to run Parliament as an ‘RSS shakha’. “It is the responsibility of the Central government to run the Parliament but recently we have seen the ruling BJP government trying to run it (Parliament) like a RSS Shakha. We would not let the Parliament be a RSS Shakha or a place for gurudakshina where everyone would clap to the speech of Modiji (Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The business agenda were finalised without taking opposition into confidence and BJP in order to try to hide its failure disrupted Parliament proceedings,” said the former Rajya Sabha from Bengal while addressing the media at the Circuit House in Dumka. Karat who was in Dumka since Thursday to chair the two-day CPM state level further accused the BJP misusing its majority in both the Houses of the Parliament. “The ruling party was misusing its majority as a tool of arrogance and tyranny to suppress voices of opposition instead of debating on major issues inside the Parliament. It was a shameful act that outside persons were called in as marshals to manhandle Parliamentarians,” Karat said. Speaking to media, on the sidelines of two-day CPM Jharkhand state committee meeting at Dumka in Jharkhand, Karat countered the BJP-led Central government blame that opposition ruckus had led to disruption of Parliament session and said, “It was not Opposition but the arrogance of the Central government which should be blamed for the disruption. Instead of debate on the use of Pegasus, the Central government simply ignored the Opposition demands on this vital issue. If the government tries to bulldoze opposition we will even take the issue on the street.” The CPM leader said that if the Narendra Modi-led government cares about the sanctity of the Parliament it should have disclosed all materials on Pegasus. “It should have discussed the issue and disclosed all materials and documents about the authorisation and orders relating to the use of Pegasus. It is not only the Pegasus row but also the farmers who have been protesting against the new farm laws but the Prime Minister has not even bothered to talk with them,” said Karat. Significantly, the Central government on Wednesday blamed the opposition behaviour in Rajya Sabha as a new low in Parliamentary democracy and sought apology from the opposition for disruptive and threatening behaviour forcing Parliament to close two days ahead of schedule. The CPM leader during a meeting with the CPM state leaders also discussed about the massive awareness campaign to be launched in Jharkhand in September against the anti-people policies of the Central government during which 10 lakh people would be contacted personally by the CPM cadres in Jharkhand. Karat also supported the pan-India movement by more than 150 organisations in memory of Father Stan Swamy who died while undergoing treatment in a private hospital in Bombay while under judicial custody. “We support the campaign by the human rights outfit and supported by several organisations for repeal of UAPA, sedition laws and release of undertrial prisoners arrested on fabricated charges,” said Karat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
