15-08-2021||Jharkhand||East Singhbhum live streams Independence Day celebrations||Health minister Banna Gupta hoisted the tricolour at Gopal Maidan in Bistupur on Sunday during the 75th Independence Day celebrations held amid strict adherence to Covid-19 norms. The function which was also live streamed on the Facebook page of PRD East Singhbhum was also attended by East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar, senior superintendent of police M. Tamil Vanan and other senior district administrative officials. Soon after unfurling the national flag at 9.05am, the minister inspected the parade. In his address he said that Covid-19 pandemic has posed several challenges for the state government. He appealed to people to continue following the Covid appropriate behaviour. The function was held with several restrictions. Public participation was not allowed due to the pandemic. The one hour function saw felicitation of freedom fighters and felicitation of corona warriors. Tata Steel, Tata Motors and other Tata group companies also celebrated the day in a simple manner. Tata Steel managing director T.V. Narendran unfurled the national flag at a function organised at the company's works main gate. Addressing the function he wished the people on this historic day. He went on to say that the Covid-19 pandemic had severely impacted business and growth but hoped that things will change for the better. Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Limited (TSUISL), formerly Jusco, also organised a function on its premises at Bistupur to mark the day. Managing director of TSUISL Tarun Daga hoisted the national flag. Others, like Tata Motors and its ancillaries based at Adityapur in adjoining Seraikela- Kharsawan district, also celebrated Independence Day, adhering to Covid protocols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
15-08-2021||Jharkhand||East Singhbhum tribal village holds Independence Day celebrations for first time||Patipani village in Bodam block of East Singhbhum district on Sunday, witnessed flag-hoisting for the first time after the country’s independence. Patipani village, located about 25km away from Jamshedpur, is inhabited by Birhor which is a primitive tribe, the people belonging to which prefer to stay in the trees. Patipani is one of the most remote and neglected villages in the district. Though the administration has off late started providing the basic necessities like house, drinking water and medical facility beside supplying food-grains, due to lack of proper education, the residents of the village tend to earn a living by venturing into forest for collecting firewood and saal leaves that's they sell in the local market. Organised by a Jamshedpur-based social organisation, Kabi Kaushal Samaj Seva, the flag-hoisting was attended by over 50 Birhors, including women and children. A 90-year-old woman, Bali Birhor, unfurled the national flag amidst the slogan "Bharat Mata ki Jai." Madhab Birhor who is the village head said as of now their children who read in primary level school in the adjoining village used to attend the Independence Day celebration held at the school "But it is the first time that we felt proud as the flag-hoisting for the Independence Day was held at our village," observed Madhab after the tricolour was unfurled. Bali Birhor who is the eldest resident of the village could not say anything due to the language problem. On this occasion, the functionaries of the social outfit distributed sweets among the villagers. The outfit also gave out sarees to the woman folks for making the occasion special.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
15-08-2021||Jharkhand||CBI announces Rs 5 lakh reward for anyone sharing information on Dhanbad judge's death||The CBI has announced a reward of Rs 5 lakh for anyone sharing "information of importance" on the alleged killing of Dhanbad judge Uttam Anand, who was mowed down by an autorickshaw on July 28, officials said on Sunday. A notice announcing the reward said Anand was killed on July 28 and the case is being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). It said if anyone has any information of importance, it can be shared with the special crime team of the CBI housed at the CSIR Satkar guest house in Dhanbad through phone numbers 7827728856, 011-24368640 and 24368641. "Cash reward of Rs 5 lakh will be given to the person who will give worthwhile information relating to the crime," it said. The CBI has taken the custody of two men -- autorickshaw driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma -- who are accused in the case. The 49-year-old judge was allegedly mowed down by a heavy autorickshaw while he was on a morning jog in Dhanbad on July 28. CCTV footage showed that he was jogging on one side of a fairly wide road at the Randhir Verma Chowk when the autorickshaw veered towards him, hit him from behind and fled the scene. The CBI has recreated the accident scene, while experts of the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) have also collected evidence from the spot. The case was handed over to the CBI by the Jharkhand government. The central agency had dispatched a 20-member team under its ace investigator VK Shukla, recently awarded as one of the best investigators by the Union home ministry, to probe the matter. The Jharkhand High Court and the Supreme Court are keeping an eye on the case. A high court bench of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad had directed the CBI to initiate a probe at the earliest. The court had also directed the state government to hand over all the documents of the case to the CBI. Taking cognizance of a letter filed before the court by the Dhanbad principal district judge in the case, Justice Ranjan had converted it into a writ petition and ordered the formation of an SIT headed by Additional Director General of Police Sanjay Latkar to look into the matter. Dissatisfied with the progress report, the bench had questioned the delay in registering an FIR into the case. The incident occurred at 5.08 am and the FIR was registered at 12.45 pm when it was clear from the CCTV footage that the judge was picked up from the spot and taken to a hospital, the court had said. "Do the police register an FIR only on the basis of a statement? Do the police not register an FIR on their own? Why did the police take six hours to register the FIR?" the court had asked. It had also said there is fear among judicial officers following the incident and directed that the security of courts, including the high court, and that of judicial officers be strengthened. On July 30, the Supreme Court also took suo motu cognizance of the "sad demise" of the Dhanbad judge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
15-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant stresses on development using democratic norms||Chief minister Hemant Soren said  that his government is following the agenda of development through democratic norms, and appealed to all residents of Jharkhand on Independence Day to work towards strengthening social equilibrium. Delivering his speech to celebrate India's 75th Independence Day at Ranchi’s Morabadi ground on Sunday,  his second since  assuming charge in 2019, he stressed on the principal of "Vikas Moolmantra,  Aadhar Loktantra", and said that his government was working on multiple fronts to usher in holistic development in Jharkhand, which since its creation in 2000, is still battling numerous problems.  Hemant said upgrading the agriculture sector to working on industrial promotion, job creation, development of sports, strengthening elementary and higher education, ensuring basic necessities, boosting power production, among others, are  his government’s key focus areas. Hailing the contribution of scores of freedom fighters who laid down their lives for the nation's independence and creation of a separate Jharkhand state over the years, he said his government was committed to safeguarding the rights of its people so that the local culture, lifestyle and aspirations are fulfilled. Revealing plans to boost agriculture, one of the mainstays of people living in rural areas, he said the government had over the last year come up with several plans and policies. Jharkhand, he said,  was working to set up Kirshi Pathshala in every district for all-round capacity building of farmers. He said, “It will be known as Samekit Birsa Gram Vikas Yojana-cum-Krishi Pathshala, which is going to start soon. In the first phase, we plan to identify one agriculture farm in every district to first upgrade it with all facilities which will act as a model place for others to come and learn various nuances of farming. This will help local farmers cutting across dairy, fishery and others, to get exposed to state-of-art facilities and latest techniques so that they can replicate it further.” Hemant spoke of his government's farm loan waiver scheme and plans to build cold storage.“We offered loan waivers to the tune of Rs 750 crore, benefitting 1.82 lakh farmers so far,” he said. Talking about post-harvest facilities, he said that construction of 5000 metric tonne capacity cold storages was underway in various districts while several major and minor irrigation schemes were being refurbished to improve irrigation facilities. He also spoke on how they are working to increase income of those living in rural areas citing that since the onset of the pandemic followed by lockdowns, the government has been tackling the situation on the principle of life and livelihood ("jeevan bhi and jeevika bhi"). Equal emphasis was being provided for the creation of jobs in the state for which, he said that new recruitment rules were formulated for grade 3 and 4 jobs in government departments. “The policy aims to provide jobs to only locals. Those who did their 10th or 12th from this state will be eligible for applying. This apart, we have also made mandatory of basic knowledge of local rituals and culture for candidates so that we can safeguard our tradition, customs and languages,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
15-08-2021||Jharkhand||Fan of Mahendra Singh Dhoni ‘walks’ 1,400km and waits||A fan of former cricket captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni had come all the way from his village in Haryana to Ranchi in Jharkhand to meet his idol. “Dhoniji se mil ke hi ghar lautunga (I will return home only after I meet Dhoni),” said Ajay Gill, who was waiting outside the gate of Dhoni’s farmhouse at Simalia on the outskirts of Ranchi on Friday morning. The 18-year-old said Dhoni would certainly spare 10 minutes for him as he came from such a far-off place on foot. Though it is a tough ask, Ajay claimed to have walked for 16 days since July 29 to cover over 1,400km from his village Jalan Kheda in Hisar district of Haryana. The only problem was Dhoni was in fact in Chennai and getting ready to fly to Dubai on Friday for the resumption of Chennai Super King’s IPL campaign. He was adamant to stay put there till he met Dhoni even when told that his idol would return after about three months. Hearing about him, a young businessmen went to meet Ajay and convinced him to return home. Ajay, who works at a saloon at his village, drew the attention of passersby because of his look. He had coloured his hair yellow, orange, dark blue and light blue — the colours of Dhoni’s CSK — and also partially tonsured his head in such a manner that “Dhoni” was written on one side and his nickname “Mahi” on the other side. “A fellow barber from Sonepat did it for free when he found me walking towards Ranchi and learnt about my purpose,” Ajay said waving the Tricolour he was carrying. “I’ll also get it signed by Dhoniji,” he further said, bringing out a cricket bat from a kit slung over his shoulder. Asked about the reason for his adulation, Ajay said he also played cricket earlier but stopped after Dhoni declared his retirement from international cricket. On why he had come all the way to Ranchi, Ajay said: “I now want to start afresh with his blessings,” adding that Dhoni had come in his dream one night and asked him to visit. “We are impressed that he walked all the way from Haryana but convinced him to return now and come again later,” said Anurag Chawla who along with his three friends took him to a hotel for the day and also bought him a ticket for a Delhi-bound flight in the evening. “Ranchi is a beautiful place with its wonderful people,” Ajay said before boarding the flight, adding that he was grateful to them for everything they did. “This being Dhoni’s hometown, Ranchi has its share of both cricket and the craze for the game,” an onlooker said at the airport, adding that they witnessed the second that day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
15-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jan Azadi 75: People’s organisations call to join freedom campaign ||People’s organisations in Jharkhand will create awareness from Independence Day about joining a yearlong nationwide initiative to remember the values and aspirations of the freedom movement and campaign across the country to intensify contemporary struggles and visions for a democratic India. The campaign, Jan Azadi 75: On the Path to Freedom, has been initiated by the National Alliance of People’s Movements, an alliance of people’s organisations, to also re-assert the roles, contributions and challenges of people’s resistances in the past 75 years. The campaign, which was started on August 9 this year, will conclude on August 15, 2022. Tribal rights organisations and social outfits who are associated with the NAPM will reach out to people in all 260 blocks across 24 districts of Jharkhand between August and mid-September holding dialogues with rights defenders, civil rights organisations, trade unions, farmer outfits, student unions and social organisations to endorse and join the campaign. “We have already started discussion with civil society organisations who are taking part in the agitation seeking justice for Father Stan Swamy and demanding repeal of draconian laws like the UAPA and sedition for the last few weeks. We will be also holding discussions during the agitation planned out in different districts of Jharkhand for the cause of farmers, trade unions and human rights defenders and reach out to all the 260 blocks so that more organisations endorse their participation in the campaign,” said Aloka Kujur, tribal rights activist and a member of the Adivasi Adhikar Manch. “Any organisation sharing our thoughts can click on a web link (https://bit.ly/3yJHSj5) to endorse and join the campaign by filling up the details. The campaign was inaugurated on the historic day of August 9, marking the Quit India Movement. We hope to reach out to people of the country and build a discourse around protecting our democracy, plural ethos, human rights, socio-ecological justice and constitutional values through the campaign,” said Meera Sanghamitra, one of the conveners of the NAPM. Sanghamitra added: “Through a series of yearlong action programmes, Jan Azadi 75 hopes to bring before the people the true history of the freedom struggle and those who actually contributed to nation-building till date. We also propose to bring forth a People’s Chargesheet against the power holders, in particular the current regime which is all set to destroy our democracy.” Organisations who endorse the campaign can plan and organise local-level meetings, including peaceful protests, dharnas, news conferences, candlelight vigils, submitting memoranda to authorities, writing open letters, yatras, discussion forums, workshops, webinars, etc, both in physical and virtual mode, under the banner of Jan Azadi 75. I-Day pledge Over 160 groups, including civil society organisations, trade unions and farmer outfits, will take a pledge to defend the legacy of the freedom movement, the spirit of the Preamble and values of the Constitution in Jharkhand on Sunday as part of a nationwide campaign. The movement, “National Campaign to Defend Democracy”, spearheaded by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties,  Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (a conglomeration of human rights organisations) and trade unions in Jharkhand, will see members reading a pledge. “We pledge to campaign for repealing all draconian laws and assert the right to bail of every citizen. We believe that the right to question and the right to dissent are the foundation of our democratic, secular and socialist republic. We commit to campaign against all ideologies, laws, and state actions that deprive us of the freedoms of speech and opinion, conscience, association, and to non-violent opposition,” the pledge says. “The countrywide movement between August 15 and 28 will call for an intensive campaign and street action to defend the right to dissent, repeal the sedition law, UAPA and repressive state laws, restore right to bail and ensure justice for Father Stan Swamy,” said Siraj Dutta of the Mahasabha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
15-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Dhanbad shelter home for women||Dhanbad: The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation has launched a shelter home for women near the golf ground of Dhanbad by converting the existing shelter home into an all women facility intended at providing temporary accommodation to homeless women and girls. The shelter home with 40 beds is meant to provide temporary shelter to street vendors and other daily wage earners established under the National Urban Livelihood Mission is presently being operated with the help of NGO, Safe Approach. Only nominal charges are taken from the visitors for the stay at the shelter home but those who can't pay the same due to financial constraints can also avail the facility free of cost as DMC will bear their accommodation expense. (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: The placements for the batch of 2018-22 at the Adityapur-based National Institute of Technology (NIT) began on a positive note. Initial figures suggest that the tech cradle of national repute is heading for another impressive placement year. Data available from the institute's Training and Placement Cell revealed that in the last one fortnight ever since the online recruitment process began on July 27 around 120 students from various streams of engineering bagged lucrative jobs. The batch-size for placement comprises over 500 students. Placement of over 100 students within a fortnight of the beginning of the recruitment process is a record in the history of NIT. (Pinaki Majumdar) Hazaribagh: Korra police arrested a 30-year-old man who had raped a minor girl on the foothills of popular tourist destination Canary hill. Suraj Kumar took advantage of the situation after knowing that the victim was worried for her mother, a daily wage labourer who didn't return home late evening. He asked her to sit with him on his bike as pillion rider promising to help in searching for her mother. But he took her to Canary hill last week and raped her for the entire night. Officer-in-charge of Korra police station, Prashant Kumar Mishra said police had launched a massive hunt for him and was arrested. He said Suraj was forwarded to Loknayak Jai Prakash Narayan Central Jail. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Gumla: The police on Saturday arrested an active member of the proscribed CPI(Maoist), who was wanted in 11 Naxal related cases, from Gumla district. Police said that five detonators and a knife were seized from Guddu Oraon also known as Sukhram Oraon after the arrest from his in-law's place at a village under Bishunpur police station. Following a tip-off that he would reach there to meet his wife, the police laid a trap and nabbed him. Oraon is a member of the squad of Maoist commander Ravindra Ganju, which operates in Latehar, Lohardaga and Gumla districts of Jharkhand, police said. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
