16-08-2021||Jharkhand||State hockey star Nikki Pradhan gets promotion in railways after Olympic stint||Two-time hockey Olympian Nikki Pradhan was on Monday promoted as OSD (sports) in group B gazette officer at South Eastern Railways for her contribution and success in the promotion of the game. Pradhan was part of the Indian women’s team, which scripted history by reaching the semi-final in this year’s Tokyo Olympics. Since the debut of women’s team in field hockey in 1980 Olympics, it is for the first time that the Indian team had reached a semi-final match. In the match, the team suffered defeat against Great Britan by 1 goal in a highly spirited match which went down till the wire. An official notification from the SER on Monday night stated that Pradhan was made general manager of the SER, Archana Joshini gave consent for her out of turn promotion. The communiqué read, “Nikki Pradhan, who is current employed with Ranchi rail division as chief yard master has been accorded out of turn promotion for her contribution to the hockey. She is now made OSD (sports), a gazette officer in the rank of group B.” This was Nikki’s second consecutive stint in the Olympics. In 2016, she was part of Rio Olympics becoming the first woman hockey player from Jharkhand to represent the highest form of tournament. Before that she was part of U-17 Indian team which played Asia cup in Bangkok in 2011, took part in U-21 Asia cup in Bangladesh in 2012, Asia Cup in 2017 in Gifu (Japan), participated in Asian games in Jakarta in 2018. Ranchi’s divisional rail manager Pradeep Gupta welcomed the development stating that it testifies railways commitment towards promotion of players and sports. Nikki hails from Hesal village in Khunti, an impoverished district over 40km from Ranchi. She along with Salima Tete from Simdega was part of the national squad in this year’s Olympics. Buoyed by the team’s performance despite losing out on bronze medal, the Jharkhand government too showered sops on the players by giving them Rs 50 lakh each, a scooty, laptop and a smart phone. Chief minister Hemant Soren has also announced to provide them with a 3000 sq feet house at the choice of their location.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
16-08-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad to launch stray dog catching drive amid backlash ||The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation has remodelled and converted a mini truck to a stray dog catching van to provide relief to residents from stray dog menace that has caused several road accidents besides dog bites. The civic body is taking inputs from the Ranchi Municipal Corporation to prepare a team of dog catchers by imparting training and also procure dog catching equipment. The team would also include experts from district animal husbandry department to avoid any fatal injury or death to dogs during the process of caching them and also during sterilizing them for birth control. The corporation has already carried out a partial trial of the dog catching drive last week. Executive Officer of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, Md Anis said, “Though the dog catching van has already been developed by our engineering cell by carrying out remodelling of the existing mini truck as per the tips received from Ranchi Municipal Corporation but some more work in terms of equipment purchase as well as training etc is yet to be carried out for formally launching the dog catching drive.” “We will resume the drive as soon as the equipment is purchased as training is already under process,” said Anis and added the increased population of dogs are causing accidents besides the dog bites to the children are also sometimes turning fatal. Notably, a wide variety of dog catching equipment  including dog catcher pole, or catching nets are used to catch the stray dogs after which sterilization of dogs is also carried out. Meanwhile the dog lovers of the district have expressed apprehension over the entire drive turning out to be an inhuman initiative against the dogs. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, a renowned hotelier Anutosh Bagchi who is also a well known dog lover said, “The process of catching the dogs through poles is quite inhuman as it leads to breaking of collar bone or vertebrae of the dogs.” “Before the launching of the drive a shelter home should be ready to provide temporary shelter to the sterilized dogs and they should be again left back to same place from where they have been caught before the sterilization,” said Bagchi and added that they apprehend that these dogs are likely to be left in a forest where they will die due to different reasons. “We will soon meet Satyendra Kumar, Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner and request him to not carry out the drive without proper preparation like development of shelter home for post sterilization care,” said Kumar. Souvik Banerjee, another dog lover of Dhanbad also expressed similar apprehension and added that instead of dog catching drive the DMC seems to be preparing for the dog killing drive without making proper preparation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
16-08-2021||Jharkhand||Patients of MGM hospital to get better quality food ||Patients of MGM medical college hospital will be provided better food as the state health department has raised the rate of the food from Rs 50 to Rs 100 per day provided to them at the hospital. As there has been a cent percent increase in the rate of food provision, the patients admitted in the medical college hospital will not only get better quality food but will also be able to choose from a variety of food items. Revealing about the development, superintendent, MGM medical college hospital, Arun Kumar said the state health department authority has increased the rate of food at which the patients would be provided breakfast, lunch and dinner free of cost at the hospital. "We have received a circular to this effect from the state health department on Monday. Now each patient will be provided food at the rate of Rs 100 per day. Earlier, it was Rs 50 only," said Kumar to The Telegraph Online. The hospital superintendent said they have received the circular to this effect on Monday and they have to make the necessary changes in the food items according to the enhanced rate. "Soon after getting the circular, we convened a meeting of the dietician and the food vendors. We are chalking out the new menu for the patients who will be provided the food according to the new rate in the next couple of days," pointed out the superintendent. The rate of food worth Rs 50 per patient per day was effective from the year 2013. Despite such a low rate, the patients would be given eggs and bananas for breakfast and a unified course meal for lunch and dinner. But during the visit of erstwhile health secretary K.K. Sone to the medical college hospital two months ago, the issue of food provision for the patients had been discussed, leading the health secretary to ask for a hike in the food rate soon. Annu Sinha, dietician of the medical college, said, "Due to a very low rate of food provision we were compelled to provide a fixed menu for the patients, but shortly we would be able to provide a variety of food as per the requirements of patients." With a capacity of 600 plus beds, the MGM medical college hospital has an average bed occupancy rate of 90 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
16-08-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi ki Roshni shines bright, now available on Amazon ||Portable solar lamps manufactured by women's self help groups of Ranchi made their debut on Amazon on Monday, the global e-commerce platform expected to boost sales of a locally made product that is not only eco-friendly but also competitively priced. The Ranchi district administration launched the solar lamp project in 2018 to provide cheap and eco-friendly lighting solutions in rural parts of the state. Titled Ranchi ki Roshni, the district administration roped in local self-help groups who were trained — right from designing to making these lamps. Currently, 15 women function out of the Ormanjhi block office to manufacture the lamps. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said Amazon would hopefully add to sales. “We are immensely happy and proud that the district administration’s initiative with women's  self help groups is now getting recognised,” he said. Another official said that as an introductory offer, customers buying the lamps through Amazon would get a 10 per cent discount on the marked price of Rs 499. “The prices are dynamic as the project is still in a nascent stage. Before the Covid pandemic, we were selling it at Rs 160 per piece. But, post- lockdown, prices of raw materials, mainly plastic and metals, two key elements in our product, shot up exponentially. Hence, we had to priced it close to Rs 500 on Amazon,” said an official. The sale proceeds would be ploughed back to the project to meet recurring expenses like salaries. etc. Earlier this year, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) signed an MoU with the district administration for supplying about 40,000 lamps in a phased manner. So far, 10,000 lamps have bbeen passed on to NDRF. “Although, we are supplying the lights free of cost to NDRF, funding for making them is being given by Indian Oil Corporation (IOCL) from the PSU's CSR funds,” said an official. Ranchi ki Roshni was originally conceptualised by My Shelter Foundation and a group of IITians while they were pursuing internship with the district administration in 2018 as a cost-effective source of lighting for the poor. They developed LED bulbs, micro-solar panels and a battery to provide low- cost solutions. Later, the district administration adopted the model and women's goups were trained. The idea was also applauded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to Ranchi at the time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
16-08-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS-Ranchi to study use of anti-cholestrol drugs to prevent Covid mortalities||Doctors at Jharkhand’s premiere healthcare facility, the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), will soon begin a trial to study the life-saving effects of lipid-lowering drugs on patients suffering from severe symptoms of Covid-19 as a part of a research, health experts monitoring the Covid ward of the hospital said on Monday. Dr. Prabhat Kumar, the coordinator of the Covid-19 task force at RIMS, said the research was approved earlier by the hospital administration, but the trial could not start as the number of patients dropped significantly soon after the RIMS administration’s nod to begin the research work. “It has been seen that drugs used for lowering cholesterol in patients reduce the virulence of the virus, which not only reduces the symptoms but also lowers the chances of transmission from the patient to another healthy individual,” said Dr. Kumar, who will be heading the research. During the trial, doctors at RIMS will be primarily using Atorva, a kind of lipid-lowering drug, which is administered to prevent heart attacks and treat patients who have survived heart attacks, said Dr. Kumar. “The trial would begin once RIMS has sufficient patients of Covid-19 to conduct the research. We are hoping that the number of patients does not rise, but if at all there is a rise in cases, this research may help us save many lives,” he added. Some foreign researchers found that administering Statins, a type of lipid-lowering drug, reduced the chances of mortality in Covid patients, especially those suffering from severe symptoms. Such drugs are usually administered to people suffering from cardiovascular diseases or those patients who are at a high risk of developing cardiovascular diseases due to various conditions including obesity. A study by researchers from the University of California San Diego School of Medicine found that lipid-lowering drugs were anti-inflammatory and anti-thrombotic, which helped in reducing symptoms in Covid patients. The researchers also found that patients on regular dosage of lipid-lowering drugs due to history of illnesses had lower chances of in-hospital deaths. As per government data, more than half of the 5,131 Covid casualties in Jharkhand were reported among senior citizens, most of whom already suffered from comorbid conditions and diseases. Doctors say that administering lipid-lowering drugs might also help patients with severe comorbid conditions overcome a SARS-CoV-2 infection. RIMS, which treated patients from across Jharkhand and neighbouring states during the Covid-19 pandemic, is also a part of an international research on the effects of coronavirus on the nervous system and brain of individuals. This research will also involve experts from European countries and the U.S.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
16-08-2021||Jharkhand||Archer Komalika Bari wins gold at world youth championship||Jharkhand archer Komalika Bari on Sunday became the junior world champion after clinching the gold medal at the World Youth Archery Championship in Wroclaw, Poland. The 19 -year-old Jamshedpur-based Komalika beat Spain's Elia Canales in the under-21 summit clash. The win has put the bespectacled Komalika at par with world number 1 and Jharkhand mate Deepika Kumari as the second recurve archer from India to hold the under-18 and under-21 world titles. Deepika also hails from Jharkhand and presently lives with her husband and archer Atanu Das in Pune. Deepika completed the double in Legnica, Poland a decade ago. Jamshedpur-based Komalika, a cadet of elite Tata Archery Academy, rose to fame when she won the under-18 individual title at the World Youth Archery and Cadet Championships staged in Madrid, Spain in 2019. She comes from a typical Indian middle-class household. Her father, Ghanshyam Bari, works as an LIC agent while mother Lakshmi is a homemaker. Earlier, she was a trainee at a cradle run by Indian Steel & Wire Product near Telco township in Jamshedpur. She made it to the Tata cradle in 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
16-08-2021||Jharkhand||'Library man' tribal official in Jharkhand establishes 25 libraries||A tribal official in the agriculture department in Jharkhand has earned the moniker of Kolhan’s “library man” for establishing as many as 25 libraries, including 12 digital libraries, in over a decade to help underprivileged students pursue their dream of higher education. Sanjay Kachyap, a 40-year-old market secretary of the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) in Parsudih (Jamshedpur), has used his own experience of struggles in pursuing higher education to provide the benefits of libraries to poor students in rural hinterlands, mostly in rebel-hit areas. “I had to forgo my ambition of joining the civil services (after two attempts) due to paucity of funds back in 2002. Completing graduation (honours in history from Tata College in Chaibasa) was itself a struggle. I somehow got through the railway recruitment board exam for train guard in 2004. But I could not devote much time to my inner calling to do something for poor students while on duty. I left the job in 2008 after succeeding in the Jharkhand Public Service Commission examination for market secretary in the agriculture department and started preparing a blueprint for my philanthropic activities,” said Kachyap, who hails from remote Pulhatu village in Chaibasa in West Singhbhum. His parents were manual workers. Kachyap got support from like-minded tribal academicians from districts of Kolhan region (comprises East Singbhum, West Singbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts) and started the Digital Library Kolhan Group in 2008. He set up the first digital library at a community hall in his native village and in over a decade he has set up digital libraries in extremism-affected areas like Manoharpur, Kharsawan, Gudabandha, Dumaria and Mosaboni. “I want poor but meritorious students do not face the same problems which I faced while pursuing their dream of higher education and getting through competitive examinations. So far through crowd-funding we have managed to install computers and LCD projectors in 12 libraries. Books have been stocked in all the 25 libraries established so far. The books pertain to school and college syllabuses and for competitive examinations like banks, railway, Staff Selection Commission and the UPSC,” Kachyap added. He has been contributing half of his salary to this cause since 2008 while the rest is generated through support from sympathisers to his cause. The passion for providing books to remote areas in the Kolhan region has made Kachyap convert his five-year-old hatchback into a mobile library. “I decided to convert my car into a library on wheels on December 8 which marked the death anniversary of tribal scholar Kartik Oraon. The car will be stocked with old and new books. I will drive it on my off days and Sundays to remote villages to create awareness about reading books and education amongst children,” said Kachyap. The Digital Library Kolhan Group does not spend much on infrastructure though. “We use the community halls, abandoned schools (closed after merger of schools during the previous BJP government in Jharkhand) and even rooms in private houses of sympathetic villagers for our library,” said Kachyap. Nearly 100 students have bagged government jobs taking help of rural and Mohalla libraries. Two of the libraries are fully Wi-fi enabled providing free internet to marginalised students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
16-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand cabinet minister makes time for field work||Far from the political hubbub in Ranchi, a cabinet minister in the Hemant Soren-led government in Jharkhand has found time from his schedule to work in his field during the sowing season. Rashtriya Janata Dal legislator from Chatra and state labour minister Satyanand Bhokta reached his native village Kari under Moktama panchayat in Chatra district, over 200km from Ranchi, earlier this month and set about ploughing his field the next day. “I keep myself informed about my field. During paddy planting season I make it a point to be in my village to lend a supporting hand to plough the field along with my relatives. In fact in our village there is still a tradition of helping other villagers in planting paddy during the sowing season. I will be doing this work in my village for four days before returning to Ranchi,” said Bhokta. The 50-year-old lawmaker did not show signs of tiredness even after putting in over six hours of work on the field. “I have been ploughing and also looking after livestock in my house since childhood. So my body is attuned to this work. Even after I became a minister, I find time from my busy schedule to be in my village and find out the problems. I always suggest to my farmer friends and brothers to opt for multiple cropping to increase their income instead of depending solely on paddy. I also request the young generation not to feel embarrassed in doing work in the field as paddy is still our main diet,” said the minister who worked between 8am and 2pm in the 10-acre field. Bhokta said that agriculture production would help the villagers tide over the impact of inflation in the long run. “We have seen the sky-rocketing prices of fuels which has led to an increase of almost all edible items. The villagers should focus on increasing agricultural production so that they have enough food for themselves even after selling it in the market. I always suggest to farmers in my village to carry out vegetable production and also grow maize to supplement their income. With the cooperation of the villagers, we have built a good number of wells (around 75), including deep bore ones, which help in irrigating the land quickly instead of depending solely on monsoon,” said Bhokta. He also keeps in mind his responsibilities as a minister. “It takes three hours to reach Ranchi from Chatra. I make it a point to attend meetings in Ranchi in time even though I am tied up with work in my village during the sowing and harvesting season (November-December). Our government is also considering training the farmers in modern methods of farming,” said Bhokta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
