17-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand State Digest: Dhanbad traders take on e-Rickshaw menace||Dhanbad: Fed up of the congestion that they have to face due to e-rickshaws entering the narrow streets of Purana Bazar, the traders carried out a joint inspection of the traffic jam site along with the traffic police, under the leadership of Traffic DSP, Rajesh Kumar. The inspection was to impose ‘no entry’ of auto rickshaw in the market area. The two-hour long inspection conducted between 12.30 pm to 2.30 pm, the office bearers of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce led by its president, Ajay Narayan Lal and secretary, Srikant Agarwal were present. They also decided on the new route of the e rickshaw and auto rickshaw movement from outside the market. Immediately after the demarcation of route chart, the traffic DSP ordered for the preparation and installation of signboards at the entry and exit point of the market to apprise the e rickshaw and auto rickshaw operators as well as common people about the new traffic arrangement. The new regulation will come into effect within two to three days. The traffic police held a meeting with the e- rickshaw and auto rickshaw unions. Talking to The Telegraph Online Agarwal said, “Ours is the most congested market in the district. We have around 1000 shops situated along the narrow streets. We perpetually face traffic congestion. However, with the e-rickshaw replacing the auto rickshaw in Joraphatak Barmasia route, the situation has only aggravated.” When Traffic DSP was contacted, he said, “Purana Bazar market in quite congested. e-rickshaws have further added on to the woes of the common people. Hence we have decided on a new route for e rickshaw movement. They won’t be allowed to enter the market area.” Praduman Choubey Bokaro: The police department of Bokara district is all set to upgrade its patrol vehicles with GPS. This move (mobile phone apps with GPS) will allow senior officials to keep track of the patrolling vehicles using GPS technology, besides monitoring its movements from Control Room. This will keep the During duty hours, police patrolling parties will be on their toes. Officials will now be able to easily observe the delay in reaching the place of occurrence even after receiving information about it. SP Chandan Kumar Jha said, “GPS is being fitted in all 24 patrol vehicles of the district and they will be directly connected to the control room. Tracking the location of the vehicles will be done by the officers sitting there. In addition, we will be able to track patrolling vehicles in real time through the mobile application. The people will be able to get police service on time and crime can be controlled.” Jha said that the installation of GPS tracking software has begun in the Police Kendra today for 15 PCR and 9 highway patrolling vehicles. He also informed that all information received through Dial 112 and other means will now be transmitted without delay to the PCR/ Highway Patrol. The initiative of the Bokaro Police will prove to be a landmark in realising the concept of Police Aapke Dwar in the coming days Our Correspondent Daltonganj: Cyber police of Daltonganj arrested 22-year-old Mukesh Kumar on charges of fraudulently creating voter identity cards, informed SP Palamau Chandan Kumar Sinha. According to Sinha the youth who hails from Karso village which falls under Chainpur police station was arrested by the police. They have also lodged a case against him. “The youth has been remanded in judicial custody,” said the police. According to the SP said the youth was involved in creating fake voter identity cards by using online tools. He said, “However, the official website of the election commission of India was never tampered with. It was neither invaded or hacked.” He said, “The youth had developed some mechanism to fraudulently download voter identity cards illegally.” According to police sources the youth was first doing creating fake PAN card but then he switched over to producing fake voter identity card, which eventually made the election commission of India take note of the scam. Following the alert, police sprang into action and nabbed the youth. Our Correspondent Jamshedpur: A 32-year-old man was trampled to death by a wild elephant in Jharkhand's Seraikela-Kharsawan district, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place in Kasidih village which falls under Kharsawan police station area. “The man was returning home on his motorcycle, when he accidently came before the herd and was crushed to death by a pachyderm,” said officer-in-charge Prakash Kumar Rajak said. Forest officials were engaged in driving the herd back into a nearby forest. Our Correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
17-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand board mulls school syllabus cut across classes ||The state education department is considering a reduction in school syllabus from classes 1 to 12 for the second consecutive year in the wake of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic with Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) forming a committee to look into it. On Monday, JEPC director Shailesh Chaurasia hinted about expected cuts in syllabus, but clarified that a final decision would be taken by the state government in September. “An expert committee for different classes has again been asked to evaluate the situation to modify the syllabus according to the evolving situation," he said. "The last time the syllabus was reduced by 40 per cent. This time, however, the cuts will not be that much. It is expected to be in the range of 20-25 per cent,” he added. Chaurasia said he expected the committe to submit its detailed report by this month after which it would be forwarded to the state education department for a final nod. Earlier this month, the state government allowed schools to hold on-campus classes for seniors in addition to online lessons. But schools have been told to call students only after ensuring parents' consent. For junior classes, online teaching will continue, the state government has said. “But for those studying in government schools, since most of them are from poor families, online lessons are a challenge for want of internet-enabled devices. But even though the government is trying to ensure teaching through different interventions, like live classes on DD, nothing can replace on-campus classes,” admitted an education department official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
17-08-2021||Jharkhand||‘Taliban will enact strict Shariah rules sooner or later’||Ali Shah is safe in the confines of his Jamshedpur home, which is 2,100 kms away from his hamlet in Kabul but he is worried sick about what the Taliban government has in store for the members of his family back home. Shah is not the only Afghan living at various localities of Jamshedpur, who is wary of the unknown danger looming large over their families residing in troubled Afghanistan. Shah who stays at a rented accommodation at Bistupur’s Dhatkidih area had returned to Jamshedpur in the month of April after having spent a year in Kabul. Giving an account of the quality of life in Kabul, the 48-year-old Shah said, “Everything was normal for him in Kabul where he used to work for a living, till four months back.” While talking to The Telegraph Online, he said, “I am worried about my younger brother’s widow and her four daughters, who are now having to live under the Taliban regime, which will enact the harsh Sharia laws sooner or later.” Shah, a bachelor, like many Afghans in India is a money lender. He said that his family owns a house at Arzan Qimat in Kabul. “I had talked to my brother’s family a fortnight ago, but after the Taliban took over, we have not been able to communicate with my kin, despite my frantic efforts. God knows what will happen to the children,” he said in a nervous tone. Like Shah, another Afghan, who requested to be identified with his first name Gul only, also was vocal about his concern about the uncertain future of his family in Afghanistan. Apprehensive about the life in store for the women of the country, Gul said, “The most painful part of the Talibani regime is the impact it will have on the lives of the girls. I may have to bear the brunt as I have two school-going daughters in Kabul.” Gul who also refused to pose for a photograph despite residing in a safe place like Jamshedpur. He maintained that he was disturbed due to the situation in his homeland where people’s life is bound to be turned into a living hell. At least 100 Afghans, known as Kabuliwala have been residing in the steel city, but their number has now reduced to a single digit as rest of them have returned to their country due to the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
17-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand archers Komalika and Ankita in India squad for World Meet ||Jharkhand archers Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat will be a part of the three-member India women's recurve squad for the Senior Archery World Championship to be held from September 19 to 26 at Yankton, South Dakota, USA. The other member of the squad is Ridhi Phor from Haryana. The in-form Komalika, who won the junior world title in the youth championship at Wroclaw in Poland on Sunday, is expected to perform as per potential. The 19-year-old, who is considered by Jharkhand archery coaches as the next Deepika Kumari in the making, is taking long strides in the game with some quality shooting. The win has put the bespectacled Komalika at par with world number 1 and Jharkhand compatriot Deepika Kumari as the second recurve archer from India to hold the under-18 and under-21 world titles. Komalika is a cadet of the elite Tata Archery Academy while Ankita (23) is employed (on contract) with Tata Steel in Jamshedpur. The two archers, along with Deepika, claimed the team gold medal at the recently concluded World Cup Stage 3 in Paris. The Jharkhand trio also achieved a similar feat at the World Cup Stage 1 in Guatemala earlier this year. Significantly, Indian archers, Deepika, her husband Atanu Das, Tarundeep Rai and Pravin Jadhav, who returned empty handed from the recently concluded Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan, are not in the national squad for the senior world meet in USA. The four failed to finish in the top three during the selection trials held at Sonepat, Haryana earlier this month. Only the best three from each category (recurve and compound men and women) were chosen. The Indian contingent, comprising six recurve and six compound archers, will compete in 10 events at the world championship.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
17-08-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad’s private banker narrates his Kabul experience||Satyendra Kumar, a 39-year-old private banker hailing from Dhanbad, is one of the few lucky Indians who managed to reach India well ahead of the Taliban taking over Afghanistan. Not willing to disclose the name of the bank that he worked for in Kabul for security reasons, Kumar revealed that he had worked at Kabul for over 2 years and had returned back to Jharkhand on August 12, just 3 days ahead of the Taliban takeover. Summing up his experience of working in Afghanistan as - having to work under constant death threat. A native resident of Bihar’s Bhojpur district of Bihar, Kumar completed his education (schooling and college) from Dhanbad, and pursued Post Graduate Diploma in IT from Triveni Devi Bhalotia College, Raniganj. Currently stationed at his native place in Bhojpur after returning to Ranchi on August 12, he said, “We were working amidst continuous fear of life ever since we moved to Afghanistan in 2019; over 33 blasts took place in the capital city alone, during our stay in the country,”  while talking to The Telegraph Online over the phone. “Our concern however increased with the US government announcing the withdrawal of its forces from Afghanistan on April 14 this year followed by increased aggressive posturing of Taliban from May 4 by launching a fight against the government forces in Southern province of Helmand,” said Kumar, father of two school going children. Both his children are enrolled at private school in Ranchi. “As the Taliban forces started capturing different provinces one by one including the Niruz province capital, Zaranj on August 6 my family members began building pressure on me to return back as they were concerned about my safety,” said Kumar. “Though the foreign consulates of different western countries in other provinces have been issuing advisories since August and we decided to pack off when the Indian Embassy in Kabul started issuing advisories, since June 29 followed by advisories of July 23, August 10 and also on August 12,” said Kumar. “I boarded the Air India flight at around 2.40  pm on August 12 and reached at Delhi at around 5 pm and from there reached to Ranchi through another flight next day and later moved to my native place at Bhojpur along with my family as my parents were waiting eagerly for me there” said Kumar. “Ten Indians including me were living at a house together at Kabul majority of whom from the Banking sector and I was the only person from Jharkhand among them and we hired a local cook who used to cook vegetarian food for us in Kabul and as Indian food was available there,” said Kumar, who used to travel between his home at Ranchi and Kabul every three months and would carry back Indian food grains for his Kabul stay. “The people at Kabul are very good and friendly to us and all the Indian experts used to enjoy a lot of respect among the local people and as majority of software experts in Banking sector including me are also from India we too enjoyed similar respect among local colleagues there” said Kumar and added the life was not as easy as India in Afghanistan and there perpetual threat of attack in form of blasts and they can’t move along even to market and had to accompanied by the security provided by the Bank. “As I have reached my home everyone in my family including my parents, siblings, wife and children expressed happiness after witnessing the images and video coming from Afghanistan,” said Kumar. However, he added that he is willing to return when the situation improves as his three contracts have been renewed recently with the bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
17-08-2021||India||Protective gear for Sahiyas who spread Covid awareness in Jharkhand villages ||Over 42,000 Sahiyas in Jharkhand are being provided protective gear, including PPE kits, oximeters, face shields and thermal scanners, to prevent coronavirus infections among the frontline workers who are in the line of duty, health officials said on Tuesday. Amid the fear of a third wave of Covid-19, it was imperative to ensure safety of Sahiyas as they are the ones who visit patients in the interiors and create awareness about various health issues, including Covid-19, officials from the National Health Mission (NHM) said. “We want to ensure the safety of our Sahiyas, so they do not contract the viral infection while performing their duty. The protective gear is being distributed among the Sahiyas with the help of several NGOs and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) teams of companies,” said the NHM director, Umashankar Singh. “They (Sahiyas) visit the interiors and come in contact with villagers on a regular basis. They have done a commendable job so far, and it is our responsibility to ensure that they do not fall ill while they continue to perform their duties relentlessly,” added Singh. Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiative (APPI), Tata Steel Trust and OXFAM India are among the organisations helping the government provide protective gear to the Sahiyas, officials said. The Sahiyas of Jharkhand have been actively involved in delivering healthcare services in the rural areas for several years. Even during the Covid-19 pandemic, they played a crucial role in spreading awareness about the disease and the need for adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour in  far-flung villages of the state, where a majority of the population is poor and unlettered. The Sahiyas also played an important role in the Integrated Public Health Survey (IPHS) conducted by the Hemant Soren-led government in rural areas of the state from June 18 to June 25. During the survey, the Sahiyas went door-to-door and sought details of the health condition and existing ailments of members of all the rural households. In the coming days, the state health department will be relying heavily on the Sahiyas for testing, tracking and preventing the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus, sources said. Their interpersonal connection with the rural masses will be used in encouraging vaccination and ensuring Covid-appropriate behaviour in villages. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare recently lauded the efforts of Sahiyas in states' fight against Covid-19, claiming that these Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers did a commendable job in identifying cases of Covid-19 since March 2000 despite widespread resistance to Covid tests among the rural masses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
17-08-2021||Jharkhand||Around 1.4 lakh residents get vaccinated in Jharkhand in a day||Jharkhand on Monday vaccinated around 1.4 lakh residents against Covid-19 as more than 1,300 session sites, including at least 23 private facilities, remained operational throughout the day, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per provisional vaccination data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Monday administered the first dose of vaccines to as many as 1,05,749 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 32,372 beneficiaries. More than 1 lakh residents inoculated were between 18  and 44 years. Figures available on the Co-Win platform highlighted that at least 1,349 session sites remained operational across the state with each site administering 100 doses on an average. At least 77 session sites opened their doors for eligible vaccine beneficiaries in Ranchi and administered jabs to almost 17,000 residents. In East Singhbhum, around 10,000 residents were inoculated at 56 session sites across the district, while 51 session sites administered jabs to about 9,000 residents in Dhanbad, as per the Co-Win dashboard at 10pm. As per data shared by the health department on Monday evening, the state has so far administered the first dose of vaccines to over 88 lakh residents and more than 21 lakh of them have also received the second dose. While the government did not release details of vaccine doses available in stock, an official involved in the immunisation drive said that around 5 lakh doses, mostly Covishield, were available in the state by Monday night. The active caseload of Covid-19 again witnessed a spike on Monday as fresh cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection outnumbered Covid recoveries. As per NHM, at least 35 fresh cases of infection against only 13 recoveries took the active caseload of Covid-19 to 236 on Monday in Jharkhand. The number of Covid patients in Ranchi shot up to 105 as the district reported 11 fresh cases against seven recoveries, while the active caseload in Dhanbad reached 29 as three people were found infected there and one patient recovered. Jamtara, which had zero active cases of Covid-19 until Monday, reported at least 11 fresh cases of infection, which took the active caseload there to 11. At least nine Jharkhand districts, including Bokaro, Hazaribag, East Singhbhum and Dumka, did not report fresh Covid cases on Monday. The state on Monday tested swab samples of 40,217 residents and 0.08 per cent of them were found infected by coronavirus. The state did not report fresh Covid casualties on the day. So far, Jharkhand has reported over 3.47 lakh Covid cases and 98.45 per cent of the patients have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive, highlights government data. Jharkhand did not report fresh cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis for the third day in a row on Monday and the black fungus toll also remained 31. So far, the state has reported 106 confirmed and 61 suspected cases of black fungus, as per data compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP). At least 115 people have recovered from the fungal infection in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
17-08-2021||Jharkhand||Union minister Annapurna Devi gets grand welcome in tribal belt of state||Annapurna Devi, union minister of state for education, while addressing a gathering in Koderma and Barhi during Jan Ashirwad Yatra said current expansion of the Modi government is all inclusive due to proper representation in the present cabinet of ministers. The event was organised by the BJP to welcome her for her maiden visit to the state after becoming a union minister. The yatra will pass through different districts of the state. Devi said the Modi cabinet has 27 ministers from other backward class, 12 from scheduled caste and 8 from scheduled tribe. Devi said Prime Minister Narenda Modi has given place to youths and women in the cabinet with the aim to give a voice to downtrodden community of the society. “Even by inducting me, he gave respect to a woman and for the first time, Koderma got its representation in the union cabinet,” she said. She said despite Opposition disturbance in the parliament, twenty bills were passed which will benefit people. “In medical entrance examination, government has given 27 per cent reservation to OBC, which will give opportunity to 5500 students of this section to become doctors,” she said. Her yatra reached Hazaribagh town on Monday evening where it got a grand welcome. Annapurna reached Koderma on Sunday by Delhi-Bhuvneshwar Rajdhani express where BJP leaders gathered in large numbers and welcomed her. This yatra will end on August 19 and pass through Hazaribagh, Ramgarh, Ranchi, Dhanbad, Bokaro and Giridih where OBC are in sizeable numbers. Sources in the BJP said the way Annapurna was welcomed in the state has send signals about her growing stature in the party. They said even when veteran leader and tribal face of the state Arjun Munda became a cabinet minister in the Modi government, no such welcome was given to him. However, the Oopposition blamed BJP for playing the OBC card in Annapurna’s name. According to party insiders, Annapurna is not only a face of OBC coming from Yadav community but also a woman which the party wants to use in upcoming elections. However a senior party leader of the state set aside all such claims and said they only want to thank Modi for passing the OBC bill as well as inducting Annapurna in his ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
17-08-2021||Jharkhand||Daily wage earners vow to follow Father Stan Swamy’s ideals||Daily wage earners in one of the urban slums in the steel city took a resolve to follow the ideals of Father Stan Swamy on the country’s 75th Independence Day on Sunday. The spontaneous decision was taken during a resolution meeting organised by Jharkhand Krantikari Mazdoor Union (JKMU) at Adivasi Basti in Green Park, Kadma. Most of the daily wage earners work for petty contractors and live below the poverty line. JKMU is among the over 160 organisations who, as part of a nationwide campaign, read out the pledge to defend the legacy of the freedom movement, the spirit of the Preamble and values of the Constitution on Independence Day. “The campaign also sought to strengthen the agitation for the repeal of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and other draconian laws. It also sought justice for Father Stan Swamy, whose death in judicial custody is considered by us as an institutional murder. We had put up a poster of Father Stan on a display board. When we started informing the masses about his work and life as a background for the campaign, some of the tribal workers started paying floral obeisance before the poster on their own. It was not planned. We also informed them about Baba Ambedkar and Jaipal Singh Munda who had ensured the rights of the poor, tribals and Dalits in the Constitution,” said Gautam Bose, one of the conveners of JKMU and an active member of People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL). The Adivasi Basti comprises 80 rickety houses on encroached plots inhabited mostly by Bhumij, Ho and Santhals. There are nearly 16 such urban slums dotting the 11-km four-lane Marine Drive that connects the city to the industrial areas of Adityapur and Gamharia. “We had only read about Father Stan on a few occasions recently. But when we were told about his struggles for the rights of the poor Adivasis and Dalits and his agitation against the suffering of undertrials, we could not help but worship him. We face this humiliation often when the police raid our localities after every incident of chain snatching and theft, beat up youths and minors and take them to police stations for questioning. At times, they are detained for days. We want more of our people to know about Father Stan and resist the atrocities committed by the security personnel or contractors,” said Dharma Raj Hembrom, 55, a resident of the basti who works under a contractor in Tata Steel. Phulo Soy, 36, a woman worker at a canteen of a private company in Adityapur, paid floral tributes to Father Stan. “At least we know that there are some people who are prepared to sacrifice their lives for our cause. We face exploitation and sexual harassment at work places and have taken a pledge to stand up for our rights come what may,” she said. The residents have decided to conduct awareness campaigns about their rights in various urban slums dotting the Marine Drive. “We want other contract workers to know that people have sacrificed their lives for our rights. We will spread this awareness on a regular in other bastis,” said Binde Soren, 56. Over 160 organisations, comprising civil society outfits, trade unions, and farmers’ organisations, also took the pledge as part of the National Campaign to Defend Democracy across Jharkhand on Sunday. The movement spearheaded by PUCL, Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha and trade union bodies in the state saw members reading out: “We pledge to campaign for repealing all draconian laws and assert the right to bail of every citizen. We believe that the right to question and the right to dissent are the foundation of our democratic, secular and socialist republic. We commit to campaign against all ideologies, laws, and state actions that deprive us of the freedoms of speech and opinion, conscience, association, and to non-violent opposition.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
17-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren pledge on rights and holistic development||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has assured the people of the state that his government is committed to protecting their rights while ushering in holistic development on all fronts. Addressing the 75th Independence Day event at the Morabadi ground in Ranchi on Sunday, Soren said: “I want to assure the simple-hearted people of Jharkhand that this government is committed to protect their rights, cultural identity and also ensure their participation in the development on all fronts.” He said that new policies and amendments are being made to speed up development keeping democracy as the foundation stone. Citing the Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy 2021, Soren said: “This policy will prove to be a milestone in creating more and more employment opportunities for the poor people in this state which is rich in natural resources and rich in minerals.” He also spoke about the amendments of various recruitment and examination conduct rules to safeguard the interests of local students. Soren said the government, which was battling the Covid-19 pandemic for over a year, is striving to bring the state back on the track of development on the basis of life and livelihood. Since 75 per cent of the state’s population is reliant on agriculture, the government is focussed on rural development, he said. “The government has made a budgetary provision of Rs 7,644 crore for this sector, giving priority to rural development in this year’s budget. A provision of Rs 3,189 crore has been made for agriculture sector and Rs 2,623 crore for panchayati raj,” said Soren, adding that several initiatives have been undertaken to strengthen and provide employment to villagers with convergence of the MGNREGA and other schemes. “The Jharkhand State Agricultural Debt Waiver Scheme has been implemented to provide relief to the small and marginal farmers who are burdened with agricultural debt. Under this scheme, Rs 750 crore has been transferred to the loan account of 182,561 farmers. The Jharkhand State Crop Relief Scheme has been started in the financial year 2021-22 to compensate farmers for the economic loss,” said Soren. He also said the government had set a target of increasing the contribution of agriculture in the state’s GDP from 12 per cent to 20 per cent, for which it is preparing an action plan. “This year we have started the integrated Birsa Gram Vikas Yojana-cum-Krishak Pathshala scheme. In the first phase, one farm in each district will be developed as a farmers’ school by developing various aspects of agriculture such as advanced farming techniques, cultivation of horticultural crops, animal husbandry, fisheries, and improved irrigation systems. While developing the capacity of local farmers in Krishak Pathshala, their income will be increased by making them skilled and employment-oriented in agriculture, animal husbandry, fisheries, pig farming, etc,” he said. Apart from this, a 5,000 metric tonnes capacity model cold storage is being constructed in all districts for better storage and marketing of agricultural and vegetable products, he added. “To ensure the participation of all sections in the development of the state, the Chief Minister's Employment Generation Scheme has been started to provide self-employment to the SC/ST (Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes), minorities and backward class youths in rural and urban areas through easy and cheap loans. Under this scheme, there is a provision to give a maximum loan of Rs 25 lakh to the beneficiaries, in which the loan subsidy will be given at the rate of 40 per cent or maximum Rs 5 lakh, whichever is less,” said Soren. Stressing on quality higher education as a priority of the government, Soren said: “Eighty schools of excellence and 325 block-level leader schools along with 4,091 panchayat-level model schools have been envisaged by the state government. In the first phase, work has been started to develop 80 schools at the district level as Schools of Excellence at a cost of about Rs 290 crore with modern infrastructure. The efforts of the government has led to gross enrolment ratio increasing to 20.9 per cent in Jharkhand. Action has begun to establish the Jharkhand Open University and Jharkhand Tribal University with an aim to increase the gross enrolment ratio further.” “Improvement of infrastructure in hospitals and upgrade of road networks is also the priority of the state government. We are also eyeing to make Jharkhand a power surplus state with power generation stations at Patratu and North Karanpura,” the chief minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
17-08-2021||Jharkhand||Congress leader dies of suspected cardiac arrest at flag hoisting||A Congress leader died of suspected cardiac arrest immediately after hoisting the Tricolour on Independence Day in Dhanbad district of Jharkhand. Anwar Hussain Ansari, in his early 50s and a former president of Chirkunda town committee of the party, had hoisted the national flag along with two others at Shaheed Chowk on Sunday before he suffered a massive cardiac arrest and slumped to the ground. “We all had also gone for flag hoisting at the local police station earlier and then walked to the nearby Shaheed Chowk,” said JMM town committee president Manik Lal Gorai who witnessed Ansari collapsing after the flag-hoisting at Shaheed Chowk. A video clip being circulated on social media shows Ansari wave at someone when “Sare jahan se achcha” was being played and hold the flagpole after that, following which he suddenly slumps to the ground on his left where a woman party colleague was standing. “It all happened too quickly and he suddenly slumped to the ground before we could realise anything,” Gorai said, adding that Ansari was immediately rushed to a nearby medical facility. “I also reached there without losing any time but learnt he had already died of a heart attack,” he further said, adding that it was “really difficult to believe that someone who stood beside us a few minutes ago was no more”. “It’s really very sad that such a tragedy struck our party and we lost a dedicated colleague when people were celebrating the 75th Independence Day of the country,” state Congress president Rameshwar Oraon and finance minister, said in Ranchi. “Ansariji was associated with the party for about three decades,” said state Congress spokesperson Alok Kumar Dubey, adding that it was a rare incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
