18-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC plan early arrival in Goa for training ||The Jamshedpur FC contingent will assemble in Goa, the venue for the Indian Super League season of 2021-22, for pre-seasons early this year. Unlike last season when the contingent arrived in batches to Goa in October, plans are afoot to assemble by the end of September. The tournament kicks-off on November 19. The Indian players had a nearly month-long pre-season last time but some among the foreign recruits, including goal machine Nerijus Valskis, had little time to slip into the training groove. "Head coach Owen Coyle wants 5-6 week pre-seasons. So, we have plans to assemble in Goa by the end of next month or, at the most, by October first week. We can start our pre-seasons in the first week of October if we reach Goa by September-end since the players (and support staff) will be required to go into quarantine for 8 days. It will be good if we reach Goa early this time," a team management member said on condition of anonymity. According to him, the quarantine schedule would depend on the anticipated third wave of the pandemic. The team management member said Valskis could get just four days of pre-seasons last time. "In fact, he (Valskis) did his fitness drills for three days and a day for training before he played a match. Some other foreigners like Aitor Monroy, Alex Lima and Nicholas Fitzgerald also had short training time," he recalled. Jamshedpur FC will soon start intimating the players on when to reach Goa. The club had arranged its pre-seasons in Thailand in the 2017-18 season and Spain was the destination in the following season. However, JFC conducted its pre-seasons in Jamshedpur for the 2019-20 calendar. The Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Fatorda, the Tilak Nagar Stadium in Vasco da Gama and the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim are the three venues slated to host the matches with strict training and social distancing protocols. The Men of Steel stood sixth with 27 points (20 matches, seven wins, as many loses and six draws) in last season’s ISL held in Goa. The Tata Steel-owned club has not made it to the play-offs since making debut in the cash-rich ISL in 2017-18. Most of the players are in place and the club is keen to train hard with adequate time in disposal. The club is serious about qualifying for the play-offs and beyond.. "We are doing the required things to qualify this time," the team management member said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
18-08-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel launches country's first scrap recycling plant ||Tata Steel on Wednesday commissioned its new first of its kind 0.5 million tonnes per annum (MTPA) steel recycling plant at Rohtak in Haryana. The plant has been set up in collaboration with Aarti Green Tech Ltd., as a ‘Build, Own, Operate’ (BOO) basis. Officials said it is the first such facility in India, equipped with modern and mechanised equipment like shredder, baler and material handler. The scrap would be procured from various market segments such as obsolete vehicles, household and construction materials through an App FerroHaat. The scrap would then be processed through mechanised equipment and the high-quality processed scrap would be supplied for downstream steel making. Steel produced through the recycled route entails lower carbon emissions, resource consumption and energy utilisation. The steel major on Wednesday also launched two new brands - Tata FerroBaled and Tata FerroShred for the baled and shredded ferrous scrap produced in its new facility. These products are high quality processed scrap and they promise to provide the much-needed raw material fillip to Indian steel industry by making available quality processed ferrous scrap and reducing the dependency on imports. Both Tata FerroBaled and Tata FerroShred will ensure high cleanliness, low contamination, high bulk density, lower tramp elements and no radioactivity. The products would be accompanied with test certificates, another first for the scrap industry, along with value propositions like higher yield, better productivity, lower conversion costs, lower transportation  and overall a better quality. Yogesh Bedi, chief Steel Recycling Business, Tata Steel, said, “Steel can be recycled again and again without losing its properties. From that perspective steel scrap is a valuable resource and an important future raw material for steel making.  The brand names will give a distinct identity to the processed scrap and ensure a standardised quality product for the customer and simultaneously raise the bar of the scrap Industry. This initiative was the vision of our CEO and managing director T V Narendran."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
18-08-2021||Jharkhand||Ex-students of IIT(ISM) remember days spent with Afghan batchmates||The batch of 2014-18 of IIT (ISM) who shared hostel, canteen, gym, cafeteria and playground with 45 Afghan students, reminisced the old days spent with them as the global community’s attention shifted to the country after Taliban’s return. A group of 45 students took admission in the BE course launched in 2014 at IIT (ISM) especially tailored for the Afghan students as part of the government of India’s effort to help rebuild the war ravaged, mountainous landlocked country. Besides conducting the special course for Afghan students, IIT (ISM) also organised a fortnight-long training for 180 mining officials of Afghanistan since April 2013 in 12 batches of 15 officials each for helping the war ravaged country to establish a school of mines in Kabul in line with Indian School of Mines. Talking to The Telegraph Online from his native place and workplace at Indore, Malkhan Singh, a 2017 batch B. Tech Civil Engineering said, “My room was surrounded with all rooms allotted to Afghanistan students of BE course so I had the greater opportunity among others of my batch to interact with them.” “I was always interested in foreign affairs, diplomatic policies, strategic affairs and international relations since my school days so I was very curious to learn about lifestyle, culture, food habits, history of Afghan students ever since they came to our hostel in January 2014,” said Malkhan and added that though only a few of them knew Hindi but during the course of time of more than two years all of them started speaking Hindi fluently. “We used to enjoy food, and many a times I used to visit their canteen as the mutton and chicken used to be quite delicious,” said Malkhan who is presently engaged in organic farming in Indore after completing his B Tech from IIT (ISM) and is simultaneously preparing for civil services exam as he was never interested in government jobs. “They were very fond of Indian movies and many of them were fans of Bollywood superstars like, Akshay Kumar, Salman Khan, Shahrukh Khan etc and we watched a lot of movies both inside the campus and also outside in theatres,” said Malkhan. “Being a fitness freak I used to also accompany them in ISM gymnasium as many of them being physically strong always spent time for workouts at gym,” said Malkhan. “Several of these students, like Farhad Yousefe, remained in touch with me till a few days ago and we are eager to know about them again in the present situation,” said Malkhan. Himanshu Mishra, B.Tech (Civil Engineering) 2018 pass out of IIT (ISM) presently settled in Patna said, “The experience with Afghan students during our stay at Amber Hostel was quite exciting and they were familiar with us like any other Indian student.” Professor of Chemistry at IIT (ISM) G. Udayabhanu who served as the course coordinator for the six month foundation course conducted from January 2014 to July 2014 ahead of beginning for formal session of BE course for Afghan students said, “Our foundation course for Afghan students was like preparatory course and they were taught, Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics and English and all the students were quite cooperative and humble with teachers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
18-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town hospital witnesses an increase in attacks on women||A 40-year-old female patient from Giridih admitted in Patliputra Medical College and Hospital, faced an unusual situation on Tuesday night when a youth of Telipara locality, Aman Kumar Sao, posed nude before her and made sexual overtures. The incident took place 36 days after a mentally challenged woman patient was raped at the hospital by an ambulance driver on July 12. The incident however exposed the failure of the police and district administration’s efforts to heighten security in the hospital, which caters to the  health care needs of people of  several adjoining districts besides Dhanbad, including, Giridih, Jamtara, Godda, Sahebganj, Pakur, Chatra, Koderma etc despite the repeated incidents of violence or attack against women. A high level team of district administration and police led by, Kumar Tarachand, additional district magistrate (law and order), which visited the hospital after the incident of rape carried out security assessment and submitted a report to Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Kumar recommending establishment of a police outpost in the hospital. The team during the security assessment of July 13 also objected over the mushrooming of a large number of eateries and stalls inside the hospital and recommended plugging all unauthorised entries through the boundary wall of the hospital. Several of these recommendations, including the establishment of a police outpost inside the hospital however, are yet to be followed as the site selection of the police outpost is yet to be completed. The latest incident took place at around 11 pm near the toilet where the women were washing the utensils in the wash basin. Aman Kumar Sao who arrived at the hospital to check up on a patient of his locality and came out of the toilet to wash his hand at the wash basin shouted at the woman when she was leaving for her ward, pointing towards a saucer left by the woman at the wash basin. As she approached towards the wash basin to take back the saucer, Aman exposed himself after which the woman started shouting and other patients and attendants rushed to the site and later handed him to the police. Kishor Tirkey, Officer in Charge of Saraidhela police station said, “We have arrested the main accused and lodged a case against him under section 354 of IPC, related to criminal force against the women with the aim of outraging her modesty.” When asked about the repeated incidents of attack against women patients in hospital, Tirkey said,“We had initiated the process of establishing the police outpost inside the hospital and also some sites were suggested by hospital administration inside the hospital but we want a site near the gate so that it is visible to people and patients can approach the police at any time.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
18-08-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad to conduct Covid tests at schools||The Dhanbad health department under the leadership of Civil Surgeon, Shyamkishore Kant has decided to carry out Covid tests at schools across the district amidst the increasing concern about the vulnerability of children during the third wave of the pandemic. Kishore, during a meeting with health officials at his office on Tuesday, instructed them to hold a meeting with the school authorities across the district and launch the swab testing of teachers and other staff of the school on a priority basis. Talking to The Telegraph Online Kant said, “We have already forwarded a letter to the District Education Officer, Prabala Khes in this regard to cooperate with the health department personnel for ensuring the proper testing of the teachers and staff as soon as possible.” “However, we have also made preparations to hold meetings with the school authorities on our own as soon as possible to ensure launching the testing process in schools by next week,” added Kant. Divulging more details, Kant said, “The focus of the drive would be on vaccination also as we will instruct the school authorities that no staff of the school interacting with the students remain unvaccinated and their swab testing will also be conducted.” “Though, we will not conduct the swab testing of students in schools at large as this will lead to panic among the students and may lead to decrease in students attendance but their thermal scanning and symptom analysis would be conducted by health workers and if anyone is found with influenza like symptoms then only his swab testing would be carried out,” he said. “We at the same time are also planning to increase the Covid testing at different places of the district including the traffic check posts of the district besides the regular testing conducted at the bus depot of Dhanbad and at Dhanbad Railway station as part of the comprehensive plan to increase the testing process across the district,” said Kant. “We will send letter to Om Prakash Yadav, District Transport Officer in day or two to ensure the stoppage of Buses at the Bus depot campus at Bartand campus itself to ensure the covid testing of all passengers as we have received complaints of buses stopping outside the Bus Depot to skip the testing process of passengers,” he said. When asked whether there is any sign of increase in Covid graph in the district, he said that any perceptible increase in Covid testing can be ascertained only if the graph remains high even after increased testing of more than 4000 tests per day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
18-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand plans to develop parks and playgrounds across state ||The Jharkhand government has decided to create more playgrounds and open spaces across towns and cities of the state with the urban development asking all 40 urban local bodies (ULB), including Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC), to begin work immediately to identify exisiting spaces or create new ones. Amit Kumar, director of the State Urban Development Agency (SUDA), an arm of the state urban development department, said the move was based on directives of chief minister Hemant Soren who was keen to promote sports at the grassroots. “One of the biggest problems for city dwellers today is lack of proper space for exercise, jogging or simply to sit and relax. For kids, the culture of highrise apartments has led to shrinking of play areas. All municipal bodies have been asked to send proposals within a week," Kumar said. Sources said the urban development department planned to use funds from the 15th finance commission for the playground project. “We have asked all municipal bodies to send us at least three proposals. The idea is that at every city/town there must be at least one dedicated playground to begin with,” said an official. To indicate the government's seriousness about the plan, the official referred to Hemant's initiative of August when he launched the revamp of Jaipal Singh Stadium at Kutchery in Ranchi promising funds to the tune of Rs 4.5 crore. Residents welcomed the move. Sunny Singh, an under-18 volleyball player, spoke of how players like him had to struggle for a place to practise owing to encroachments near, and poor upkeep of, the Jaipal Singh stadium. “Even the condition of Morabadi ground isn’t good. It’s a welcome sign if the government is now focusing on developing playgrounds," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
18-08-2021||Jharkhand||Covid patients dodging mandatory institutional quarantine in Ranchi||Many Covid patients, mostly those who are asymptomatic, have been dodging mandatory institutional quarantine in Ranchi and posing a risk of transmission among local residents and family members, officials said on Wednesday, adding that the district administration has directed incident commanders to ensure that Covid patients aren't allowed to stay at home. “We cannot afford to be complacent at this stage. All area commanders have been directed to make sure that Covid patients in their areas are sent to institutional quarantine and not allowed to stay at home irrespective of the severity of their symptoms,” said Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan. As per government data, the count of active Covid-19 cases has shot up from 50 to over 100 in Ranchi in the past week or so. However, only about 15 patients were admitted in hospitals, a source from the district administration said. According to latest data with the health department, there were 103 Covid patients in Ranchi on Wednesday and only  two of them were undergoing treatment at Sadar Hospital. Also, Jharkhand’s largest government-run hospital, the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), had zero bed occupancy in the Covid ward on Tuesday – an indication that Covid patients were avoiding hospitalisation. “We do not have any Covid patients admitted in our hospital today. While this can be seen as a positive sign that patients are not developing serious symptoms, we also need to be aware of the fact that patients could be avoiding hospitalization,” Dr. Prabhat Kumar, the coordinator of Covid-19 task force at RIMS, said on Wednesday. Dr. Kumar added that strict adherence to the mandate of institutional quarantine was needed in order to avoid a rise in cases of infection. The government, he said, should not allow home quarantine for Covid patients even if the number of cases come down to zero in the district. In July, the health and family welfare department in Jharkhand had done away with the option of home isolation for Covid patients and made institutional quarantine mandatory even for asymptomatic patients. While the cases dropped significantly in early August, the trajectory of Covid cases has seen an upward trend in the past one week, forcing the government to plan reopening of quarantine centres. The Ranchi district administration is planning to reopen the quarantine centre at the Mega Sports Complex in Hotwar in order to accommodate Covid patients in case of a sudden spike in cases, officials said. As per government data, there were 217 active cases of Covid-19 in Jharkhand by Wednesday morning and about 40 per cent of the patients were symptomatic. Almost half of the active cases in Jharkhand were from Ranchi, the district which has reported the highest number of Covid cases and fatalities in the state so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
18-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand third in fight against Covid, says survey ||Jharkhand bagged the third position among Indian states in planning and execution of various initiatives taken to check cases of coronavirus infection during the past one year with at least 63 per cent of people surveyed voting in favour of the state, state health minister Banna Gupta said on Tuesday. “This achievement is attributed to all the healthcare workers and frontline workers who have worked day and night during this fight against Covid-19 and helped the state in putting a check on cases of infection,” Gupta said. “Bagging the third rank in the country is a huge achievement for a state that has battled against the pandemic with limited resources,” Gupta added. An official from the health minister’s office said that the survey was conducted by India Today Group from August 2020 to August 2021 as a part of its "Mood of the Nation" survey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
18-08-2021||Jharkhand||Covid death in Dhanbad takes toll to 5,132||Jharkhand on Tuesday reported another Covid casualty that took the death toll in the state to 5,132, according to a National Health Mission (NHM) bulletin that added the death occurred in Dhanbad, which has reported 380 Covid fatalities so far. However, the state reported at least 33 Covid recoveries against 15 cases of infection on Tuesday, which brought the active caseload down to 217. At least 15 districts did not report fresh cases of infection, while Ranchi reported the highest spike of four cases against seven recoveries. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of 47,635 residents and 0.03 per cent of them were found infected. The state has so far reported over 3.47 lakh cases of Covid-19 and 98.46 per cent of the patients have recovered. Meanwhile, the vaccination drive lost some pace on Tuesday. Jharkhand vaccinated about 90,000 residents compared to over 1 lakh residents inoculated for the past two days in a row, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the NHM, the state administered the first dose to at least 64,697 residents, while the second jab was administered to as many as 25,953 beneficiaries. About 68,000 beneficiaries vaccinated were between 18 years and 44 years. Around 47 session sites opened their doors for vaccine beneficiaries in Ranchi on the day and close to 7,000 residents were inoculated here, as per the Co-Win portal at 10pm. Almost 11,000 residents got vaccinated at 51 session sites operational in East Singhbhum, while 42 session sites were operational in Dhanbad, where more than 5,000 residents were vaccinated on the day, as per Co-Win data. The state on Tuesday also allotted 2,74,480 doses of Covishield vaccine to the 24 districts and Ranchi got the highest share of 21,000 doses, a document from the health department stated. According to this document, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad received 18,000 doses each from the fresh lot, while 14,500 doses were given to Bokaro and 13,500 to Palamu. Giridih was allotted 17,750 doses of vaccine from the lot. As per vaccination numbers shared by the NHM on Tuesday evening, more than 88 lakh Jharkhand residents have received at least one dose of vaccine against Covid-19, while over 21 lakh of them have received the second jab as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
18-08-2021||Jharkhand||Operator arrested for attempt to make fake voter ID cards||Cyber police in Medininagar, Jharkhand, on Tuesday arrested a common services centre operator for tampering with the URL that generates voter identity cards after a complaint from the Election Commission of India. Palamau superintendent of police Chandan Kumar Sinha confirming the arrest said: “We got an information from the ECI about attempt to generate fake voter ID cards and during course of investigation, we have nabbed Mukesh Kumar who has confessed that he was sent through WhatsApp an URL and a password number for logging in and making fake voter ID cards which resemble original ones.” “We are trying to trace the person who used to send the link. We have come to know that the gang is based out of Uttar Pradesh,” the officer said. Mukesh is a resident of Palamau and has been operating the centre for nearly two years. The youth has been questioned by Palamau deputy commissioner Shashi Ranjan, deputy election officer Shailesh Kumar and Chainpur circle officer Sanjay Bakhla and Chainpur thana OC Uday Kumar Gupta. Sources in the police informed that the network has links to Uttar Pradesh and the election commission has informed the Palamau district about administration about the operator trying to tamper with the URL for generating voter ID. A source said that the ECI had given the URL to a company to make voter ID and the operators have tampered with it. The hacked link and code used are sent to the operators on WhatsApp for generating voter IDs. Cyber police station in-charge inspector Deepak Kumar said Mukesh was picked from his house in Karso on Monday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
