19-08-2021||Jharkhand||Gumla villager killed in IED blast||A 45-year-old villager died in an IED explosion in Judwani forest in Jharkhand’s Gumla district on Wednesday night. Police on Thursday dispatched a team to the incident site, over 70km from the district headquarters, to begin probe after learning about the incident. IED triggered explosions have regularly been killing or injuring both civilians and security personnel on anti-naxal operations in this part of the state as at least half a dozen such incidents have been reported so far this year. Gumla SDPO Manish Chandra Lal told reporters that the deceased has been identified as Budheshwar Nagesia, a cattle-grazer and resident of Judwani village under Bishunpur police station. “Yesterday afternoon, he went to the forest to graze his cattle when an IED exploded after he mistakenly stepped on to it. Naxals have planted several IEDs in such forested areas in Gumla and Lohardaga to target security forces but unfortunately even innocent villagers too are falling prey to such nefarious designs,” he said, adding that the team has been dispatched to the area for combing operation. Sources said that the said forest patch on the adjacent Lohardaga district is highly naxal infested. A squad of CPI Maoist zonal commander Ravindra Ganjhu is said to be active in this area. In an identical incident, another 40-year-old villager Ramdeo Munda was killed on July 14 in Kerangani forest under Kurumgarh police station in Gumla district. That incident occurred a day after a similar blast in the area which killed a police canine and injured a cobra battalion jawan under the same police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
19-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand veteran to coach India badminton squad for Paralympic Games in Tokyo||The Paralympic Committee of India and Badminton Association of India has appointed Jharkhand's veteran sports administrator K.Prabhakar Rao as coach and manager of India's shuttle squad for the 2020 Paralympic Games to be held in Tokyo, Japan from August 24 to September 5. Rao, secretary of Jharkhand Badminton Association (JBA) and joint secretary of Badminton Association of India (BAI) is the second sports administrator from the state to head to Tokyo as the member of the national contingent. Ranchi-based Madhukant Pathak accompanied the India athletics squad as a manager in the recently concluded 2020 Olympics Games in Japan. A seasoned sports administrator, Rao said his appointment was a lifetime achievement and thanked BAI and PCI for the same."I would try my best to guide the para shuttlers. It's an honour for me to be appointed coach-cum-manager for a showpiece event," he added. Rao, chairman of Para Badminton India, said he was optimistic of India claiming three medals, including gold, at the Paralympic Games. Shedding light on his responsibilities as coach-cum manager, the bespectacled Rao said it would include conducting training, preparing practice schedule, see that shuttlers respect time (for training and matches), ensure presence of team physio and supervise food and travel arrangements. He went to Haarlem, Netherlands for the Yonex Dutch Junior International in 2019 and Berlin, Germany for the Yonex German Junior International in March 2020. Rao was the observer during All India Senior Major Ranking Championship in Bangalore (2013), 78th Senior National Meet in New Delhi (2013).All InJunior Major Ranking Championship in Bangalore (2016) and east zone in Madhubani (2013). Rao has worked hard when it comes to channelising badminton activities across Jharkhand. A religious person, he keeps himself fit with yoga and shuttle. The India para shuttle squad will be leaving for Tokyo (from New Delhi) on August 27). Rao on Tuesday participated in a webinar when Prime Minister Narendra Modi motivated the Tokyo-bound para shuttlers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
19-08-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city bars shut for flouting Covid curfew norms||The district administration on Thursday sealed as many as a dozen bars and restaurants for operating till the wee hours, violating the Covid-19 protocol in the city. Among the bars and restaurants taken to task includes a bar which had an extended enclosure for serving hookah illegally. Led by additional district magistrate (law and order), Nand Kishore Lal and superintendent of police (city), Subhash Chandra Jat, the random raids at the eateries and bars started from 10.30 pm on Wednesday and continued till 2 am on Thursday. "We carried out the raids on the information that several bars and restaurants in the city are operating till past midnight, whereas the permission for running such business is till 10 pm," said Lal to The Telegraph Online. He pointed out they could raid a dozen restaurants and bars in Bistupur and Sonari localities only due to the time constraints, adding that such raids will continue randomly in other localities soon. The ADM (law and order) said all the restaurants and bars which were found violating the law will remain closed for the next three days. Significantly, the administration has lodged an FIR against a bar located along Marine Drive in Sonari for running a hookah bar without necessary license. City manager, Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee, Ravi Shankar Bharti who was in the raiding party said they recovered 22 hookahs that were being consumed by youngsters around midnight. "After the unlicensed hookah bar was unearthed at Sonari, Jharkhand Exise's Jamshedpur office was called in for the necessary action against the owner of the hookah bar," said Bharti. The JNAC's city manager said none of the customers at the restaurants and bars was found wearing masks nor maintaining social distance while enjoying parties there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
19-08-2021||Jharkhand||Lightning and thunder alert in Jharkhand for 48 hours||The IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre on Thursday afternoon issued an alert of lightning and thunder in the next 48 hours across several districts of Jharkhand. Weathermen said lightning and thunder would take place in several places of southern, central and northern Jharkhand due to local weather condition. "Patches of convective clouds would form in several districts in the next two days which is expected to trigger thunder and lightning strikes accompanied by light rain," said a duty officer at the Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The IMD warned people not to venture out of their homes whenever there is lightning and thunder. It also warned people not to take shelter under trees and avoid going to the fields. The monsoon trough was on Thursday passing through Ganganagar, Narnaul, Gwalior, Satna, Daltonganj, Keonjhargarh and Balasore. An east-west trough was also running from northwest Rajasthan to  south Bihar  across south Haryana and south Uttar Pradesh at 0.9 km above mean sea level. A trough was also running from Jharkhand to south Gujarat across Chhattisgarh over Vidarbha and adjoining south Chhattisgarh and north Maharashtra between 3.1 Km and 4.5 Km above the mean sea level. Rain data suggests that light to moderate rain occurred at many places over Jharkhand during the past 24 hours. The highest amount of 46.7 mm of rain was recorded at Dumri in Giridih district. Several places including Jamshedpur and Ranchi experienced intermittent rains on Thursday. So far Jharkhand has received 721 mm of rain against a normal of 713 mm, a surplus of one per cent. Weathermen said Jharkhand is expected to get normal rain in August, the third monsoon month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
19-08-2021||Jharkhand||Annapurna Devi seeks to work in harmony with Hemant-led government||Union Minister of state for Human Resource Development Annpurna Devi evaded any direct criticism or attack on the Hemant Soren- led state government, calling for establishing harmonious coordination with the state government to ensure all-round educational development of Jharkhand. The minister, who was in Dhanbad on Thursday for the second day as part of her Jan Aashirwad Yatra launched four days ago while being prodded by media that earlier it was a double engine government in state and now it is single engine, said, “As education comes in concurrent list so the state government has prime responsibility for educational development of the state but we will try to establish coordination with the state government to ensure all round educational development of the state.” When asked her priorities for Jharkhand in the ministry, she said proper functioning of Central University and IIT would be her priority at present as part of the existing projects and later she will explore more development avenues as she has recently joined the cabinet and is still in process of understanding its nitty gritty. “Our priority at the national level would also be to ensure the proper implementation of new education policy announced by prime minister, Narendra Modi in the last year,” said Devi and added the stress is on vocational education from class VI level in schools. Elaborating about the features of education policy 2020 she said, “Under the new education policy the focus will be on education in local languages and even the engineering education would be imparted in 11 regional Indian languages.” “As per the provisions of new education policy, the education in schools would also be imparted in regional languages and added that provisions are also there for education of visually challenged students through sign languages and all categories of education would be imparted to the students under the same roof,” further said Devi. Earlier, elaborating about the aim of launching the Jan Aashirwad Yatra under which she has already covered seven districts of state, Devi said, “The basic aim of Yatra is to seek the blessing of the common people after being inducted in the union cabinet with the blessing of prime minister Narendra Modi as the structure of cabinet shows it’s inclusive feature representing people from different states, sections of society, age group like youth besides women (11), Other Backward Caste (27), Scheduled Caste (12), Scheduled tribe (8), minority (5)”. “The nation is making progress by leaps and bounds under the strong leadership of Prime Minister, Narendra Modi and inclusive growth of different sections of the society is being ensured in the progress,” said Devi who arrived at Dhanbad on Wednesday during which she was offered a grand welcome by the party activists at several places across the district and also participated in an intellectual meet held at management studies of IIT (ISM). The progressive nature of the state can be assumed from the fact that despite the obstructionist attitude of the Opposition, 20 important bills were passed during the current session showing the commitment of the central Government towards the inclusive progress of the nation. Congress activists of Dhanbad on Thursday, under the leadership of district president, Brajendra Prasad Singh questioned the BJP over rise in fuel prices, unemployment and called upon the party to take out a Chhama Yatra (apology march) against the sufferings caused to common man by the anti people policies of the central government. The Congress leaders took out a short foot march in this regard near the district headquarters and burnt the effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Hardeep Singh Puri at Randhir Verma Chowk of the district as union minister of state for Human Resource Development, Annapurna Devi is in Dhanbad as part of her Jan Aashirwad Yatra. The protesters bearing banners, posters and placards who congregated at the chowk at around 12 noon also shouted slogans against the central government criticising it’s alleged anti-poor policy, Modi teri yeh kaisi loot, amiron ko chhut, garibon ko loot; petroleum padarthon ki keemat kam karo, modiji kuchh to sharm karo; rasoi gas ki din pratidih badhti mahangai, kam pad jaati imandari ki kamai. Talking to media, at the sidelines of the protest programme, district president, Brajendra Prasad Singh, “At a time when the common masses are reeling under the impact of pandemic, the steep hike in petrol, diesel and LPG prices carried out by the central government and consequent price rise had made their life further difficult.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
19-08-2021||Jharkhand||Prestigious Sainik School opens its doors to girl students ||The prestigious Tilaiya Sainik School has set the ball rolling for admission of girls for the first time since its inception after Prime Minister Narendra Modi made an announcement in this regard during his Independence Day speech. Principal of the school and group captain Rahul Saklani said there are eleven vacancies for girls and a process has started in this regard to fill the seats. Established on 16 Sept of 1963, the school has sent about 700 cadets to the National Defence Academy. Its alumni are also serving the nation at premier positions in various other fields like medicine, civil services, engineering, teaching, fashion and film industry as well including film director Prakash Jha. Sources said after Modi's direction, Sainik School Society and ministry of defence started the ground work to move ahead in this regard so as to take admission of girls. They said due to this, Tilaiya Sainik School also started the process as well as ensuring the required facilities and infrastructure in its campus. Saklani said it’s a matter of glory and happiness that girls now get the opportunity to study in the prestigious Sainik schools of the country. He said “Girls are performing well in each and every field. I am sure that they will utilise this opportunity to make their dreams come true,” he added. In Sainik school, boys get admission in standard sixth and ninth every year. Girls will get admission in standard sixth only as per directives of the society. There are 114 seats in standard six out of which eleven seats are reserved for girls and rest for boys. Sainik School organises entrance examinations every year to fill the vacancies. Sainik schools are considered feeder institutions for the armed forces and many of the alumni become top leaders. Saklani said, “This is the reason why the first generation of military students join the school,” terming this a historic moment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
19-08-2021||Jharkhand||Covaxin crisis looms in Jharkhand, demand outstrips supply ||Covaxin stocks running dry in Jharkhand after authorities distributed over 90,000 doses of the Bharat Biotech-made vaccine among all 24 districts of the state on Thursday. As per data National Health Mission (NHM), the state vaccine store in Ranchi was out of doses of Covaxin on Wednesday and districts were left with negligible stock to continue the immunisation programme. Bharat Biotech's vaccine is now more sought-after in the state because of a shorter, 28-day gap between two doses as opposed to the 84-day interval mandated for the Serum Institute of India's Covishiled vaccine. Ranchi, which has received the highest share of vaccines in Jharkhand so far, had only 100 Covaxin doses in stock before session sites opened their doors on Wednesday. The count of this vaccine available with the district had almost come down to zero by Thursday morning, sources involved in the immunisation drive said. As per Co-Win portal, Covaxin was available only at Clinic Apollo in Ranchi for Rs 1,410, while none of the government-run session sites made slots available for this vaccine on Thursday. In East Singhbhum and Dhanbad, only paid doses of Covaxin were available. Some beneficiaries of Covaxin, who took the first jab a month ago, had a tough time trying to book a slot for their second dose on Thursday, sources said. Ranchi resident Pranay Ranjan said that the government-run session sites were not providing Covaxin jabs to those who did not have a slot booked through the Co-Win portal. However, no free slots were available for Covaxin on the government portal, he added. “I have also tried booking slots for Covaxin through third party websites, but there were no slots available at government-run session sites. Maybe we will get the slots at government vaccination centres once the state has more vaccines available,” said Ranjan. Thursday's fresh allotments of Covaxin are likely to bring some relief, but its limited availability remains a problem. Ranchi got the highest share of 7,000 doses from the fresh stocks on Thursday, as per health department data. Among other districts, East Singhbhum, Hazaribagh and Palamau received 5,500 doses, while Dhanbad, Dumka and Godda were provided 4,250 doses each. Most of the remaining districts got less than 4,000 doses each. “We are receiving fewer doses of Covaxin from the Centre compared to Covishield, but the demand for the former is much higher due to the smaller gap between the two doses,” said a source from NHM, adding that the health department has asked all districts to prioritise vaccination of those due for their second dose over first-time recipients. As per NHM figures, districts in Jharkhand had 1,02,070 doses of Covaxin before session sites opened on Wednesday, but there was no stock available in the state vaccine store to supply to the districts in case they ran out of this vaccine. On the other hand, the state vaccine store had over 2.74 lakh Covishield doses in stock, while the districts were left with more than 3 lakh Covishiled doses on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
19-08-2021||Jharkhand||In a first, state's khadi board starts production of tasar sarees ||The Jharkhand State Khadi Board has started manufacturing silk sarees using the famous tasar (silk) of the state, an official said. Jharkhand is one of the largest producers of tasar in the country. A spokesperson of the Chief Minister's Office said that after the order of Chief Minister Hemant Soren, the Jharkhand State Khadi Board has started producing tasar (silk) sarees. For the first time, the production of tasar sarees has been started at the board's production and training Centre at Chandil, he said. The official said that weaving of tasar threads and then its designing is being done in the Chandil centre. Presently production is in limited quantity but gradually there is a plan to increase its production. The board is now concentrating on the production of sarees in the training and production centres of Amda and Kuchai also. This will provide employment to the weavers of the state and market to the sarees made in Jharkhand. It is taking about three days for the weavers to make a saree at the Chandil Training and Production Centre. Tasar of the Kuchai region of Jharkhand is considered to be the best in quality. The tasar threads of Kuchai are being used to make sarees. Jharkhand Khadi Board is not only encouraging the local handloom and handicrafts industry of the state but is also working to connect and empower the weavers, handicraftsmen here with employment. Sewing machines were distributed among 329 women in different districts of the state under the Shilpi Employment Scheme. The women are being given six months training. During this period, they are also given a stipend of Rs 150 per day. He said that apart from sewing machines, lac bangles, dokra art items, equipment for making paper bags were also distributed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
19-08-2021||Jharkhand||Nearly 1.5 lakh residents vaccinated in Jharkhand||Nearly 1.5 lakh residents were vaccinated in Jharkhand on Wednesday as more than 1200 session sites remained operational across the state from morning till evening, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data shared by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Wednesday administered the first dose of vaccine to at least 1,13,681 residents, while the second jab was administered to as many as 34,569 beneficiaries. Around 1.10 lakh residents in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years got inoculated on the day. So far,  the state has administered the first dose of vaccine to at least 90 lakh residents and more than 22 lakh of them have also received the second jab. As per data available on the Co-Win platform, at least 87 session sites were operational on Wednesday in Ranchi, where more than 17,000 residents were vaccinated. At least 87 vaccination centres were open in East Singhbhum too and about 17,000 residents were vaccinated there. In Dhanbad, at least 10,000 residents were inoculated across 64 session sites. The active caseload of Covid-19 rose to 225 as fresh cases of infection outnumbered recoveries in Jharkhand on Wednesday. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, the state reported 32 cases against 24 recoveries. The active caseload in Ranchi also jumped to 106 as the district reported seven cases against only four recoveries. At least 12 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of Coronavirus infection, while no district reported a double-digit-spike.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
19-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Tata Steel signs deal to pay workers bonus||Jamshedpur: An agreement was signed on Wednesday between Tata Steel and the Intuc-affiliated Tata Workers’ Union, for payment of annual bonus to workers for the fiscal year 2020-2021. The total payout towards bonus for eligible employees of all applicable divisions/ units of the company will be Rs 270.28crore. Out of this, various divisions at Jamshedpur including Tubes Division, an amount of Rs 158.31crore will be given. The minimum and maximum annual bonus payable will be Rs 34,920 and Rs 3,59,029 respectively. T.V. Narendran, CEO and managing director of Tata Steel, Atrayee Sanyal, vice- president (HRM) and other senior executives signed the bonus pact on management’s behalf while Sanjeev Kumar Choudhary, president, Tata Workers Union, Shailesh Kumar Singh, deputy president, Tata Workers’ Union and Satish Kumar Singh, general secretary signed on union’s behalf. Further, a memorandum of agreement also been signed between the steel major and The Indian National Metal Workers’ Federation (INMWF) and Rashtriya Colliery Mazdoor Sangh (RCMS). Total payout on account of annual bonus at coal, mines and Ferro Alloy and Minerals Division (FAMD) works out to Rs 78.04 crore. (Pinaki  Majumdar) Jamshedpur: Steel city paddlers can look forward to some action after over a year. The 2nd  edition of UTT (Ultimate Table Tennis) Championship will begin on Thursday at the JRD Tata Sports Complex in Bistupur. The three-day event is being organised jointly  by Tata Steel sports wing and East Singhbhum District Table Tennis Association  (ESDTTA). 0ver 30 paddlers are expected to be part of the event. The paddlers were forced to remain confined to their homes in view of the Covid-19 pandemic for over a year due to restrictions in sports activities. Shedding light on the tournament, ESDTTA secretary Ujjal Kumar Chatterjee said each team will consist two above 40 players, one 16 above  and girl paddler. The fifth player will be selected via draw on match day. (Jayesh Thaker) Hazaribagh: Chatra police on Tuesday recovered doda(opium pods) in huge quantity and arrested two smugglers. One of the smugglers is a native of Rajasthan and another is a resident of Palamau district. Sources said superintendent of police Rakesh Ranjan got a tipoff about doda consignment going to Rajasthan from Lawalong. A team was constituted and rushed on Tuesday midnight to catch the truck. The team conducted a raid in Kashimahua jungle in Lawalong where they found a truck. When the vehicle was searched, around 1,081kg doda was recovered. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: Former students of BIT Sindri, the lone state owned engineering college under the banner of BIT Sindri Alumni Association steering committee on Wednesday wrote a letter to Annapurna Devi demanding Institute of national importance status for their alma mater The office bearers mentioned that the union HRD ministry granted institute of national importance status for 161 institutes across the country including five of Jharkhand but BIT Sindri, established in 1949, which has immense contribution in the infrastructure building of the nation has not been incuded in the list of 161 institutes . (Praduman Choubey Dhanbad: A large number of faculty members of BIT Sindri on Wednesday expressed their protest against the autonomy initiatives of the institute administration for BIT Sindri. The faculty members who wrote a letter to Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday under the banner of BIT Sindri teachers association claimed that automy would ultimately lead to privatisation of institute and would affect the large number of students of weaker section of the society pursuing engineering from BIT Sindri at affordable fee. They further charged that a clandestine effort is being made to grant autonomy to the institute without informing teachers. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: Altogether 23 office staff of different schools were felicitated on Wednesday as Covid Warriors during a function organised by The Federation of unaided CBSE schools during a programme held at Dr JK Sinha International School of Learning. Indra Bhushan Singh, District Superintendent of Education, who was present during the function as chief guest along with KC Srivasatava, director of DAV group of schools said, “The service rendered by the office staff during the pandemic period is worth appreciation as they remained on duty working in the office risking their life.” (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: 25 persons were caught on Wednesday for violating mask wearing norms at public places by the two special squads constituted by the district administration under its mask up campaign being conducted since August 16, were sensitised about Covid appropriate behavior at JAP 3 camp in Govindpur. The covid rule violators who were caught from Bhuli, Bank More, Purana Bazar, Naya Bazar, Railway station, Ozone plaza, Shakti Mandir, Saraidhela, Big Bazar, Steel Gate, Hirapur, City Centre and Govindpur were later released at 8pm after submission of bond claiming that they will abide by the Covid appropriate norms in order to ensure the safety of their own, their family members and society at large. Notably, the mask up campaign was launched by the district administration during the second wave of pandemic since April 8 this year as part of move to ensure observance of Covid Appropriate behavior by the common people by sensitising them. Though the campaign was discontinued in June when Covid situation improved in the district, it was again relaunched since August 16 in view of rise in the number of Covid cases in the district. (Praduman Choubey) Simdega: A man was sentenced to 25 years in jail by a court in Simdega district for raping his six-year-old niece. The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Madhuresh Kumar Verma on Tuesday convicted the accused in the rape case, and sentenced him to 25 years in jail, besides imposing a fine of Rs 50,000. In case the convict fails to deposit the fine, he will have to live additional two years in jail, the court directed. The incident of rape happened in April 2019 in the Pakartand police station area of the district. The convict raped the girl when she was at home with her grandfather. Her parents went out, and taking the opportunity, he took the girl to a nearby forest and raped her, police said. The girl was found lying unconscious by villagers in the forest area, they said. The girl later narrated the incident to her parents, following which they lodged a police complaint. The convict is a cousin of the girl's father. (PTI) Daltonganj: The Palamau administration has launched the marketing of its Rakchha Bandhan kit for the coming Rakhi festival which is due on August 22. The launching of the Rakhi kit was done at the office chamber of the DC Shashi Ranjan on Tuesday August 17. Present on this occasion were DDC Megha Bhardwaj and officials of the Jharkhand State Livelihood Promotion Society. DC Shashi Ranjan told this correspondent "Our sakhi mandal known also as self help group of women of Medininagar has prepared this composite kit for the coming Rakhi festival which we have put on sale through our Palash Mart." He said the kit is available online too where it will be home delivered without any extra paymenrnt for it. The Rakhi kit comes in a basket in the range of price of 251 to 301 rupees per basket.  (Our Correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
19-08-2021||Jharkhand||Glitches in West Singhbhum State Food Security Scheme: Survey||A survey by Khadya Suraksha Jan Adhikar  Manch (a coalition of organisations espousing cause of food and social security) in Maoist affected mineral rich hub of West Singhbhum district of Jharkhand paints a dismal picture on food security schemes for poor. The survey done by the members for the four months between April and July 2021 among 709 green ration card holder families in 54 villages of seven blocks (Chakradharpur, Hatgamharia, Sonua, Khuntpani, Tonto, Tantnagar and Goilkera) in West Singhbhum districts found widespread irregularities in the distribution of rations under the State Food Security Scheme. The survey points out that only 22 per cent of the 709 surveyed green ration card holders have received ration for the four months during April-July 2021 and only 21 per cent of the households have got ration only for one month and only 6.5 per cent of the card holders have not got it even once. “Out of 709 card holders, only 10 families have got ration cards. Many are not even aware of their card number. The final priority list of green ration card of the district has not been made public as per rules till date,” said Siraj Dutta, one of the members of the manch. Significantly, under the state food security scheme which was launched by chief minister Hemant Soren in November 2020 those families living below the poverty line in the state but deprived of ration cards as part on National Food Security Act (based on 2011 census) were supposed to be given a green ration card by the state government and entitled to receive one rupee per kg of food grains. Five kg of grains per unit (person) would be given to the green card holders. “The survey shows that till now neither all eligible applicants are connected nor green ration card holders are getting ration regularly,” added Siraj Dutta. The outfit members also submitted a report of their survey along with a set of demands to West Singhbhum deputy commissioner Ananya Mittal on Wednesday. “It seems that there are similar scenes in other blocks of the district (there are 18 blocks in the district). We have demanded that final priority list of the green ration cards should be published and uploaded in the district website and also made public in block and panchayat offices, ensure regular ration to green card beneficiaries, conduct an audit of the food grains arrived for the months of April-July, stock and distribution of the same period,” informed Siraj Dutta. Mittal confirmed receiving the survey report. “As per our records the National Food Security schemes along with the state food security schemes are running smoothly. However, we will check the findings of the survey in the concerned block and panchayat through the marketing officer in-charges and PDS dealers to find out the reason for such irregularities,’ said West Singhbhum deputy commissioner Mittal. West Singhbhum has the iron ore mines of SAIL and Tata Steel along with other mineral resources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
19-08-2021||Jharkhand||Highway authority expedite widening project along steel city||The National Highway Authority of India on Wednesday applied for forest clearance for a railway overbridge near Chandil station while expediting the NH-33 widening project along Jamshedpur. Apart from seeking forest clearance for the overbridge near Chandil railway station, the NHAI has started preparing a detailed project report (DPR) for a 5.5 km-long flyover along the steel city. The NHAI’s Jamshedpur project implementation unit (PIU) manager, Col. Ajay Kapoor said that the NH-33 widening project near Jamshedpur was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but now they are going to put the project in motion. "To expedite the NH-33 widening project we on Wednesday applied for forest clearance from the Dalma wildlife sanctuary that is situated close to the Dalma hills. The forest clearance is meant for an overbridge to be set up by the NHAI near Chandil railway station," said Col Kapoor to The Telegraph Online. He, however, stressed on the flyover which will be a part of the NH widening project. "The flyover for which a DPR is being made will be set up from the point of Pardih Kali Temple to Baliguma - a stretch of 5.5 kms along the steel city. After the DPR is prepared, we will seek forest clearance separately for it, " the PIU manager pointed out. Elaborating on the proposed flyover, College Kapoor said that it is meant for the vehicles coming from the Ranchi end towards Calcutta whereas the existing stretch of the NH-33 along the city will be used as a service road for the steel city. The senior NHAI officer, when asked, said they would put the widening work in the existing stretch of the NH along the city on the fast track so that construction work may be completed in three months at most. Dalma divisional forest officer Abhishek Kumar confirmed receiving a petition from the NHAI seeking forest clearance for an overbridge near Chandil railway station. "We are aware of the NHAI's project near Dalma hill which is also a wildlife sanctuary. As of now, we have received a petition for forest clearance for an overbridge near Chandil railway station. We will forward it to the state forest department with necessary comments soon, " said the DFO to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
