20-08-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel Foundation rolls out community vaccination programme||The Tata Steel Foundation in partnership with National Health Mission, Jharkhand and West Singhbhum administration has started a community vaccination programme in Noamundi from Friday in an attempt to mitigate the threat of Covid-19 and to extend support to local communities. The campaign was inaugurated at Tata Steel Hospital, Noamundi in presence of doctors and officials of Tata Steel Foundation. The vaccination drive, which is a joint venture between Tata Steel Foundation and Tata Medical Services, is an effort to support the nation’s campaign to alleviate the horrors of the pandemic through proper vaccination of citizens. On the first day of the drive, a total of 60 individuals were administered vaccinations at the Tata Steel Hospital, with an idea to eventually saturate the area with community vaccinations and then extend to the other areas of the state, covering villages and small hamlets. Currently three locations in Noamundi block - Kotgarh High School, CHC Barajamda and PHC Jetiya have been identified as vaccination points. “To enable equal opportunities and maintain the quality of life for the local communities lies at the core of the vision of Tata Steel Foundation. The vaccination programme will thereby ensure that in this age of a growing pandemic our local communities from marginalised areas are provided with timely intervention and the best possible protection from the disease,” said Sourav Roy, chief, Corporate Social Responsibility, Tata Steel. In the last two years, Tata Steel Foundation has been instrumental in mobilising communities for receiving vaccination and by May 2021, around 40,419 vaccinations had been enabled in several districts of Jharkhand through vaccination drives. Instituted on August 16, 2016 Tata Steel Foundation is a wholly owned subsidiary of Tata Steel. With a vision to create an enlightened and equitable society, the foundation is committed towards playing a larger role in India’s sustainable development by embedding wider economic, social and environmental objectives through its various programmes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
20-08-2021||Jharkhand||Climber Bachendri Pal  to lead trek team to Sham Valley in Ladakh||Legendary climber Bachendri Pal will lead a 15-member team for the Sham Valley trek in Ladakh from August 24 to 29. The team, including six women, will arrive in Leh on August 24 before driving to Likir located at an altitude of 11,548 ft the following day. The trek will start from Likir and head to Yangthang (12,073 ft) via Phobe La and Chagatse La (12,171 ft) by taking a 4-hour journey. The trek team will proceed to Hemis Shukpachan (11,909 ft) via Tsermangchan La (12,715 ft), Temisgam via Mebtak La (12,467 ft) before returning to Leh. “The participants from different parts of the country have been included in the team after they showed their Covid-19 test report and have taken one or two dose of vaccine,” said Hemant Gupta, head of Tata Steel Adventure Foundation. Each participant has paid Rs 25,000 for the trek. The 67-year-old Pal, a Padma Bhushan awardee and the first Indian woman to annex Mount Everest in 1984, will take the opportunity to prepare herself with the Ladakh trek before she leads the FIT@50+ Women's Trans Himalayan Expedition in March next year. This will be her first trek after the second wave of Covid. "Madam (Pal) will like to prepare herself for the arduous Trans Himalayan journey. She is expected to take further treks with the Trans Himalayan expedition team members in the months to come," a TSAF official said requesting anonymity. The 5-month-long expedition, being organised by TSAF in association with ministry of youth affairs and sports undfer the FIT India programme, involves traversing Himalayas from Arunachal Pradesh to Karakoram Range (east to west) covering around 4,500 km and cross 40 mountains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
20-08-2021||Jharkhand||Highway near Jamshedpur's Dimna Chowk blocked over mishap death||The movement of vehicles on NH-33 was affected for about two hours on Friday, as local residents put up a blockade near the Big Bazaar store, about a km away from the Dimna Chowk, over the death of a 30-year old pedestrian. The accident took place when a speeding trailer hit the youth while he was crossing the highway. The driver of the erring vehicle fled the spot soon after the mishap. The mobile police of Mango thana reached the spot soon after getting the information and seized the vehicle. The police sent the body, whose identity could not be verified, to MGM Medical College for post-mortem. S.K. Singh, a sub-inspector of Mango thana said they were trying to identify the body of the mishap victim. Meanwhile, a section of residents led by local Congress activists reached the spot and put-up a road blockade in protest against rising cases of road mishaps on that stretch of NH-33. The blockade which was put up at around 1.15pm continued for two hours. With frequent mishaps, the 3km stretch of NH-33 between Dimna Chowk in Mango and Pardih has literally become the road to hell especially for pedestrians, cyclists and two-wheeler riders. The road widening work by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) which is in progress results in mishaps. With the height of the highway being raised at certain points, vehicles - from buses and trucks to cars, bikes and cycles - jostle for space often leading to accidents. In the last one month, two persons lost their lives after being hit by heavy vehicles between Dimna Chowk and Pardih. Several mishaps resulting in injuries to commuters were also reported in that stretch during the last couple of months. A local resident of Mango said, "Trailers and trucks ply violating the speed limit and  without caring commuters riding small vehicles like two-wheelers and auto-rickshaws which often fall victim of mishaps."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
20-08-2021||Jharkhand||Ticket vending machine coming up at Dhanbad station||The installation process of four new automatic ticket vending machines has started at Dhanbad railway station, an A1 category station of East Central Railway, which witnessed a daily footfall of more than 25 thousand passengers in the pre-pandemic period. Installation of the machines procured as per the Railway Ministry Plan to install 5000 automatic vending machines across the 16 zones of Indian Railway is being carried out with the aim of avoiding the huge rush at the ticket counters of major railway stations on the Dhanbad division. The pedestals for installation of the ticket vending machines have already been constructed at four different places in the concourse area of the station near the main gate of north side main campus of Dhanbad, including two on the left side of main gate and two near the unreserved ticketing system counter area. Besides the four automatic ticket vending machines at Dhanbad station, three ATM vending machines each would be also installed at two other important stations of Dhanbad Rail division including Koderma and Daltonganj Railway stations each. “The installation of automatic vending machines at three stations of Dhanbad division is being carried out for the passenger convenience as it would avoid overcrowding at the railway station,” said P.K. Mishra, Public Relation Officer of Dhanbad Division. A senior level source at Dhanbad division said part of the consignment of the Automatic Ticket Vending Machines has already arrived at Dhanbad Railway Station and the installation would begin soon after the arrival of other parts and machine and its configuration. Similar machines from Forbes Technosys Limited are already functional at Patliputra Junction of Danapur Division of East Central Railway and the four machines of the same company would be made operational after completing its configuration process. A total of 12 Unreserved Ticketing System (UTS) counters are available at Dhanbad including 10 at the main station complex on the north side and two others at south side station complex towards Purana Bazar. These counters, however, witness long queues during the rush hours, particularly during morning hours when several trains depart and arrive at Dhanbad station. Welcoming the development, Pintu Singh, member of Zonal Railway Users Consultative committee of East Central Railway, said,“We welcome the railway decision to install Automatic Ticket Vending Machines at Dhanbad Railway Station and also two other stations of Dhanbad division as it would lessen the rush at the ticket counters of station and people would save their time also.” Notably, as per the Railway Ministry Plan to install 5000 ticket vending machines across the country 3000 coin operated machines are to be installed while 2000 smart card operated machines are to be installed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
20-08-2021||Jharkhand||Khunti sets up football academies in 6 blocks ||Home to two-time hockey Olympian Nikki Pradhan, Khunti is now hoping to churn out competent footballers who can in the future represent the country. To promote the sport in the district that is otherwise known for being a hotbed of Maoist rebels,  the district administration, along with the local football association and an NGO, has set up as many as eight academies across six blocks to train youngsters. Deputy commissioner Sashi Ranjan, who  inaugurated the academies at a function at Kamta ground on Thursday evening, said the idea was to connect children with football as a way of staying motivated. “Sport is a great leveler and we are aiming to utilise this to shape our kids towards a better future," he said. Secretary of Khunti district football association Chandradeo Singh said  football academies were conceptualised with local NGO Bharatiya Lok Kalyan Sansthan. Gradually, the district administration also came on board and  promised  support. Singh said the plan was to set up football academies in over 80 panchayats. But to begin with, eight academies have been put in place in six blocks. The academies will cater to both boys and girls up to the age of 14. “Each academy will train at least 30 players daily for two hours. Coaching and training will be in accordance with  All India Football Federation (AIFF) standards. Students will be taught for free and coaches will be working on voluntary basis. As a token of acknowledgement, we have decided to give coaches Rs 1,000 per month with kits. Players have been gifted shoes. "So far, 200 children between six to 14  have already been enrolled,"  Singh said. Khunti is known for hockey, but Singh said  football was also popular among the youth as khasi-tournaments are often played in the interiors. “People mostly play football for joy to pass time. As a  football association, we are now trying to take this game to every household,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
20-08-2021||Jharkhand||Maoist linked to deaths of 30 policemen arrested  ||Chatra police of Jharkhand arrested Maoist Kauleshwari regional commander Ramesh Ganjhu alias Azad on Thursday early morning. Ganjhu was arrested from a locality in the Lawalong thana area of the Chatra district. According to state police spokesperson and IG operations A.V. Homkar, more than 45 cases were registered against the  Maoist, who was involved in killing of 30 policemen in different areas of Jharkhand and Bihar and carried a reward of Rs 15 lakh. Chatra SP Rakesh Ranjan told The Telegraph that the police acted on tip-off that the Maoist was in the Lawalong thana area and was trying to extort opium traders in that region. “We got information that he was in Lawalong area and we had four separate teams which searched the area with help of our informers and found him from one of his hideouts in Barwadih in Lawalong with Rs 1.5 lakh cash in his possession. We could not find any of his accomplice during the time of arrest and despite searching could not find any weapons from the hideout,” the Chatra superintendent of police said. However, police sources revealed that the 45-year-old Ganjhu had been sidelined by the CPI-Maoist regional committee after being accused of molestation of a tribal woman a few months ago. “Since then, he had switched into opium trade and used to extort and threaten other opium traders in the region. This is the reason why no Maoist was accompanying him on Wednesday late night and there was no weapons or Maoist literature found from his possession as is usual for a Maoist of his stature,” said a senior police personnel who was involved in the raid. Ganjhu was a resident of Dungikocha under Sadar Police station area of Chatra. However, SP said that the Maoist was in the area to motivate youths to join Maoist outfits and had been sent to strengthen the organisation in the area. Police claimed that Ganjhu was active in the Maoist organisation for more than two decades and had been involved in terror activities at Chatra, Latehar districts of Jharkhand and in neighbouring Gaya and Aurangabad districts of Bihar. Villager dies in blast Budhu Nagesia, a villager of Judwani village in Kasmar block of Bishunpur area of Gumla district, died when an IED bomb planted by Maoists exploded on Wednesday while he had gone to graze his cattle. The IED was planted  for cover against combing operation of the  security personnel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
20-08-2021||Jharkhand||Cyclone Yaas: Affected people yet to receive compensation in Jharkhand ||People affected by Cyclone Yaas in Jharkhand are yet to receive compensation nearly three months after the storm struck, officials said on Thursday. Sources in the disaster management department said the central government has allocated Rs 200 crore from the National Disaster Response Fund but it cannot be used till the state government submits a memorandum on damage assessment to the Union ministry of home affairs. “We are yet to receive the crop damage assessment due to Cyclone Yaas from a few districts in a proper format. Several departments (energy department for electricity distribution damages, road construction department for damages to roads and bridges, rural development department and water resources department) also are yet to submit their damage assessment report. We have to collate it and submit a memorandum to the Union home ministry. Only after a nod from the Union government can the NDRF money be disbursed to the victims,” said a senior official of the disaster management department. Cyclone Yaas which hit Jharkhand between May 26 and 27 had mostly affected East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan, Ranchi, Simdega and Gumla districts. Preliminary government figures put the number of cyclone deaths at four persons and three cattle, while crops in 74.94 hectares of land were damaged. Over a dozen roads and several electric poles, wires and a bridge in Tamar area were also damaged by Yaas. State disaster management secretary Amitabh Kaushal admitted to the delay in disbursement of compensation. “We have got the allocation under NDRF but we cannot use it till we submit a memorandum. We are trying to get the damage assessment reports from all sections at the earliest and submit it to the Union government as soon as possible,” he said. Kaushal and water resources secretary Prashant Kumar conducted an aerial survey of flood-affected areas in Sahebganj district on Tuesday. Chief minister Hemant Soren also undertook an aerial survey of the flood-affected areas in Sahebganj on Wednesday and assured that the government would extend all help to the affected people. “Proper assessment of the damages due to flood would be done and the government would pay compensation at the earliest. We are actively working to provide food grains to the people, shifting them to safer locations and providing them with healthcare facilities,” Soren said at Barhait block of Sahebganj. Nearly 48,000 families residing in 132 villages in Sahebganj district have been affected due to the flooding caused by the Ganga. Nearly 2.5 lakh of the state have been affected in the floods.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
20-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Widows of Sindri Fertilizer Factory workers apply for quarter allotment||Dhanbad: Widows of 217 deceased employees of Sindri Fertilizer Factory, who are facing eviction notice by Fertilizer Corporation of India on Thursday, started submitting applications to FCI management seeking quarter allotment in their name. The applicants led by FCI VSS Employee’s Welfare Association, a union former employees association of  Sindri fertilizer factory also handed over a copy of application at the camp office of FCI VSS Employees Welfare Association in Sindri for further reference, including legal pursuance of the issue by the association. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Kumar who conducted a review of preparation to cope with the third wave of pandemic in the district on Thursday expressed dissatisfaction over the preparations at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital and demanded a comprehensive report from Dr AK Burnwal, Superintendent of the hospital and  Dr Jyoti Ranjan, Principal of the College over the manpower requirement, work allotment to different officials, financial rights, appointment related rights and procurement rights. (Praduman Choubey) Hazaribagh: The anti-corruption bureau on Thursday caught an assistant sub-inspector Ranjeet Kumar Jha taking a bribe of Rs.10,000 from a man for helping him obtain bail.  Jha was posted in Domchach police station of Koderma district. According to bureau officials, Jha was demanding Rs.15,000 from a man named Nilesh Kumar who was facing a criminal case. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
