21-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Intensive mediation training session for advocates||Ranchi: Jharkhand High Court justice Aparesh Kumar Singh, who is the executive chairman the Jharkhand Legal Services Authority (Jhalsa) and High Court justice, Anubha Rawat Choudhary, member of state level mediation monitoring committee jointly inaugurated a 40-hour intensive mediation training program, for the first batch of 22 advocates at Nyaya Sadan, Ranchi. As per the approved schedule, training will be provided to 156 advocates and experts of different districts of Jharkhand in seven batches between August 21 to October 7.  Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh highlighted the importance of mediation in the present time and said that it is the duty of mediators to help the parties to find a solution. (Our Correspondent) Daltonganj: Nine members of an inter-state gang of highway robbers were remanded in judicial custody on Saturday in Daltonganj said SP Palamau Chandan Kumar Sinha. Sinha said all the 9 highway robbers hail from Bihar but were operative on the national highway 98 falling in Jharkhand. He said the interstate highway robbers used to loot pick up vans. They had looted two vans in a period of less than a month said the SP. Sinha said these interstate highway robbers who looted pick up vans did this only to smuggle illicit wine from Jharkhand to Bihar. (Our Correspondent) Hazaribagh : A youth who went to take out his duck from a pond in Kathotia Bhagwandas village in Chatra district got tired after reaching midway and drowned on Saturday morning.  Police officials said youth was identified as Raju Bhuiyan. They said after getting tired in mid of the pond, he failed to swim and finally drowned. The body was sent for post mortem to Chatra sadar hospital. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Superstition proved fatal for a 35-year-old woman in Raksi village under Jori police station of Chatra after she wrapped a poisonous snake around her throat believing it to be a messenger of Lord Shiva. Runiya Devi was going to attend a special puja organised at village temple on the last Monday of auspicious sawan. Seeing her with a snake, villagers started singing bhajans and mantras encircling Runiya maintaining safe distance. No one cared to see that by that time, the snake had bitten the woman number of times. Everyone considered it as a blessing that a snake appeared on such an auspicious day. “Superstition has taken a life in the village,” said eyewitnesses. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)  Garhwa: A man murdered his wife with a sharp iron rod before dying by suicide near  his house in Chutiya village under Ranka police station of the district on Saturday. The deceased were identified as Sheonath Manjhi, 36, and his wife Chandrawati Devi 34. According to Ranka police, the incident happened early morning when the couple’s child heard the sound of his parent's quarrel. Police said the couple were very poor and had frequent fights. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
21-08-2021||Jharkhand||Information hub at Dalma sanctuary eyes September opening||Tourists visiting the scenic Dalma elephant sanctuary can look forward to having a guided tour from next month onwards. Work at the information kiosk at Makulakocha is underway on a war footing and the facility will be thrown open for the tourists next month. The Rs 40-lakh information kiosk is part of the eco tourism project of the state forest department. Nearly 90 per cent of work is complete. Only finishing touches are required to be given before the facility is made available to the tourists," said Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra. Electricity is also in place at the facility which, because of its look, is set to become yet another major attraction at the sanctuary. The information kiosk is a wooden structure with a resting hall for the tourists. Entry tickets will be sold from the kiosk. The hall has been furnished and has toilets. Visitors at the elephant abode, 30 km from Jamshedpur, can buy tickets and also have the much-needed rest inside the hall. "The effort is to provide ample space and comfort to tourists, including those from Jharkhand, Bengal, Bihar, Odisha and Chhattisgarh, before they undertake a tour of the 192 sq km sanctuary," a forester said on condition of anonymity. Brochures having details of the flora and fauna, animals and water bodies as well as the Shiva temple within the sanctuary will be made available to the tourists for whom Dalma sanctuary is one of the favourite getaways. Visitors can also visit the museum which should also open next month. It is located adjacent to the information kiosk. "The museum, which is being refurbished, should also open for tourists next month. Tiles have already been fixed and painting is underway. But for rains, the facility would have been opened last month itself," the forester added. Tourists spend time at AC and non-AC accommodations as well mud houses at Makulakocha and quarters at the entrance of Pinderbera forest guest house atop the hill. Water bodies, including Badka Bandh, Majhla Bandh and Nichla Bandh are situated near the Pinderbera forest guest house. Tourists venture to the water bodies and watch the elephants at their playful best.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
21-08-2021||Jharkhand||Storm in a teapot, courtesy a 250kg Cambodian creation worth Rs 1.6 lakh ||A Cambodian teapot weighing 250kg, measuring four feet in length and three feet in height, became a centre of attraction for visitors to La Gravitea, a high-end cafeteria located at Circuit House Area as soon as it reached on Saturday afternoon. Made of white and blue porcelain, the teapot worth Rs 1.6 lakh was added to the collection of printed and vintage teapots, which are just collectibles, adorning the plush cafe. "My passion drove me to get the unique teapot from as far as Cambodia. It is a one-of-a-kind teapot in India. Nowhere else in the country you will find such a large and heavy teapot," said Avinash Dugar, the cafe owner who brought the huge teapot in a SUV driving it from Calcutta. "We were very careful in bringing the heavy teapot. Five persons were required to lift it for keeping it inside the SUV and again bringing it inside the cafe after it reached here," said Dugar. Several regular customers rushed to the cafe to get a glimpse of the teapot. "I have gone places but never came across such a large and heavy teapot. We should feel proud as a steel city cafe can now boast of having such a unique teapot, "said Ranveer Singh, a local businessman who frequently visits the cafe. Located opposite the Army Camp, La Gravitea only employs boys and girls, with hearing and speech impairments. The cafeteria which is operating for more than five years now has been set up by Avinash Dugar, a tea connoisseur and former vice-president of a Seraikela-Kharsawan based industry, who quit his corporate career to start that cafe. The cafe also serves a wide variety of tea sourced from different countries. Dugar has himself got training on sign language and has trained the speech and hearing impaired boys and girls to run the cafe and  how to serve the customers with a smile and with proper etiquette.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
21-08-2021||Jharkhand||Spurt in snatchings instils fear among steel city morning walkers||The footfall of morning and evening walkers has increased at already crowded walking tracks in Bistupur, Kadma and Sonari of the city as they dropped the practice of walking at isolated places in fear of falling prey to snatchers' gangs. A spurt in snatching incidents in the city during the spell of Covid-19 pandemic forced such people to avoid walking in isolation, something which would give them more pleasure. "I had been doing the morning walk routinely at the isolated Outer Circle Road since the past decade. But I have stopped walking in isolation and have now started visiting the G-Town ground's walking track instead, the only reason behind the change of place being the fear of falling victim to the snatchers," said Mahendra Soni, a businessman and resident of Bistupur to The Telegraph Online. Similarly, Murari Agarwal, who is also a Bistupur resident, has started carrying out his walk at the crowded walking-track along Kadma-Sonari Link Road. "Being time-conscious, I want to finish the walk within a stipulated period of time. This is why I used to walk with my headphones tucked in the ears at any lonely stretch so that I could evade any acquaintance. But given the prevailing law and order situation, I could no longer take the risk of walking alone," said Agarwal. Like Soni and Agarwal, scores of others who used to do their morning or evening walking conveniently in isolation have resorted to visiting crowded walking-tracks in Bistupur, Kadma and Sonari, fearing the prowling snatcher gangs. Bike-borne criminals use to move around the isolated places and snatch mobile phones or gold chains from morning or evening walkers, something which is regular in the steel city. Walking tracks are in Jubilee Park, G-Town ground, Kadma-Sonari Link Road and at Joggers Park behind Monibaba temple in Sonari. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Composit Control Room) Animesh Gupta said they have deployed mobile cops for providing security to the morning or evening walkers across the city. "If the morning or evening walkers still have apprehension of falling prey to the snatchers, then we will further intensify the patrolling," said the DSP (CCR) to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
21-08-2021||Jharkhand||13 shops gutted in early morning fire at Dhanbad market ||A fire mishap at the congested Hirapur Hatia market gutted 13 makeshift shops and caused loss of property of more than Rs 15lakh on Saturday morning. Prima facie, short circuit has been attributed for the fire but the detailed cause is likely to be ascertained only after an enquiry. The fire started at around 1:30am following which a team of fire brigade reached the site along with two fire tenders after being informed by police and controlled the fire in around two and a half hours. Senior officials of the district administration led by Prashant Kumar Layak, Dhanbad Circle Officer, who reached the site took stock of the fire situation and also took details of insurance papers and other documents of the affected shopkeepers. Chandrashekhar Agarwal, former Dhanbad mayor and Raj Sinha, Dhanbad MLA held talks with Prashant Kumar Layak, and Sandeep Kumar, Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner with regard to monetary compensation for the affected shopkeepers. “Majority of fire victims are small time traders selling fruits, vegetables, puja paraphernalia, disposable thermocol cup-plate-glass-bowl-lunch boxes and birthday decorative items,” said Raj Sinha. Former mayor Chandrashekhar Agarwal said, “Altogether 13 persons have lost their source of livelihood as they lost all their financial capital in the fire and now it is time to help them regain their livelihood for which we are working earnestly.” “We received information about the incident about fire over phone and immediately rushed to the site at around 2 am and controlled the fire till 2.30 pm but the fire was completely doused at around 4 am,” said district fire officer Vinod Kumar to Telegraph Online. “Altogether 12,000 litres of water in three tankers of 4000 litres each were used to completely douse the fire however only two fire tenders were used during the entire operation,” said Kumar and added that they have not yet received any application for compensation. This is the second incident of major fire in a market area of Dhanbad as a total of 35 makeshift shops were also gutted in a fire that took place in steel gate market about 5km from district headquarter during the night of Holi festival as the fire was caused due to a blast that took place in an illegally operated LPG refilling shop situated in the market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
21-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt likely to table Medical Protection Bill in monsoon session||Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta has given his nod to the Medical Protection Bill, which is likely to be tabled in the monsoon session of the state assembly scheduled from September 3 to September 9, officials from the minister’s office said on Saturday. Provisions from the Medical Protection Act (MPA) of different states have been incorporated in Jharkhand’s Medical Protection Bill to not only ensure safety for doctors but also provide consumer rights and right to affordable treatment to  patients, officials from Gupta’s office said. “Implementation of a Medical Protection Act has been a long-pending demand of the medical fraternity in our state. We have incorporated necessary changes in the bills drafted for this purpose earlier and tried to ensure benefits for doctors as well as patients through the bill,” said Gupta. During a felicitation programme for Covid warriors in the state capital last week, the health minister had said that he has had several rounds of discussion with Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Arun Kumar Singh over the implementation of a MPA and the state would soon introduce a bill to implement laws for protection of healthcare professionals. The Jharkhand unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has raised repeated concern over incidents of violence against healthcare workers even during the first and second wave of Covid-19. Several incidents of assaults on doctors and medical students were reported in state-run hospitals across Jharkhand since the formation of the state back in 2000, triggering protests by medical practitioners. The MPA has already been implemented in 18 states in India and IMA wants Jharkhand to be the 19th state to implement the law. The Cabinet had approved the MPA in Jharkhand in 2017. Later, a select committee too gave a report on it. But it was never passed by the state assembly, sources said. The Act mandates imprisonment of up to three years and a fine of Rs 50,000 for attacks on doctors, nurses and hospital establishments. In June 2019, doctors were thrashed by attendants of a patient at Rinchi Hospital in Ranchi, triggering widespread protests by doctors, which required the intervention of then chief secretary D.K Tiwari to resume healthcare services in the state. In February 2018, a doctor was heckled by attendants of a patient at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) prompting medicos at the hospital to go on an indefinite strike. A couple of months later, in June, a nurse was thrashed by attendants of a patient who died in the hospital. This incident also caused uproar by RIMS staff. Similar incidents were also reported in Dhanbad and Jamshedpur, doctors said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
21-08-2021||Jharkhand||Woman paraded naked in Jharkhand village over affair with married man||A woman was stripped and paraded naked with a garland of shoes around her neck in Jharkhand's Dumka district over her relationship with a married man, police said on Saturday. Six people were arrested in connection with the incident that happened in Ranishwar police station area of the district, they said. The woman, who is also married, had allegedly eloped with the man. On being caught on Wednesday night, she was thrashed by the family of the man's wife, a police officer said. Then she was stripped and paraded naked throughout the village with a garland of shoes around her neck, he said. "Twelve people have been named in the FIR filed on Thursday. So far, six persons, including the man and his wife, have been arrested," the officer said. The woman also alleged that the accused snatched Rs 25,000 from her, he said. The FIR was registered under IPC sections 148 (rioting), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), 354b (assault) and 379 (theft), among others, he added. Efforts are on to arrest the remaining six accused, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
21-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Jugsalai railway overbridge delay||Jamshedpur: The long-awaited Jugsalai railway overbridge project is getting costlier but also delayed, due to the repeated change of the approach road design by the state's road construction department. Started in the year 2018, the Jugsalai ROB project was to be set up jointly by the railway and the RCD at a cost of Rs 16crore. The railway was supposed to construct the ROB over the track near the Jugsalai level-crossing between Tatanagar-Adityapur section at a cost of Rs 6crore whereas the RCD was supposed to construct approach roads on the either side of the ROB at a cost of Rs 10crore. (Kumud Jenamani) Dhanbad: The district health department has constituted six mobile teams comprising a magistrate, sample collectors and policemen which have launched Covid testing across Dhanbad town on Friday. Special focus of the testing drive are pedestrians or other commuters travelling without masks in public vehicles like auto rickshaw, e-rickshaw besides the private vehicles like two wheelers and four wheelers. (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: Two persons were electrocuted in separate incidents taken place under Sitaramdera and adjoining Sidhgora thana area on Friday afternoon. While a 35-year-old man, Sunil Kumar Mishra was electrocuted while fixing a ceiling fan at his house in Kalyan Nagar under Sitaramdera thana area at 1 pm on Friday, in another incident a 20-year-old youth was electrocuted while working at building construction site in Bidhyapati Nagar in Sidhgora around 3 pm. According to police, Sunil who worked as a para legal volunteer in Jamshedpur was fixing a ceiling fan at his house having climbed on an iron ladder. (Kumud Jenamani)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
21-08-2021||Jharkhand||Top Maoist leader arrested in Hazaribagh||A dreaded Maoist leader, carrying a reward of Rs 25 lakh on his head, was arrested here early on Friday in a joint operation by the police and the CRPF, a day after another senior member of the outlawed organisation was taken into custody. Pradyuman Sharma (49), who went by names Kundan, Shaket and Lulah, is wanted in more than 90 criminal cases in both Bihar and Jharkhand, a senior police officer said. The Bihar government, too, had announced a reward of Rs 50,000 on him. Acting on intelligence inputs, security personnel raided areas surrounding the Kothadumar hillock in Chouparan police station area of Hazaribagh district and arrested Sharma, who claimed that he was a prominent member of the CPI(Maoist) special area committee, Inspector General (operations) AV Homkar told PTI. Homkar also said that Sharma, a resident of Jehanabad district in Bihar, was the mastermind of several extortion rackets in the two states. Describing his arrest as a big achievement , the inspector general noted that the arrested Maoist leader is a graduate in philosophy. "As soon as Hazaribag SP Manoj Ratan Chouthe received intelligence inputs about the movement of Maoists in Chouparan area, a team of police officers and CRPF personnel raided the forests surrounding Kothadumar hillock and found Sharma talking to one of his associates. "On seeing security personnel approaching them, they tried to flee. Sharma, however, was apprehended. His associate managed to escape, Homkar explained. The arrested CPI(Maoist) leader was identified by the injury marks on his hand, which he sustained during an IED blast some years ago, the inspector general said. "During interrogation, Sharma identified himself as a prominent member of CPI(Maoist) special area committee, and claimed that he was instrumental in strengthening the outfit in the region, Homkar stated. The Jharkhand Police had on Thursday arrested another senior Maoist leader, Ganjhu alias Azad, in Chhatra district. Ganjhu has 45 criminal cases filed against him, including one that involved the death of 30 policemen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
21-08-2021||Jharkhand||Fake Tata wire brand products seized in Andhra Pradesh||The Tata Steel intelligence unit along with Andhra Pradesh police seized counterfeit Tata Wiron chain link fences and barbed wires from multiple locations in Nellore district of the southern state on Friday. Tata Wiron is the brand name for Tata Steel’s global wire business, considered one of the leading steel wire manufacturers in the world. It has manufacturing facilities at Telco in Jamshedpur and in Maharashtra. “Tata Wiron’s chain link fences and barbed wires are packaged in a unique manner and all original products are sold with the same packaging by authorised dealers and distributors. Upon receiving information that multiple locations in Nellore district of Andhra Pradesh were selling Tata Wiron chain link fences and barbed wires in non-standard packaging, Tata Steel with the help of Andhra Pradesh police conducted joint raids in four locations and seized counterfeit chain link fences worth Rs 5 lakh and barbed wires estimated at Rs 1.54 lakh,” said a Tata Steel spokesperson. The raids were conducted at four locations under Vedayapalem, Venkatachala Satram and Sydapuram police stations in Nellore district. “This unauthorised use of the Tata Wiron name is infringing on the intellectual property rights of Tata Steel. The owners were selling fake chain link fences and barbed wires of substandard quality to consumers as Tata Wiron products,” the spokesperson added. Cases were lodged against dealers — Asian Wire Industries and Sri Venkateshwara Wire Products (both under Vedayapalem police station), Sri Lakshmi Wire (under Venkatachala Satram police station) and Sree Srinivasa Industries (under Sydapuram police stations) — and four officials have been detained. “Cases have been lodged under Section 420 of the IPC and Section 63 of the Copyright Act. Both the sections are non-bailable,” the spokesperson said. “Tata Steel’s products possess tremendous goodwill in the minds of the consumers by virtue of the quality of the products. Such unauthorised use of the company’s name on wire products which do not meet the quality standards of Tata Steel products hampers the reputation of the company. Tata Steel condemns the misuse of the trademarks and logos,” said a communiqué issued by the Tata Steel corporate communications department on Friday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
21-08-2021||Jharkhand||Congress dedicates park to elders on Rajiv Gandhi’s  birth anniversary||The Congress dedicated a park in Ranchi to senior citizens on Rajiv Gandhi’s  birth anniversary on Friday. “It will now provide senior citizens with a safe space for spending quality time that they didn’t have in this area,” Congress state spokesperson Alok Kumar Dubey replied, asked about the park close to Jagannathpur police station. “Ranchi also didn’t have any such thing in memory of Rajivji,” added Congress state president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon who inaugurated the park, adding it was developed under a scheme of planning and development department of the state. “Rajiv Gandhi had taken over as the Prime Minister at a critical time when he also had to tackle problems within the country, in Assam and Punjab but he handled those successfully,” the minister said while paying tribute to Rajiv Gandhi. “It was during his tenure the country witnessed the benefits of the technology mission including spread of communication system as seen through PCOs (public call offices) in rural areas,” he added. “The BJP government at the Centre was playing a dangerous game,” Oraon said, referring to the change it made in the name Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award recently. (Major) Dhyanchand was a great player and they will surely appreciate naming good institutions after him, he explained,  adding removing Rajiv’s name from an award would not erase the memory of the late Prime Minister. “Badle ka bhavna se kam nehi karenge, badlao layenge (we will bring in real change, not encourage revenge),” Oraon further said to explain what would be their stand if the Congress came to power at the Centre. Among others, Congress ministers Alamgir Alam, Badal Patralekh and Banna Gupta also spoke during the programme, highlighting various achievements of the Rajiv Gandhi government in 1980s. Two senior citizens — former minister Hemant Pratap Dehati and social worker Mukhtar Singh — were also felicitated on the occasion by the ministers before they dedicated to senior citizens the park named after Rajiv Gandhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
21-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant plea to evacuate Bokaro youth stranded in Kabul||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday requested external affairs minister S. Jaishankar to facilitate the return of a Bokaro resident stranded in Kabul. Hemant approached Jaishankar on Twitter after he came to know about Bablu Kumar’s plight through a video of his wife Lakho Devi, who had appealed to him and the Prime Minister to facilitate her husband’s safe return. Bablu, 37, works at a battery manufacturing unit in Kabul. Soren tweeted: “I urge @DrSJaishankar to ensure the safe return of Bablu.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
