22-08-2021||Jharkhand||On Rakhi, a green message from 'most polluted' Jharia ||Coal town environmentalists celebrated Rakshabandhan in Jharia by tying Rakhi to tree trunks during a function at children park during which they also took the oath to save the trees to secure a pollution free environment for the town. The function held under the leadership of Dr Manoj Singh, a physiotherapist and environmentalist of Jharia began at around 11am and concluded at around 1.30 pm during which other environmentalists including Akhlaque Ahmad, and Anil Jain were also present. “We organised the programme on the occasion of Rakhi with the aim of creating awareness about the significance of trees in conservation of environment,” said Singh. “We tied the rakhi to the trunks of around 50 trees under the shade of which we played during our childhood days,” said Singh and added that such effort assumes greater significance for Jharia which figured in the list of most polluted cities/towns across the country for several years during the recent past due to high PM10 and PM2.5 level in the air. Akhlaque Ahmad, who also participated in the drive, said, “Conserving the existing vegetation as well as newly planted sapling is equally important than carrying out plantation.” Meanwhile, the teachers of Dr J.K. Sinha Memorial International School, a CBSE affiliated School also celebrated Rakhi in a special way by tying Rakhi on the wrists of newspaper vendors. Talking to The Telegraph Online during the function, Shobha Sinha, founder of the host school Dr JK Sinha said, “We organised the programme for acknowledging the services rendered by these persons whose contribution towards creating awareness among the people often remain unrecognised.” “At the time of pandemic when the information was the key to make people aware about the disease, these newspaper vendors played crucial role in distributing newspapers as the source of information,” said principal of the school, B Jagdish Rao and added the despite the unhindered services their efforts often remain  unacknowledged so they organised the programme to felicitate them. Chandana Ghosh, a Hindi teacher of the school, who led the programme said, “ We felt quite satisfied after tying Rakhi to our such brothers who play a significant role in spreading information in the society.” Dharnidhar Mandal, president of Dhanbad Zila Akhbar Vikreta Sangh, who also participated in the function along with 18 other newspaper hawkers said, “We felt quite elated when we received information from the school about the Rakhi celebration and felt proud after being tied Rakhi by lady teachers of the school.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
22-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Man found murdered on railway school premises in Bagbera||Jamshedpur: The mutilated body of a 28-year-old man with a criminal record was found on the premises of a railway high school under Bagbera thana area on Sunday morning. The victim identified as Raju Singh, was found with his throat slit and two deep cut injuries in the abdomen. Bagbera thana OC, Rajesh Kumar Singh said this to be a case of murder, informing that investigation has begun. He said police have recovered empty liquor bottles and glass from near the spot where the body was found, suggesting the assailants had killed Raju after making him consume liquor. The murder victim's father, said on Saturday three persons had visited his house as soon as his son had returned from the Station market, having closed his vegetable shop and had taken him along with them. (Kumud Jenamani) Hazaribagh : A 23-year-old BJP leader on Sunday died by suicide at his residence in Dhanbad road in Barhi block, 42km from district headquarter sending shockwaves among party workers as well as those knowing him. Shivam Anand was head of the district IT cell of the party. His parents spotted him hanging from the ceiling fan. He was immediately rushed to nearest hospital but doctors declared him brought dead. Family members failed to reason why Shivam took such a harsh step that too when he was happy with his life. Shivam’s body was sent for post mortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Daltonganj: It was a rare Rakhi celebration in the backwaters of Palamau’s Japla. More than half a dozen girl students of the Boon Public School Japla led by its principal Sauvari  Mukherjee went to the police station Hussainabad (Japla) and tied rakhis on the hand of the officer-in-charge Ajay Singh. “Our students had made the rakhis with their own hands using discarded household items like wool, pearl, chiffon etc,” said Mukherjee. The girls were given sweets and Rs 1,000 in cash by the police officer. Sources said there is a paradigm shift in the attitude of women towards the police in Palamau which was earlier marred by fear due to the naxals in the area. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: The Indian painted frog was seen for the first time at Canary Hill reportedly for the first time in the state as well. Renowned wildlife researcher Mritunjay Sharma discovered this frog, declared as least concern and threatened species in IUCN list. He said three days ago, he saw this frog. Sharma said Uperodon taprobanicus, also known as the Sri Lankan bullfrog, Sri Lankan painted frog, Sri Lankan kaloula, Ceylon kaloula, Indian painted frog or painted globular frog is a species of narrow-mouthed frog found in Nepal, Bangladesh, southern and eastern India and Sri Lanka. It can grow to an adult length of up to 7.5 cm from snout to vent. Sharma had found India's largest anthill on the foothills of Canary earning him a place in Limca Book. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
22-08-2021||Jharkhand||After surplus rain in June, state now enters a deficit phase||Jharkhand entered a rain deficit phase on Sunday due to weak monsoon activity in the past 72 hours. Statistics revealed that against a normal of 745.2 mm, the state has so far recorded 728.6 mm rain, a deficit of two per cent. This was for the second time this monsoon, Jharkhand entered a rain deficit phase. On July 16, Jharkhand had encountered this monsoon's first deficit rain. According to Met data, as many as 10 out of 24 districts, figure in the rain deficit list as of Sunday. The districts that are facing a rain deficit are Chatra,  Bokaro, Garhwa, Godda,  Gumla,  Khunti,  Pakur, Seraikela- Kharsawan, Simdega and West Singhbhum. Gumla and Simdega are facing the maximum rain deficit of 39 and 28 per cent respectively. Rest of the 12 districts including Ranchi, Dhanbad, Deoghar, Hazaribagh and all the three districts of Kolhan- East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan figures in the rain surplus list. Notably, around mid-June, soon after the onset of the south-east monsoon, the surplus rain in Jharkhand had touched 109 per cent. At that time, the monsoon was described as being "vigorous" in nature. Towards the end of June, the rainfall activity over the state reduced as the monsoon entered into a weak phase. Monsoon revived and became active around July 7, resulting in widespread rain till July 11. After that rainfall activity again got gradually reduced. The last three days of July witnessed heavy rain in several parts of the state. August began well with most districts experiencing a good spell of rain. Rainfall activity got refuced in the second week because of a break- monsoon situation. Monsoon again revived from August 15 resulting in a good spell of rain till August 17 after that reduced rainfall activity promoted the state to again enter into a deficit phase. Data revealed that only three Met observatories based at Messanjore in Dumka, Maheshpur in Pakur ,  Garhwa and Jamshedpur recorded light to moderate rain during the past 48 hours. Head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand said reduced rainfall during the past few days led to the deficit. "Most districts of Jharkhand have been experiencing light to moderate rain for the last 72 hours. The reduced rainfall activity has led to deficit rain in several districts," he said. Weathermen said no significant weather system prevails over the state and that most districts would witness cloudy sky with one or two spells of light to moderate rain. According to weathermen, there would also be no significant change in both day and night temperature during the next 72 hours. The monsoon trough was on Sunday passing through Bikaner, Shivpuri, Sidhi, Patna and Nagaland. Satellite pictures indicated that the western end of the monsoon trough lies to the south of its normal position and the eastern end lies to the north of its normal position. The western end is likely to shift gradually northwards from  Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
22-08-2021||Jharkhand||Protests planned against Jharkhand Medical Protection Bill draft||The Jharkhand government may have decided to table the Medical Protection Bill in the coming monsoon session of the Assembly, but not everyone seems to be entirely satisfied that its provisions would also take care of patients' rights and grievances as has been promised by state health minister Banna Gupta. On Sunday, Jan Swastha Abhiyan Sangharsh Morcha (JSASM), a Left backed social outfit working in the field of community health, announced plans to burn copies of the draft Bill at Albert Ekka Chowk on Monday, as amark of protest. A few independent health activists are also against the Bill, claiming it is  intended to safeguard the interest of private hospitals more than the welfare of doctors and common people. Morcha officer-bearer Bhuvneshwar Kewat said, “We strongly oppose this Bill and have decided to fight against it tooth and nail. We will burn  copies of the draft bill on August 23 at Albert Ekka Chowk at 3pm. It is evident the state government is inclined towards securing the interests of private players/hospitals more than patients.” On Saturday, health minister Gupta okayed the final draft of the  Medical Protection Bill and said it was likely to be tabled in the monsoon session of the state assembly scheduled from September 3 to September 9. Officials in his ministry claimed the Bill,  a long pending demand of the state chapter of the Indian Medical Association, was not only to ensure the  safety of doctors but also takes care of patient rights. Another official of the morcha, Nadeem Khan demanded the government work towards a patients' protection bill. "“Why do we want a medical protection Bill in the first place? There are already several laws under different sections of IPC and other Acts which safeguard any entity and persons associated with it," he said. Agreed activist Atul Gera, who is works to promote blood donation. “No problem in this @BannaGupta76 ji. Will you also bring Patient Protection Bill? Do you know how patients have become victims of the money minded health system @HemantSorenJMM ji. Are we safeguarding the patients and their rights? @mansukhmandviya @roysaryu @malini_aisola,"he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
22-08-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi child welfare panel chief, member accused of harassment, suspended||The chairperson and a member of Ranchi Child Welfare Committee (CWC) were suspended after a tribal child activist accused them of harassment,  leaving the quasi-judicial body headless in the Jharkhand capital, officials said on Sunday. According to police, Ranchi CWC chairperson Rupa Kumari Verma and member Tanushree Sarkar were suspended by the State Women and Child Welfare department after Sita Diya lodged an FIR with the ST/SC police station in the capital, accusing the duo of harassment and use of “derogatory words” against her ethnicity. “The complainant, who also happens to be a child rights activist, has accused the two CWC members of harassment and use of derogatory words against her. We have lodged a case under relevant sections of the law,” said the officer in-charge of ST/SC police station, RR Minz. According to the complaint,  the two CWC members had allegedly stopped payment of funds to Diya Seva Sansthan, an NGO run by Sita Divya for protection and rehabilitation of children who fall victim to human trafficking. Diya, in her complaint, has also accused the duo of causing mental stress to her by stopping the payment of funds – about Rs 30 lakh – received for running her NGO. While none of the two CWC members accused in the matter responded to calls from this correspondent on Sunday, a former CWC member requesting anonymity said that the suspension of the two members would hamper the process of addressing issues related to child rights violations in the district. Three of the five CWC members in Ranchi have completed their tenure with the quasi-judicial body. The tenures of the remaining two, who have now been suspended, would end in three months, sources said. Hence, there is no functioning member left in Ranchi CWC to hear issues related to child rights. The CWC was also actively involved in identifying children who have been orphaned during the pandemic and extending support to them. This process too may get affected in the absence of members, sources said. Children rescued from bonded labour and trafficking networks are produced before the CWC. They also undergo counselling and medical tests under the supervision of this body before being sent to schools or rehabilitation centres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
22-08-2021||Jharkhand||Accused in Dhanbad judge murder case involved in mobile phone thefts||Sonar patti resident and auto driver Lakhan Verma and his old time friend, Rahul Verma of Jorapokhar area of Dhanbad who were arrested by police on July 29 in connection with the alleged murder case of Judge Uttam Anand on July 28 were involved in mobile phone theft from station road area and had stolen 10 phones before stealing the autorickshaw of Saguni Devi on July 27. The revelations came during interrogation of the duo by a CBI team led by investigator Vijay Kumar Shukla as part of the investigation carried out in New Delhi last week. Dhanbad district judge Uttan Anand, who was handling many cases of gangster killings, was allegedly killed on July 28 when an autorickshaw ran into him while he was on his morning run. CCTV has shown the vehicle going after him intentionally. The duo revealed before the CBI that they had so far stolen 10 mobile phones in the last several years out of which complaints were not made by victims in altogether 10 cases. In the latest case of mobile theft carried out by the duo days before the death of Judge Uttam Anand, they had stolen three mobile phones from the clerk of a railway contractor Purnendu Vishwakarma from his Hill colony based Railway outhouse location. Though, Vishshwakarma had made a complaint before Dhanbad police but a constable, Vijay Yadav of Dhanbad sadar police station who received the complaint did not register an FIR. On August 20, Dhanbad SSP, Sanjeev Kumar, on receiving information through CBI suspended the constable on charges of negligence. Lakhan Verma and Rahul  Verma used to consume liquor and other intoxicating substances near the Dhanbad station road and carried out multiple mobile robberies near the station road and surrounding areas. The CBI team which took up the case on August 5, a day after registering the FIR first took their remand of five day on August 6 of five days and again extended the remand to 10 more days on August 11. The CBI again obtained court permission for remand of the duo till September 3 for carrying out brain mapping and narcotic test. Their brain mapping test was conducted at New Delhi on August 20 but their narcotic test is likely to be conducted at Ahmedabad in a day or two. The CBI carried out a crime scene recreation at the site of the incident for two consecutive days on August 7 and August 8 during which the 3D laser scanning was also carried out to ascertain the vehicle speed, angle at which the vehicle moved while hitting judge Uttam Anand during the time of incident on July 28, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
22-08-2021||Jharkhand||Over 4 lakh vaccine doses distributed across Jharkhand||Jharkhand on Saturday distributed over 4.17 lakh doses of vaccines against Covid-19 among all 24 districts to continue the ongoing immunisation drive at full-throttle and eliminate hurdles caused by shortages in some of the districts, health officials said. As per data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state distributed at least 87,390 doses of Covaxin, the crisis of which had left several second dose beneficiaries worried. Besides, at least 3,30,250 doses of Covishield vaccine were also distributed among the districts. Ranchi got the highest share of 6,500 Covaxin and 24,000 Covishield doses from the fresh lot, while East Singhbhum received 5700 Covaxin doses and 23,000 Covishield doses, figures shared by the NHM highlighted. Dhanbad was allotted 22,000 doses of Covishield vaccine and 4000 doses of Covaxin, while Palamu received 19,500 doses of Covishield and 5400 doses of Covaxin, as per NHM data. Among other districts, Bokaro received 18,750 Covishield doses and 2000 Covaxin doses, while Giridih received 20,000 Covishield doses and 5000 doses of Covaxin. On an average, each of the 24 districts received at least 10,000 doses of vaccines with Lohardaga getting the lowest share of 8,790 doses. The state on Saturday vaccinated over 60,000 residents against Covid-19, provisional data released by the health department highlighted. As per this data, at least 42,869 residents were administered the first dose of vaccine, while 21,213 beneficiaries got the second jab. At least 45,000 beneficiaries vaccinated on the day fell in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped further down to 213 in Jharkhand on Saturday as Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, the state reported 18 fresh Covid cases on the day, while at least 20 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection. Ranchi, however, witnessed a spike in the active caseload as at least 12 people were found infected by coronavirus here and eight patients recovered from the infection on Saturday. As per government data, at least 103 residents were battling the viral infection in Ranchi by the end of Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
22-08-2021||Jharkhand||Raksha Bandhan kits prepared by women self-help groups in demand for festival of sibling love||Raksha Bandhan kits prepared by women self-help groups from the rural hinterlands of Jharkhand are in demand for the festival of sibling love on Sunday. “On Saturday (the eve of Raksha Bandhan) we have crossed sales figures of Rs 5 lakh for the Raksha Bandhan kits. On a cumulative basis we have touched sales of nearly Rs 10 lakh which is amazing considering nearly 2,000 women associated with self-help groups in rural hinterlands took up the Raksha Bandhan kit project only a month ago under the Palash brand,” said Nancy Sahay, chief executive officer of the Jharkhand State Livelihood Promotion Society. The society, an arm of the rural development department, sells the products prepared by women SHGs in the state under the brand name Palash across all the 24 districts through Palash Marts and also on e-commerce platforms like Flipkart, Reliance Mart and Amazon. The Raksha Bandhan kits comprise silk rakhis (prepared from handmade tasar silk threads), roli (vermilion) and akshat (rice) for applying the tika on a brother’s forehead while performing rituals, sandalwood matches and dry fruit pack containing cashew, raisins, pistachio, badam, etc. “As a part of product diversification of Palash, we advised the women SHGs to try their hand in making rakhis and Raksha Bandhan kits. Several women SHGs from all the districts showed interest and brought out the products in a span of few weeks. All the products are in high demand in the very first year and the stock is almost exhausted. The products were much in demand due to two reasons — the low prices and good quality with innovative design,” said Sahay. The Raksha Bandhan kits are available at prices ranging between Rs 251 and Rs 301 (based on the quantity of dry fruits) while the silk rakhis are priced between Rs 10 and Rs 30 (based on the size and design) and the Resham Rakhi fit pack with message cards is priced at Rs 150. The products are available online on the Palash app which can be downloaded from Google Play Store (https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.jslps.palashmart). Chief minister Hemant Soren, who was presented with a silk rakhi during his recent visit to Godda in Santhal Pargana by a woman SHG member, was so impressed by the design that he had made an appeal on Friday to residents to buy these rakhis. “This will help them increase their livelihood. We have to support them in their effort,” Soren said in a communiqué issued on Friday evening. Women SHGs associated with the society are currently producing 60 products, including edible items, soaps, sanitisers, essential oils, sanitary napkins, tribal jewellery and handicrafts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
