23-08-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI alumni donate ICU beds for Covid treatment||The XLRI Alumni Association on Monday gifted a four-bed Intensive Care Unit (ICU) facility for treatment of Covid patients at St. Joseph's Hospital, located at Bhilaipahari, around 10km away from the Steel City. The ICU with Covid level - III facilities was inaugurated by East Singhbhum civil surgeon A.K. Lal. He appreciated the gesture of XLRI Alumni Association for its contribution in developing the ICU and said that the district health department would also provide necessary support to the hospital. XLRI director Fr. Paul Fernandes, president of XLRI Alumni Association (Jamshedpur chapter) Ronald D'Costa and director of St. Joseph's Hospital Fr. David Vincent was also present on the occasion. "The ICU facility was developed at that hospital as a preparation for a possible  third wave of Covid-19. The special facility at St. Joseph’s Hospital, will help in catering 10 villages located in close proximity. It will help in managing illnesses related to Covid-19, " said Ronald D'Costa, president of XLRI Alumni Association (Jamshedpur chapter). The ICU facility is equipped with the latest medical equipment like multipara monitor with a wall mounting bracket. A multipara monitor helps in  providing information on multiple parameters like ECG, blood pressure, respiration, oxygen saturation and temperature to understand the condition of patients and monitor vital signs. It has a BiPAP machine, a type of ventilator used to treat chronic conditions that affect breathing, a syringe pump - a small infusion pump, used to gradually administer small amounts of fluid to a patient and an infusion pump that infuses fluids, medication or nutrients into a patient's circulatory system. The ICU facility is equipped with four motorised bed, four bedside lockers, four food trolley, a portable X-Ray, a crash cart, a high flow humidifier and a video laryngoscope, a small device to look into one's throat and larynx, or voice box.  There are some specially chosen monitoring equipment that could be used for other patients too in need of close monitoring, said Fr. David Vincent, director of St. Joseph's Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
23-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand launches 4-day mass campaign against filariasis||Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta on Monday launched a mass drug administration (MDA) programme against filariasis for over 1.78 crore residents in at least 12 of 24 affected districts and urged beneficiaries to come forward and take the medication to eradicate the vector-borne disease, which mostly affects people in rural areas of the state. “Our state government is constantly striving to achieve important health and development goals. The government is also very sensitive to other health concerns even during this pandemic and is running continuous programmes to address them,” Gupta said. The four-day campaign, scheduled to conclude on August 27, was launched in Giridih, Chatra, Dumka, East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Garhwa, Godda, Hazaribagh, Khunti, Lohardaga, Ranchi and Simdega, a document released by the health department stated. Filariasis is caused by filarial worms and can trigger abnormal growth in the infected person. The abnormal swelling in legs caused by Filariasis is commonly referred to as elephantiasis, said doctors. The health minister iterated that the anti-filarial drug were absolutely safe if taken under the supervision of trained personnel and doctors. During the drive, at least two drugs – DEC and Albendazole – will be administered to beneficiaries in 11 districts of the state and three drugs – DEC, Albendazole and Ivermectin – will be administered to beneficiaries in Simdega. National Health Mission director Umashankar Singh said that filariasis is a complex problem of public health and the Health Department is determined for its successful eradication. “The success of the programme is possible only when there is public participation in it,” said Singh, adding that except children younger than one year and pregnant women, everyone can take these medications. A total of 71,234 personnel and 7,123 supervisors have been deployed in 12 districts to monitor the programme and to ensure that 1.78 crore targeted beneficiaries of the combined population of about 2.2 crore of the chosen districts are administered anti-filaria drugs. Rapid response teams have been formed in all the districts to deal with it. The campaign, officials said, will be run under strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behavior. Booths will be sanitised and all drug administrators will wear protective gear. In a similar campaign run from February 22 to February 27, the state health department had administered anti-filarial drugs to over 70 lakh beneficiaries in four districts – Sahenganj, Bokaro, Dhanbad and Ramgarh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
23-08-2021||Jharkhand||Sahebganj health official held for fake vaccination certificates||A community health officer engaged in Covid-19 vaccinations has been arrested in Jharkhand’s Sahebganj district for providing fake vaccination certificates to migrant workers in exchange of money. The officer employed on contract has been identified as Mangni Ram Tandi. He is in his mid-30s and was posted as the community health officer (CHO) at a primary health centre in Rajmahal sub-division, officials said on Monday. Sahibganj police said that they were on the lookout for another health officer, Kripan Mina, who worked as Tandi’s accomplice. Deputy commissioner Ramnivas Yadav said this was the first such instance in Jharkhand since Covid vaccinations began in January. “Yesterday (Sunday), a video had gone viral where Tandi was shown dealing with an unidentified person for arranging Covid-19 vaccinations for around 60 migrant workers. As per the deal being discussed, each certificate would cost Rs 400-Rs 500. We launched a crackdown soon after,” the police officer said. Tandi, the police revealed, was from Rajasthan, but was working in Jharkhand on contract for about a year. Yadav said that prima facie evidence indicated that the accused was providing fake vaccination certificates. “They used to edit an original vaccination certificate of a genuine beneficiary who took the jab to include the name of some other person and provided printouts of the same on payment,” he explained, adding that a full-fledged investigation has been ordered to understand the extent of the fraud. Police sources said an FIR was filed against Tandi on Sunday night by deputy superintendent of Rajmahal sub divisional hospital Dr Sanjay Kumar. “Before that, we had picked him up, but he used the name of another CHO (Kripan Mina) to identify himself.  We learnt that about four-five persons were running the racket of fake certificates. we need to find out how many certificates were issued and since when,” said a police officer. Vaccination is mandatory for every eligible person while travelling. The demand is high among migrant workers ready to leave the state for work again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
23-08-2021||Jharkhand||Rakhi pledge to protect trees in East Singhbhum||Environmentalist Jamuna Tudu and members of the forest security committee formed by her tied rakhis to over 1,000 sal trees at Sunsunia forest in East Singhbhum district of Jharkhand and took a pledge to protect them from the timber mafia on Saturday. Tudu, 40, who received the Padma Shri in 2019, had organised the programme with over 1,000 members, mostly tribal women, of the Van Suraksha Samity at the forest in Chakulia, nearly 200km from capital Ranchi and bordering West Midnapore district of Bengal. “We have been organising a similar programme in the forest for the last few years. But this year we had the highest turnout of samity members as they came from all the six Assembly constituencies of East Singhbhum district and took a pledge to protect the trees from being felled by the timber mafia,” said Tudu, who was also selected among 100 women achievers by the President and felicitated at Rashtrapati Bhavan in 2017. The Assembly constituencies — Jamshedpur East, Jamshedpur West, Bahargora, Ghatshila, Potka and Jugsalai — fall under East Singhbhum which has over 30 per cent area under forest cover, according to a forest survey report of 2019. The Van Suraksha Samity formed in 1998 in Chakulia by Tudu now has over 400 women members in the district, including from Bahargora, Ghatshila, Potka, Patamda and Dhalbhumgarh. Similar samitis have been also formed in other districts like Dumka, Giridih, Godda and Pakur  also. Born in Odisha, Tudu settled in Muturkham area under Chakulia block of East Singhbhum district after marriage. Surrounded by 50 hectares of forest land, Muturkham was plagued by the forest mafia and poachers before she decided to take up the cause of protecting the natural wealth. “In the initial days the members had to do patrolling from morning to late evening in the forest areas of Beladih, Madhupur, Laubera, Dhalukdingha, Baraghat and Muhulbera. However, with the passage of time and continuous efforts on the part of our samity to educate villagers about the importance of forests and resisting the timber mafia, tree felling has almost stopped in the area. But we still carry out random patrolling in the area,” said Tudu. Jamshedpur divisional forest officer Mamta Priyadarshi, who was the chief guest during the programme and also tied rakhis to sal trees, appreciated the efforts of the forest security committees. “The samitis are doing a good job in stopping tree felling and also preventing forest fires. We would continue to extend our cooperation to the samity members for their effort,” said Priyadarshi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
23-08-2021||Jharkhand||Taliban insurgency: Bokaro’s Bablu back from Kabul||Bablu Kumar of Bokaro, who was stranded in Kabul, returned on Sunday. “He called from the Delhi airport to inform that their aircraft had landed just then,” his elder brother Lal Babu Patel informed this paper, adding their family that spent a week of anxiety since the Taliban took control of Afghanistan heaved a sigh of relief after hearing the news. “Bablu couldn’t speak much as he had to complete the formalities at the airport,” Lal Babu further said, adding his brother was expected to reach Ranchi by another flight by evening before setting out for their home near Sunday Bazar area of Bermo in Bokaro. “I’m in a hurry to catch a flight for Ranchi and as such can’t speak at this moment,” Bablu, 37,  said when contacted at the Delhi airport. “We didn’t face problems today,” he further said when asked about his flight to Delhi and added he was feeling “very tired and needed some rest”. “Bablu would speak to us daily and assured he would return soon but we were really worried,” his brother Lal Babu said, adding Bablu’s wife Lakho Devi kept weeping all these days and prayed for his safe return. Bablu, a father of two sons aged 10 and 7 years, had earlier gained experience in Tamil Nadu and Punjab before going to Afghanistan for working in a battery manufacturing unit near Kabul and would visit his family in Bokaro twice or thrice in a year. He came on leave and returned in the first week of June. His employer had advised Bablu to return to India when the Taliban was advancing towards the Afghan capital, his brother said. “Bablu had a confirmed air ticket on August 16, the day after Kabul fell and even went to airport for boarding the flight,” he further informed, adding he had to return as the situation near the airport had turned chaotic and gunshots were heard all around. His employer had also arranged a guesthouse near the airport for Bablu and three others, Lal Babu further said, adding some Taliban members visited them at that place. “Bablu said they (the Taliban) checked their passports and asked them to wait till they heard their commander’s instructions,” he further informed, adding they were worried what would the Taliban decide about such stranded persons. Meanwhile, the family approached everyone for help. Bermo MLA Kumar Jaimangal tweeted chief minister Hemant Soren, requesting his intervention and Soren, in return, approached external affairs minister S. Jaishankar for helping the family. “Anyway, it’s a great relief that my brother finally returned to the country and we are now waiting to receive him,” Lal Babu added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
23-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren presents himself as a sensible leader at Opp party meet||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren presented himself as a sensible leader at the virtual meeting of the Opposition that was convened by Sonia Gandhi last Friday. “Hemant not only gave emphasis on consolidation of the Opposition forces but also put forward a sensible argument in its favour,” said a political observer. Unlike in May when Soren was criticised by some for his remarks, his arguments rather drew attention this time,  he further said, referring to Soren’s remarks after his virtual interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Covid situation in the state. In May, Soren expressed his dissatisfaction over not being allowed to put his views during their interaction and termed that as another episode of Maan Ki Baat (the radio programme addressed by the Prime Minister at regular intervals), indicating their interaction was rather reduced to a monologue by Modi. “Some, including his counterparts in a few other states, had then criticised Soren for his remarks but he drew applause this time,” the observer said, pointing out the views the chief minister expressed, particularly on the Israeli spyware Pegasus. The workers and the peasants of the country were not much bothered about the use of the Pegasus as they were more concerned about the policy on farming and farmers and generation of employment opportunities, Soren had told the gathering of the Opposition leaders belonging to 19 different parties. The Opposition should corner the central government with strong issued and there was no dearth those, the young chief minister further said, adding the Opposition needed to be more powerful by forging unity among various Opposition parties. The country was facing a crisis as the Modi government was killing democracy by not listening to people’s representatives, Soren further said, accusing the central government. “We should also demand that the pandemic induced by coronavirus be declared a national disaster in our country,” Soren further said, adding many families lost their bread earners while many others became paupers for meeting medical expenses. They all need assistance but the central government had nothing other than MGNREGA to offer them in rural areas while it had absolutely nothing in urban areas, the chief minister further said. “All this projected Hemant as a sensible leader the day before yesterday,” the observer concluded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
