24-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand: eggs six days a week in meals for Anganwadi children||Children between three to six will now get one boiled egg along with meals at least six days a week at anganwadi centres across Jharkhand under the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) of the Centre, the state cabinet decided on Tuesday. So far, children were provided eggs three days a week at the over 30,000 anganwadi centres run across the state, officials from the Women, Child Development and Social Security department of Jharkhand said, adding that the cabinet move would help the state fight malnutrition among children in rural Jharkhand and address the protein deficit in their daily diet. Under the ICDS, children between six months to six years and pregnant and lactating mothers are provided dry ration, supplements and meals at Anganwadi centres to meet their daily nutritional needs to combat malnutrition, which has been a growing concern in the Jharkhand hinterland. However, while the government had earlier announced to provide three eggs per week to children at anganwadi centres, right to food activists claim that many Anganwadi centres were yet to receive regular supplies of eggs to meet the demand. “As per an earlier government decision, children at anganwadi centres were supposed to get at least three eggs every week. But most anganwadi centres have not received sufficient supplies to meet the demand,” said Siraj Dutta, an activist associated with the Right to Food campaign in Jharkhand. All anganwadi centres in Jharkhand have remained closed as a precautionary measure against Covid-19. However, children and mothers are being provided food at home during this period, the government claims. Besides adding more eggs to the meals provided to children at anganwadi centres, the Jharkhand Cabinet on Tuesday also approved several road construction projects worth over Rs 150 crore in various districts of the state, Cabinet Secretary Vandana Dadel said. The Cabinet also hiked the House Rent Allowance (HRA) and Dearness Allowance (DA) of state government employees under fifth pay commission, seventh pay commission and those under unrevised pay grade, officials said. The Cabinet gave its approval for setting up a Pharma Park at Bijupara in Barhi worth over 34.94 crore. The Pharma Park will be a hub of various pharmaceutical companies, officials said. Besides, in a bid to encourage easy and accessible higher education, the Cabinet approved setting up an open university in the state, said the Cabinet Secretary. Through this open university, working professionals will also be able to pursue higher studies without having to attend in-person classes, sources said. The Cabinet also approved recruitment of professors and assistant professors for the government medical colleges in Jharkhand to address the shortage of teachers in the medical colleges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
24-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Theft at Jamshedpur mobile shop||Jamshedpur: Criminals decamped with cash and headphones worth over Rs one lakh from a wholesale mobile phone accessories shop at Sakchi in the dawn on Tuesday, despite a night watchman doing his rounds in the area. Owner Vijay Singh, who found out about the incident at 9 am on the day, said, “On opening the shop, my attention went to the dismantled ceiling. Soon I checked the cash box where about Rs 10,000 was found missing. All the cartons containing the headphones were missing too.” CCTV cameras installed inside the shop covered the act of the loan thief who had broken into the shop at about 4 am. Sakchi Police said they have started the investigation into my case after receiving an FIR from the owner. "As the shops have to be shut down by 8 pm in view of the Covid-19 protocol, we had intensified foot patrolling in the market the whole night. But the theft at the wholesale mobile phone accessories shop took place at 4 am,” officer-in-charge Kunal Kumar told The Telegraph Online. Significantly, thefts and burglaries have increased considerably in the city with police doing little to check them. Thefts are taking place in residences and shops, but the police are neither checking such crime nor being able to detect the cases. (Kumud Jenamani) Dhanbad: Dhanbad traders have demanded the state government and the district administration to carry out the repair of Bank More flyover and also complete the broadening of Gaya Bridge situated near the railway station given the traffic jam in several areas. They have submitted a letter to DC Sandeep Kumar, principal secretary of state road construction Sunil Kumar and Municipal Commissioner Satyendra Kumar. Bank flyover and Gaya Railway overbridge are adjacent to each other but due to a large number of potholes lying under the railway over bridge as well as the Bank More flyover, the bank more area often witnesses during the office hours due to huge rush of vehicles. Earlier on Monday, Rajiv Sharma, General Secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association, also raised the issue of delay in widening of the Gaya Railway overbridge. (Praduman Choubey)  Hazaribagh: The dead body of 15-year-old Lilawati Kumari, who was missing for the last two days, was found in a well in Sulmi village under Katkamsandi block on Tuesday, situated around 15kms away from district headquarter. Her parents didn't inform the police after she went missing on Saturday. They were searching for her. This morning, a few villagers spotted the dead body in the well after which police were informed. The dead body was fished out and sent for postmortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Officer-in-charge of Katkamsandi police station, Arun Kumar Rawani said once a postmortem report will come, they will know the exact reason behind her death. He said police have also started a probe keeping in mind various angles to reach to the facts of this case. He said they will soon disclose this case. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Ramgarh: BJP  MP-cum-Chairman Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance Jayant Sinha is working to complete the process of merger of Ramgarh Cantonment in the civil area at the earliest. He has told Defence Minister Rajnath Singh that Ramgarh is an aspirational district of his parliamentary constituency, Hazaribagh.Ramgarh Cantonment Board acts as the civil administration body and is responsible for the operation of various institutions as well as people's health, water supply, sanitation, street lighting and other civic amenities.  Therefore, the scope of the functions of the board extends to the functions performed by the municipal administration. The Cantonment Board has clearly defined which areas can be transferred to the municipality.  By doing so, there will be no inconvenience or hindrance in defense and military operations.  The process of approval for the merger is now in the final stages.  After the merger, the residents of the civil areas of Ramgarh Cantonment will get better financial assistance and also benefit from urban governance. (Manoj Sinha)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
24-08-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Central Hospital sets up PSA oxygen plant in Bokaro||In its efforts to combat Covid-19 and be future-ready, Tata Steel commissioned a state-of-the-art Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plant at Tata Central Hospital in West Bokaro on Tuesday. Pressure Swing Adsorption is a technology used to absorb nitrogen from ambient air to concentrate oxygen for supply to hospitals or industries, as the case may be. The oxygen thus generated can be supplied straight to the site of use either through a dedicated pipeline or compressed to fill cylinders. Chanakya Chaudhary, vice-president (Corporate Services), Tata Steel was the chief guest at the inaugural function. Dr Sudhir Rai, general manager, (Medical Services), Tata Steel, Dr Rajan Chaudhry, advisor, Medical Services, Tata Steel and Sourav Roy, chief (Corporate Social Responsibility), Tata Steel and Manish Mishra, general manager, West Bokaro Division, Tata Steel were also present. Set-up by the Tata Steel Foundation, the PSA Oxygen Plant is spread over 726 sq ft. in area and has a capacity of 833 Liters per minute. Besides, the plant acts as the storage area for keeping filled and empty oxygen cylinders. The PSA oxygen plant will not only make Tata Central Hospital a fully self-sufficient hospital in terms of medical oxygen supply but will also enhance the medical facility by providing continuous oxygen support to all 50 beds inside the hospital during peak time. Significantly, Tata Central Hospital in collaboration with Tata Steel Foundation has been monitoring the Covid-19 situation at West Bokaro and is making all possible efforts to serve the community in the best possible manner. In May this year, an 80-bed Covid Care Centre was inaugurated by chief minister Hemant Soren at West Bokaro. Apart from setting up a full-fledged oxygen plant, Tata Steel plays a major role when it comes to Covid care support. So far more than 33,000 people from in and around West Bokaro have been vaccinated and in days to come Tata Steel Foundation will provide vaccination at the doorstep in the peripheral villages. Data available from Tata Steel Foundation revealed that in Jharkhand, more than 1.83 lakh people have been counselled on Covid-19 related issues, more than 34000 food packets served to the community, 18000 masks distributed among the community and 3.5 lakh Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) kits have been distributed so far to combat Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
24-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC to take part in Durand Cup in Bengal next month||Jamshedpur FC is heading to Calcutta next month for the 130th edition of Durand Cup to be played between September 5 to October 3 in Bengal. The prestigious tournament, the oldest existing fixture in Asia and the third oldest in the history of football, will be organised by the Indian Army on behalf of the Armed Forces, as is the tradition. The Jamshedpur FC squad will comprise of five senior team players (Niraj, Vishal, Jitendra Singh, Sandip Mandi and Bhupender Singh) along with the under-18 cadets of the club’s academy (Tata Football Academy). The team will be playing under the guidance of Noel Wilson who has been named head coach for the tournament. The Durand Cup will be a 16-team competition divided into 4 groups. Jamshedpur FC will be participating along with 4 other Indian Super League (ISL) clubs (FC Goa, Kerala Blasters, Bengaluru FC and Hyderabad FC), 3 I-League teams (Mohammedan SC, Gokulam Kerala, Sudeva FC), 2 Second Division I-League clubs (FC Bengaluru United and Delhi FC), along with Indian Army teams (Red & Green), Indian Air Force, Indian Navy, CRPF and Assam Rifles. “It’s going to be a good experience for the team. The young players are craving to play in tournaments and the Durand Cup could not have come at a better time for us. The tournament will provide a good platform for the players to know where they stand and gain competitive minutes,”  said Noel Wilson. The Durand Cup is one of the most anticipated and renowned competitions in the world. Due to the raging pandemic, the tournament had to be put on hold keeping in mind the safety of the players and staff. Now, after a year’s break, the tournament is all set to make a comeback and kick-off the games once again with the support and encouragement from the All India Football Federation (AIFF), IFA (West Bengal) and the government of West Bengal. The winning team in the Durand Cup gets their hands on 3 trophies: The President’s Cup, the Durand Cup and the Shimla Trophy. The Jamshedpur side include Niraj Kumar, Vishal Yadav, Arman Tamang, Mohit Singh Dhami (goalkeepers), Sandip Mandi, Rishi, Piyush Thakur, Kojam Beyong, Saphaba Singh Telem, Aryan Sonowal, Gopal Hembrom, Raj Mukhi, Ankit Toppo (defenders), Jitendra Singh, Bhupender Singh, Anand Kumar, Keisam Angelo Singh, Nayan Tamang, Robin Das, Advait Sumbly, Hijam Lenin Singh, Khullakpam Sakir Ali, Sorokhaibam Nongpoknganba Meitei, Phijam Vikash Singh,Deepak Hansda (midfielders) Nikhil Barla and Lalruatmawia (forwards), Noel Wilson (head coach), Akshay Das (assistant coach) and Subrata Dasgupta (goalkeeping coach). Table Tennis Bistupur Badsha won the Ultimate table tennis tournament which concluded at JRD Tata Sports Complex on Monday evening. Telco Twister stood runner-up while Sonari Super finished third. East Singhbhum District Table Tennis Association (ESDTTA) vice-president Mukul Choudhari and OP Mishra handed over the prizes. The event was organised by ESDTT in association with Tata Steel sports wing.District Chess The East Singhbhum District Senior Women's Hybrid Online Chess Championship will be played on August 27 between 10 am and 4.30 pm. Top 10 finishers will receive trophies. Entry fee has been fixed at Rs 300 per participant. The event marks the birth anniversary of Sir Dorabji Tata, the first president of Indian Olympic Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
24-08-2021||Jharkhand||Union health minister launches OPD facilities at AIIMS-Deoghar||Union minister for health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya inaugurated OPD facilities at the new Ayush building at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Deoghar and also launched a night shelter facility on Tuesday, ending days of wait for a formal start of the facility. An official of the AIIMS-Deoghar said that the OPD facilities would include general medicine, pulmonology (TB and respiratory diseases), psychiatry, dermatology (skin), surgical and allied specialties, orthopaedics, ENT, ophthalmology, paediatrics (vaccination of new born and children), obstetrics & gynecology, dentistry, pathology & microbiology, and radiology to begin with. An AIIMS official said that because of the pandemic, the registration window for availing OPD services will be open for two hours from 8.30 am everyday except Sunday. Registration charges are Rs 30 with a validity of one year. "There are 40 rooms earmarked for different OPD services. The centrally air-conditioned waiting hall for patients can accommodate 80 persons. We have also tied up with Amrit Pharmacy, an Union government entity for medicines at subsidised rates," he said. Mandaviya, who abruptly cancelled the formal inauguration on June 26, did the honours online from Delhi on Tuesday as local BJP MP from Godda Nishikant Dubey and state art and culture minister Hafizul Hassan were present at the venue. State health minister Banna Gupta attended the proceedings virtually. Speaking on the occasion, Mandaviya said the people of Jharkhand and adjoining areas could now avail of best medical facilities in Deogarh, the land of Lord Shiva. “Besides OPD services, the night shelter will be useful for people coming here for treatment from faraway places to stay back. The institute will serve not just the 15 lakh residents of Deoghar. It will cater to 3.19 crore people of Jharkhand,” he said. Bharati Pawar, minister of state for health and family welfare, added that AIIMS-Deoghar once fully ready would be a boon for medical services in eastern India. “The entire project will comprise a 750-bed hospital (including 30 AYUSH beds). It will have 100 MBBS seats and 60 nursing seats. The project is on in full swing,” she added. Notably, in the 2017-18 Union Budget, the Centre announced the establishment of an AIIMS in Jharkhand. Later, the state government zeroed in on 236.92-acre land in Deoghar to finalise the project. In May 2018, the Union cabinet approved funds to the tune of about Rs 1,000 crore for the project after which Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone. AIIMS-Deoghar has been inducting MBBS students since 2019. It admitted 50 students in the first batch and increased it to 62 last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
24-08-2021||Jharkhand||Poshan Sakhis demonstrate in Dhanbad against non-payment of salaries||Around 30 Poshan Sakhi, a group of people who focus on the nutrition needs in rural India, on Tuesday carried out a demonstration at the district headquarters of Dhanbad demanding the immediate release of their pending salaries of six months. The protesters, including those from Dhanbad, Dumka, Godda, Koderma, Giridih, and Chatra, met Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Kumar and submitted a memorandum containing 10-point charter of demand, including  the regularization, release of salary cuts made during their last strike held in 2019, increase in their salaries, reservation for them in recruitment process for higher posts like Sevika and Sahayiaka, etc. Talking to The Telegraph Online at the sidelines of their demonstration, Soni Paswan, the state president of Jharkhand Pradesh Anganwadi Karmchari Poshan Sakhi Sangh said  “At a time when almost every section of society is facing financial constraints due to job losses, salary cut, closure of industrial and trading units, the non disbursement of salaries since the last six months have pushed us on brink of starvation.” “Anjali Devi, one of Poshan Sakhi posted at  theKendua-based Anganwadi Kendra, is unable to secure treatment for her ailing husband due to lack of salaries and despite advising nutritious food for the lactating and expectant mothers, she could not secure the same for her husband required for his good health at the moment,” said Paswan. “My family and I are in no better condition. My husband Ashok Paswan, who works as a fourth grade staff at a local firm in Dhanbad, is also getting irregular salaries due to the pandemic and we are finding it difficult to eke out the living of six,” she added. Rini Singh, another protester who took part in the demonstration said, “The minimum educational qualification required for the recruitment of Poshan Sakhi is graduation but they are working at the meager salary of Rs 30,00 which is equal to that of a Sahayika, for which no qualification is required as they are entrusted with the task of cooking Khichdi for the children studying in Anganwadis.” “Whenever there is any talk at the government level about the salary hike or regularization of services of Anganwadi Kendra staff there is talk of only Sevika (entrusted with the task of educating children) and Sahayika and there is no mention of Poshan Sakhi who undergo greater hardship by visiting houses and suggesting expectant and lactating mothers about nutritious food,” said Singh “The DC during the meeting assured us to take up the issue with the state government and ensure our pending salary release,” said Singh, adding that if the salary is not made within 10 days they will be compelled to go on a one day strike at Randhir Verma Chowk near the district headquarters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
24-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Newly-constructed Jamshedpur road link caves in||Jamshedpur:The newly-built Dobo-Kanderbera road in Seraikela-Kharsawan district linking Jamshedpur to NH-33 has started caving due to plying of greater number of vehicles than estimated earlier. As a result of the road's deteriorating condition, especially the heavy vehicles tend to evade plying through the middle of the road otherwise the vehicles get tilted to the left side. The Dobo-Kanderbera road was built by the state's road construction department's (RCD) Seraikela division simultaneously with a road-bridge, known as Domuhani bridge, was set up over Subernarekha in 2019. Though considered to be an approach road from the Domuhani bridge to Kanderbera on the NH-33, a large number of vehicles, including trucks, trailers, dumpers and multi-axel vehicles started playing from the industrial hubs in Jamshedpur as well as Adityapur. (Kumud Jenamani) Jamshedpur: Semir Stilic is on the radar of Jamshedpur Football Club (JFC) which is trying to complete the quota of signing foreign players for the upcoming Indian Super League season of 2021-22. Stilic, the 33-year-old attacking midfielder who has represented the Bosnia and Herzegovina Olympic team, can fulfil the requirement of JFC head coach Owen Coyle who is looking to field a solid and experienced player in the midfield. With the ISL transfer window closing on August 30, clubs are rushing to rope in the best players. (Jayesh Thaker)  Dhanbad: The construction of shades over the seating arrangements in front of the SSLNT women’s College is being carried out at the initiative of Nishi Singh, president of Inner Wheel Club, more than two years after the beautification of the oldest and most green road of Dhanbad. Out of the two shades, construction of one of shades situated in front of the college is almost complete while the construction work of another shade over the bamboo made seating arrangement is likely to begin soon. (Praduman Choubey)  Dhanbad: More than 600 jewellers of Dhanbad and Bokaro on Monday shut their shops and refrained from trading by participating in a nationwide strike as per the call given by All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council to protest against the new hallmarking rules.The protesters also held a meeting at a hotel in Dhanbad under the banner of Dhanbad Zila Sarrafa Vyavsai Sangh during which they expressed reservation over the specific provision pertaining to hallmarking ID (HUID) as per which mandatory hallmarking has come into force and those selling non certified products are to be fined from September. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
24-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt begins recruitment process in varsities||The department of higher and technical education in Jharkhand, acting on the express directive of chief minister Hemant Soren, is working on the roster clearance for over 2,000 existing vacancies for the post of professors and assistant professors in various state universities, sources in the chief minister’s office said. This gives a ray of hope to Jharkhand varsities which are among those having the poorest student-teacher ratio in the country because of pending vacancies of professors and assistant professors in various faculties. “There has been no recruitment of faculties in state universities since 2008 which has led to a dismal student-teacher ratio. This ultimately hampers higher education in the state,” said director of higher education, Jharkhand, A. Muthu Kumar. “Acting on the directive of the chief minister, we are working on the roster clearance based on the number of vacancies in different universities. We will be clearing the roster and sending it to the concerned universities and the universities will then approach the Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) for the conduct of examination for the recruitment,” he said. According to University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines of 2010 for post-graduate programmes, the regulations make it mandatory for universities to have at least one teacher for every 10 students for science, and media and mass communication studies; and one teacher for every 15 pupils for humanities, social sciences as well as for commerce and management. The same UGC guidelines mandate a teacher-student ratio to be 1:30 in social sciences at undergraduate programmes and 1:25 for the science streams. “However, long-pending vacancies of faculties in colleges under universities ever since the creation of Jharkhand, a teacher has to cater to over 200 students in both science and humanities streams,” said a retired vice-chancellor of Kolhan University preferring anonymity “This adversely hampers higher education in almost all the colleges under varsities. The state has the worst teacher-student ratio in the country. Though the previous government started the process of recruitment but it could not materialise because of litigation with one or another candidate filing civil suits in protest against the recruitment process of the JPSC,” he said. According to the exercise to fill up vacancies, the chief minister gave a nod for the proposal to fill up vacant posts of faculties in the tribal languages of Kurukh, Kurmali, Santhali, Ho and Mundari for different constituent colleges of Chaibasa-based Kolhan University which caters to the district of Seraikela-Kharsawan, West Singhbhum and East Singhbhum. According to an official communique from the chief minister’s office, 159 teachers’ post will be filled up out of which 147 are for assistant professors, four of professors and eight of associate professors. “The chief minister will soon gave nod for filling up 49 vacancies for the posts of professors, associate professors and assistant professors in tribal languages for Vinobha Bhave University, Hazaribagh,” the source in the chief minister’s office said. Soren tweeted in the evening about the vacancies, stating that the government was not only serious on the recruitment of tribal candidates but also on improving the education of tribal languages in different universities of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
24-08-2021||Jharkhand||Activists oppose medical protection bill in Ranchi||A small group of activists in Jharkhand lodged protest against the proposed medical protection bill and burnt symbolic copies of its draft in Ranchi on Monday. While the activists lodged their protest against what they termed as “the anti-people bill” at Albert Ekka Chowk, the nerve centre of Ranchi, some others took to social media for opposing it. Health minister Banna Gupta had recently mentioned about the state government’s intention of bringing the bill, aimed at giving protection to doctors and medical facilities, at a programme meant for felicitating healthcare personnel for their commendable role during the Covid-19 induced pandemic. But the activists started protesting against it only after a news agency (ANI) tweeted on August 20 that the Jharkhand government (was) to bring Medical Protection Bill in upcoming monsoon session. “We’re concerned about safety of doctors, health workers. They have done a tremendous job during Covid-19. We are committed to providing them a secure environment,” the agency quoted Gupta as saying. Immediately after this, the members of the Jan Swasthya Abhiyan Morcha, a civil organisation working in health sector, met on Saturday and decided to lodge protest by burning symbolic copies of the bill on Monday. “The bill is actually aimed at encouraging loot in corporate-run hospitals in the guise of protecting the doctors,” alleged Bhuvaneshwar Keyot of the morcha, adding it would actually “benefit the health mafia”. “Hope voices of people for whom you are the HM (honourable minister) will be heard,” tweeted Atul Gera who is well known for organising voluntary blood donation camps. “While you are so happy to bring medical protection bill, please simultaneously bring bill to regulate medical fees, hospital and lab test charges,” Gera added. “Sir, please also bring bill to regulate medical fees, lab test fees and mandatory prescription of generic medicines so that healthcare facilities be affordable to everyone in the society,” one Anand Kumar tweeted, echoing Gera. “Yes, u shd (you should) bring patients protection bill,” one Sushil Kumar Tiwari joined them in tweeting. “We wanted to create awareness and mobilise public opinion,” activist Nadim Khan replied when asked about the thin attendance of the protesters and the impact of their protest would have. “The morcha actually comprises of many activists and organisations and they all will join whenever needed,” he further said. “Had it been so, why should the doctors spend thousands of rupees for engaging private security personnel for ensuring their own safety?” questioned Dr Bharati Kashyap, president of the women doctors wing of the state branch of Indian Medical Association, adding the bill was required for ensuring safety of healthcare facilities and personnel. The proposed medical protection bill is nothing new. It was initiated a few years ago but was shelved following public protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
24-08-2021||Jharkhand||Industrial training students protest delay in exams||More than two hundred students of two consecutive batches of 2018-20 and 2019-21 from over two dozen private and government Industrial Training Institutes of the district took out a rally and staged a demonstration in front of Randhir Verma Chowk, protesting over the delay in examinations and late academic sessions. The protesters who carried out slogan shouting against the state government and Director General of Training for the delay in their examination leading to late sessions depriving them the opportunity to apply for various recruitment exams, took out the rally at around 11.30 am and reached near the Randhir Verma Chowk at around 12 noon where they staged demonstration for more than two hours. The protesters later also met the magistrate deputed at the district collectorate who assured them to forward their concern with the state government. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday after the demonstration, Saurav Sao, a student of fitter trader of 2018-20 of KK ITI institute at Bekar Bandh in Dhanbad said, “As per the normal schedule our final result after the completion of final year examination should have been completed  before August last year but even after the announcement of examination schedule four times earlier our final examination is yet to conducted depriving us of the opportunity to apply for various recruitment exams.” “Majority of students pursuing the ITI courses in different trades lie fitter, electrician, plumber, carpenter, machinist, turner, welder, draughtsman, wireman belong to the economically and socially deprived section of the society and their parents have invested their hard earned money in hope of their children becoming the source of their family income but due to undue delay in examination  many  students will not be able to apply for recruitment examination due to crossing the upper age limit for such jobs,” said Sao. “We have carried out similar protests several times earlier including on February 8 and July 10 this year after which some of the examination of the 2019-2021 batch including the first year examination of 2019-2021 batch were held but the final examination of 2018-2020 batch is still pending depriving us our degree certificate on the basis of which we can apply for the final examination,” said another protester requesting anonymity. “We can’t understand the reason for the delay in examination at the time when even the schools for the class IX to XII have been opened as per the government orders and even the university exams are taking place under the strict observance of the Covid norms,” said the protester.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
