25-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Foundation stone of electric crematorium laid in Jharia||Dhanbad: The foundation stone of an electric crematorium to be constructed at a cost of Rs 1.56crore by the Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner was laid on Wednesday by Jharia MLA, Purnima Singh at the Shamshan Ghat in Mohabani area on the bank of river Damodar in Jharia. The crematorium equipped with a 200 KVA generator set will be constructed in six to eight months. Notably, the new electric crematorium being established at a distance of around 50 feet from the old crematorium established way back in 1997 will also be equipped with a 100 feet chimney and a scrubber as per the laid environmental norms. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: Bengal police with the help of intelligence officials recovered 30 crude bombs from a Gaya bound passenger bus on Tuesday night at the Jharkhand Bengal border at Kulti under the West Bardhaman district of Bengal and apprehended three persons for questioning including the driver, conductor and the cleaner. The 30 crude bags packed in a black plastic sack were kept under the seat of the bus and police also recovered a note from the bag indicating the total price of the bomb as Rs 30,000 and Rs 1,000 per piece. An advance payment of Rs 5,000 made for the consignment was also mentioned in the note. Two names,  including one probably of the sender of consignment and another a receiver of consignment of Jharkhand were also mentioned in the hand written note in which a code 12461 was also mentioned. Meanwhile, all 18 passengers on board the bus were sent to their respective places through another bus. (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: The Tata-Kandra four-lane which was lying unlit since the past two years will be illuminated soon. The Jharkhand Accelerated Road Development Corporation Ltd (JARDCL) which had constructed the four-lane and was entrusted to maintain it has on Wednesday decided to replace the underground cables that have been worn out that caused most of the street lamps to remain non-functional. JARDCL's project manager, Satya Pramod said that they were having problem in the underground cables of the street lamps along the Tata-Kandra four-lane since the past five years, but somehow were managing to keep the lamps illuminated. "But now the cables are damaged to such an extent that these cannot be repaired anymore. This is why we have decided to get the entire underground cables replaced with new ones, "said Satya to The Telegraph Online. (Kumud Jenamani) Hazaribagh: A nine-year-old girl who went to a computer shop with her mother to apply for Aadhar card was raped by the owner Rohit Kumar. The incident took place in a village under Markachcho police station in Koderma district. Her mother said she took her daughter to the computer centre but Rohit said due to thumb verification process, she had to take her to block office. Mother allowed to Rohit to take her daughter to block office. But Rohit took her to a Aksia forest and raped her on Monday. Family when came to know about this incident, reported the matter to Markachcho police on Tuesday evening after which an FIR was lodged. Police officials said hunt on to nab the culprit. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
25-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt approves Rs 271 crore highway projects||The Jharkhand government has approved six highway projects to be executed at a cost of around Rs 271 crore, a state government official said on Wednesday. The projects include a Rs 114.83-crore proposal for widening, strengthening and reconstruction of a 38.56-km stretch, and another Rs 39.34 crore for bolstering a 30.67-km stretch, he said. The state cabinet, during a recent meeting, cleared the projects, the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
25-08-2021||Jharkhand||Heat and humidity discomfort for three days across state||The muggy moments have returned in Jharkhand, thanks to high humidity. Sultry weather due to a weak monsoon activity has upped the discomfort index in most places across the state. Such weather conditions are likely to continue for another 72 hours before Jharkhand can hope for some rain relief, weathermen said on Wednesday. The average discomfort index, measured on the basis of temperature, humidity and wind patterns, was as high as 65 degrees, 10 notches above normal, in Jharkhand on Wednesday. Head of IMD’s Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand, said the weather would continue to be unpleasantly warm and humid for the next two to three days, atleast. "No significant weather condition prevails over Jharkhand. The westerly wind is dominating in lower levels of atmosphere. Monsoon will continue to be weak over the state for the next 72 hours,"he said. On Wednesday, the discomfort index in Jamshedpur touched 67 degrees, 12 notches above normal. In capital Ranchi, it was 63 degrees, eight notches above normal. In places such as Daltonganj, Bokaro and Dhanbad, the discomfort index ranged between 65 and 66 degrees, higher than normal. The head of the Met office said no warning had been issued for Jharkhand till this weekend, as they had found no significant changes in the weather condition. The sky would be cloudy in several districts during the next 72 hours. At very few isolated places, light showers accompanied by moderate thunder and lightning were likely. Data revealed that maximum temperature across the state witnessed an abrupt rise. Most districts for the second consecutive day on Wednesday recorded day's reading three to four notches above normal. Statistics revealed that so far Jharkhand had received a cumulative rainfall of 543.4mm against a normal of 771.7mm, a deficit of four per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
25-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant to showcase Jharkhand's new industrial policy in Delhi||The Jharkhand government will unveil its new industrial policy in New Delhi during a two-day investment meet from Friday. Chief minister Hemant Soren, along with battery of  key officials, is scheduled to leave for Delhi on Wednesday night. He  will personally remain available during the meet scheduled to take place at the Taj, his office has said. The state cabinet cleared the policy titled,  Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy (JIIPP) 2021, on july 6. It replaces the policy  prepared by the former BJP government that was in power in the state between 2014-19. The Hemant government aims to attract investments up to Rs 1 lakh crore as per the new policy. State industry department secretary Pooja Singhal said, “Through the new policy, we are trying to maximize  incentives available to investors and ensure they enjoy a business-friendly ecosystem in Jharkhand.” Another official  maintained that the upcoming investor’s meet will see the chief minister holding one-on-one meetings with  stakeholders/representatives from different business houses to listen and understand  their proposals. Citing on the key focus areas of the government,  he said, “The state government is looking to promote  business opportunities in textile and apparels, automobile, auto-components and electric vehicles, food and meat processing, pharma, electronic system design and manufacturing, tourism, health, IT & ITeS, education and technical institutes and other MSMEs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
25-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand focus on increasing manpower for possible third wave||While Jharkhand has already achieved its target of setting up at least 1,000 ICUs for children to combat a possible third wave of Covid-19, the health department in the state is now focusing on ways to increase  manpower in medical facilities across districts in a bid to ensure that no patient goes unattended due to a crisis of doctors or healthcare workers, officials said on Wednesday. The health department has sent proposals to all  medical colleges in the state to seek services of nursing students, undergraduate medical students and junior resident doctors in treatment of patients during a possible third wave of the pandemic, state epidemiologist and the head of Jharkhand’s Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), Dr Praveen Karn, said. “Under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, we have decided to seek services of medical and nursing students in case a third wave arrives and triggers a major spike in cases of infection,” said Karn, adding that as per the basic requirement, the state would need at least 32 doctors to treat 400 Covid patients on an average. Another highly-placed official in the health department admitted that recruiting doctors in a short notice was not possible under the current circumstances, and seeking the help of medical students was a reliable way of combatting any kind of health crisis due to the pandemic. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Dr Karn said that the state has set up surplus ICU beds for children, so it is unlikely to face an infrastructural crisis if a third wave hits Jharkhand. “We have set up surplus ICU beds for children as well as adults to avert any crisis. The availability of medicines for treatment of Covid-19 has also been ensured,” said Karn. As per records with the health department, the state has so far set up 1180 oxygen-supported beds for paediatrics patients and a total of 445 High Dependency Unit (HDU) beds for adults and children. Over 1,200 ICU beds for children have been readied across the state, a source from IDSP said. It is feared that around 7 lakh of the 1.43 crore population in the age bracket of 0 to 18 years may get affected by Covid-19 in the third wave in Jharkhand. While 2.86 lakh of the patients are likely to be symptomatic, about 8610 of them may show severe symptoms and need intensive care, an expert committee for tackling the third wave of Covid-19 in Jharkhand has predicted on the basis of trends across the world and in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
25-08-2021||Jharkhand||Seraikela village teams to keep  elephants at bay||The Seraikela forest range office will shortly form teams of villagers who will drive away elephants from their respective pockets. Jumbos from neighbouring Odisha are anchored in the jungles of Seraikela for some months now and have also killed two people and damaged homes and farms. While one Kalicharan Mardi was killed by a herd when he had gone to pluck leaves at a jungle under Kandra thana on August 6, Ramchandra Mahto met with similar incident when he was trampled by elephants at a jungle in Ichagarh on Tuesday. The elephants have also destroyed some homes and wiped out food stock as well as damaged standing crops. Seraikela range officer Prakash Ram said over phone from Seraikela that 10 villagers will be part of each team which will drive away the elephants from their respective areas. "It is known as elephant drive teams. The teams will be shortly formed since it would not be a wise idea to keep the matter pending. It is essential to protect the lives of people as well as their property," he added. The team members will be armed with mashals (torches) and drums. "The villagers have gained a fair amount of idea about how to drive away the elephants as they have been bearing the brunt of jumbo attacks for quite some time now. The villagers know how to drive away the elephants. We are serious in shepherding the elephants back to Odisha," Ram said. Separate herds of about 30 elephants, including 11 in Rajnagar, 7 in Gamharia and a lone tusker in Kandra, are presently stationed in Seraikela. The Seraikela range office is on high alert and keeping a watch over the movement of elephants. "We are alert and trying hard to drive away the elephants," the range officer said. However, forest team cannot control things on their own due to manpower crunch. "It is not possible to cover the entire range owing to lack of resources, including manpower. So, it is better to form team of villagers for driving away the herds. We can always give technical support to the teams," a forester said on condition of anonymity. According to him, elephants generally don't attack unless teased. "For instance, the lone tusker in Kandra is cool and never enters villages. The jumbo satiates its thirst at a pond in Kandra and moves into the jungles. Villagers simply watch the elephant and never teases it by throwing stones. We always tell villagers to not make elephants angry," the forester added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
25-08-2021||Jharkhand||A fawn separated from his mother is rescued by Palamau tiger reserve ||A 20 day-old fawn of an antelope who got separated from his mother and had walked down with a flock of goats has been kept in the iron mesh set up in the sambhar enclosure in the Bareysanr range of the Palamau tiger reserve. The fawn got separated from his mother in a meadow close to Netarhat a few days ago in a very piquant situation, said the deputy director south division of the tiger reserve Palamau, Mukesh Kumar. He said the mother antelope has a habit to hide her fawn in shrubs and bushes before foraging into the forests and here too the mother antelope did the same with her male fawn. He said the mother on completion of the forage gives a call that makes fawn hiding in the shrubs and bushes to come out and join the mother gleefully. Here a strange episode took place which proved no less a tragedy as this fawn got separated from his mother by mistake. A flock of goats had come for grazing at the place where this fawn was hidden by the mother, said Mukesh Kumar. The goats were of a local man Madan Kissan who lives at Bar Toli barely a kilometer away from Netarhat. The bleating of goats resembles the call of the mother antelope and the fawn hearing the bleatings of the goats thought his mother was calling him and so this fawn joyfully joined the flock of the goats nonchalantly hoping to get his mother there in the passage but finally came down to the house of the goat owner Madan Kissan without finding his mother at all. On counting of the goats Madan found this fawn of the antelope in his flock. He gave milk to the fawn and even slept with him for two nights, said Mukesh Kumar. His wife used to carry this fawn in her lap 'like her own child,' said Mukesh Kumar. He said the goat owner Madan tried to unite this fawn with his mother. He took the fawn to the same place twice where his goats were grazing on the day when he got separated from his mother. The mother antelope was nowhere around when Madan had taken down the fawn on two successive days. Madan Kissan informed the forest guard about the fawn which took him. Mukesh Kumar said, “When our forest guard Sunil Oraon took the fawn in his hands there were tears rolling down the cheeks of Madan and his wife.” He said the two day rearing of the fawn had made Madan and his wife profoundly attached to the fawn and when parting time came the couple were emotionally disturbed. Mukesh Kumar said, “We respect Madan and his wife for the love, care and milk that they gave to this fawn.” He said we would facilitate this couple at some suitable time. The fawn is given 100ml of cow milk thrice a day in his iron mesh in the sambhar enclosure where trackers keep a close eye on him. Mahuadanr ranger Brinda Pandey said, “Our forest guard Sunil Oraon kept the fawn in his lap all through the 75km road journey in the official vehicle of the PTR from Netarhat to Bareysanr sambhar enclosure.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
25-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town Covid health workers demand salary dues||More than 150 outsourced lab technician, lab attendants and ward boys deputed at different Covid testing points including at Dhanbad Railway Station, Interstate Bus Terminus at Bartand, Interstate border as well as in six mobile teams have been deprived of their salaries for the last two months due to lack of allotment from the state government. A group of over 15 technicians, part of a mobile vaccination team of the district operating from Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad on Wednesday carried out a demonstration at the office of Dhanbad Civil Surgeon, Shyamkishore Kant demanding immediate release of their salary. One of the protesters, Dhanraj Kumar Paswan, claimed they are getting irregular salaries ever since their joining in May 2020 and resultantly facing a lot of difficulty in managing the family expenses and sometimes even face difficulty in managing the auto fare to reach the workplace. Echoing his sentiments, another lab attendant deputed as part of one of the mobile Covid testing team requesting anonymity said, “We are getting a meagre salary of Rs 7,400 per month carrying out Covid testing in the covid hotspot zones and other sensitive places like railway station, bus terminus risking our life but instead of getting incentives being provided to other health workers we are even deprived of our regular salary.” “Why can‘t a system be developed for the disbursement of incentives ahead of every month so that the regular payment of our salary be ensured,” said a lab attendant and added seven members of the his family including his wife, two children, elderly parents and a college going younger brother are dependent on his salary. Raju Mahto, state secretary of Jharkhand Para Medical Sangh said, “The non-payment of salary of working staff shows the negligence of the government towards the health workers giving their service during the time of pandemic risking their life.” Subhash Sharma, Manager of Frontline Business Solution Pvt Ltd said, “We are facing fund crunch due to lack of allotment from government since March this year and though we made salary payment from March to May but due to lack of funds we can’t make payment for two months.” “We had a talk with the health department officials in Dhanbad who assured provision of fund soon and the pending salary is likely to be disbursed by end of this month,” said Sharma||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
25-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand online class survey by outfit paints grim picture  ||Very few students from poor backgrounds are availing online classes in the primary level (till Class VIII) during the Covid pandemic with the offline mode of studies disrupted for over a year (17 months) in Jharkhand. A survey carried out by a national-level social outfit Bharat Gyan Vigyan Samity (which claims to espouse cause of human rights) on the suggestion of acclaimed economist and visiting professor in Ranchi University Jean Dreze between July 24 and August 10 of primary school students in nearly 5,118 households primarily from tribal, Dalit, contractual workers, OBC and minorities families paint an alarming picture with nearly 93.6 per cent children not having their own mobile and have to depend on family members mobiles to pursue their studies. Only 5.3 per cent of the students surveyed are able to attend regular online classes as they do not get mobiles regularly. Only 12.8 per cent of students are able to grasp subjects properly in online classes while 93.1 per cent of the parents surveyed admitted that there has been deterioration in the education standards of their wards and a huge majority (92 per cent) supported the conduct of regular offline mode of classes. “We got a suggestion from a well-known economist and a member of the Tamil Nadu economy advisory council, Jean Dreze, to find the ground realities of primary education status in Jharkhand and in fact Jean had drawn out the questionnaire for the survey. “The survey was carried out in 115 blocks of 17 districts by our 662 volunteers and among those surveyed were 43.77 per cent farmers, 30.93 daily wagers, 9.89 per cent were dependent on agriculture and petty business, 4.28 casual workers under private contractors and 1.47 regular workers,” said Kashi Nath Chatterjee, national secretary of the samity while releasing the survey booklet at Ranchi on Tuesday afternoon. Among those surveyed 45.39 per cent were girls, 54.55 boys and 0.06 transgender. Nearly 84.27 per cent were from government schools and only 16.32 per cent were from private schools. “We have sent the survey copy along with our suggestions to the chief minister Hemant Soren and the state education secretary Rajesh Sharma on Tuesday. “We have strongly demanded that offline classes for primary schools (as of now only Class 9, 10, 11 and 12 are having offline classes in Jharkhand) should begin at the earliest with abeyance of Covid protocols. All teachers should be vaccinated with proper availability of masks and sanitisers in schools. “There should be door-to-door survey to ensure that all students return to school and the government should carry out changes in pedagogy and syllabus so that students can cope with the academic loss during 17 months,” added Kashi Nath Chatterjee. The outfit members felt that if the students are only promoted to the next class without changes in pedagogy and syllabus then it will lead to a threat of drop out in the coming years as they might not be able to cope due to the academic loss suffered during online classes as the students might have forgotten the teachings they had learnt earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
