26-08-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel biodiversity pledge continues for 114 years ||Tata Steel on Thursday inaugurated a new rain water harvesting pond followed by ground breaking of the rejuvenation of existing water bodies at the sprawling CRM Bara complex in Sidhgora area of steel city in an attempt to improve biological diversity. The inauguration of the project took place on a historic day as Tata Steel on Thursday completed 114 years of journey. It was on August 26, 1907, that Tata Steel was founded as it got its registration in India. The inaugural function of the project was graced by Chanakya Chaudhary, vice- president, Corporate Services, Tata Steel,  Sudhansu Pathak, vice- president , (Steel Manufacturing) and several other senior officials of the company and Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Limited ( formerly Jusco ). Addressing the function Chaudhary said, “We are committed to the conservation, enhancement and restoration of biodiversity in all our areas of operation. The rejuvenation project reaffirms our strategic commitment to improve water sustainability and biodiversity of the region.” Sharing his views on the project, Sudhansu Pathak said, “As part of our eco-friendly initiative and our commitment to long term water sustainability, it was envisaged to rejuvenate a dying water body and restore the same. Accordingly, the ancient water bodies have once again been restored to its pristine glory, thereby enhancing the local biodiversity.” The CRM Bara rejuvenation project that was completed in 2020-21 resulted in the creation of a larger rainwater harvesting facility, improvement in water table of the local area and increase in biological diversity. The total water storage capacity with the inauguration of the new rain water harvesting pond now becomes 95000 cubic meters. So far, around 20-acres of existing water bodies have been developed into rain water harvesting ponds and green belts. The proposal is to rejuvenate another 15-acres of existing water bodies into new rain water harvesting ponds at the CRM Bara complex. Significantly, Tata Steel is the first corporate in India to launch its Biodiversity Policy in 2016. The policy provides guidelines for including biodiversity in every strategic and operational decision making.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
26-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Hazaribagh hospital's new building to get a ramp ||Hazaribagh: The Hazaribagh medical college’s newly constructed building lacking a ramp to move patients for more than four months will be getting one in six months. The Niranjan Rai Company which got the contract said they will take six months to construct the ramp. Engineer of the company Shashi Kumar Singh said they will start the work in September. He said they had constructed the four storied building here and at that time, ramp was not included. Hospital officials raised this issue and termed this as a fault and a tender was issued again. Singh said position of the ramp is decided in such a way that it will also benefit the three storied regional building situated close to it. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Jamshedpur: Another opportunity awaits steel city paddlers to showcase their talent when they compete in the district open table tennis tournament to be held at JRD Tata Sports Complex from September 1 to 5. The five-day tournament follows the just concluded Ultimate Table Tennis (UTT) tournament. The district open tournament is being organised by East Singhbhum District Table Tennis Association (ESTTA). The event will be played in singles category involving cadet (under-13), sub-junior (under-15), junior (under-17 and 19) boys and girls and senior men and women. (Jayesh Thaker) Improper filling of ditches on the road dug up for laying cables being carried out under the Jharkhand Sampurn Bijli Achchhadan Yojna has turned the roads at several places of the district into pothole zones. The situation is the worst at different places of Hirapur locality including near Binod Market, Chiragora, Professors colony where accidents are taking place on a daily basis due to delay in filling up of trenches. The sporadic rains taking place in the district are further affecting the underground cabling work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
26-08-2021||Jharkhand||CII Jharkhand holds MSME conclave on virtual platform||The Confederation of Indian Industry's Jharkhand state unit on Thursday organised the third edition of its annual flagship initiative, MSME Conclave. The conclave on the theme "Breaking Barriers to Unlock Hidden Potential" was organised over a virtual platform. The third MSME Conclave deliberated on government schemes for MSMEs and MSME financing, Start ups and challenges, opportunities and managing business in the prevailing difficult scenario. Addressing the conclave, Tapas Sahu, vice- chairman, CII Jharkhand State Council and CEO of Highco Engineers Pvt Ltd stated that the MSME sector has the potential to spread industrial growth across the country and can be a major partner in the process of inclusive growth. "The contribution of MSME is eight per cent of GDP, 45 per cent of manufacturing output and 40 per cent of exports of the country and uniquely they are least investment driven with high returns," he explained. According to Sahu, the Covid-19 pandemic is taking a toll from a human and public health standpoint, along with causing massive business disruption, resulting in some businesses shutting down completely. He pointed out that among all the sectors, MSMEs were badly hit during this difficult time and went on to explain that the current economic situation is not conducive to small industries as there is restricted liquidity in the system, though the government pumped in stimulus to keep the sector alive. Addressing the online conclave, Ashok Saigal, co-chairman, CII National MSME Council and managing director, Frontier Technologies Pvt Ltd said that MSMEs are the backbone of India’s economy. "However, for India to grow exponentially we need these MSMEs to mature into large firms in the decade to come. The pandemic situation has led to a substantial movement of the companies to the other developing and less developed countries which has triggered a new wave of industrialization. Consequently, the expansion of the manufacturing hub linked with global supply chains would increase not only productivity but also create large-scale employment. The outbreak has provided India an opportunity to follow an export driven model where we have several capabilities already in place and several need to be built," he said. Another speaker Ranjot Singh, vice- chairman, CII Jamshedpur Zonal Council said that MSMEs in the manufacturing sector alone produce more than 6,000 products and contribute 7.7 per cent of the GDP of the country. "In spite of their contribution, MSMEs in India face several challenges. They often need to keep pace with rapidly changing technologies and face the risk of becoming technologically obsolete," he pointed out. Among others who addressed the conclave included Dr S K Sahoo, joint director, department of industries, Jharkhand, Jyoti Prakash Gadia, co- chairman of CII National MSME Council and managing director, Resurgent India Ltd,  R K Singh, assistant general manager,  Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) and Suresh Narasimha, founding partner, Co Create Ventures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
26-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant may meet with Tata top brass Delhi industry bash ||Chief minister Hemant Soren will hold one-on-one interactions with over a dozen industrialists in Delhi on Friday, the first day of Jharkhand's two-day investment meet where the state government will formally unveil its new industrial policy. According to details shared by the chief minister’s office, a round table discussion and one-on-one meetings will commence from 5.30pm on Friday and continue for about an hour. During this time, captains of eight industrial units, including top PSUs, are scheduled to interact with Hemant. First, Tata Group chairman N. Chandrasekaran and his team, including Tata Steel MD T. V. Narendran, may be meeting the chief minister to discuss investment proposals. Other firms taking part in this session include Honda, Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai Motors, Dalmia Bharati Cement, NTPC, SAIL and Vedanta, as per the schedule shared by Hemant's office. This apart, representatives of firms dealing in textile, automobile, energy and breweries were also likely to be present at an interaction with Hemant later in the evening from 7.40pm. An official said that Day One will only have B2G (business to government) meetings followed by a networking dinner. “On Day Two, the summit will start from 11am,” he said. The state cabinet cleared the policy titled, Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy (JIIPP) 2021, on July 6. It replaces the policy prepared by the former BJP government that was in power in the state between 2014-19. The Hemant government aims to attract investments up to Rs 1 lakh crore as per the new policy. Some of the key focus areas of the government under the new investment policy is to promote business opportunities in textile and apparels, automobile, auto-components and electric vehicles, food and meat processing, pharma, electronic system design and manufacturing, tourism, health, IT & ITeS, education and technical institutes and other MSMEs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
26-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town's first vending zone ready to operate||The first vending zone of Dhanbad with a space to accommodate 232 shops, constructed at a cost of Rs 1.98crore, by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation at Baniahir ground of Jharia is ready for allotment among the street vendors of Jharia and surrounding areas. An Intensive awareness programme among the street vendors of Jharia Sabji Patti Market, Jharia main road, Gandhi road, Laxminia more and other localities will be launched by the civic body which will also hold a meeting of Town Vending Committee members to participate in the allotment process of shops which would be made through a lottery system. The vending zone situated on 1100 square meter area for which the construction began in February 2019 is equipped with drinking water facility, besides 24 toilets, a guardroom, a proper lighting arrangement and a parking facility for customers as well as street vendors. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Chandrashekhar, City Manager of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, said, “We will begin the process of allotment of shops in vending zone after launching the awareness drive in a day or two and proper announcement in different market areas of Jharia would be carried out to ensure the maximum participation of street vendors.” “The pedestals erected as shops have space below having a locker like facility where the allottees can keep their articles, safely after locking out the space,” said Chandrashekhar and added that the allotment of shops in vending zone of Baniahir, will help to address the long pending issue of congestion at Jharia Bata More, Sabzi Patti etc. “The allotment of shops and vending zones will shield the street vendors against any kind of eviction by the police or administration during the anti-encroachment drives, which they regularly face while operating at non- designated places of operation,” further said Chandrashekhar. “Besides the development of vending zones at Baniahir we have also initiated a process for the development of vending zones at Hirapur Hatia Market and Katras Hatia Market for which the tender has already been finalised and construction work is likely to begin in one week,” said Chandrashekhar. “Besides constructing and allotting the vending zones we are also engaged in a survey of street vendors of the district as part of the government plan to provide QR Code Smart Identity Card as well as QR Code Smart Certificate of vending,” said Chandrashekhar. Welcoming the development, Sneham Sinha, district coordinator of National Association of Street Vendors of Jharia said, “We welcome the completion of first vending zone of Dhanbad and would request the authorities to adopt a transparent and error free process of allotment of shops for the benefit of one and all.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
26-08-2021||Jharkhand||Five Jharkhand airports to be powered by solar energy||Five airports in Jharkhand, including the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi, will soon be powered by solar energy, officials of Jharkhand Renewable Energy Development Agency (JREDA) said on Thursday, adding that the tender for this project has already been floated. JREDA Director K.K. Verma said that each of the airports equipped with solar panels will produce 600 KiloWatt of power every day once the project is complete. Solar energy produced in these airports will not only light up the airport premises, but also provide power to some of the residential colonies close to the airports, another JREDA official said. “The tender for this project has been floated and the last date for bidding is September 1. At least five airports in the state will be powered by solar energy under the project,” said Verma. Besides Ranchi airport,  airports in Dumka, Deoghar, Bokaro and Giridih will be covered under the project. While the Birsa Munda Airport is the only fully-operational airport in Jharkhand at present, some of the remaining four airports in the list are likely to start operations within a year, sources said. JREDA officials said the government has allocated a fund of Rs 20 crore for the project with a target of completing the project in six months. The initiative was important for Jharkhand as most of the airports in the state were at a developing stage and incorporating eco-friendly changes at this stage would benefit in the longer run, an official at Ranchi airport said. Birsa Munda Airport  is also likely to undergo major expansion in the days to come and the use of renewable energy will be a boon, an official from the Ranchi airport said. The state government has approved the expansion plan of the Ranchi airport and signed an MoU with the AAI for a 330acre  expansion project. Currently, Ranchi airport has about 20 flights connecting the state to Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Bangalore, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Pune and a few other cities. Many airports in other parts of India have relied on solar energy in the past couple of years in an effort to ensure eco-friendly development. The Puducherry Airport in Tamil Nadu became the first completely solar-powered airport under the Airport Authority of India (AAI) back in 2020. Besides, the Cochin International Airport in Kerala, run in a public-private partnership mode, is claimed to be the first solar-powered airport in the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
26-08-2021||Jharkhand||Rajesh Thakur named Jharkhand Congress chief||The All India Congress Committee (AICC)  appointed Rajesh Thakur as president of the state Congress unit on Wednesday, replacing  Rameshwar Oraon who is finance minister in the Hemant Soren-led coalition government. According to a notification issued by AICC national general secretary K. C. Venugopal,  some office-bearers were replaced too. Singhbhum MP Geeta Koda, wife of former chief minister Madhu Koda, Mandar MLA Bandhu Turkey, Jaleshwar Mahto and Sahjada Anwar were made co-working presidents of the state unit with immediate effect. The change of guard in the state Congress was initiated in the wake of an ongoing tussle within the party that is a part of the ruling coalition in Jharkhand with the JMM and RJD. The party had announced a one-man, one-post policy during the 2019 assembly elections. After the coalition came to power, Oraon became the finance minister in the incumbent government. Since then, a section of party MLAs and workers has been pressing for his removal citing the pre-poll announcement, said sources. Recently, the party found itself at the centre of a controversy after the arrest of three "lobbyists" for allegedly plotting to topple the Hemant Soren government. The trio was reportedly in touch with three disgruntled MLAs of Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
26-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hazaribagh residents resort to Jal Satyagraha agitation ||Nearly 10 residents of Hazaribagh resorted to Jal Satyagraha agitation by standing inside the polluted Hazaribagh Lake for over five hours from 10am to protest against the encroachment of water bodies allegedly under the patronage of the administration. The residents who were supported by the OBC Morcha of Hazaribagh district Congress stood in the water body filled with water hyacinth and algal growth because of lack of cleaning, and in the evening submitted a memorandum addressed to Hazaribagh deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand. “There are nearly seven lakes and over six major drains in the Hazaribagh city and unfortunately all of which have been encroached to the large extent by land mafias who sell it to gullible masses. The land mafias have the support of local land revenue officials who do not oppose to such illegal work which is in contravention of the Jharkhand High Court order of this year prohibiting encroachment of water sources,” said Surjeet Nagwala, president of the Congress Hazaribagh district OBC unit. The Congress leader has warned that if the district administration fails to undertake action within a month against land mafias who are responsible for encroachment of water bodies, they will be forced to file a petition in Jharkhand High Court. The agitators claimed that Hazaribagh Jheel has not been cleaned for over a year which has led to the growth of water hyacinth and algal along with other garbage. “The land mafias have got emboldened because of the tacit support of the administration and this has led to more encroachment which is leading to water clogging even after moderate rain in the city as the outlets have been closed or encroached. Seeing that the administration is doing nothing, we, the local residents, decided to take it upon us and have sent an alert to the administration about mass objection to such acts and if no proper action is undertaken against land mafias then we would be forced to take legal steps,” said Jawaharlal Sinha another local resident and a Congress leader. The members also demanded that the lake which is an icon for the district should be cleaned immediately as it is affecting the aquatic animals too. Hazaribagh deputy commissioner Anand said any comments could be made after seeing the memorandum of the agitators. “I am yet to see the memorandum submitted by the agitators. Only after reading the memorandum and identifying the water bodies alleged to have been encroached, I can give an explanation,” Anand said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
