27-08-2021||Jharkhand||Union minister joins Tata Steel to remember Dorabji Tata on his 162nd birth anniversary ||Tata Steel paid rich tributes to its first chairman, Dorabji Tata, on his 162nd birth anniversary on Friday, holding a small function at the renovated park in his name reopened for the public after about two -and-half years. Union minister of state for steel Faggan Singh Khulaste joined Tata Steel officials in paying floral tributes. He hailed the work done by Dorabji Tata and commended Tata Steel's role in nation building. The picturesque Sir Dorabji Tata Park in Bistupur, closed for renovation and special illuminations in 2019, has always been an attraction for tourists and visitors to the Steel City. From Friday, the park will remain open for four hours from 4 pm to 8 pm. It will stay closed on Sundays. Sir Dorabji Tata, the eldest son of  the founder Jamsetji Nusserwanji Tata,  was the first chairman of Tata Steel, who brought to life the steel plant and the city of Jamshedpur based on the vision of Jamsetji Tata. It was Sir Dorabji Tata who translated his father's dreams into reality by setting up India’s first integrated steel company (TISCO, now Tata Steel, in 1907); a hydro-electric project (Tata Power in 1910); and a research institute (Indian Institute of Science in 1911). He not only laid the physical foundation for Tata Steel but also infused the company with standards in corporate governance that were way ahead of its time. A keen sportsman from his early years, Dorabji Tata was the first president of the Indian Olympic Association. He steered India’s entry into the world of international sport by selecting and then financing four athletes and two wrestlers for the Antwerp Olympic Games in 1920, even before India had an Olympic association. Dorabji Tata also secured a place for India in the 1924 Olympics at Paris and was chosen to be a Member of the International Olympic Committee. India won its first Gold medal in Hockey at the very next Olympics in 1928 in Amsterdam. Dorabji Tata died in Bad Kissingen, Germany on June 3, 1932. He was buried alongside his wife, Lady Meherbai Tata, at Brookwood Cemetery, Woking, England. Dorabji was knighted in 1910 for his contributions to the industry in British India. Tata Steel gets Greentech Energy Conservation Award Tata Steel’s Ores, Mines & Quarries (OMQ) division has been conferred the prestigious Greentech Energy Conservation Award 2021 during the two-day Greentech Safety Culture & Energy Summit 2021 organised by the Greentech Foundation at Sonmarg, Jammu and Kashmir that concluded on Thursday. D.B. Sundara Ramam, Vice President, Raw Materials, Tata Steel, said,  “ We are honoured to be recognised for our efforts towards energy conservation and adoption of innovative environmental management practices across the OMQ Division. We are implementing the concept of responsible mining to harmonise economic growth and environmental protection across all our mining locations. As a responsible corporate, we will continue to work towards sustainable development for a better tomorrow.” Tata Steel’s OMQ Division received the award for its outstanding achievements in energy conservation. The award is a reflection of the concerted and multiple efforts made by the division in energy conservation including setting up a 3 MW solar power plant to reduce the carbon footprint and generate power in a sustainable manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
27-08-2021||Jharkhand||Beldih, Golmuri golf courses to host Tata Tour Championship from December 16 to 19||The season-ending Rs 1.5 crore prize money Tata Steel Tour Championship will be held at the Beldih and Golmuri golf courses in Jamshedpur from December 16 to 19. The tournament, hosted by the Tata Steel Group and PGTI (professional Golf Tour of India), will feature some top  professionals from across the country. It will be a 72-hole stroke-play championship and there will be a cut applied after 36 holes. The Pro-Am event will precede the tournament which last year made a comeback at Beldih course after a gap of 6 years. In Round One, one half of the field will play its 18 holes at Beldih Golf Club while the other half of the field will play its 18 holes at the Golmuri Golf Club. In round two, both halves of the field will switch venues. In rounds Three and Four, after the cut has been applied, all players will tee off from Golmuri and play their first nine holes at Golmuri before moving to Beldih to play their second nine holes. "Our country has seen the most unprecedented and difficult times over the last few months. Fortunately, with the Covid situation having improved and life slowly coming back to normal after the devastating second wave of Covid-19, we at PGTI plan to restart the tour in September. The PGTI will continue to follow strict regulations in order to take all precautions against Covid-19 and ensure the smooth functioning of tournaments, said PGTI CEO Uttam Singh Mundy. According to him, the PGTI season resumes with the Rs 40 lakh prize money Golconda Masters Telangana Open 2021 at the Hyderabad Golf Club from September 2 – 5. The following week is the Tata Steel PGTI Players Championship 2021 to be played at the Panchkula Golf Club from September 8 –11. The prize purse for the event is Rs. 50 lakh. The inaugural J&K Open 2021 will be launched in September. The tournament will be staged at the Royal Springs Golf Course in Srinagar from September 15 –18. The event offers a prize purse of Rs 40 lakh and marks the return of men’s professional golf to the Kashmir valley after seven years. The PGTI staged its last two events in the region in Pahalgam and Srinagar in July 2014. October will see the launch of yet another new event with the inaugural Tata Steel PGTI Players Championship 2021 presented by Delhi Golf Club being staged from 5 –8. The prize purse for the event is Rs. 50 lakh. The fourth edition of the Rs 40 lakh prize money Jaipur Open will be held at the Rambagh Golf Club in Jaipur from October 12–15. The Indian Oil Servo Masters Golf returns for its 21st edition. The tournament will be staged between October 25–31 at the Digboi Golf Links in Digboi, Assam. The prize purse for the event is Rs. 60 lakh. The fourth edition of the Rs 1.5 crore prize money Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational will be held at the Chandigarh Golf Club from November 11–14. The ICC-RCGC Open Golf Championship returns for its second edition at the Royal Calcutta Golf Club in Calcutta from November 25–28. The prize purse for the event is Rs. 40 lakh. The fifth edition of the Rs 40 lakh prize money Pune Open Golf Championship will be staged at the Poona Club Golf Course from December 1– 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
27-08-2021||Jharkhand||Katras woman killed in house collapse, husband and son injured||A 50-year-old woman was killed while her husband and son suffered injuries on Thursday night as their old, dilapidated house at Bhagat Mohalla locality of Katras collapsed due to lack of repair. Bobby Devi, who was rushed to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical Hospital was declared brought dead, while her husband Pradeep Gupta (50) and 15-year-old son Ayush Seth are undergoing treatment at Asharfi Hospital of Dhanbad and Nichitpur clinic respectively. Gupta received multiple injuries affecting his gallbladder while Ayush suffered a right leg fracture. Gupta’s daughters Prerna and Mitali Kumari remained unhurt as they were not in the house during the time of the incident. Senior officials of district administration and police led by Prem Kumar Tiwari, sub-divisional officer of Dhanbad, reached the site to supervise the rescue operation carried out by rescue teams of BCCL, Dhanbad Municipal Corporation and Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited. Gupta’s neighbours said that the house was constructed more than 100 years ago and was lying in extremely dilapidated condition. He could not repair the house due to financial constraints after having lost his job. Pankaj Gupta, a cousin of the injured house owner, said, “As our house is situated just adjacent to Pradeep’s house, one of the walls and a part of the roof of our house was also damaged in the incident.” Pankaj said that all the other relatives had shifted to other houses but Pradeep had to stay in because of his financial condition. Councillor of Ward Number 3 of Katras, Vinayak Gupta said, “Several old houses in Bhagat Muhalla are lying in similar conditions. The government should also devise a policy so that such houses in old towns of the state, including at Jharia and Katras, can be repaired ensuring the safety of their inhabitants.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
27-08-2021||Jharkhand||Protest against Centre’s decision to exempt posts in police and RPF from disability quota||Persons with disabilities in Jharkhand and other parts of the country would launch social media campaigns and file a PIL in Delhi High Court against the Centre’s decision to exempt all posts in police and the RPF from disability quota. Rashtriya Viklang Manch secretary Arun Kumar Singh, a resident of Jamshedpur, said all-state units of the Manch, including Jharkhand, have been asked to inform members to use their personal social media accounts (primarily Facebook and Twitter) in registering protest against the Centre’s August 18 decision. General-secretary of the National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled V. Muralidharan said they would be registering a PIL in the high court in the first week of September. The Social Justice Ministry issued a notification saying that Section 34 of the RPD Act, which provides for 4 per cent reservation in jobs for PwD in government establishments, would not apply to all categories of posts of IPS, the Indian Railway Protection Force Service and police forces of Delhi, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep and Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli. At the same time, the ministry issued another notification making a distinction between combat and non-combat roles in the security forces. The ministry exempted all combat posts in the Border Security Force, the Central Reserve Police Force, the Central Industrial Security Force, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, the Sashastra Seema Bal and the Assam Rifles from the non-discrimination and reservation provisions of the RPD Act. “We have units in 23 states and have an active presence in all the 24 districts of Jharkhand. We have sent copies of the Union government notification to all the members and asked them to register their protest against the Central government’s decision on social media so that a large number of people get to know about the nefarious designs of the government,” Singh said. “Within a day or two, we will be starting a Twitter campaign against the decision and will tag the posts with the Prime Minister, Union home minister and Union defence minister.” In June last year, more than 5,000 disabled people across the country had tweeted to Narendra Modi narrating their difficulties during the lockdown and feeling cheated after not receiving the financial assistance promised in the Gareeb Kalyan Yojana announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. The campaign had been carried out under the banner of Rashtriya Viklang Manch to express dismay at not receiving an ex-gratia of Rs 1,000 in two instalments. “Exemptions should be granted only in cases of combat roles in keeping with the intent and spirit of the provision under Section 34 of the RPD Act. It is unfortunate that a department (social justice ministry) which is supposed to safeguard the rights of the disabled and empower them  is doing just the opposite,” Muralidharan  said. He added that the provisions of the Act did not intend to give blanket exemptions from hiring PwD, but to make sure that combat roles are not assigned to them. He said the decision was even more shocking given the fact that the Delhi Police had in October 2019 issued an advertisement for “head constable (ministerial)”, with reservations for PwD.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
27-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to lure investors for proposed Electric Vehicle cluster on inaugural day of investors’ meet ||Jharkhand would try to lure investors for its proposed Electric Vehicle  cluster on the inaugural day of the two-day investors’ Meet and launch of Jharkhand Industry and Investment Promotion Policy 2021 meet scheduled on Friday at a private hotel in Delhi. “Leading automobile industry executives would be shown a 30-minutes presentation on prospects of EV cluster and electronics manufacturing in Jharkhand. Thereafter, there will be a one-to-one meeting with chief minister Hemant Soren with the industry leaders,” said Jharkhand industry director Jitendra Kumar Singh. Sources in the chief minister’s office revealed that though there will be other sectors like cement, power, steel, ethanol, breweries and distilleries and textile which would also be showcased on Friday meeting but the focus would be EV. “Globally the focus is now on reducing carbon footprint and technology advances mainly in the battery pack manufacturing sector, have increased the scope for the adoption of e-vehicles. India’s electric vehicle market could be worth $206 billion (Rs 14,42,000 crore) in ten years, and the sector will attract a cumulative investment need of $180 billion (Rs 12,50,000 crore) in vehicle production and charging infrastructure until 2030 to meet India’s EV ambition,” said a close aide of Soren  who is also camping in Delhi for the mega event. The aide who will be with Soren till Saturday further said, “Ambitious policy announcements are critical in stimulating the e-vehicle rollout in major markets. The Jharkhand government intends to steer its policy to enable e-vehicle and spare part and ancillary unit manufacturing in the state and provide a robust institutional landscape to invite e-vehicle manufacturers to the state. Based on the demand from the industry, the government is also planning on allocating an EV Cluster in the state on the lines of the already existing auto cluster at Jamshedpur.” The presentation would showcase Tata Motors, one of India’s leading automobile companies, which began manufacturing commercial vehicles in the early 1950s at Jamshedpur. It would also showcase more than 600 auto ancillary industries subsequently set up at Adityapur near Jamshedpur to cater to the needs of automobile companies.  All types of auto-grade steels are being produced in Jamshedpur since the 1980s. The Adityapur Auto-Cluster has been made operational at Jamshedpur to extend common facilities, such as testing centre, design lab, tool rooms, calibration plants, IT Training Centre, effluent treatment plant, etc., to auto component makers. “The EV and auto manufacturing units would be provided with a capital subsidy for common infrastructure in the EV cluster.  They will benefit from financial assistance of 50 per cent fixed capital investments, up to a maximum of Rs 20 crore and a CST concession of 100 per cent for manufacturing units for a period of 10 years,” the aide informed. Hemant Soren would have a round-table and one-to-one meeting with representatives of Tata Group, Honda, Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai Motors, Kinetic Green, Mahindra Electric, Piaggio Vehicles (Pune) and Kia Motors in the EV sector. Representatives of Dalmia Bharat Cement (Cement), NTPC (Power), SAIL (Steel), Vibrant Spirits and EGPL-DSK Foods Limited (both Ethanol) and SPV Global (Textile) would also meet the chief minister for various sectors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
