28-08-2021||Jharkhand||JFC convinces Brazilian central midfielder Alex to stay on||Jamshedpur FC have succeeded in retaining Brazilian central midfielder Alexandre Monteiro de Lima, known as Alex, for one more season. The club was in advanced talks with the 31-year-old Alex who had sent indications that he was not very keen to continue in the Tata Steel-owned franchise. JFC was willing to retain him. The midfield maestro has signed an extension of one year, keeping him at the club till May 2022. "I enjoyed the previous season a lot. The fans, even though I haven't met them, are so passionate. I would read everything they would say, and they love their team so much. I want to give my best in the upcoming season and repay the faith put on me by head coach Owen Coyle, the club and the fans and help us win the ISL trophy," Alex said. Alex played 19 matches for Jamshedpur in the ISL 2020-21, thereby underlining the importance of his presence in Owen Coyle's system. "Alex showed fantastic character and team spirit last season as he picked up an injury and rather than let the team down, took pain-killing injections to help the team. Now that he is injury-free, there is more to come from him," said Owen Coyle. The midfielder has the experience of playing in Asia with stints in the highly competitive K League 2 (South Korea) with Suwon Fc and FC Anyang and most recently with Ho Chi Minh City FC in V League (Vietnam). Alex has amassed a total of 43 goals and 23 assists in a total of 337 appearances in his career. The Brazilian began his career in the youth system of Gremio Mauaense in Brazil. In 2008, he went on to sign as a professional player for FC Wohlen in Switzerland where he spent four seasons. The big moment for Alex came in 2012 when the USA's Major League Soccer (MLS) club Chicago Fire FC signed him. He was influential from the beginning as in the 2012 season; the club progressed to the MLS playoffs. He went on to represent them on 82 occasions. In April 2015, he was signed by Houston Dynamo under the tutelage of Owen Coyle and played for the club till 2017. Again, he was the catalyst as the team qualified for the MLS  playoffs in 2017 and subsequently progressed to the Western Conference Finals. However, they missed out on the MLS Cup final by a whisker with a loss to Seattle Sounders FC. Alex will don squad number 14 in the upcoming season for JFC and will join his teammates for pre-season scheduled to begin in the coming weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
28-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jagarnath Mahto hospitalised, doctors rule out lung complications ||Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who resumed work two months ago after undergoing a lung transplant surgery in Chennai after a prolonged bout of Covid, was admitted in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of Medanta Hospital in Ranchi on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday following complaints of nausea, discomfort and diarrhoea, sources from the hospital said. However, doctors treating Mahto at Medanta said that the minister was moved to a non-ICU bed later on Saturday after his condition appeared to be stable. “He was kept in the ICU at night as a precautionary measure since he is a patient of organ transplant. The minister is stable now and will be discharged once we conduct all necessary tests and rule out the chances of any major complication,” said Dr Madan Mohan Pandey, medical superintendent of Medanta Hospital. One of the five doctors treating Mahto in the hospital said that his lungs were functioning fine and there was no reason to worry. The doctor said that an SoP is followed for treatment of any patient who has a history of lung transplant and certain tests have to be conducted as per the rules. Mahto returned to Jharkhand in a chartered flight on June 14 under the supervision of a team of doctors from the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). He was quick to resume work and attend assembly sessions soon after his return to Ranchi. The 54-year-old MLA from Dumri, who tested positive for Covid-19 on September 28 last year, underwent treatment in different hospitals over a period of several months. Soon after testing positive, he was admitted to state-run RIMS in Ranchi. On October 1, 2020, he was shifted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in the state capital and put on non-invasive ventilation. However, his condition  deteriorated further and he had to be flown to Chennai in an air ambulance on October 19. He was put on a life support system called Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) for around three weeks at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Healthcare in Chennai before he underwent a lung transplant surgery on November 10. Jharkhand governor Ramesh Bais sought details about Mahto’s health from doctors on Saturday and wished him a speedy recovery. Chief Minister Hemant Soren also took updates on Mahto’s condition over phone from New Delhi after learning about the development, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
28-08-2021||Jharkhand||HC directs CBI to ensure proper security to accused in Dhanbad judge death case||The Jharkhand High Court directed the CBI to ensure proper security to the two accused in the death case of Dhanbad Judge Uttam Anand and if required use air travel for their movement as they were crucial for the investigation. During the hearing of the case on Friday, the CBI informed the court that they are conducting a narco test on the two accused, Lakhan Verma and Rahul Verma, who were arrested in connection with the case. Autorickshaw driver Lakhan and his accomplice Rahul were taken to the national capital by Howrah New Delhi Rajdhani Express for the narco test. The CBI also submitted its weekly report before the division bench of Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad. CCTV footage had shown that the judge was jogging on one side of a fairly wide road at Randhir Verma Chowk early on July 28 when a heavy auto-rickshaw veered towards him, hit him from behind and fled the scene. Locals took him to a nearby hospital, where the doctors declared him dead on arrival. Meanwhile, the state home secretary, who was present during the hearing, submitted before the court that steps were being taken to strengthen the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) here to ensure all types of tests are done in Jharkhand itself. On August 22, the CBI had announced a Rs 5 lakh reward for "worthwhile information" related to the death of the judge. Chief Minister Hemant Soren on July 31 decided to hand over to the CBI the probe into the hit-and-run case of 49-year-old Anand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
28-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant requests Tata Motors to open e-vehicle units in Jharkhand||Chief minister Hemant Soren has requested Tata Motors and another corporate group to open electric vehicle (EV) manufacturing units in Jharkhand. Holding one-to-one meetings with corporate heads after a presentation on the prospects of the electric vehicle manufacturing sector in the state and the incentive assured for this sector in the Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy (JIIPP) 2021, the chief minister raised with the Tata Group representatives, led by CEO-cum-managing-director Tata Steel T.V. Narendran, the prospects of setting up EV manufacturing unit in Jharkhand on the inaugural day of the Investors’ Meet at Delhi on Friday. Welcoming the corporate executives, Soren said: “We have abundant amenities and opportunities in our state. In Jharkhand, a substantial part of the population is from SC/ST communities. If SC/ST people are employed, we will add more incentives to the policy. The proposed electric vehicle policy has been presented in front of you. If we look towards the future, then I believe electric vehicles are the future vehicles where we can do as much as we want.” During a one-to-one meeting, the Dalmia cement group committed to investing Rs 500 crore in the state along with others in multiple sectors such as automobiles and ESDM. Secretary of the Jharkhand industry department Pooja Singhal explained the incentives and provisions under the proposed Electric Vehicle Policy and promised that more incentive provisions would be added if the companies propose employment provisions for ST/SC communities. The EV roundtable chaired by the chief minister also had participation from automobile majors, Honda, Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai Motors, Kinetic Green, Mahindra Electric and Piaggio Vehicles. The chief minister held one-to-one discussions with Dalmia Bharat Cements, NTPC, and SAIL senior officials on opening up cement, power and steel units in the state.  Discussions were held with senior officials of Vibrant Spirits (Delhi) and EGPL/DSK Foods Limited (Delhi) on opening  breweries and distilleries and with SPV Global (Mumbai) on textile units in Jharkhand. Over 40 corporate heads in automobile, electric vehicles, cement, electronic system design and manufacturing, food processing, breweries and power sectors are scheduled to attend the second day of the investors’ meet hosted by Jharkhand government in Delhi on Saturday. The investors’ meet on Saturday would see chief minister Soren launching the JIIPP 2021, replacing the 2016 policy of the Raghubar Das-led BJP government,  eyeing Rs 1 lakh crore investments and generating over 500,000 employment opportunities and luring investors with attractive incentives in various key sectors. “We are focusing on seven high-priority sectors, namely textile and apparels, automobile, auto components and electric vehicles, agro-food processing, meat processing industries, pharmaceuticals, electronics system design and manufacturing (ESDM),” said Jharkhand industry director Jitendra Kumar Singh who would give the welcome address on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
28-08-2021||Jharkhand||Union minister supports  steel PSUs’ privatisation amid protests||Union minister of state for steel Faggan Singh Kulaste, who is on a two-day visit of Jharkhand, voiced support for the privatisation of steel PSUs amid protests by trade unions against privatisation. “People should understand the intention behind privatisation of PSUs. The government wants to revive the closed or sick units and this is the reason for initiating the process of privatisation so that the government and private institutions can join hand for better running of such units,” said Kulaste who visited several corporate social responsibilities (CSR) initiatives of Tata Steel at Jamshedpur. Answering media queries on the threat of job cuts after privatisation, Kulaste said, “There is a perception that there would be loss of job after the privatisation of units which is baseless. Under the terms of privatisation the government would try to run the sick units in a better manner and ensure that there are no job losses and instead newer avenues of job would be created.” Significantly, there have been protests against privatisation of steel plants including Visakhapatnam Steel Plant by employees’ union. In fact, the Andhra Pradesh Assembly had earlier this year passed a resolution opposing the Central government proposal to private the Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (also known as Visakhapatnam Steel Plant). In fact, the Union government has proposed the privatisation of several government-owned steel mills namely, Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, SAIL’s Alloy Steel Plant (Durgapur), among others. Kulaste admitted to the impact of the Covid crisis on the steel sector and is preparing an action plan to help the steel units out of the crisis. “Gradually the steel sector is returning back on track and we are taking suggestions of the steel industries in making an action plan to mitigate the crisis. The government will extend all support to steel players,” said Kulaste. The minister on his arrival in Jamshedpur was accompanied by senior Tata Steel executives and was taken to the Tribal Culture Centre to take a look at the rich tribal culture and heritage. The minister also visited the Dorabji Tata Park named after Dorabji Tata, the eldest son of Tata Group founder J.N. Tata and also learnt about the contribution of Dorabji Tata and his wife Meherbai Tata in the revival of the Tata Steel unit. Incidentally, August 27 is the birth anniversary of Dorabji Tata. The minister also visited Tata Steel archives at the Centre for Excellence. Earlier in the day, the minister held an interaction with SAIL officials at Ranchi. Faggan who is also minister of state for rural development also interacted with state rural development secretary Manish Ranjan and NREGA commissioner Rajeshwari B and reviewed central government rural development schemes in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
