29-08-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city to build disaster-ready hospital||The steel city will soon have a field hospital made with inflatable structures and ergonomically designed beds with facilities to admit 100 patients as a backup measure to tackle a possible third wave of coronavirus infections. A Delhi-based firm - PT Medical Solutions - has started erecting the inflatable structures made of fire retardant PVC tarpaulin on the premises of the Sakchi-based MGM Medical College and Hospital. "In all there will be four units. Each of the units will have 25 semi fowler beds (ergonomically designed beds with backrest functions and ... collapsible side rails to ensure patient safety). The 100- bed hospital which will entail an investment of around Rs 3.5crore would be ready in another three days. The inflatable field hospital has a life of 25 years. It can be shifted anywhere as and when required," said Sushil Chaudhary, CEO of PT Medical Solutions talking to The Telegraph Online over phone from New Delhi. If fact the state health department had entrusted the job of coming up with such a unique inflatable hospital to American India Foundation (AIF) which roped in the Delhi-based firm for the hospital project. Spread in around 12,000 sq ft area, the  inflatable field hospital will have 16 ICU beds with ventilator facility, 30 oxygen ready bed and 54 general ward bed which can be converted into paediatric and ICU bed instantly, in case of a possible third wave. It will also have high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) oxygen delivery system required for patients on ventilators and Manifold Gas Pipeline System (MGPS) which will ensure oxygen supply in every bed. A team of a dozen workers engaged by the firm is working at the site for completing the inflatable field hospital project which will be inaugurated in the first week of September. The high-grade PVC material used for the inflatable structures are fire retardant and weatherproof too. The CEO of the Delhi firm Chaudhary said, such inflatable field hospital proves boon during health crisis or natural disasters. "We’re ready to serve for the possible third wave or during other disasters like earthquakes, cyclones, floods, or any medical crisis. If there is a situation that needs rapidly deployable medical facilities, we are up to the challenge," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
29-08-2021||Jharkhand||Four-day monitoring and evaluation at Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary ||A four-member central team completed a four-day inspection of the Dalma wildlife sanctuary on Sunday. Led by Hari Kumar, a retired IFS officer of the Kerala cadre, the team had been to the sprawling Dalma hills on the instruction of the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) for carrying out monitoring and evaluation of the sanctuary. The team had arrived at the Dalma hills on Thursday and finished its inspection on Sunday morning. Revealing about the central team's visit, divisional forest officer, Dalma wildlife sanctuary, Abhishek Kumar said that the kind of inspection that the central team carried out is being done at all the sanctuaries across the country. "The WII is the nodal agency of the sanctuaries across the country and the central team had been to the Dalma sanctuary for carrying out the morning and evaluation of the sanctuary so as to suggest what else can be done for the development of it," the DFO said to The Telegraph Online. Kumar pointed out though the central team will give its opinion about the Dalma sanctuary at a later stage, it has suggested to make the sanctuary more eco-friendly. "The central team has suggested to develop villages surrounding the Dalma hills so that the people living there may not have to depend on the hills for making their living," said the senior forest officer. Spread over an area of 189 square kilometers, Dalma wildlife sanctuary is home to over 150 elephants. Apart from the wild elephant population, the sprawling hills close to Jamshedpur, is also home to a varied species of deer, monkey and python beside other wild animals as well as birds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
29-08-2021||Jharkhand||National Sports Day: Kolhan's tallest Tricolour unfurled in East Sighbhum||Kolhan division's tallest tricolour was inaugurated and hoisted on the occasion of National Sports Day and 116th birth anniversary of hockey wizard major Dhyan Chand at the newly-constructed camp of CRPF at Jaduguda in East Singhbhum on Sunday. Deputy Inspector General of Police, CRPF Jamshedpur Ashu Shukla completed the formalities. He also felicitated some former sportspersons of the steel city by handing them mementos. CRPF deputy commandant K.N. Haldhar was among those present on the occasion. The tricolour has been hoisted at a height of 35.5 metres and is the tallest in the Kolhan "Today is hockey wizard Major Dhyan Chand's birthday and Kolhan division's tallest tricolour has been inaugurated and hoisted. Our sportspersons are doing well and winning laurels for the country," Shukla said. The former sportspersons who were honoured included J.P. Singh (basketball) , L. Nageshwar Rao (karate), Birdhan Marandi (athletics) and Hassan Imam Mallick (handball). Dhyan Chand visited Jamshedpur in 1933 Major Dhyan Chand visited Jamshedpur to play an exhibition match in 1933. Dhyan Chand, whose team consisted of several Olympic hockey players and four from Jamshedpur, scored three goals as his team won the match 6-1. The hockey magician, known for his superb ball control, earned three Olympic gold medals in 1928, 1932 and 1936. Basketball East Singhbhum District Basketball Association (ESDBA) organised a two-day 3x3 basketball tournament (boys and girls) at Dhatkidih Community Centre to mark National Sports Day. The event was supported by Urban Services (CSR), Tata Steel. Thirty-two (24 boys and 8 girls) teams were part of the tournament which was played on a league-cum-knock-out system. The tournament was inaugurated by international athlete and area officer Urban Services Birdhan Marandi in the presence of Olympian and ESDBA president Harbhajan Singh, secretary Pradeep Mukherjee and coaches. Jusco School celebrates National Sports Day Jusco School, Kadma celebrated National Sport’s Day on Google Meet’. The initiative was taken by the sports teachers of the school. Around 95 students from class 1 to X joined the meet. Outdoor activity teachers Ramu Leyangi (Archery), Rahul Kumar (Taekwondo), Anup Kumar Singh (Chess), Kiran Singh (Yoga) and Ujjal Chatterjee (Table Tennis) motivated the students as what needs to do / practice to become a district / state / national or international level in near future. They explained the different exercises required for different sports. They also emphasised the fact that sports should be a part of their life and will also help them to become a true sportsman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
29-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town residents protest against garbage compactor in neighbourhood||More than 200 residents of the densely populated, Telephone Exchange Road, Dhoatand-Sastrinagar east on Sunday took out a protest march and carried out a demonstration at Dhanbad Municipal Corporation against the ongoing construction work of a Static Garbage Compactor Transfers station in their area, situated near the trade and commerce hub of the district. The protesters bearing banners and posters congregated at the compactor station at around 8am under the banner of Nagrik Parshad, Telephone Exchange Road/Dhoatand Sastri Nagar East and took out a march passing through Telephone exchange road, Jharia pul, Birsa Chowk and J.P. Chowk before reaching in front of the Bank More office of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation at around 8.45 am where they staged demonstration for more than half an hour. The protesters comprising of traders of Bank More as well as residents of Telephone Exchange road, Joraphatak etc who were visibly aghast over the DMC decision to construct the garbage compactors station in their area were also perturbed over the silence of people’s representatives and district administration and also expressed their resentment against them through slogans like Dhanbad prashashan hai hai; Dhanbad vidhayak murdabad; Dhanbad sansad murdabad; nagar ayukt murdabad;  nagar ayukt ki manmani nahi chalegi; kachra dump nahi chalega; tanashahi nahi chalegi; nagar ayukt ki manmani nahi chalegi etc. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Prabhat Surolia, convenor of resident’s forum which organised the protest programme today, said “We have resorted to the extreme step of coming to street after all our earlier steps to convince the DMC and other relevant authorities through letters and meetings have failed to yield any response.” “We also met, Banna Gupta, state and family welfare minister and brought the issue of construction of garbage compactor station in the densely populated area, which will affect the health of people living in the area and he also assured to personally look into the issue and also forwarded our letter to Dhanbad district administration but there is no perceptible change in ground realities as the surface digging work as well as boundary wall laying work began forcing us to come on streets,” said Surolia. “The land on which construction work for the compactor station has been launched belongs to Railways and they had given an NOC to DMC for developing a park but the DMC instead of developing park to beautify the area has chosen to construct the garbage compactor station compromising the health of one and all,” said Surolia and added that they have raised the issue with Railway authorities also about the misuse of land. Anup Samanta, Executive Engineer of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation said, “We are facing difficulties in finding land for construction of garbage compactor station and if there is some confusion among the people we will resolve the issue by holding talks with them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
29-08-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi police design app to keep tabs on  criminals  ||Ranchi police have developed a mobile application that will not only provide them access to profiles of past offenders in the district but also help them keep an eye on convicted criminals who are either out on bail or have served their sentence. The Interoperable Criminal Justice System (ICJS) of the Ministry of Home Affairs also maintains records of criminals who have served jail terms. However, this new mobile app, developed by the Data Centre of Jharkhand Police, will take the digital fight against crime a step further by easing the process of maintaining vigilance on people with criminal records. “Unique profiles of each and every offender, including details of their current whereabouts, will be accessible by our cops through this app,” said Ranchi SP (Urban) Saurav, who goes by one name. Cops, the SP said, will pay regular visits to the people with criminal records, especially those who are likely to go down the path of crime again. This practice, he added, will keep the police updated about the role of habitual offenders and people with criminal records in planning and perpetrating crimes. This, the police hope,  will help in  identifying potential threats in advance. Trends studied by the police have highlighted that criminals who have served jail terms are often arrested for perpetrating different crimes within a couple of years since their release. While some of them may succeed in eking out a living without breaking the law again, most of them end up choosing illegal means of making a living, a police official said. This application, which is yet to be named, has been designed over a period of several months by IT experts in Ranchi police. It is undergoing updates and is  likely to be operational within a month, police said. The app shares some of its features from a software developed by the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of Jharkhand police, but  IT experts of Ranchi police have added new features and updates to make the app more user-friendly and accessible from different devices. The use of this application will also help the police do away with the tedious practice of maintaining records in hand written files. Once all the records are digitized,  cops will be able to access details about criminals on their mobile devices or computers without having to look for files manually in police stations, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
29-08-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccination drive loses momentum in Jharkhand||Jharkhand on Saturday vaccinated about 78,000 residents against Covid-19 as less than 900 session sites remained operational across the state, figures shared by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Saturday administered the first dose of vaccine to 55,319 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 22,806 beneficiaries. Data shared by the health department on Saturday evening highlighted that the state had at least 6,78,220 vaccine doses in stock before the session sites opened their doors on  Saturday. All the 4,44,790 doses of Covishield available in the state were allotted to districts and there were zero doses of this vaccine at the State Vaccine Store in Ranchi on Saturday. Figures available on the Co-Win platform reflected that only 21 session sites were operational in Ranchi on Saturday and hardly 2500 residents were vaccinated here. At least 13 session sites opened their doors for beneficiaries in East Singhbhum and less than 2000 residents got vaccinated there. In Dhanbad, about 3000 residents were vaccinated across the 20 session sites that remained operational in the district. The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped further down to 142 in Jharkhand on Saturday as the state reported at least 18 Covid recoveries against 14 fresh cases of infection, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. Ranchi alone accounted for six of the 14 fresh cases, but the active caseload here dropped to 79 as the district also reported seven Covid recoveries on Saturday. The active caseload rose to 10 in East Singhbhum, where five people were found infected by coronavirus and three Covid patients recovered. At least 19 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, while no fresh casualties were reported, the NHM bulletin highlighted. The state on Saturday tested swab samples of 66,483 residents and 0.02 per cent of them were found infected by the deadly virus. As per government data, over 3.47 lakh people have been infected by coronavirus in Jharkhand and 98.48 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
29-08-2021||Jharkhand||Father Stan Swamy's struggle to be taken to panchayats||Members of trade unions, non-BJP parties and civil society organisations who have come together in the aftermath of the custody death of Father Stan Swamy have decided to take the Jesuit priest’s struggle for the rights of the oppressed and undertrials to the panchayat level in Jharkhand. “The best way to pay tribute to Fr Stan Swamy is to create mass awareness among people for whom he fought till his last breath,” said Praful Linda, one of the conveners of the Shahid Father Stan Swamy Nyay Morcha under whose umbrella the groups have assembled. “We will distribute leaflets, visit door-to-door and organise meetings at the panchayat level to inform the masses about the need to stand up for their rights on jal (water), jungle (forest), zameen (land) and also raise their voice against the suppression of their rights. The awareness campaign will start on September 1 and continue till October 8,” Linda added. The decision was taken during a daylong convention of the Morcha at Ranchi on Saturday. “We have also decided to observe October 8 (the day the NIA arrested Fr Stan from Namkum near Ranchi in 2020) by forming human chains, organising protest rallies at all the (264) blocks of Jharkhand and submit a memorandum through block development officers and circle officers addressed to the President seeking a judicial probe into the institutional murder of Fr Stan Swamy, repeal of draconian laws like the UAPA, and the release of the 15 other activists arrested in the Bhima-Koregaon case and the rights activists lodged in jails across the country,” said Aloka Kujur, a tribal rights activist and member of the Morcha. The 84-year-old and ailing Fr Swamy, a tribal rights activist, died in a Mumbai hospital on July 5 while awaiting bail in the Bhima-Koregaon Maoist links case. The Morcha has also decided to support the Bharat Bandh called by farmers demanding the repeal of three contentious farm laws on September 25. Praveer Peter of the Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha and a senior member of the Morcha said the Morcha had filed an RTI query with the state home department, seeking information on prisoners who were yet to be chargesheeted despite being in prison for long. “After getting the information we will launch an agitation demanding the release of all prisoners who have been put behind bars on flimsy grounds and are languishing without being chargesheeted,” said Peter, an associate of Fr Stan. Saturday’s convention was addressed by Tripura CPM MP Jharna Das who demanded the return of land acquired for industry but was lying idle. “Land on which industries have not come up should be returned to the tribals and landholders as has been done in Tripura. The rights of the Adivasis over their land was the main struggle point for Fr Stan Swamy,” Das said. She called upon like-minded organisations to join hands with the Morcha in the struggle against the “fascist” BJP regime at the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
29-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Investors’ Summit: State govt promises Rs 10,000 crore investments, around 2 lakh jobs||The two-day Investors’ Summit organised by the Jharkhand government in New Delhi concluded on Saturday with the promise of nearly Rs 10,000 crore investments as well as direct employment for around 20,000 and nearly 1.5 lakh indirect jobs. Chief minister Hemant Soren, while unveiling the Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy 2021 at the summit, said: “We want to leverage the natural resources gifted to Jharkhand and walk the path of development with the cooperation of the investors. Hitherto, our focus revolved around industries based on mines and minerals. They will continue to be the backbone but we are now also working in the field of tourism, education, renewable energy, food processing, automobile, pharma and textile. A major part of these industries has been untouched in Jharkhand.” The new policy replaces the 2016 policy of the erstwhile Raghubar Das-led BJP government. Making a major announcement in the renewable energy sector, Soren said: “Soon we will establish India’s largest floating solar plant. This will generate solar electricity on a very large scale. All these are part of our effort to take Jharkhand upwards in the category of leading states of India.” The state cabinet had in April given nod to a 100MW floating solar plant in the Getalsud reservoir in Ranchi to be set up by the Jharkhand Renewable Energy Development Authority (JREDA) and Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) to meet the growing power requirement with environmental management. Soren also stressed on the immense potential in the tourism, education and pharma sector. “We have immense potential in the field of tourism. Incentive provisions have been included for the tourism industry under the JIIPP 2021. We have unlimited opportunities in the field of education. Netarhat School (in Latehar) is a nursery for budding bureaucrats of the country. Jharkhand is also doing well in the field of medicine. We are establishing pharma parks near Ranchi where we will provide land to medical equipment manufacturers. We are ready to promote educational and technical institutes,” he said. Chief secretary Sukhdev Singh spoke about the disciplined human capital and said that there has never been significant labour unrest in Jharkhand. He also praised the law and order situation and said that “Naxalism has been restricted to few ‘rural pockets’ of the state and would soon be eliminated from the geography of the state”. He pledged commitment on behalf of the bureaucrats of the Jharkhand government to implement the provisions of the policy on paper and at the ground level. Industries secretary Pooja Singhal highlighted details of the JIPP 2021 and about the electronic manufacturing cluster at Adityapur which seeks to turn the state into an electronics manufacturing hub. “We have a land bank of 1,000 acres with the government to set up industry and the state will soon be known as the hub of solar park, auto and electronic manufacturing,” said Singhal. She also said that within a month the state would also launch policies for ethanol, electric vehicles, pharma, automobile, rural industry, food processing, export and industrial parks. She said that all potential investors who would commit to engaging 35 per cent of their workforce from Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes communities will be incentivised over and above the existing provisions of the JIIPP 2021. MoUs signed ⚫ SAIL will invest Rs 4,000 crore in the state over three years for upgrade of its Gua iron ore mines and setting up a pellet plant. ⚫ Tata Steel will invest Rs 3,000 crore in coal and iron ore mines and steel production in the next three years. ⚫ Dalmia Bharat Group will invest Rs 758 crore in the PPP mode for a new cement unit (at Bokaro), a solar power plant and a solid waste management facility. ⚫ Adhunik Power and Natural Resources will invest Rs 1,900 crore. ⚫ Prem Rubber Works will invest Rs 50 crore in a leather park and footwear, which will provide employment to 1,000 local people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
