30-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Gumla born model accuses in-laws of dowry torture||Dhanbad: Pari Paswan, a Gumla based model, who has earlier featured in a number of web series has accused her in-laws of inflicting torture on her for demanding a dowry worth Rs 5 lakh and a car. Pari had lodged a dowry case at Katras police station against her husband and his family including his mother Aasha Devi, his elder brother Chandan Paswan and sister in law Punam Devi on July 17. Niraj was arrested on July 19. “My in-laws have accused me of concealing the fact that I have a baby from my earlier marriage before my marriage with Niraj but quite contrary to that, he was fully aware of the fact and I have photographs to show him playing with my child during his visit to my house prior to my marriage with him,” said Paswan. (Praduman Choubey) Hazaribagh: The CRPF 22 battalion on Monday has taken the responsibility to clean the famous Hazaribagh lake which is a cluster of four lakes after a public outrage and Jal Satyagraha by Congress leaders. On Monday, 100 jawans came and started cleaning the lake using equipments as well as tractors to remove the garbage. Local residents as well as political leaders had started an agitation to draw the attention of the district administration to clean the lake. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: Ajit Louis Lakra, former chief engineer of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, who was evading arrest in connection with a Rs 28.34 crore scam of National games, 2011 died on Monday due to a cardiac arrest in a private hospital of Dhanbad. He was admitted on Sunday night in the hospital following the complaint of chest pain and restlessness and he died during the course of the treatment. Notably, a case has been lodged against him and four others 10 years ago and a special court of Anti Corruption Bureau has issued non bailable arrest warrant against him earlier this year after which he was evading police arrest. (Praduman Choubey)  Dhanbad: Two rival groups of Katras trying to establish their supremacy at Chaitudih area of Katras on Monday engaged in violence at a mining site of a private miner, Kejriwal Outsourcing, engaged in coal excavation work on behalf of BCCL during which they fired against each other and also hurled bombs. No one however sustained any injury during the violence. While one group led by a local Congress leader Sheikh Kalim reached the mining site to stop the work demanding jobs for labourers owing allegiance to them, the other group having the patronage of former Baghmara MLA, Jaleshwar Mahto reached there to continue the mining operation. A team of police led by Baghmara DSP, Nisha Murmu who reached the site controlled the situation after which both the groups fled from the site. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
30-08-2021||Jharkhand||Rain alert for Jharkhand in the next 48 hours||IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre on Monday afternoon issued a forecast of widespread rain, lightning and thunder in Jharkhand during the next 48-hours. Weathermen said Monday's satellite pictures and wind chart analysis suggested formation of convective clouds in several places. Such clouds usually result in rain accompanied by thunder and lightning. The Met centre issued an alert of heavy lightning especially in southern Jharkhand of three districts of Kolhan - East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan. Moderate lightning alert was issued for Simdega, which too falls in southern Jharkhand. Rain data revealed that light to moderate rain occurred at several places over Jharkhand in the last 24 hours. The highest amount of 31mm rainfall was recorded at Tenughat in Bokaro. Weathermen said south easterly wind was prevailing at lower levels of atmosphere in most places. The monsoon trough at mean sea level was on Monday passing through Bikaner, Ajmer, southern Chhattisgarh and Visakhapatnam. Rain statistics revealed that apart from Tenughat in Bokaro district several other places including Pakur, Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Ramgarh, Garhwa and Rajmahal recorded light to moderate rain during the last 24 hours. So far, this monsoon, Jharkhand has actually received 779.1 mm of rain against a normal of 812.4 mm, a deficit of four per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
30-08-2021||Jharkhand||IIT(ISM) students to return to campus after 17 months||IIT (ISM) has decided to open the campus for altogether 1901 senior research scholars and final year postgraduate and undergraduate students in two phases on September 1 and September 20 after a gap of more than 17 months. The physical classes however will not be launched immediately and students will be attending classes from their respective hostel rooms. However, the students will be allowed to attend the laboratory and workshop as per the necessity by strictly observing the social distancing norms. While 768 research scholars and M. Tech final year students will be allowed entry during the first phase on September 1, around 1133 final year different PG courses as well as final year B.Tech students will reach campus on September 20. Rajiv Shekhar, IIT (ISM), while talking to The Telegraph Online said, “All necessary preparation for accommodating students are going on in full swing and at present we have allowed only the senior students of different courses.” Mrityunjay Kumar Singh, dean of student welfare of IIT (ISM) said, “All students will have to remain in quarantine at their respective hostels rooms for seven days after arrival at the campus during which food packets will also be provided in their rooms itself by the housekeeping staff.” “All students who have been allowed entry must have taken at least one dose of vaccination prior to arrival at the campus and they will be allowed to venture out of the hostel after the completion of necessary medical tests at the institute health centre,” said Singh. “While the 458 male research scholars will be accommodated at Opal, Jasper and Emerald Hostel, 810 B Tech final year students will be decked up at Amber Hostel while 136 M Sc Tech and 41 MBA final year students will get rooms in Topaz hostel,” he said. “The M. Tech final year students will live in Sapphire Hostel while all girl students will be decked up in Rosaline hostels,” said Singh and added that the students after coming out of quarantine will all have to follow all necessary protocols, like mandatory wearing of masks, maintaining social distance while attending laboratories and workshops, dining in messes etc. “For almost all the students, including the PhD Scholars and final year undergraduate and postgraduate students, physical classes have already been completed in online mode while the necessary guidance about the submission of dissertation etc will be conducted online,” said Singh. Ram Manohar, senior security officer of IIT (ISM) said, “Cent percent vaccination of all 40 mess staff besides the house keeping staff have been completed and besides that we have completed the refurbishment of all the hostels and clearing of some weeds that have grown outside the hostel grounds have also been completed.” “We have also devised the SOP for following any staff being detected positive etc as to how they will be provided treatment and isolation as per necessity,” further said Manohar. Notably, after March last year the campus was closed for students and though some research scholars were allowed entry for a brief period of around two months in between but they were again sent back after the second wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
30-08-2021||Jharkhand||Railway lady constable saves man from train accident||A 31-year-old man had a miraculous escape from being run over by a Delhi-bound train at Tatanagar station on Sunday night, thanks to the timely action by a lady railway constable. Identified as Munna Sharma, the man wanted to get onto the running Neelanchal Express but his leg slipped off the train while he was still clutching the holding-bar with one hand. As the train had picked up momentum, the passenger's legs were getting dragged between the running train and the platform, creating a dangerous situation. But a railway lady police constable, Anandika Barik, on spotting the man acted with alacrity and ran along the train and succeeded in rescuing the passenger to safety. The rescued passenger who is a resident of Hazaribagh district was subsequently administered first-aid for the bruises he sustained due to the dragging. Inspector, Railway Protection Force (RPF), Tatanagar, Sanjay Kumar Tiwari said the passenger Munna Sharma would have met a fatal mishap if the lady constable had not acted in time. "The railway police constable, Anandika Barik, is posted in the RPF's crime prevention team. She was on duty in civil dress at platform No 3 when the passenger tried to get into the running train at about 8pm on Sunday," said Tiwari to The Telegraph Online. The inspector quoted the passenger as saying that if his rescue had been delayed by a few seconds further, then he would certainly be under the train's wheels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
30-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand hospitals to have solar panels to combat power outages||Jharkhand has started equipping hospitals and other healthcare facilities with solar panels in a move to combat power outages that have led to several casualties across the country during the first and the second wave of Covid-19, officials from the Jharkhand Renewable Energy Development Agency (JREDA) said on Monday. The agency has identified about 1,400 government buildings, including Sadar hospitals, Community Healthcare Centres (CHCs) and Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs), for the project, said JREDA project director Vijay Kumar Sinha, adding that the government was prioritising healthcare facilities during the first phase of the project in a bid to ensure uninterrupted power  to hospitals in case a third wave of Covid-19 hits Jharkhand. “In the first phase, we are focusing on healthcare centres. Ensuring uninterrupted power supply to hospitals is a priority for us, especially during such testing times,” said Sinha. Several casualties were reported in hospitals due to power outages in various states, including Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and Punjab, earlier this year. Patients on ventilators were most vulnerable and the worst hit. While no such incidents were reported in Jharkhand during the first and the second wave of Covid-19, the government has been focusing on improving power supply to various hospitals in order to prevent any such accident, an official from the health department said. Health officials in Jharkhand observed during the Covid crisis that uninterrupted power supply was a prerequisite for storing medicines at lower than room temperatures and treating severely-ill patients. JREDA and health department jointly decided to install 2-4 KiloWatt solar panels in each of the CHCs and PHCs to at least store medicines and vaccines, an official said. Sources from JREDA said that rooftop solar panels have already been installed in more than 700 of the identified 1,400 government buildings and the remaining buildings are also likely to be equipped with solar power within the next six months or so. JREDA is also developing a software through which it will be able to monitor the functioning of all the solar panels across the state. Microchips will be installed in each of the solar panels, which will help JREDA engineers identify any glitch in the system without having to move to the location, officials said. Once the hospitals are powered by solar energy, JREDA will start focusing on other government buildings like police stations and residential hostels, JREDA Director K.K. Verma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
30-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Rugby and Volleyball matches on National sports day in Dhanbad ||Dhanbad: The Dhanbad District Olympic Association on Sunday celebrated National Sports day by organising two different exhibition matches including a rugby match at Jila School Ground and a volleyball match at Jharapara Volleyball stadium Hirapur. The rugby match titled, Rugby 7 held between Dhanbad and Gomoh team of seven members each coordinated by District Rugby Association witnessed a close encounter between the two teams in which Gomoh team took the team during the first half itself and defeated Dhanbad by a score of 1-0. (Praduman Choubey)  Hazaribagh: A gun battle took place on the border of Chatra and Palamau with police recovering leth machines used to make arms. Arms and ammunition was also found. Officials said extremists of Tritiya Prastuti Committee was present on the border when Palamau, Ranchi and Chatra police surrounded them from three sides following which the gun battle started. However, the extremists fled. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Unidentified men opened fire and injured three on RKTC transport company camp office in Honhe village of Tandwa block. It is yet not clear as to who were behind this firing incident as an outsourcing company was earlier targeted. Police officials refused to come on record as they said it would be too early to say without proper investigation. But sources said investigation has started keeping in mind two angles, one involving extremists and other of dreaded Aman Sahu gang. Officials said firing was done to pressurise the company for levy. Officer-in-charge of Tandwa police station, Vijay Kumar Singh said raids have started to catch the culprits. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: The dead body of a 22-year-old youth, Chhotu Kumar, a resident of Phusbunglow locality of Jharia was found lying on the railway track at New Panderpala area on Sunday morning. A team of Bank More police which reached the site after being informed by the local residents recovered the body and informed his family members after which his body was sent for postmortem at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College of Dhanbad. Family members of the deceased informed police that he left the house on Saturday night and despite calling several times on his mobile phone he didn't receive the calls. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
30-08-2021||Jharkhand||State's first Bengali magazine launches in Dhanbad||The first edition of Shilpey Anonyya, the oldest little magazine of Dhanbad, following the grant of RNI registration was launched on Sunday by Dipak Kumar Sen its founder editor in presence of host of literary gems, including Siddharth Roy, editor of Patna based Bengali magazine, Diner Sheshey, at Dhanbad’s oldest literary club Lindsay club. Addressing the gathering, Sen who is the retired the head of department of Mathematics of RS More College, Dhanbad apprised the gathering about the 44 years journey of the quarterly magazine, Aami Ananya, launched by him in 1977 including the challenges with regard to its funding as well as dwindling readership in the present digital era. Sen also pointed to the difficulties faced by little magazines published outside Bengal due to lack of support from the respective government. He appealed to young writers, independent thinkers to contribute their articles in large numbers as little magazines in the present era serve as the flag bearers of independent thought in the present era of globalisation and commercialisation. “In order to help each other the publishers of little magazines constituted a forum for little magazines published outside Jharkhand during the little magazine fair held in Dhanbad in November 8-9, 2019 at Lindsay Club of Dhanbad itself,” said Sen and added that facing a lot of constraints on financial and health front he is committed to bring out the magazine which has been registered as the first Bengali Magazine of Jharkhand. “We have recently organised a story writing contest during the lockdown on the experience of the people during the lockdown after the first phase of pandemic and we were overwhelmed with tremendous response as altogether 127 entries were received on wide range of subjects which shows that the people are still inclined to writing and reading in the present era” said Sen. Siddharth Roy, Chief Editor, Patna based little magazine, Diner Sheshey said lauded the effort of Dipak Kumar Sen for bringing out the magazine since 1977 and shared his concern about the little magazine, “Little magazines publishers due to lack of government support all across the country except in Bengal are facing a lot of difficulty and we had decided to organize the little magazine fair at different other cities and towns in order to popularize our publications during the little magazine fair of Dhanbad of November 2019 but due to pandemic we could not hold the same.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
30-08-2021||Jharkhand||Cyber Peace Foundation issues alert on online gaming risk||Parents, teachers and lawmakers need to be more alert as online gaming gains more and more popularity. Cyber Peace Foundation (CPF), a Ranchi-headquartered organisation that works in the field of internet governance and cyber security across the country, cautioned the stakeholders in a report published a few days ago. “The report aims at creating an awareness about online gaming among various stakeholders,” CPF founder Vineet Kumar replied when asked. “Online gaming became more popular during the lockdown but it should be used cautiously so that nothing untoward happens,” he further said, explaining the need of awareness. The number of online gamers are likely to be around 270 crores across the globe by the end of this year, Kumar cited the report in support of his claim. In India, the market of online gaming was increasing with a compound annual growth rate of 21 per cent and was likely to touch Rs 29,000 crore by 2025, the report added. As online gaming gains popularity, cyber criminals also become active and try to pursue tricks to access personal information, location and financial data, the report cautioned. Besides addiction that may lead gamers to face psychological problems, children and adolescents also often run the risk of downloading malware and even spending too much money for in-app purchases using their patents’ debit or credit cards. A 13-year old boy in Madhya Pradesh committed suicide after spending Rs 40,000 by using his mother’s debit card earlier this year, the report informed, giving an example. Children and adolescents who indulge in online gaming may also encounter inappropriate contents or even sexual predators who allegedly try to meet personally or obtain explicit photos, the report warned. It also suggested certain dos and don’ts. The report advised use of anti-virus and anti-spyware programmes, creating strong passwords and discouraging downloading softwares and games from unknown websites and clicking links, images and pop-ups from unknown sources. It also strongly advised never to give personal and banking information while downloading games. While the government can enforce stricter regulations, teachers can make children aware about the threats involved and parents can convince them to open up whenever they experience something disturbing, the report suggested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
30-08-2021||Jharkhand||Business community to Hemant: Avoid pitfalls that tripped others||Jharkhand’s new industrial policy is encouraging and investors’ summit is a good initiative but their outcome is doubtful unless the Hemant Soren government takes proactive measures to avoid the dismal experience of the previous governments, feels the business community in the state. The Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy was unveiled at the Investors’ Summit that concluded in Delhi on Saturday, where several investment commitments were made. “We hail the government’s initiative for holding an investors’ meet and introducing an encouraging policy there but the success depends on improving the overall industrial environment of the state,” said Deepak Maroo, former president of the state’s apex trade body, Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI). “We had heard about investment pledge of Rs 3 lakh crore when the Raghubar Das government held a global investment summit in Ranchi in 2017 which was much more than Rs 10,000 crore committed yesterday but what was the outcome?” he asked, adding though some textile units were set up after that those were now either folded up or gasping. Soren had assumed power in 2019. “Such efforts were made by some other chief ministers as well but the outcome was a big zero,” said Bikash Kumar Singh, another former FJCCI president,  adding the bureaucracy does not help facilitating improvements. “The textile policy provided it but the units didn’t get the assured incentives, resulting in the investors getting disheartened and finally folding up,” he further pointed out. “It’s true,” agreed Hari Budhia, president of the Association of DVC HT Cinsumers of Jharkhand who owns two industrial units in Ramgarh. “I was entitled to get incentives for setting up an unit in 2016 but the payment is still under process after 5 years,” Budhia informed, adding his experience made him doubtful about the translation of investment promises into reality. “Only those who already have industrial interests in the state will further invest here for extending their activities,” Singh opined as Budhia seconded him and gave examples of SAIL and the Tatas that pledged during the just concluded summit to invest Rs 4,000 crore and Rs 3,000 crore respectively. “We all have heard about the much touted single-window-system in the state but it doesn’t really exist in practice,” alleged Maroo, adding that was why those who come to the state for setting up production units get frustrated soon and start packing up. “The ground reality is wide off the mark from policy assurances,” said Alok Mallik, the FJCCI regional vice-president for Santhal Pargana region, adding availability of land was a major problem, despite the state government giving assurances. “Following the global investment summit on 2017, we saw ground breaking ceremony of about 70 industrial units in Santhal Pargana region but hardly one or two of those finally took off,” he added from Deoghar. “The politicians may be willing to do something but the bureaucracy come in the way,” alleged Maroo, adding their mindset need to changed for bringing in a real change. “We had prepared a roadmap in February this year showing prospects of setting up industries, including textile and solar power units and also effective ways for land acquisition under the provisions of the Santhal Pargana Tenancy Act,” Mallik informed, adding they were never invited for discussions though they had given a copy of their plan to the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
