31-08-2021||Jharkhand||Political parties gear up for Dhanbad municipal elections||Political parties of the coal city are upbeat about the upcoming Dhanbad Municipal Corporation elections. The schedule for the polls has not been announced yet, but that hasn’t stopped them from gearing for elections. Several political parties including, Rashtriya Janata Dal and Marxist Coordination committee have even announced their candidate for the post of Dhanbad Mayor which is reserved for Other Backward Caste. Congress party and BJP are yet to reach consensus for the post of mayor in Congress. Notably, in Congress at least two heavy weight candidates, including former Animal Husbandry and Fishery minister, Mannan Mallick and state executive committee member party, Shamsher Alam have already publicly announced their plan to contest for the mayor’s post. However, Brajendra Prasad Singh, district president of Congress during a meeting of party workers at Bhandaridih of Katras on August 24 called for consensus for all posts, including 55 posts of councillors and post of Mayor to ensure the party’s victory during the upcoming Municipal Elections. “Though, elections will not be held on party lines but we should together to ensure the victory of party supported candidates in order to strengthen the party organization,” said Singh. Mannan Mallick who was also present during the meeting appeared to have mollified his stand. He maintained that despite having expressed his desire to contest the election for the post of mayor he will abide by the party instructions if any and will not impose his decision. Shamsher Alam, who also contested for the post of mayor during the last elections (2015) and secured over 50 thousand votes to remain on second position, however he appealed to the party seniors to sacrifice and rather appealed them to contest for the post of MP and MLA in order to realize the dreams of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. BJP’s former mayor, Chadrashekhar Agarwal, who had secured a landslide victory by securing over 90 thousand votes during the last election of 2015, is yet to announce his plan to contest elections but there are indications of him contesting the elections. Another leader of the saffron party Bhrigunath Bhagat also announced his plan to contest municipal elections for the post of mayor. In a related development, former Nirsa MLA, Arup Chatterjee today announced that the former councilor of Ward Number 36, Rustam Ansari will contest for the post of Mayor from Dhanbad during the upcoming elections. His party Marxist Coordination Committee has expressed confidence in Ansari on the basis of the good work done by him between 2010 to 2015.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
31-08-2021||Jharkhand||Meet Akanksha Kumari, India’s first underground woman miner||Breaking the gender stereotypes, Akanksha Kumari, a 25-year-old mining graduate from BIT Sindri has earned the distinction of being the first woman in the history of Coal India to be working in an underground mine. On August 30, she was officially posted in Churi underground mines in North Karanpura area of the Central Coalfields Limited (CCL), the public sector undertaking made a formal announcement on Tuesday. Hailing the development, Prahlad Joshni, union minister of coal, mines and parliamentary affairs tweeted: “Progressive Governance: To promote gender equality & generate more opportunities, Govt under PM @narendramodi ji allowed women to work in underground coal mines. Ms Akanksha Kumari becomes the 1st woman mining engineer in @CoalIndiaHQ to work in an underground mine.” In Ranchi, where CCL is headquartered, the official stated that while several woman employees of the PSU have been shouldering the responsibilities ranging from officer to doctor to security guard and even running heavy machines like dumper and shovel, but this is the first time when the core mining activity sector in one of the biggest coal mining company is witnessing a progressive change. “The enormity of her achievement can be gauged by the fact that Akanksha is the second mining engineer in the Maharatna Conglomerate Coal India Limited and the first one to work in an underground coal mine,” stated CCL in a statement. A resident of Barkagaon in Hazaribagh district, Akanksha completed her schooling from Navodaya Vidyalaya. She said that hailing from the mining belt, she witnessed coal mining activities from close quarters and was enamoured by it since her childhood. “I developed a natural inquisitiveness towards mines and its activities since childhood, which encouraged me to opt for mining engineering at BIT Sindri in Dhanbad. I graduated in 2018. On August 25 this year, I formally joined CCL (HQ) and was posted in underground mines yesterday,” she said over phone. Before joining Coal India Limited, she worked for three years with Hindustan Zinc Limited’s Balaria mines in Rajasthan. “None from my family has a background in the mining and coal sector but I thank them for their unflinching support that helped me follow my dreams,” she said. CMD CCL P.M Prasad on the other hand maintained that the women in the country are daily scaling new heights and bringing laurels in various fields. “Through her hard work Akanksha has not broken gender stereotypes but she will also motivate a new generation of girls to follow her and break more glass ceilings,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
31-08-2021||Jharkhand||State Digest: Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited snaps power supply to Heavy Engineering Corporation||Ranchi: Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL), state’s power discom snapped its electricity supply to Heavy Engineering Corporation (HEC). The public sector undertaking headquartered in Ranchi, owes pending bills worth Rs 129 crore to JBVNL. The action on Tuesday plunged HEC into darkness and completely grounded production at its units such as Foundry and Forge, Heavy Machine Buildings Plant and Heavy Machine Tools Plant. An official of HEC confirmed the developments stating that JBVNL disconnected power supply at around 2pm due to outstanding bills. “The management is working out a solution. HEC, as it is in deep financial crunch and this development will further complicate the situation as the company has slew of business commitments to fulfill to entities like railways, defence, ISRO among others,” he said, unwilling to be named. “State government is in tussling with union power ministry over pending dues of DVC. The tussle complicated after Centre resorted to auto deduction of pending money from state’s RBI account last year. This month too, reportedly, some Rs 700 crores were deducted from state’s account towards payment of DVC. One wonders if the sudden action against HEC is because of state-Centre tussle,” stated another official. JBVNL’s general manager of Ranchi circle P K Srivastava confirmed that they have stopped electricity supply talking to reporters finding no other alternative. “The dues in tune to about Rs 129 is currently outstanding and we haven’t received any payments since over last one year or so. Finally, JBVNL is forced to cut the power connection,” he said. Our Correspondent Dhanbad: Deprived of their pension and gratuity, a delegation comprising retired college and university professors sent off an SOS to the state government through Purnima Singh, the Congress MLA of Jharia. They have demanded for the immediate revision in their pension, in accordance with that of University Grants Commission’s 7th pay scale. The MLA who agreed to the demands made of the members of delegation assured to raise their issue before the government today itself. The five-member delegation led by former president of Vinoba Bhave Teachers Association (VBUTA) while talking to The Telegraph Online immediately after the meeting, “We have particularly raised the issue of such teachers who have retired before January 1, 2016 as they are deprived of the benefits of revision of their pension as per the UGC 7th pay scale.” “We are getting around Rs 10,000 to 15,000 lesser pension every month. We are still being paid as per the 6th pay commission recommendations and not 7th,” said Singh “We can’t understand the reason for delay in the pension revision in Jharkhand when the same has been carried out in majority of other states, including neighbouring, Bihar and Odisha,” said SC Gorai, former Head of the Department of Zoology of RSP College, Jharia who is also the zonal secretary of VBUTA. “Due to non-implementation of UGC 7th scale benefit we are also deprived of our due gratuity as while those who have retired after January 1, 2016 have received around Rs 30 lakh as gratuity others like us who retired before January 1, 2016, when UGC 7th pay scale was implemented in Jharkhand have received only Rs 10 lakh as gratuity” said retired Hindi professor, Mrityunjay Upadhyay. They have also demanded the MLA to increase their gratuity at least to Rs 30 lakh. Praduman Choubey Jamshedpur: A BSF officer’s wife committed suicide by hanging herself at their residential flat in posh Sahara City, which falls under Mango police station area at the wee hours of Tuesday. Identified as Nitu Singh (45), the deceased who a mother of two teen-aged daughters was residing at her house alone while her husband JK Singh, deputy commandant, BSF was posted in Punjab. The deceased had left a six-paged suicide note which the police have recovered from the residence. According to the suicide note, Nitu was depressed due to a prolonged marital dispute with her husband and the in-laws. OC, Mango thana, Vinay Kumar said that the woman could have committed the suicide at the early hours of Tuesday, on the basis of the dead body's condition. “In the morning at about 7 O clock, maid had come to deceased's flat as usual and pressed the doorbell. But despite repeated attempts Nitu Singh who used to stay alone at the flat did not open the door. After an inordinate delay in getting response, the maid informed the neighbours. The neighbours subsequently broke open the door to find her hanging from the ceiling fan. Then only the neighbours informed us,” said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. The OC said while recovering the body, the police found the suicide note in which she mentioned the background of her depressed life in details. "The two daughters were initially staying with the deceased, but later on the deputy commandant had shifted them to a relative's house in Delhi before filing a divorce petition with the Jamshedpur court a year back. This pushed her into depression,” said the police officer. The police have informed the deceased's husband and her parents about the suicide after shifting the body to the MGM medical college's mortuary for post-mortem. Kumud Jenamani||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
31-08-2021||Jharkhand||BIT-Mesra and Central Institute of Psychiatry develop app to detect depression||Psychiatrists from the Central Institute of Psychiatry (CIP) and techies from the computer science department of the Birla Institute of Technology (BIT)-Mesra have jointly developed a technology that can detect if a person is suffering from depression or anxiety by reading electrical impulses from their brain with the help of a compatible device. During the research, psychiatrists studied electrical impulses of several people suffering from depression through Electroencephalography and found that the reading from certain parts of the brain were different for people who were depressed when compared to individuals who were not suffering from depression, said Dr Nishant Goyal, associate professor of psychiatry at CIP and one of the key researchers in the project. “Basically, we have developed the algorithm for detecting depression through a compatible device, which would tell if a person is suffering from depression by reading electrical impulses from the person’s brain,” said Dr Goyal, adding that this technology has already been patented and the researchers were waiting for companies to invest in it. Just like smart watches can give readings of heart rate, pulse, oxygen saturation and blood pressure when worn on the wrist, a device which could be worn like a cap or a hat would be able to tell the user if he or she is suffering from depression and in the need of professional help, said Dr Goyal. The technology has been named Hybrid Depression Detection System (HDDS). “We can save lives by using this technology. It has been seen that the chances of fully treating depression and preventing relapses was higher if early diagnosis was made,” said Goyal, adding that people could consult psychiatrists once the device detects abnormal electrical impulses in their brain. Several people suffering from mental health disorders do not seek professional help due to the lack of clarity over the condition of their mental health, say doctors. Unlike physiological ailments, depression cannot be detected through readings on any equipment so far. Mental health disorders have different manifestations in different individuals and people often mistake the symptoms for those caused by other physiological ailments. Many people suffering from depression suffer from symptoms like racing heart, shortness of breath or chest pain. These people are more likely to visit a cardiologist than a psychiatrist, say doctors. “This device could give people clarity on whether they need professional help or not and save lives by ensuring time treatment,” said Goyal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
31-08-2021||Jharkhand||ISL: Jamshedpur FC ropes in Scottish striker Greg Stewart||Jamshedpur FC completed the signing of foreign players by roping in Scottish forward Greg Stewart. The 31-year-old striker is the sixth off-shore player for the Tata Steel-owned club. Other international players roped in by the club includes Peter Hartley (United Kingdom), Nerijus Valskis (Lithuania), Alex Lima, Eli Sabia (both from Brazil) and Jordan Murray (Australia). Hartley and Valskis have existing contracts with the club. An Indian Super League (ISL) franchise is required to sign a maximum six foreign players. Stewart will make a solid combination with goal machine Valskis and Murray to bolster Jamshedpur's frontline. It remains to be seen as to how head coach Owen Coyle uses him. “Stewart has already signed and some formalities, including registration, needs to be completed,” said a member of JFC team management who is aware of the development. He will stay with the club for a year. Stewart spent most of his career playing for the Scottish Premiership, the first division of Scotland football. He started his professional career in Cowdenbeath FC in 2010. Stewart) bid adieu to Rangers FC in the last week of June. As the Jamshedpur offer came in, without any delay, he chose the ISL side. As Rangers didn’t offer contract extension, Jamshedpur FC was one of those to have made an offer first and got Stewart's nod. Playing for Cowdenbeath FC from 2010 to 2014, Stewart played 140 matches and scored 40 goals. Moreover, he also assisted 19 times. Later, moving to Dundee FC in 2014, his goal-scoring streak continued. Stewart’s impressive performance caught the eyes of the English club Birmingham City FC, and the club went calling him and signed in 2016. Unfortunately, the 2016-17 season was not a fruitful one for the Scottish soccer player, as he came in as a substitute most of the time and scored only six goals in 25 matches. As a return, he was loaned to Aberdeen FC and Kilmarnock FC for two consecutive seasons, respectively. In 2019, Steven Gerard led side Rangers FC signed Stewart on a two-year deal. Making 33 appearances, he scored three goals and assisted seven times. Having the experience of playing in the Europa League, Stewart can play multiple positions, which will be a valuable asset for Jamshedpur. Meanwhile, Jamshedpur FC are busy making travel arrangements for the players, including the foreigners, for the upcoming ISL which kicks-starts in Goa on November 19. The Visas of all six foreign recruits as well as head coach Owen Coyle have already been acquired. "We are busy making travel arrangements for our players who will be reaching Goa directly in September-end or the first week of October for the pre-seasons," said a JFC official. Jamshedpur is desperate to make it to the play-offs this time. The outfit finished sixth with 27 points in the last ISL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
31-08-2021||Jharkhand||Trains cancelled for railway track modernisation work||Due to modernisation of the railway tracks of the new third line between Rajkharswan and Dangoaposi section of Chakradharpur division, South Eastern Railway (SER) issued notification for cancellation of several trains in September. According to the circular issued by Garden Reach, the Calcutta-based headquarters of SER the Tatanagar-Barbil Passenger (58103) will remain cancelled from September 1 to September 11. The Barbil-Tatanagar Passenger (58104) leaving Barbil will remain cancelled from September 2 to September 12. Visakhapatnam-Tatanagar Special (08572) leaving Visakhapatnam on September 5 will remain cancelled. The Tatanagar-Visakhapatnam Special (08571) leaving Tatanagar on September 6 will also remain cancelled. In a separate circular the South Eastern Railway notified cancellation of Jharsuguda-Gondia MEMU Special leaving Jharsuguda between September 3 to 6. According to the spokesperson of South Eastern Railway the third line development work includes laying of new tracks, installation and renovation of signalling system. The third line project was initiated in 2019 and is expected to be completed by 2022. The third line would help in increasing train traffic in Chakradharpur and Kharagpur divisions of South Eastern Railway. Meanwhile, concerned over the possible third wave, the Covid checking drive has been intensified at the Tatanagar railway station. The A-1 category Tatanagar railway station assumes significance as it falls on the Howrah- Mumbai main line. Currently, the station witnesses a daily footfall of around 30,000 passengers. All passengers arriving at the station from trains coming from various destinations like Mumbai, Visakhapatnam, New Delhi and Bangalore are required to undergo Covid tests conducted by health department with the help of Corona warriors at platform number -1. “Covid tests have been intensified from Monday concerned over the possible third wave,” said HK Balmuchu, director of Tatanagar railway station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
31-08-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1.45 lakh residents get vaccinated in Jharkhand||Jharkhand on Monday vaccinated over 1.45 lakh residents against Covid-19, while the active caseload of this disease dropped to 138 as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data shared by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Monday administered the first dose of vaccine to at least 1,11,286 residents, while the second dose was administered to as many as 34,206 beneficiaries. The state reported at least 19 Covid recoveries against 13 fresh cases of coronavirus infection on Monday, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. While 19 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19, Ranchi alone accounted for seven of the 13 fresh cases of infection. However, at least eight Covid patients recovered from the viral infection in Ranchi and the active caseload here dropped to 80. Sahebganj and Latehar reported one case each, while Dhanbad and Deoghar reported two cases each, as per NHM data. Jharkhand on Monday tested swab samples of 55,054 residents and 0.02 per cent of them were found infected by SARS-CoV-2 virus. As per government data, the state has so far reported over 3.47 lakh cases of Covid-19 and 98.48 per cent of the patients have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. Data available on the Co-Win platform reflected that East Singhbhum vaccinated the highest number of residents among the 24 Jharkhand districts on Monday. At least 122 session sites remained operational in this district and about 30,000 residents were vaccinated there. Nearly 60 session sites remained operational in Ranchi on Monday and over 11,000 residents were vaccinated here, while 65 session sites opened their doors for beneficiaries in Dhanbad and at least 13,000 residents were vaccinated in the district. As per figures shared by the health department on Monday evening, Jharkhand has so far administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to over 1 crore residents and more than 25 lakh of them have also received the second jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
31-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand farmers backed by the Left  protest Haryana lathi-charge||Farmers backed by the Left burnt effigies of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and the BJP-led central government across Jharkhand on Monday to protest the death of a farmer who was said to have suffered injuries in the police lathicharge in Karnal and gear up for the Bharat Bandh on September 25. The impromptu agitation called by the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha (an affiliate of the CPM’s farmer wing All India Kisan Sabha) with support from the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangharsh Samanvyay Samity (an outfit formed last year to coordinate the farmers’ agitation in Jharkhand against the central farm laws) saw peasants coming out in rural pockets in almost all the 24 districts to burn effigies of the Khattar government in Haryana and the Narendra Modi government at the Centre and shouting slogans demanding repeal of the farm laws and action against the official who ordered the lathicharge on farmers. “We took the decision on Sunday evening that we need to show solidarity with the farmers who have been beaten and injured by Haryana police on the order of the sub-divisional magistrate and protest vehemently the death of Sushil Kajal who was assaulted repeatedly on the head by the police. Despite it being Krishna Janmashtami, a state holiday, we could manage to galvanise farmers to come out on the roads in 600 locations, especially in rural areas of Jharkhand,” said Sufal Mahato, state convener of the Samity. Farmers assembled on the roads near block headquarters carrying banners of the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha and shouted slogans that the “martyrdom” of Sushil Kaajal would not go in vain. “The BJP government wanted to quell the farmers’ agitation through force and assault. But through this agitation in Jharkhand and other states we want to send a message that such lathicharge on farmers would only strengthen our resolve to agitate more vigorously against the oppressive rule of the Narendra Modi–led BJP government. The agitation would continue till 2024 (when general elections are due) until our demands for the repeal of the three new farm laws are fulfilled. We will also show our might during the Bharat Bandh called to protest the lathicharge on farmers and observe 10 months of the farmers’ agitation at Delhi’s borders against the new farm laws,” said Praful Linda, a veteran CPM leader and member of the Samity, in Ranchi. The farmers across the country have been seeking repeal of the three farm laws which they fear would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations. The Centre, however, has rejected these claims stating that the laws will only give farmers more options to sell their produce. “As per the call of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, we would be planning a strategy along with tribal outfits, rights activists and civil society organisations for the Bharat Bandh called on September 25 and ensure it becomes a success by blocking all important roads, highways and railway routes,” said Mahato. Around 10 people were injured on Saturday when the police beat up a group of farmers on a national highway as they headed towards Karnal to protest against a visit by chief minister Khattar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
31-08-2021||Jharkhand||Deoghar bandh for reopening Baidyanath temple||Almost all shops, barring those dealing with essential goods, downed shutters in Deoghar on Monday in support of the daylong bandh called by the Panda Dharma Rakshani Sabha for the reopening of Baba Baidyanath Temple. The traders’ solidarity with the Panda Dharma Rakshani Sabha — a body of priests at the Baidyanath temple — is being attributed to the loss of business owing to its closure. “The shopkeepers and business establishments decided to down shutters voluntarily in support of the bandh called by the priests’ body as the business units are equally affected by the closure of the temple. The economy of the city is linked with the temple that draws a large number of devotees. However, it has been closed since April this year and traders are staring at huge losses. We decided to support the bandh hoping that the government would understand the gravity of the situation and issue an to reopen the temple,” said Alok Malik, a Deoghar-based trader and the zonal vice-president of the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI). The restaurants, hotels, shops and other establishments used to earn revenues from hordes of devotees who used to turn up at the temple daily before the pandemic struck. “We fully support the government decision to close the temple for devotees when the Covid pandemic was at a peak. However, with Covid figures going down, all the temples in other parts of India have been opened now. We had met the Jharkhand chief minister in July and appealed for the reopening of the temple as we are staring at starvation. We had no option but to stage a daylong bandh so that the government takes heed of our demand,” said Kartik Thakur, general secretary of Panda Dharma Rakshani Sabha. Thakur claimed that nearly 5,000 households of priests were directly dependent on the revenues from devotees. Deoghar deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri said the bandh was peaceful. “No untoward incident was reported from anywhere in the district. Elaborate security arrangements were made at all strategic places. We are abiding with the government directive and will allow devotees at the temple as soon as the government’s disaster management department issues a notification for reopening the shrine,” the deputy commissioner said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
