01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Khattar, Capt Amarinder, Badal condole loss of lives in Vaishno Devi stampede||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, his former Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh and several other leaders on Saturday condoled the loss of lives in a stampede at the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir.At least 12 people died and over a dozen were injured in the stampede that took place around 2.30 am on Saturday near Gate 3 outside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine atop the Trikuta hills, about 50 km from Jammu."Deeply saddened to hear about the accident that took place at Mata Vaishno Devi at Jammu. May God grant peace to the departed souls and I pray for speedy recovery of the injured. My condolences to the bereaved families. We are ready to help in any way possible," Khattar said in a tweet.Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said, "My profound condolences to the bereaved families who lost their dear ones in a stampede at #matavaishnodevi shrine. I pray for a speedy and complete recovery of those injured."       Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal expressed shock over the incident."Shocked at the large scale deaths in the stampede at Mata Vaishnodevi Devi shrine in Katra. My condolences to the families of the dozen deceased. May the almighty grant them eternal peace. I also wish a speedy recovery to those injured in the tragic incident," the SAD chief said in a tweet."Deeply pained by the tragic news of several lives lost due to a stampede at Mata #Vaishnodevi Temple. My sympathies with the bereaved families in this toughest hour of grief. May Guru Sahib grant peace to the departed souls and speedy recovery to the injured," said Harsimrat Kaur.Congress leader Manish Tewari said he was deeply saddened to learn about the tragic loss of lives. "Heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families. Prayers for a speedy recovery of those injured," he said in a tweet. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/khattar-amarinder-badal-condole-loss-of-lives-in-vaishno-devi-stampede-356899
01-01-2022||Hisar||Liquor contractor found dead in car in Hisar||A liquor contractor was shot dead by three persons in Uklana town of Hisar district last night. The victim, Ramphal alias Bacchi (40), a resident of Faridpur village in the district, was found lying in the boot space of his car with gunshot injuries last night.The police have registered a case of murder against three persons identified as Amit, Manoj and Mandeep. They suspect the victim and the accused were partners in the liquor business. They were having a dispute over the partnership which seems to be the reason for the murder.The police said two of the accused, Amit and Mandeep, took the car to the liquor shop owned by Ramphal in Uklana and handed over the car keys to the salesman at the shop yesterday evening.However, when Ramphal did not return home till late and his phone was found off, his family searched for him and found him in the car’s boot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/liquor-contractor-found-dead-in-car-356720
01-01-2022||Karnal||‘Spying’ in Karnal MC office: Accused hid camera in false ceiling, say Cops||The two persons arrested in connection with blackmailing the Superintending Engineer (SE) of the Karnal MC, Deepak Kinger, have been sent to judicial custody.The police have recovered a camera, chip and a recorder from their possession, said inspector Mohan Lal, CIA-2 in charge. Investigation revealed that the accused, Subham, a computer operator and his friend Sahil, had installed the spy camera in the false ceiling and a recorder below the table of the SE, he added. As per the police, they used to threaten the SE to make the videos of his office viral, in which his PA was allegedly taking money from some people. The police claimed that in two videos, the SE was also taking money from his PA. However, the police are yet to reach a conclusion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/spying-in-office-accused-hid-camera-in-false-ceiling-cops-356721
01-01-2022||Yamunanagar||Subsidise fertilisers, agricultural tools, says Rakesh Tikait||Rakesh Tikait, national spokesman for the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), said the Centre must support farmers by providing subsidy on fertilisers, seeds, electricity and agricultural equipment.“The condition of farmers across the country is bad. The government’s focus is on making policies to provide loan, not on offering good price for the produce. The government is eyeing farmers’ land by burdening them with loan,” Tikait said.He was speaking at “Kisan Sammaan and Vijay Divas” programme in new grain market of Jagadhri here today. The event was organised to honour farmers who participated in the 13-month protest against the three farm laws at Delhi borders.Farmer leaders Yudhvir Singh, Ratan Maan, Subhash Gurjar and Satpal Kaushik were present on the occasion.Tikait said the farmers’ protest was a 13-month training camp in which youths, farmers, labourers, women, adivasis and other persons of the entire country had been trained to help people being victimised by the government.“Apple growers of Jammu and Kashmir are calling us as there is nobody to listen to their grievances,” he said.He said they would oppose the policy being prepared by the government to open dairy sector of the country to Australia. “Under the new policy, Australian dairy sector will sell milk in our villages at a rate of Rs 22 per litre. If this is adopted, what will happen to our farmers?” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/subsidise-fertilisers-agricultural-tools-says-rakesh-tikait-356722
01-01-2022||Faridabad||Squads to be deployed for vaccine check in Faridabad||With 17 per cent of the population yet to get fully vaccinated certification, the district administration has announced to deploy special squads or teams to ensure the implementation of the norms regarding the entry or movement of the persons who are yet to get fully vaccinated.At a meeting of the district officials held here today to finalise the strategy, DC Jitender Yadav ordered the deployment of teams at the public places and offices to ensure the implementation of the directions of the state government to ban the entry of non-vaccinated persons in public places from January 1.Stating that though 83 per cent of the residents had got both doses, he said there was no scope of getting relaxed as the threat of the third wave of Covid was lurking around, especially with the surge in the cases of the Omicron variant. He asked the teams to work strictly on the formula of “No mask- no service - no vaccination - no entry’’ from Saturday so that every resident got the vaccination shield and the threat of another wave was warded off. Claiming that teams would be supervised by the “incident commanders”, a senior official said the focus would be on public transport and 30,000 auto-rickshaws. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/squads-to-be-deployed-for-vaccine-check-356723
01-01-2022||Yamunanagar||2 die in mishaps in Yamunanagar district||Two persons were killed in two separate road accidents in Yamunanagar district.The deceased have been identified as Virender Tyagi of Mumidi village and Ranjit of Chhachhrauli. Mange Ram said his neighbour Tyagi’s motorcycle was hit by a car near the railway overbridge. Ranjit’s son Suraj said Ranjit’s scooter was hit by a canter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-die-in-mishaps-in-yamunanagar-district-356724
01-01-2022||---||26 new Omicron cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, December 31Haryana reported 427 fresh Covid cases, including 26 Omicron cases, on Friday. The health bulletin issued by state government said the total number of Omicron cases was pegged at 63. Of these, 23 are active and 40 persons have been discharged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/26-new-omicron-cases-in-haryana-356725
01-01-2022||Parveen Arora||Night curfew hits New Year celebrations in Karnal district||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 31The restrictions imposed by the government, including night curfew between 11 pm and 5 am in the wake of increasing Covid-19 cases, affected the New Year celebrations in the district.The hotels, restaurants, clubs and the event management companies, which had been planning to celebrate the arrival of New Year with pomp and show for the past several days, had to reschedule timings of the programmes.Due to restrictions on the vehicular movement after 11 pm, a couple of hotels cancelled their events, forcing the revellers to celebrate the New Year night at home. Majority of the organisers had taken bookings from guests for the programmes, but some of the hotels were forced to return the booking amount as people did not want to join a brief function.“We have cancelled the New Year programme this year due to restrictions in place. Once the celebrations begin, it is not easy to wind up by 10.30 pm. So, we have decided not to organise any function this time as we do not want our guests to leave with a bad experience on road with night curfew in place,” said CS Puri, general manager, Noor Mahal Palace Hotel, Karnal.Pawan Kumar from one of the hotels located on the NH-44 said: “Earlier, we had planned a function that was expected to go on till 1 am, but after the restrictions by the district administration, we have rescheduled the programme.”The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Karnal chapter, had also planned a grand function, but it has also rescheduled it and has decided to finish the programme by 10.30 pm. “We had made all arrangements to celebrate the arrival of New Year till midnight, but with the restrictions we had to reschedule it,” said Karnal IMA president Dr KB Jain.Even the JCI Elite has reduced the timings of the function. “We had to cut short the programmes we had planned earlier. Since we are law-abiding people, we have reduced the timing,” said Vikas Gupta, president, JCI Elite.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said they had held a meeting with the organisers, managements of the hotels, restaurants and asked them to finish their functions before the imposition of the night curfew as they would not allow any traffic movement on road after 11 pm. “Our 17 duty magistrates led by four SDMs were on duty to keep a vigil on the violators,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/night-curfew-hits-new-year-celebrations-in-karnal-district-356726
01-01-2022||Nitish Sharma||Amid row over EWS admission, Haryana Govt extends last date till January 7||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, December 31As the private schools’ operators and parents continue to be at the loggerheads over the admissions of students belonging to the economically weaker section (EWS) under Rule 134-A of the Haryana School Education Rules, the elementary education directorate has extended the last date of admissions till January 7.Govt not clearing duesThe government has not been clearing the previous dues and there have been several other issues, including the verification of income certificates. We demand that the compensation should be as per the Right to Education Act. Saurabh Kapoor, Haryana progressive school’s conferenceNearly 2,000 students were allotted schools under Rule 134-A in Ambala. Earlier, December 24 was the last date, which was extended till December 31 and now it has been further extended.The directorate has also directed education department officials to update the data regarding the admissions on the portal and also monitor the reasons being sought by the private schools to deny admissions to students. Rule 134-A provides 10 per cent quota to kids from economically weaker sections in private schools.As the private schools continue to deny admissions to the students, a group of parents marked their resentment outside the ADC office in Ambala City. The parents claimed that while they had already got the transfer certificate of their children from the previous schools, the allotted schools were not giving admissions to their children. “In such a situation, not only the education of our children is suffering, but it is also affecting their mindset badly,” they said, accusing the education department of not taking action against the private schools. They said the administration should initiate action against the private school operators who had been denying admissions despite the government’s directions and cancel their affiliations.Saurabh Kapoor, press secretary, Haryana Progressive School’s Conference, said: “The government has not been clearing the previous dues and there have been several other issues, including the verification of income certificates. We demand that the compensation should be as per the Right to Education Act.”District Education Officer Suresh Kumar said: “The last date for admissions has been extended by the directorate and we will ensure that all students who have been allotted seats in private schools under Rule 134-A get admission.”Additional Deputy Commissioner Sachin Gupta met private school operators and education department officials and directed them to start the admission process. “The private school operators had some issues regarding income certificates. So, we have asked them to initiate the admission process and if they have any doubts, they can raise their issues and get the certificates re-verified,” the ADC added.10% seats reserved under edu rules||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amid-row-over-ews-admission-govt-extends-last-date-till-january-7-356727
01-01-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||50 officials of discoms under scanner of Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 31A number of officials of the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) and Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) are under scanner, as the Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) has, suo motu, taken up issues of releasing connections in areas of Gurugram which do not have adequate electrical infrastructure, wrong billing and officials not maintaining headquarters.The Commission, under Chairman RK Pachnanda and Member Naresh Sardana, has been summoning top officials of both discoms on a regular basis on these issues. In the matter of the release of the electricity connections in Gurugram, despite inadequate electrical infrastructure and non-submission of requisite bank guarantee by the developers, the Commission, in its order dated December 28, observed that the DHBVN has issued chargesheet to “23 delinquent officers/officials”. The DHBVN submitted that “action shall be taken as per Punishment and Appeal Rules of Nigam after the receipt of the reply from the delinquent officials”.The builders are required to create electrical infrastructure and seek approval for an electrification plan from discom or submit a bank guarantee in case of phase-wise development of electrical infrastructure in the area to be developed. But, a total of 1,019 connections were issued.In the case of the wrong billing of Rs 77 lakh to a Panchkula resident, three officials of UHBVN are chargesheeted and final notices have been issued for their replies.In another case of wrong billing of National Fertilisers Employees Co-operative House Building Society Ltd, Panipat, Director Operations, UHBVN, SK Bansal, submitted before the Commission that chargesheets have been issued to 14 officials and an inquiry officer has been appointed to conduct a regular departmental inquiry. After completion of the inquiry, action as per the Punishment and Appeal Rules will be taken.On the matter of officials not maintaining headquarters, Director (Operations) DHBVN RK Sodha had submitted before the Commission on November 11 that 17 officials were not maintaining headquarters, and action against them was being initiated.The Director (Operations) UHBVN had also submitted that the explanation of seven officials of the rank of Superintending Engineer or Executive Engineer had already been called upon and the action against the SDOs concerned, who had not maintained headquarters, was being taken.The officials were identified based on the GPS reports of the vehicles.The Commission has also taken up the issue of the resolution of high billing cases. In the DHBVN, the average time to resolve these cases has been reduced from 29.08 days in July to 11.37 days in November, but the Commission observed that it was still on the higher side. In the UHBVN, it has come down to 5.47 days on an average. The Commission observed that provisional billing “is still on the higher side than the norms in both discoms”. It added that in some of the circles in the DHBVN like Jind, Palwal and Narnaul, provisional billing was exceptionally high at 15.81 per cent, 15.54 per cent and 14.71 per cent, respectively.Power commission takes up matter||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/50-officials-of-discoms-under-scanner-356728
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana Government suspends jail official on corruption charges||The Haryana Government today suspended Jail Superintendent Shamsher Singh Dahiya in a corruption case. Orders have also been given to chargesheet him. An official spokesperson said that Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department, Rajeev Arora has issued orders to suspend Dahiya on charges of corruption. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jail-official-suspended-356729
01-01-2022||---||Naraingarh mill clears Rs 27.59 cr cane dues||Ambala, December 31In a major relief to sugarcane farmers and the local administration, the Naraingarh Sugar Mill has cleared the dues of previous season.The mill has cleared the cash payment of Rs 27.59 crore for the season that ended in April. The sugarcane farmers had threatened to launch a massive protest on January 3 if the dues were not cleared by December 31.In November 2020, when the mill had started its crushing season, cash payments of the previous season of around Rs 19.05 crore were pending and the dues were cleared by February 20 this year. Naraingarh Sub-divisional Magistrate Niraj, who is also holding the charge of Chief Executive Officer of the sugar mill, said: “We had assured the farmers that the entire cash payment of Rs 27.59 crore will be cleared by December 31 and it has been cleared on December 30. We have also started making the payment for the current session from Friday. Besides, the mill has cleared post-dated cheques for Rs 12.60 crore as well. All efforts are being made to ensure that the farmers get their payments timely.”Rajiv Sharma, spokesman, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni), said: “In a major relief, the sugar mill has cleared the cash payment of previous season and we are hopeful that the mill will continue to clear the payments of the current season as well on time.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/naraingarh-mill-clears-rs-27-59-cr-cane-dues-356730
01-01-2022||---||7 IAS, 63 HCS officers get new posting orders in Haryana||Chandigarh, December 31The Haryana Government today issued transfer and posting orders of seven IAS officers, one IPS officer and 63 HCS officers with immediate effect.Wazeer Singh Goyat, Secretary, Haryana Human Rights Commission, and Secretary to Government, Haryana, Finance Department has now been posted as Secretary, Human Rights Commission.Shashank Anand (IPS), DIG/CID, has been given additional charge of Director, Citizen Resources Information Department (CRID).Rajiv Rattan, Director, Science and Technology, Commissioner, Food and Drugs Administration, Haryana, and Managing Director, Haryana Land Reclamation and Development Corporation Ltd, has been given additional charge of Managing Director, Haryana State Federation of Cooperative Sugar Mills. Rajnarayan Kaushik, Director, Information Technology, Electronics and Communication, and Director, Social Justice and Empowerment, has been given additional charge of Special Secretary to Government, Haryana, Secretariat Establishment. Dharmender Singh, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Sonepat, has been transferred as Special Secretary to Government, Haryana Cooperation Department.Pratima Chaudhary, Additional Controller, Civil Defence, Ambala, Director, Art and Cultural Affairs, has been given additional charge of Secretary, Lokayukta, Haryana. Preeti has been posted as Additional Director, (Admn), PGIMS, Rohtak.Neha Singh has been posted as District Municipal Commissioner, Sirsa.Vivek Padam Singh, Special Secretary, Finance Department, and Member Secretary, Haryana Backward Classes Commission, has now been posted as Member Secretary, Haryana Backward Classes Commission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-ias-63-hcs-officers-get-new-posting-orders-356731
01-01-2022||Hisar||4 cops suspended for delay in FIRs in Sirsa||Home Minister Anil Vij today directed the Superintendent of Police (SP) in Sirsa to suspend four police officers and a block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) for delay in the registration of FIRs and negligence in investigation in different cases in Sirsa town today.He chaired a meeting of the District Public Relations and Grievance Redressal Committee at the Panchayat Bhawan in Sirsa today.The district spokesperson said that a total of 17 complaints were taken up at the meeting of the committee, of which eight complaints were pending and nine were moved fresh.Three complaints were disposed of on the spot, while taking action on the remaining complaints at the earliest, orders were given to submit the report at the next meeting. Vij, however, took strict cognisance of delay in filing the FIRs on the complaints and ordered the suspension of four police officers in different cases of complaints received at the meeting of the Grievance Redress Committee. He also suspended a BDPO for not providing records to the police for investigation in a case.Vij also took cognisance of a complaint of an advocate Surender Sardana about the alleged misuse of funds in the strengthening of the embankments of Ghaggar river in Sirsa district and ordered to immediately register an FIR and investigate the complaint. He rapped the officials for keeping the complaint pending for six years.He also directed local officials to ensure that no manhole in Sirsa town was found open, which was a serious lapse on part of the officials concerned.Taking cognisance of the complaint of potholes and open manholes on the road, the Home Minister ordered the official concerned to inspect the entire Sirsa district to cover all open manholes. — TNSBDPO suspended tooThe Home Minister also suspended a BDPO for not providing records to police for investigation in a case of the misuse of funds in the construction of streets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-cops-suspended-for-delay-in-firs-356732
01-01-2022||Is a civic issue bothering you?||Waterlogging at Vivekanand Chowk in Sonepat||Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Waterlogging at Vivekanand Chowk in SonepatShopkeepers and commuters have been problems for the past 15 days due to waterlogging and potholed road at Vivekanand Chowk on the Sonepat-Delhi road, the main chowk of the city. The choked sewer line here has resulted in flooding of the roads with sewage water and also damaged the road. Though the residents have informed the authorities concerned about the situation on many occasions, but there is nobody to take note of the complaints and resolve their problem. The foul smell emanating in the area has made lives miserable for the shopkeepers and the commuters. Ashok Kumar, SonepatEntry road to DLF Valley in bad shapeThe entry road to DLF Valley in front of the Amravati Police Post is full of potholes for almost past three years. Citizens, most of them senior citizens, are facing lot of hardships while travelling on this patch for routine jobs. Resident welfare societies, HSVP or District Administration has failed to come forward to repair this road. All other roads, encircling DLF Valley are incomplete. Authorities responsible must repair/ complete these roads in public interest. Col KS Bidhan (retd), Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/waterlogging-at-vivekanand-chowk-in-sonepat-356736
01-01-2022||Karnal||Quiz competition at Pratap school, Karnal||MM (DU) in ATAL Ranking 2021Ambala: In the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) Ranking 2021, MM(DU) was placed in the Band-Excellent category. Congratulating the faculty and students for this stupendous achievement, Tarsem Garg, the Chancellor said, "We are delighted to be in the Band-Excellent category in ARIIA 2021 and representing Haryana as one of its excellent academic institutions. One of the most rewarding aspects of studying at the MM(DU) is the industry tie-ups that our institution has with the global business and technology organisations. This has nurtured the entrepreneurial and start-up dreams of our students."Training on Jal Jeevan MissionKaithal: A four-day L-3 training programme under the Jal Jeevan Mission which was organised by the Resource Centre Green Earth Organisation, Kurukshetra, under the aegis of Ministry of Jal Shakti, Government of India, concluded at Kaithal on Friday. Programme coordinators Monika Bhardwaj and Sushil Kumar said in the programme, members of village water and sewerage committees of 30 villages and other stakeholders were trained in collaboration with the Public Health Engineering Department and Water and Sanitation Support Organisation, Panchkula. Ashok Khanduja, Superintendent Engineer Public Health Engineering, Kaithal Circle, attended the closing session as the chief guest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/quiz-competition-at-pratap-school-356734
01-01-2022||---||Haryana Urdu Akademi announces literary awards for 2019 -20||Chandigarh, December 31The Haryana Urdu Akademi has announced literary awards for 2019 and 2020.The akademi has decided to honour 94-year-old Urdu critic Professor Himmat Singh Sinha ‘Nazim’ of Kurukshetra and prominent poet of Urdu Dr Kumar Panipati of Panipat, with “Fakhr-E-Haryana Award” which carries cash amount of Rs 5 lakh each with citation and memento.The “Hali Award” for 2019 will be given to Dr Qumeruddin Zakir and for 2020, KK Toor has been chosen. The award carries a citation and memento and a cash amount of Rs 3 lakh each. The “Kanwar Mohinder Singh Bedi Socio-Culture Achievement Award” for 2019 will be given to Dr Nasiruddin Azhar, and for 2020 to Dr Qamar Rais, Sonepat. The “Syed Muzaffar Hussain Burney Award” for 2019 will be given to Zahid-ul-Ehsan and for 2020 to Dr Des Raj Sapra. Also, “Khwaja Ahmad Abbas Award” for 2019 will go to Roop Naraian Chandna, and “Munshi Gumani Lal Award” for 2019 to Aneesul Hasan Siddiqui. The “Surinder Pandit Soz Award” for 2019 will go to Devender Goyal and for 2020 to Dr Nafas Ambalvi.The “Urdu Tarjuma Nigari Award” for 2019 will go to Surender Bansal, “Dr Javed Vashisht Award” for 2019 to Dr Rehman Akhtar and the “Bal Krishan Muztar Award” for 2019 to Sardari Lal Dhawan ‘Kamal’ and for 2020 to Iqbal Ahmed Ansari. The “Jaswant Singh Tohanvi Award” for 2019 will go to Neeraj Raizada and “Urdu Ghazal Singing Award” for 2019 to SD Sharma and for 2020 Sanjeev Mago has been chosen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/urdu-akademi-announces-literary-awards-for-2019-20-356735
01-01-2022||Deepender Deswal||Elevated road to decongest Hisar town||Tribune News ServiceHisar, December 31To decongest the traffic in Hisar town, the state government has approved the construction of a nine-km elevated road in Hisar town.District officials said following the completion of the feasibility study and detailed project report, the work was likely to start in 2022 on this project.This will be the second elevated road of the state. Earlier, the NHAI had constructed nearly 10-km elevated road in Panipat town in 2008. The estimated cost of this project is tipped to be around Rs 1,100 crore.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said this elevated road would be constructed on the main Delhi road having a total length of 9 km. It will down turn at the crossing in Sector 14. He said there would be five or six entry-exit points on this elevated road at the main junctions of the town, which would provide connectivity for residents.“There is a plan to connect the main roads like Tosham Road, Rajgarh Road. Besides, there will be an exit-entry point near the Red Square market and a couple of other points in the town as per the feasibility”, he informed.“The DPR of the elevated road is being prepared, the work will commence as soon as this report is finalised in 2022”, he said. The residents said the growing traffic in the town had led to frequent jams on the entire road. There are several points, including the bus stand, Nagori Gate, Agresen Chowk, Red square market, Laxmi Bai Chowk, Fawwara chowk, Matka Chowk and the PLA markets. These are the main spots where the traffic remains jammed especially during the peak hours”, said Arun Sihag, a resident. Yograj Sharma, a social activist, who has been taking up the issue with the government for a long time, said there were several roundabouts, including Dabra Chowk, Fawwara Chowk, Camp Chowk, Jindal Chowk and Parijat Chowk, where there were constant traffic jams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/elevated-road-to-decongest-hisar-town-356733
01-01-2022||Parveen Arora||Owners reluctant to shift dairies out of Karnal city||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 31Even after several deadlines and warnings, dairy owners of the city are not showing enthusiasm in shifting their dairies out of the city on Pingli road. Still a large number of dairies are running in the city, making mockery of the system and continue to chock the sewerage system.Shifting of dairies is a long-pending issue in the city. It was announced first during the INLD government in 2002 and later the Congress and after assuming power, CM Manohar Lal Khattar had announced the same. The Karnal Municipal Corporation (at that time it was a Municipal Council) had started the process of acquiring 32 acres at Pingli village in 2002-03. There are 231 plots of different sizes on the Pingli road, where the KMC has developed infrastructure such as roads, streetlights, water, sewerage, electricity connections and others by spending crores on it, but despite that the dairy owners are hesitant.January 15 deadlineWe have served notices on 64 dairy owners, asking them to construct their dairies on the Pingli road. We have also given the deadline of January 15 to all dairy owners to shift their dairies. Otherwise, we will cancel their allotment and also seal their dairies. Devender Narwal, EO, KMCFinancial crunch behind not shiftingWe have suffered a lot during the pandemic lockdown. Due to financial crunch, we are not able to shift our dairies out of the city. One of the dairy ownersAs per the survey conducted by the KMC in 2020, there were 188 operational dairies in the city. Of them, 112 dairy owners have purchased the plots so far, while around 50 plot owners have started construction work for the shed there, and the remaining are not showing interest.Now, the KMC has given a fresh deadline of January 15 or else their dairies in the city will be sealed.“We have served notices on 64 dairy owners, asking them to construct their dairies on the Pingli road. We have also given a deadline of January 15to all dairy owners to shift their dairies, otherwise we will cancel their allotment and also seal their dairies,” said Devender Narwal, EO, KMC.The dairy owners were given land at Rs 3,300 per yard. Initially, the dairy owners had to deposit 20 per cent of the total land cost, while for the remaining amount, the KMC had offered 10 equal instalments for five years. Besides, banks have also been directed to provide easy loan to the dairy owners, he added.For the remaining plots, they have started the process and 26 new dairy owners have applied so far, he added.The dairy owners are citing financial crunch due to the Covid pandemic as the big reason for their poor response. “We have suffered a lot during the pandemic lockdown and due to financial crunch we are not able to shift our dairies out of the city,” said one of the dairy owners.KMC has developed infra on Pingli roadThere are 231 plots of different sizes on the Pingli road, where the KMC has developed infrastructure such as roads, streetlights, water, sewerage, electricity connections and others by spending crores on it, but despite that the dairy owners are hesitant||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/owners-reluctant-to-shift-dairies-out-of-karnal-city-356737
01-01-2022||Mukesh Tandon||Graft row: Day later, four Panipat Municipal Corporation staffers sacked, probe on||Tribune News ServicePanipat, December 31Taking note of the CID chief’s letter, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation (MC), Panipat, on Friday ordered a time-bound inquiry into the matter. He also sacked four outsourced employees and removed three permanent employees and a outsourced woman staffer, whose names were mentioned in the letter, of the MC from public-dealing seats till further orders.The Tribune had carried news item ‘Hry CID chief’s letter exposes graft in Panipat MC’ on December 31. Taking note of it, MC Commissioner RK Singh swung into action today.Four outsourced employees — Sumit, Vikas, Vijender and Tushar – were sacked and three permanent employees — Praveen Verma, Anil and Ramesh – and a woman staffer were removed from public-dealing seats with immediate effect.The Commissioner also wrote a letter to the agency concerned not to send these outsourced employees to work till further orders as a complaint against them has been received. An inquiry into the matter is underway which is being conducted by this office.Besides, members of Samyukta Vyapar Mandal (SVM) — presidents of around 45 markets in the city — on Friday protested against the corruption in the MC and submitted a memorandum of demands to Deputy Commissioner (DC), Panipat, through Kuldeep Malik, Tehsildar, to initiate action against the people involved in corrupt practices.The protesters also demanded lodging of FIR against the employees and agents who were harassing the people and sought their arrest.The SVM members also served an ultimatum to initiate action against these persons within a week and also threatened that they would go to Chandigarh to submit a memorandum after a week.As per sources, the Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) has also taken stringent note of the CID chief’s letter about the involvement of employees of MC, Panipat, in corruption. The CVO has sought detailed fact-finding report into the matter by January 5, 2022 so that necessary action could be initiated in the matter.RK Singh, MC Commissioner, said that a time-bound inquiry has been ordered into the matter and Superintending Engineer (SE) would conduct the inquiry. He directed the SE to submit inquiry report within three days.Notably, CID chief ADGP Alok Mittal had sent a letter exposing corruption in the Panipat MC. He said some employees and agents were taking bribe for clearing property ID files. The ADGP CID has even disclosed the names of the active agents, including MC officials, in the letter which went viral on social media.Submit probe report in 3 days, SE toldMC Commissioner RK Singh has directed Superintending Engineer to submit inquiry report within three days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/day-later-four-panipat-municipal-corporation-staffers-sacked-probe-on-356745
01-01-2022||Pradeep Sharma||In Haryana, 5% marks for those with no kin in government job||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 31The Haryana Government has decided to award 5 per cent extra marks to Group C post aspirants who have no family member in government job.However, the special incentive for the Haryana-domiciled candidates, including orphans and widows, under the “socio-economic criteria” will come with an income rider. To get this benefit, the candidate’s annual family income, including that from agriculture, should not exceed Rs 1.8 lakh.‘One chance’The weightage by the HSSC or any government agency shall be given only once in a lifetime. Sanjeev Kaushal, Chief SecretaryA notification issued by Chief Secretary Sanjeev Kaushal highlighted that the common eligibility test (CET) to be conducted by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) shall carry 95 per cent marks, while 5 per cent marks will be awarded on the basis of the “socio-economic criteria” and experience.The benefit will also be available to a widow or the first/second child when the father had died before attaining the age of 42 years. The first/second child would also get benefit in case the father died before the child attaining the age of 15 years.In case of male candidates, term “family” will include father, mother, wife, unmarried brother and sons. Similarly, for unmarried female applicants, family means father, mother and unmarried brothers.In case of a married applicant, family would mean husband, father-in-law, mother-in-law, unmarried brother-in-law and sons. For a divorced female candidate, it would include father, mother, unmarried brothers and sons.Keeping in view their socio-economic backwardness, the benefit would also be extended to members of de-notified tribes (Vimukti Jatis and Tapriwas Jatis) that are not included in Scheduled Castes or Backward Classes categories.Meanwhile, Haryana candidates will be awarded 0.5 per cent weightage for each year or part thereof exceeding six months of experience on the same or higher posts in any government department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-haryana-5-marks-for-those-with-no-kin-in-govt-job-356741
