02-01-2022||New Delhi||No respite from cold wave in Punjab, Haryana; south Tamil Nadu to see more rain||Northwest India, except Punjab and Haryana, is likely to see some respite from the intensifying coldwave during the next 5-7 days while isolated heavy rainfall activity may continue over south Tamil Nadu during next 24 hours.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), cold wave conditions are very likely to remain in isolated pockets in Punjab and Haryana during the next 24 hours and abate thereafter."Cold wave conditions are also likely over Odisha on January 3-4 and in isolated pockets of eastern Madhya Pradesh during next 24 hours," it said.Minimum temperatures were in the range of 2-6 degree Celsius in Punjab, parts of north Rajasthan, Haryana, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh and parts of north Madhya Pradesh. Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions prevailed in some parts of Punjab and in isolated pockets in Haryana in the past one day, the IMD added.The IMD also said that there will be no significant change in minimum temperatures over northwest India in the next one day and gradual rise by 3-5 degree Celsius for subsequent 3-4 days. Hence, the minimum temperatures will be above normal to appreciably above normal from January 4.It has forecast that two consecutive active Western Disturbances and their induced systems with moisture incursion from Arabian Sea are likely to affect northwest and adjoining central India during the next seven days."Under its influence, scattered to fairly widespread light/moderate rainfall is likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, north Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh during January 5-7 and light isolated rainfall is also likely over west Madhya Pradesh on January 5. Isolated thunderstorms activity is likely over Punjab, Haryana, West Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, accompanied with hail storms over Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan on January 5," the IMD said.It said that for the past 24 hours, Tamil Nadu witnessed a significant amount of rainfall. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/no-respite-from-cold-wave-in-punjab-haryana-south-tamil-nadu-to-see-more-rain-357366
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 577 fresh Covid cases, Gurugram alone sees 358||Haryana reported no Covid-related death on Sunday, even though it added 577 new cases, with 358 of them from Gurugram, according to official figures.With these fresh cases, the state’s tally increased to 7,74,917. The death toll remained at 10,064, the health department’s daily bulletin stated.Among other districts, Faridabad and Panchkula reported 83 and 32 cases, respectively.No fresh case of Omicron variant of the coronavirus was reported on Sunday.Haryana has so far reported 63 cases of the new Omicron variant, with 23 of them being active cases while the rest have been discharged.With increase in cases, the total active cases in the state stands at 2,400 while the overall recoveries are 7,62,430.The recovery rate is 98.39 per cent, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-reports-577-fresh-covid-cases-gurugram-alone-sees-358-357363
02-01-2022||Bhiwani||At least one more trapped in Haryana landslide; rescue operation to continue till Monday||Rescue operation continued at Dadam mining site for the second day on Sunday, where four people were killed in a landslide, a day earlier."At least one more person continues to be trapped under the debris," Sub-Divisional Magistrate Manish Phogat said, referring to the register that keeps a record of the workers at the site.He did not rule out the possibility of more persons, such as the helpers, being trapped as their records may not have been maintained."The rescue operation is likely to continue until Monday afternoon," Phogat said.Clearing the big boulders was consuming time, he mentioned.Apart from the four dead, at least two people had sustained injuries, Phogat said.  After the incident at around 9 am on Saturday, police had said around half-a-dozen dumper trucks and some machines were buried under the debris.Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij had earlier said several rescue teams, including those from the National Disaster Response Force, State Disaster Response Force and the Army, were pressed into service.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had on Saturday issued directions for bringing cranes, fire brigade and other machinery from the adjoining districts to clear the debris so that the people buried under it could be rescued. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/at-least-one-more-trapped-in-haryana-landslide-rescue-operation-to-continue-till-monday-357298
02-01-2022||Geetanjali Gayatri||Khaps vs the rest on increasing legal age of marriage||THE self-proclaimed gatekeepers of “honour”, who believe in “instant justice” in matters of love, marriage and all kinds of disputes, the khaps of Haryana are again raising a banner of revolt. Often in the news for their regressive attitude to modern problems, the all-male bastions are out holding panchayats across Haryana against a proposed law that seeks to raise the legal age of marriage for women from 18 to 21, which they believe is detrimental to their interests. The Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, 2021, will apply to all communities and, once enacted, will supersede the existing marriage and personal laws.The president of Dhankar khap, OP Dhankar, insists on narrating the story of his own family. “My wife was only a JBT diploma holder when we got married. I am 75 now. I encouraged her to study and get a job. She retired as the headmistress of a school. Both my daughters got married between the ages of 18 and 20 years. They are now PhDs and are teaching. My daughters-in-law are also getting higher education. This defeats the government’s argument that girls can’t study after marriage. In Haryana, I think it is to the contrary because most girls can continue with their studies after they get married and most parents cannot afford higher education,” he contends.A Sarv Khap Mahapanchayat in Jind decided to whip up support against the Centre’s move to tinker with the legal age for marriage and smaller panchayats are being held across the state.After a meeting in Jhajjar, Dhankar insists that resentment is brewing across caste lines. “All the communities are extending support to our cause. Boys and girls undergo hormonal changes in the 16-18 age group. They can’t help being attracted to the opposite sex. They fall in love, do something wrong and elope without a concern for the honour of the family. The parents then do whatever they can to restore the lost honour. This is not to say that it is the fault of the girls, the boys or the parents, but increasing the age of marriage would only mean more such cases,” he says. It would also mean stretching the parents’ luck and keeping them on tenterhooks all the time, he adds.However, the Sarv Khap Panchayat itself is divided on the issue, with some members supporting the government decision. Phool Kumar Petwar, a khap leader who attended the Jind meeting, emphasises that there is no unanimity on the issue and a committee will look into its pros and cons. “These will be taken up at the January 2 meeting of the Sarv Khap Panchayat,” says Petwar, who is all for increasing the age of marriage. “This will allow girls to continue with their studies and be more mature before being married off,” says Har Narain of the Bura khap.However, there are not many takers among the Jat community for this argument. The Nain khap is set to send a letter against the legislation to the Prime Minister and the Chief Minister. “We are underlining two things. We don’t want the marriage age increased to 21 because it means more trouble for the parents and puts them in situations where they take recourse to extreme steps. We also want the courts to take the consent of the parents when declaring a runaway couple as married, because it is the family which has to suffer humiliation,” says Ishwar Nain.This isn’t for the first time that the khaps are debating the age of marriage. In 2012, the Sarv Khap Jat Panchayat, which had been at the forefront of demanding reservation for Jats in government jobs, took up for discussion the bizarre suggestion that marriageable age for girls be lowered to 15 to curb rising incidents of rape.As among the Jats, the opinion is divided among other community leaders in the state. While Father Prakash Gill from Gurugram has welcomed the proposed law, a cleric from Nuh, Mufti Zahid, believes the right age of marriage should be left to the parents of the girl. “Our holy book says that the parents are the best judge for their children. Everybody knows when their child is ready for marriage and that can be at 18 or 28. The government should not step in to impose a new rule when we recognise an individual as an adult at 18,” he states.However, Altaf Ahmed, a spokesperson of the Gurugram Muslim Council and associated with the Gurgaon Ekta Nagrik Manch, which runs a charitable hospital in Raebareli, explains why he considers this a good decision: “We have lots of women coming in with anaemia and other problems because they were married early and their bodies were not strong enough to handle pregnancies. It will be in the interest of women if the government goes ahead with its decision to raise the age.”Mahavir Bhardwaj of the Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti says the discussion should centre around “love jihad”. “Teenage girls are vulnerable; at 21, they will be comparatively more mature and youth from the minorities will not be able to lure them away.”Women, too, are not on the same page on the proposed legislation.Rights activist Jagmati Sangwan of the All India Democratic Women’s Association, who is known for her work against honour killings, insists that the government is wrong in fiddling with the marriageable age of women. “When girls and boys become adults at 18, they should also have the right to decide when they want to marry. In our colleges, only 1 per cent of the girls are unmarried. This is the way they have grown up and altering that and increasing the age to 21 would not be in anybody’s interest. In any case, marriage is a very personal matter and government interference is uncalled for,” she maintains.Young women, however, feel differently. For them, the proposed change is a great leveller. “Increasing the age of marriage brings women on an equal footing with men and empowers us to be able to pursue our dreams. It also takes care of health-related concerns of young girls forced into marriage and, thus, motherhood,” says Bhawana (19), a BJMC student at Hindu College, Rohtak.Rewari’s Nandini Yadav (19), a student of BA-I at Delhi University, feels the move will allow women to get a better understanding of the various issues they have to face in a marriage. “At 21, they will have a crystal clear vision towards patriarchy, dowry system and other social evils, and will be empowered to live a better life,” says Yadav.The proposed lawThe decision empowers womenWomen should be empowered. I feel it is always good to marry off a girl when she is fully mature and knows herself better. She should know what she is about. It is good if the marriage happens at a later stage since it ensures better health for the girls. Kiran Chaudhry, Congress MLACentre has taken a commendable decision by initiating the process of increasing the age of marriage of girls. This would mean more opportunities to study, better health and greater independence. The khaps are protesting for the sake of protesting. The children of khap leaders get married after completing their studies. Others, too, deserve that chance. Kavita Jain, Former minister and BJP leader||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/khaps-vs-the-rest-on-increasing-legal-age-of-marriage-357237
02-01-2022||Karnal||3 killed in 2 road accidents||Guv launches KU calendarKurukshetra: Governor and Kurukshetra University Chancellor Bandaru Dattatreya launched the calendar at the Raj Bhawan on Saturday. VC Prof Som Nath Sachdeva and Registrar Sanjeev Sharma were present on the occasion. TNS11 IAS get selection gradeChandigarh: The government on Saturday issued orders to give selection grade to 11 IAS officers of the 2009 batch with effect from January 1. These officers were Yash Garg, Pankaj, Mani Ram Sharma, Amarjit Mann, Sujan Singh, Ashok Garg, Pradeep Godara, Ram Sarup Verma, Monika Malik, Jaibir Arya and Mukesh Kumar Ahuja. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-killed-in-2-road-accidents-357179
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Fresh curbs  in place amid rising cases||In view of rising Covid cases, all cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, sports complexes, stadia, swimming pools will remain closed in Gurugram, Faridabad, Ambala, Panchkula and Sonepat.As per the government directions issued today, all entertainment parks and B2B exhibitions will be prohibited in these districts while the offices, both government and private, except for emergency or essential services, are advised to function with 50 per cent attendance. The malls and markets are allowed to open up to 5 pm in these districts, while bars and restaurants are allowed to operate with 50 per cent capacity. In rest of the state, for gatherings of more than 100, prior permission of DCs concerned is required. The cinema halls, restaurants, bars (including in hotels and malls), gyms, spas and club houses are allowed to open with 50 per cent capacity with adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour.Schools, colleges, polytechnics, ITIs, coaching centres, libraries, training institutes, anganwadi centres and creches will remain closed. In funeral and marriages, gatherings shall not be more than 50 and 100 persons, respectively. The instructions will remain in force from January 2-12. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fresh-curbs-in-place-amid-rising-cases-357177
02-01-2022||Jhajjar||Jhajjar woman dies in Vaishno Devi stampede||The stampede at the Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu today rendered Aditya (19) and Kashish (16) of Beri town here orphan as they lost their mother Mamta Devi in the incident.Their father, an electrician, had died some years ago following illness. A pall of gloom descended on Beri town as soon as the news broke in the afternoon. “Mamta and Aditya left for Jammu on December 30. The stampede took place when they were returning after ‘darshan’. Kashish did not go with them as she had to appear in an exam,” said a relative. Satbir, brother of Mamta’s husband, said he learnt about the stampede from TV. “I called up my nephew who shared the news with me. The government should provide a job to Aditya. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-woman-dies-in-vaishno-devi-stampede-357176
02-01-2022||Yamunanagar||Teacher climbs atop tank in Jagadhri||A guest teacher climbed atop a water tank in Jagadhri on Saturday afternoon to protest the Haryana Government’s failure to fulfil their demands. The teacher has been identified as Raj Kumar of Kurukshetra district.According to information, guest teachers have been sitting on a dharna on the Jagadhri-Paonta Sahib national highway near Aggrasain Chowk since December 25 in support of their demands, including regularisation, service rules and basic salary on a par with other teachers. Raj Kumar was reportedly sitting on the dharna, but he left the site on Saturday, saying that he was going home. He, however, climbed atop a water tank near the Civil Hospital, Jagadhri, around 2.15 pm, taking the police and guest teachers by surprise. After getting information, the police and several guest teachers, who are sitting on the dharna, reached the spot. They tried to persuade him, but in vain. After almost three hours, a policeman went atop the water tank and succeeded in bringing him down. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/teacher-climbs-atop-tank-in-jagadhri-357174
02-01-2022||Our Correspondent||Police raid parties at Raisina farmhouses, arrest organiser||Gurugram, January 1Night curfew and Covid protocols were blatantly violated during New Year celebrations in Gurugram.The police raided an unauthorised party being run in two farmhouses in Raisina. An organiser was arrested and 200 people were rounded up but let off after a warning.Despite several cops patrolling the streets, people went around celebrating across the city on roads. Fifteen persons were arrested from the MG Road in Sector 29 for creating ruckus but were later released on bail after being given a warning.Two illegal parties were going on in two farm houses where around 280 persons were partying and violating Covid protocols. The organiser, Virendra Hooda of Kaloi village in Rohtak, has been arrested. Another party organiser Sandeep of Rohtak was also booked for managing the party even after the night curfew in place. An FIR has been registered at the Bhondsi police station and all detained people were released after some time. The parties were on in the farm house number A-55 and E-42. None of the 280 persons was wearing a mask and the organisers had not even taken permission from the administration to hold a party.Though after 11 pm the police started vacating all the pubs and bars in Sector 29, several youths created a ruckus on the road.A senior police officer said the force was deployed to ensure guidelines were followed. “All malls and clubs were vacated before 11 pm,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-raid-parties-at-raisina-farmhouses-arrest-organiser-357173
02-01-2022||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Licence of 22 fertiliser dealers suspended||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, January 1Cracking the whip on violators, the Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department suspended licence of 22 fertiliser dealers in the district in the past three months (from October 1 to December 31, 2021).The action was taken after it was found that the physical stock of the fertiliser did not match with the point of sale machine (POS machine) of the violators. “We suspended licence of 22 dealers in the district as their physical stock of the fertiliser didn’t match with the records of POS machines,” said Bal Mukand, quality control inspector of the agriculture department.18 get it back after personal hearingThe dealers whose licences were suspended were given a personal hearing to explain the mismatch. Of the 22 dealers, four failed to satisfy the department officials and their licence was cancelled. “Out of 22, four licences were cancelled because officials were not satisfied with the facts given by the dealers during personal hearing,” Mukand said, adding that the remaining 18 licences were reinstated. Now, most of the dealers have started maintaining records of fertiliser stock and match it with the POS machines. “The department is keeping tabs on all dealers now,” Mukand said.One of the major reasons for the mismatch of the fertiliser stock (mainly urea) with the POS machine is said to be the illegal supply of subsidised urea to the plywood factories of the district.Sources said several dealers were allegedly supplying subsidised urea, which is used for agricultural purposes, to the plywood industry where it was being used to prepare glue.The rate of subsidised urea is Rs 266.50 per bag. However, the technical grade urea, meant for the industry, costs around Rs 2,800 per bag.The agriculture authorities and the police reportedly seized 1,520 bags of subsidised urea from a building in Panjeto village of the district on December 28, 2021.The owner of the building failed to produce any bill or document related to the purchase of the consignment to the authorities concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/licence-of-22-fertiliser-dealers-suspended-357171
02-01-2022||Kurukshetra||AAP activists offer arrest in month-old case||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Naveen Jaihind and party activists today held a protest march and offered arrest in connection with a case registered against Jaihind and around 30 party activists for flouting Covid norms and holding a press meet without permission at Brahma Sarovar last month.Wearing PPE kits and led by Jaihind, AAP activists gathered at Brahma Sarovar, performed a ‘puja’ and started marching towards Kurukshetra University police station to offer arrest. However, the police had installed barricades near the police station to stop them. Later, water cannon was used to disperse them. Naveen was accompanied by AAP spokesman Sumit Hindustani, Vishal Khubbar and several others.Naveen Jaihind said, “I had come here to raise the issue of the job scam and plight of 30 lakh youngsters of Haryana. I was accompanied by a few people and yet a case was registered against us for violating Covid norms. But no case was registered against the CM and Swami Gyananand for holding events during Gita Mahotsav. If we were wrong, then action should be taken against us. We were ready to get arrested and wouldn’t seek bail, but the police refused to arrest us.”DSP Subhash Singh said, “A case was registered against Jaihind and investigation is on. No action has been taken against anyone so far. But AAP activists were adamant on entering the police station. In a democracy, everyone has the right to protest, but police stations are not a place to protest.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aap-activists-offer-arrest-in-month-old-case-357168
02-01-2022||Rohtak||Probe begins into graft plaints in Rohtak MC||An inquiry into the allegations of rampant corruption and large-scale irregularities in the functioning of the Rohtak Municipal Corporation commenced on Friday.Rohtak Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Mahender Pal, who is probing these charges, convened a meeting of the municipal councillors who have levelled the aforesaid allegations.He briefed the councillors about the official procedure of the inquiry and sought their written statements as well as documentary evidence regarding the alleged malpractices.“A few councillors have submitted their statements, while others have sought some time to submit detailed statements and proofs of the alleged corrupt practices and other irregularities at the corporation,” Pal said after initiating the inquiry.Certain councillors and their representatives, who attended the meeting, maintained that they would soon furnish their statements along with documentary proofs regarding their complaints/allegations.Meanwhile, several municipal councillors skipped the meeting with the ADC, maintaining that the inquiry was just an eyewash.Some of the complaining councillors who attended the meeting also seemed dissatisfied. “The inquiry seems to be a mere formality. We would have approached the police or a court of law if we had any concrete evidence,” said independent councillor Kadam Singh Ahlawat.Several local councillors, including those owing allegiance to the ruling party, have been alleging that the Rohtak Municipal Corporation had become a den of corruption, irregularities and other malpractices.The municipal councillors had demanded a thorough probe into the alleged irregularities in the execution of the AMRUT scheme and other developmental projects by a competent authority. — TNSIrregularities galoreCouncillors have been alleging that the civic body officials take bribe for the generation of property identity, issuance of no-dues certificates for property registration, passing of building drawings/maps and other such public services||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/probe-begins-into-graft-plaints-in-rohtak-mc-357167
02-01-2022||Nitish Sharma||NGO cremates 900 unclaimed bodies in 4 yrs||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, January 1Helpers Shahabad Society has cremated over 900 unclaimed bodies since 2017.Unclaimed bodies from Kurukshetra, Ambala and sometimes even Kaithal are handed over to the society for the final rites. After every three months, the ashes are immersed in the Ganga at Haridwar.“We experienced that people take road accident victims to hospitals and then leave. But the real struggle for the victims starts from that point until their kin arrive. So it all started with helping accident victims in 2010. Our volunteers used to take the victims to the hospital and take care of them till the attendants arrive, arrange blood and even take them to PGIMER and the GMCH-32 in Chandigarh,” says society president Tilak Raj Aggarwal.“After we started going to PGI Chandigarh with accident victims on a regular basis, the doctors there advised us to start organising blood donation camps as well as there is requirement of blood in accident cases. We have organised 37 blood donation camps since 2012. We continued the service during the Covid pandemic as well,” says Aggarwal.“In 2017, we started performing last rites of unclaimed bodies. Initially, we used to be contacted from Kurukshetra only. Later, we started getting calls from Ambala and now even from Kaithal,” he added.“The society has three ambulances and the service is provided free of cost. Besides, we have a mortuary van and a food van. The society also provides food to patients at hospitals and to needy people in the town, besides providing them with blankets.“We provide food to around 1,000 people a day. We have a monthly expense of over Rs 5 lakh. It includes the salary of 12 people who have been working as drivers and cooks. We have been getting a lot of support from society. We get the money through donations. Besides, people also help the society with grocery items and other stuff,” the president said.Meanwhile, Pradeep Goel, chairman of the society, said, “Our volunteers are among the first to respond in case of emergency. Since the town is located on the national highway, we have done our bit in several major accidents on the highway.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ngo-cremates-900-unclaimed-bodies-in-4-yrs-357164
02-01-2022||Hisar||Will speed up work in Hisar villages: Min||Minister of State for Labour and Employment Anoop Dhanak today visited a number of villages in his home segment of Uklana in Hisar.Addressing the villagers, Dhanak said the “kutcha” pathways connecting adjoining villages would be carpeted soon. He said the officials were preparing estimates for laying concrete roads in the villages of the segment and the work would start soon.He visited Sarhera, Matlauda and Banbhauri villages. In Matlauda, the panchgrami Khap representing 14 villages honoured him by tying a turban at a public meeting. Dhanak said the state government had allocated crores for development works in the villages. “No stone will be left unturned in the development of the Uklana Assembly segment,” he added.Meanwhile, the villagers raised other demands, including potable water, power supply and construction of carpeted roads among others. Dhanak directed the officials concerned to solve the problems on priority. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-speed-up-work-in-hisar-villages-min-357163
02-01-2022||---||Ensuring swachhata in urban areas is new minister Kamal's top priority||Hisar, January 1After being inducted into the Cabinet, Urban Local Bodies Minister Kamal Gupta said cleanliness and sanitation would be his top priority as he wanted to completely transform the towns of Haryana on the lines of Indore, the cleanest city of the country.Addressing party workers during his first visit here after taking charge of the ministry, Gupta, local BJP MLA, said he would send a delegation of the department officials to Indore to study the model that helped the city achieve the cleanest-city tag.“Those who throw garbage in the open will be fined. People need to cooperate in efforts to ensure sanitation in cities,” the minister added.Littering to be an offenceThose who throw garbage in the open will be penalised. People need to cooperate in efforts to ensure sanitation in cities. —Kamal Gupta, Urban local bodies ministerHe issued strict instructions to officials to improve their style of functioning and take note of the grievances of the common public.He said the officials should not ignore the phone calls of public representatives and strict action would be taken against the defaulters.“It is a matter of pride for me that I have been given one of the biggest and key departments of Urban Local Bodies. Someone told me that this department has around 40-41 IAS officers, which is the highest number of IAS officers after the Chief Minister’s Office,” he said.He said the Heads of Departments should ensure that the files of issues related to public interest did not remain pending in their offices without any valid reason. “I will inspect the offices regularly,” he said, adding that disciplinary action would be taken against those absent during meetings.Gupta said in the upcoming meeting of the officers, a sticker of the Head of the Department concerned should be pasted on the chair so that it could be known whether they were present in the meeting or not. He said the officials would have to finish the work related to the public on priority and if any negligence was found at the level of any employee, he/she would not be spared.During the meeting, DC Priyanka Soni said under the Right to Service Act, services of various departments were being provided to people through “Saral” portal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ensuring-swachhata-in-urban-areas-is-new-minister-kamals-top-priority-357158
02-01-2022||Mukesh Tandon||10 illegal denim-dyeing units found shut during raid||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, January 1The special surveillance task force was in for a surprise during a raid as they found 10 denim-dyeing units operating illegally at the Auchandi border already shut. The unit owners had already fled after vacating the premises.Notably, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) had served the closure notice to these units in November last year for violating the pollution norms and disposing chemical effluents directly into drains.In his complaint to the HSPCB in September last year, Varun Gulati, a Delhi-based environmentalist, said scores of industrial units at the Auchandi border (Delhi-Haryana border) and Ferozepur Bangar village of Sonepat district were openly violating the pollution norms.CRACKDOWN CONTINUESTen more units were found near Jatti Kalan and Jatti Khurd village area. Of these, four were shut already and their owners have fled after vacating the premises. Also, closure notice has been served to six other units too. —Kamaljeet Singh, Regional officer, HSPCB, SonepatHe alleged that all these illegal dyeing units were running for several years without any consent to operate and were the main source of water pollution.Following the complaint, a team of the HSPCB raided the areas and found 10 denim-dyeing units operational without obtaining an NOC from the authorities concerned or consent to operate (CTO) and consent to establishment (CTE).The HSPCB had then served closure notices to all these units in November last year, sources said.Meanwhile, Kamaljeet Singh, Regional Officer, HSPCB, Sonepat, said a team of the state surveillance task force, comprising a tehsildar, a representative of the Chief Judicial Magistrate and the police, raided the Auchandi border area to check these illegal units but all 10 of them were found shut.All units were operating from rented accommodations and the owners vacated and fled after the HSPCB closure notices in November last year, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-illegal-denim-dyeing-units-found-shut-during-raid-357156
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Track real-time data on polluted rivers: Haryana CM Khattar||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has directed officials to set up online water quality monitoring stations at the district boundaries so that the real-time data of pollution in the rivers could be tracked.Along with this, directions have also been given to prepare a detailed report from 2015 to 2021 so that the actual status of pollution in rivers could be known and measures to be taken to deal with it could be assessed.The Chief Minister was presiding over the review meeting of the State Pollution Control Board here.Khattar further said district-wise plans should be made to eliminate pollution in rivers and samples of rivers should be collected at the entry and exit points of every district from where the Ghaggar and Yamuna rivers flow so that, according to each district report, adequate measures could be taken accordingly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/track-real-time-data-on-polluted-rivers-khattar-357155
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Bhiwani Landslide: Haryana CM Khattar, Home Minister Anil Vij offer condolences||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today expressed grief over the death of four persons due to a landslide at the Dadam mining zone in Tosham, Bhiwani district.In a message issued today, the CM expressed his condolences to the bereaved families. He prayed for the speedy recovery of those injured in the accident.Over the phone, Khattar took information about the accident from Bhiwani DC RS Dhillon and directed that cranes, fire brigade and other machinery should be immediately called from adjoining districts to clear the debris so that people could be rescued.Meanwhile, Home and Health Minister Anil Vij too expressed grief over the accident. He said the rescue operations were being carried out by the administration.In a tweet, Vij said, “I am deeply saddened by the accident that happened at the mining site in Bhiwani district of Haryana. Rescue operation is being carried out by the administration. NDRF team has been called from Ghaziabad. SDRF team has been called from Madhuban. An Army unit has been called from Hisar.”“If any kind of equipment/machinery is required to be procured from outside for the rescue operation, it will be provided and all possible medical facilities will be provided to the injured,” the Home Minister added.He added Health Department officials have been directed that an ambulance should be present at the accident site during the rescue operation. Apart from this, a team of doctors should also be present so that no injured person succumbs due to lack of medical care. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-vij-offer-condolences-357153
02-01-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||In 2 years, 308 units penalised Rs40 cr for groundwater misuse||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 1After the intervention of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has imposed a fine of around Rs 40 crore on 308 industrial units, including stone crushers and, for illegal groundwater extraction in the past two years.In Charkhi Dadri, as many as 278 stone crushers have been fined Rs 31.67 crore but none has paid it so far. A stone crusher at Kheri Battar has been fined Rs 1.23 crore, while another in the same area has been penalised Rs 1.05 crore.There are 20 units in Panipat, including Cooperative Sugar Mills, and spinning mills against whom a penalty of Rs 6.46 crore has been recommended to the HSPCB headquarters. A fine of Rs 4.13 crore has also been recommended against the sugar mill alone, but the final order is awaited.FOLLOWING NGT DIRECTIONSWe’ve imposed fine only on the NGT directions. We don’t have the mandate to impose fine for illegal groundwater extraction. Earlier, the DCs had the power but now, the Haryana Water Resources Authority will act against the erring units. —S Narayanan, HSPCB member secretaryIn Barhi of Sonepat, a fine of Rs 5 lakh has been imposed on five units for illegal groundwater extraction. Two units in Ballabgarh and Bahadurgarh have been fined Rs 36.29 lakh.The compensation has been calculated as per a notification of the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB), dated September 28, 2020, which was brought in compliance with the directions given in the NGT order in Shailesh Singh’s case on July 20, 2020.“The entire penalty has been imposed in the past two years only. It is a new concept under which the environmental compensation is evaluated,” said S Narayanan, HSPCB member secretary.Earlier, the units in Haryana used to take permission from the CGWB for groundwater extraction, but now the power lies with the Haryana Water Resources (Conservation, Regulation and Management) Authority (HWRA).“So far, we have given permission to more than 275 units to extract groundwater. We won’t permit the extraction in overexploited zones. Those who haven’t taken permission, they will be subjected to an environmental compensation as per the NGT directions,” said Keshni Anand Arora, HWRA chairperson.“The industrial units can apply for permission on the HWRA portal. For increasing awareness, a number of workshops have been conducted. Moreover, the HWRA is also bringing out a village-wise categorisation of groundwater table soon,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-2-years-308-units-penalised-40-cr-for-groundwater-misuse-357151
02-01-2022||Gurugram||298 Covid cases in Gurugram||Gurugram entered the New Year with spike in Covid cases. As many as 298 cases were reported today. With this, the number of active patients in the district has reached 1,149. As many as 46 patients were discharged. Cases of Omicron also increased. On Saturday, the Health Department confirmed one more Omicron case. The patient had returned from the UK 10 days ago and was living with family in DLF area. With this, the number of Omicron cases here has reached 34. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/298-cases-in-gurugram-357150
02-01-2022||Ravinder Saini||No check on masks, vax certificate, passengers have free run in Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, January 1The latest guidelines to contain the spread of Covid-19 variants went for a toss at the Rohtak bus stand on the first day of year today as the authorities let the passengers travel without checking their vaccination certificates.No strictness was also observed to ensure passengers wore a mask. However, notices at various spots stated that as per the government orders, only those fully vaccinated were allowed to enter the premises and wearing a mask was compulsory.Unvaccinated forced to get off buses in Jhajjar“It is not possible to check every passenger, especially the elderly who neither carry a smart phone nor have a hard copy of the vaccination certificate. Moreover, the rush of passengers and fear of confrontation are other reasons for letting the passenger travel unchecked,” said a bus conductor on the condition of anonymity.Mukesh, who boarded a Bahadurgarh-bound bus, said he downloaded the vaccination certificate last night to show it to the authorities but no one checked it.Dalbir Phogat, general manager, Rohtak Depot, said a camp was organised at the bus stand to vaccinate those who missed their second dose and notices were also put up on the premises to make people aware of the new guidelines. “I personally inspected the depot premises to ensure the vaccination certificates of passengers is checked. There was less rush today,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-check-on-masks-vax-certificate-passengers-have-free-run-in-rohtak-357148
02-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court suggests 'shared parenting' for estranged couples||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 1In a significant order liable to change the way children of separated parents are brought up, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has advocated “shared parenting”. A Division Bench has made it clear that the concept of shared parenting could be suggested to the “parties” when they approach the police for lodging complaints alleging cruelty and other offences.The direction came after the Bench of Justice Ritu Bahri and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma observed that the court was seized of a number of cases in which a child’s emotional and psychological requirements were not being properly taken into account while deciding the divorce petitions filed by the parents under the Hindu Marriage Act.“The concept of shared parenting can be extended at the initial stage, when parties approach the police station,” the Bench asserted.In its order, the Bench also asked the amicus curiae, Divya Sharma, to assist the court on the “kind of infrastructure required for solving the problems of children where parents are seeking separation”.The Bench said the parents would not have to travel for years to the courts, if the concept of shared parenting was advised at the initial stages. Referring to the Law Commission’s report of May 2015, the Bench asserted it had been observed that a child had the birthright to meet his parents and grandparents.It was further observed in the report that several disputes could be resolved through mediation. But professional assistance might be required in the case of mediation as neither the court, nor the mediators, were qualified to understand child psychology. “A time-bound resolution is a key factor to achieve the objective of ensuring that the welfare of the child is met,” the Bench said.Quoting an example, the Bench asserted that a child came to the HC on December 10, 2021, along with her mother. Crying, the child stated she did not want to lose the company of both the parents. “As the parties were from Sonepat, a direction was given that both the parents will take the child to a counsellor at Sonepat,” the Bench saidPointing at the facts of the case, the Bench added the appellant had approached the court against order dated October 3, 2018, passed by the Gurdaspur Civil Judge (Senior Division), whereby he was given visitation rights to meet the minor child every third working Friday.Apply Concept at initial stageThe Bench said that the parents would not have to travel for years to the courts, if the concept of “shared parenting” was advised to them at the initial stages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-suggests-shared-parenting-for-estranged-couples-357141
02-01-2022||Sandeep Dikshit||Tax on imports powers Dec GST to Rs1.29 lakh cr; Punjab, Haryana see rise||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 1Gross GST revenue collected in December dipped marginally to Rs 1,29,780 crore as compared to Rs 1.31 lakh crore in November. The GST collection is close to Rs 1.3 lakh crore despite a 17 per cent reduction in the number of e-way bills generated in November (6.1 crore) as compared to October (7.4 crore) due to improved tax compliance and better tax administration by both Central and state tax authorities, said an official news release.However, segregated examination of the various components showed that there was a surge of over Rs 5,000 crore from GST collected on the import of goods, thereby boosting the overall intake in December.The CGST declined marginally to Rs 22,578 crore in December as against Rs 23,978 crore in November. The SGST also fell to Rs 28,658 crore as against Rs 31,127 crore in December and November, respectively.However, the decline was made up by IGST of Rs 69,155 crore, which included Rs 37,527 crore collected on import of goods. In November, the IGST was Rs 66,815 crore, including Rs 32,165 crore collected on import of goods. Cess was at Rs 9,389 crore in December (including Rs 614 crore from imports) as against Rs 9,606 crore in the previous month (including Rs 653 crore from imports).The revenues for December are 13 per cent higher than the same month last year and 26 per cent higher than December 2019, the release said.The average monthly gross GST collection for the third quarter of the current year has been Rs 1.3 lakh crore against the average monthly collection of Rs 1.1 lakh crore and Rs 1.15 lakh crore in the first and second quarters, respectively, it added.Punjab’s GST collection was higher at Rs 1,573 crore in December as against Rs 1,353 in November. The intake for Himachal was Rs 662 crore (Rs 670 crore ), Haryana Rs 5,873 crore (Rs 5,747 crore) and Delhi Rs 3,754 crore (Rs 3,451 crore).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/tax-on-imports-powers-dec-gst-to-1-29-lakh-cr-punjab-haryana-see-rise-357122
02-01-2022||Deepender Deswal||Landslide at mining site in Bhiwani kills 3||Tribune News ServiceHisar, January 1A landslide in the Dadam mining zone in Tosham block of Bhiwani on Saturday left three persons dead and two injured. At least eight persons were feared trapped under the debris. The Army, NDRF and SDRF teams have launched rescue operations.It was 9 am when huge boulders at the site adjoining a forest area caved in. Officials identified the deceased as Sanjay of Jind, Vijender of Tosham and Tufan Singh of Jharkhand.Oppn leaders blame ‘illegal digging’The mishap occurred a day after mining operations were resumed in the area, which were shut on the NGT directions to prevent air pollution.Ajit Singh Shekhawat, Bhiwani SP, confirmed three persons had died, two were injured and two were missing. He said prima facie there was no report of illegal mining as the firm engaged for the work had a valid contract.However, several leaders blamed ‘illegal mining’ for the mishap. Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda demanded a probe. “Illegal mining is being done in the area, but the government is mum,” he claimed.Dharambir Singh, the BJP MP from Bhiwani-Mahendragarh too alleged illegal mining had led to the incident. Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry demanded compensation for the affected families. Ved Pal Tanwar, a representative of Goverdhan Mines, denied the illegal mining charge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/landslide-at-mining-site-in-bhiwani-kills-3-357073
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Piercing cold sweeps Punjab, Haryana as Bathinda shivers at 1 degree Celsius||Biting cold wave conditions persisted in most places of Punjab and Haryana on Saturday, while some parts of the two northern states also witnessed dense fog.Bathinda in Punjab was the coldest place as it recorded its minimum of one degree Celsius, three notches below normal, according to the data provided by the Meteorological Department here.Hisar in Haryana shivered at 2 degrees Celsius, five degrees below normal.The Union Territory of Chandigarh recorded its minimum at 5.1 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Ambala, Karnal, Narnaul, Rohtak, Gurugram, Bhiwani and Sirsa recorded their minimum temperatures of 4.9, 3.8, 3, 4.4, 4.6, 5.1 and 4.2 degrees Celsius, respectively.In Punjab, Amritsar and Ludhiana recorded their respective minimums at 4.2 and 7.8 degrees Celsius, up to two degrees above normal.Patiala, Pathankot, Halwara, Faridkot and Gurdaspur recorded their respective lows of 4.7, 4.2, 2.7, 4.5 and 5.1 degrees Celsius.Dense fog was witnessed at Bathinda and Patiala in Punjab and at Ambala in Haryana. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/piercing-cold-sweeps-punjab-haryana-as-bathinda-shivers-at-1-degree-celsius-356910
02-01-2022||Bhiwani (Haryana)||4 people killed in landslide, more feared trapped at mining site in Haryana's Bhiwani||Four people have been killed and many others are feared trapped following a landslide at Dadam mining site here on Saturday.Police said around half-a-dozen dumper trucks and some machines were buried under the debris caused by the landslide which occurred around 9 am in Tosham block.Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said several rescue teams have been pressed into service.Vij gave the information about the death toll in a tweet.“I am deeply saddened over the incident that took place at the mining site in Bhiwani district of Haryana. The rescue operation is being run by the administration. National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team from Ghaziabad, State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) from Madhuban and an Army unit from Hisar have been called. So far four people have died,” said Vij in a tweet.However, Bhiwani Chief Medical Officer Raghuvir Shandilya said three persons have been killed and one was injured in this incident.He said Toofan Sharma (30), a native of Bihar and Binder (23), who hailed from Baganwala in Haryana’s Jind district and one Sanjay have died in the incident.Gunjan has suffered injuries and he is stable, the CMO said.He said a team of doctors have been deputed and some ambulances have also been deployed at the site.Deputy Superintendent of Police (Siwani) Manoj Kumar said four to five people may be trapped under the debris.Some locals, however, claimed that the number of those trapped could be more but there was no official confirmation on this.Sub Divisional Magistrate Manish Phogat said the teams of the NDRF, the SDRF and the Army have reached the site and begun the rescue operations.Earlier in the day, a blast operation was carried out to break the heavy rocks, said Phogat.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar expressed grief over the deaths in the landslide.The CM issued directions for bringing cranes, fire brigade and other machinery from the adjoining districts to clear the debris so that the people buried under it could be rescued.State minister J P Dalal took stock of the situation and told reporters that the administration’s priority was to rescue the trapped people and that a team of doctors had arrived at the site.Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda expressed grief over the incident and demanded compensation for the families of the deceased labourers.Holding the BJP-JJP government responsible for the whole accident, Hooda alleged that there had been a “scam of thousands of crores” in the Dadam mining zone.“Even the Supreme Court has made a serious remark on this matter and illegal mining is being done in this area by flouting all the rules but the government is not conducting a fair investigation. The Opposition demands that there should be a judicial inquiry into the entire scam,” Hooda said in a statement. Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala alleged that illegal mining was going on under the Khattar regime and asked the BJP government who was responsible for these deaths.In a tweet, he also asked the state government if it would order a judicial probe into the alleged mining racket. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-to-15-people-missing-as-a-dozen-vehicles-busy-in-mining-buried-in-landslide-in-haryanas-bhiwani-356898
