03-01-2022||Chandigarh||8 more Omicron cases in Haryana; tally reaches 71||Haryana reported eight cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus on Monday, pushing the tally of such infections to 71 in the state, according to a health department bulletin.Twelve of the 71 cases are active while the rest have been discharged, the bulletin stated.Meanwhile, the state continued to register a surge in COVID-19 cases, with 793 new infections being reported on Monday, 460 of them from Gurugram alone, the NCR district which is the worst-affected.Faridabad , Panchkula, Karnal and Ambala reported 110, 35, 33 and 41 new infections, respectively.However, no fresh fatality due to the viral disease was reported in the state and the death toll remained unchanged at 10,064.The COVID-19 case count now stands at 7,75,710  in the state. The number of active coronavirus cases in the state stands at 3,107, while 7,62,516 patients have recuperated, the bulletin said. Haryana has a COVID-19 recovery rate of 98.30 per cent, it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/8-more-omicron-cases-in-haryana-tally-reaches-71-357842
03-01-2022||Ravi S Singh||AAP puts off plan to gherao Haryana CM Khattar’s residence||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 3The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has postponed its protest against the rising prices of essential commodities and unemployment.The party had planned to “gherao” Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar residence in Chandigarh on January 9, but it had been postponed because of rising Covid cases, AAP Rajya Sabha MP and in-charge of Haryana affairs Sushil Gupta said here on Monday. “A fresh date for the protest will be announced soon keeping in view the Covid situation,” Gupta added.The decision to postpone the agitation was taken today during a virtual meeting of Gupta with senior party leaders from the State.Gupta said that AAP’s focus is on Haryana as it has been engaged in increasing its support base across the state. He said the party will contest all local elections in the state to be held before the next Lok Sabha and Assembly polls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aap-puts-off-plan-to-gherao-haryana-cm-khattars-residence-357837
03-01-2022||---||Is this true? asks Mallikarjun Kharge as Meghalaya Governor Satya Pal Malik's anti-PM remarks go viral||New Delhi, January 3The Congress on Monday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to clarify the remarks made by Meghalaya Governor Satya Pal Malik in context of a meeting the two had to discuss the farmers' agitation against anti agriculture reform bills.In a viral video of an event Malik addressed in Haryana's Dadri on Sunday, Malik is heard saying that when he went to meet the PM in respect of the farmers’ agitation they ended up fighting in five minutes.Malik said, "When I went to meet the PM on the farmers' issue we ended up fighting in five minutes. He was arrogant. When I told him 500 people had died the PM asked me whether they had died for him. I told him yes the farmers died because of him because he had become the king on the basis of their support. Then the PM told me to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Shah said people had clouded his vision and power of reason. Shah asked me to keep my meetings going."Meghalaya’s Governor Sri. Satya Pal Malik is on record saying PM was 'arrogant' on the issue of Farmers & HM Amit Shah called the PM as ‘mad’Constitutional authorities speaking about each other with such contempt!@narendramodi ji is this true?pic.twitter.com/M0EtHn2eQp  Reacting to Malik's remarks, Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge tweeted, "Meghalaya’s Governor Sri. Satya Pal Malik is on record saying the PM was 'arrogant' on the issue of Farmers & HM Amit Shah called the PM as ‘mad’. Constitutional authorities speaking about each other with such contempt! @narendramodi ji is this true?" Kharge asked the PM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/is-this-true-asks-kharge-as-meghalaya-governor-maliks-anti-pm-remarks-go-viral-357796
03-01-2022||The accompanying photograph captured on the widely used road linking Sector 25/26 of Panchkula with Tau Devi Lal Sports Complex enroute the Zirakpur-Shimla highway||Broken signboard in Panchkula does not serve any purpose||Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaThose unvaccinated still moving openly in public placesThough the state government has issued instructions for banning the entry of unvaccinated people at public places, instructions are yet to be executed at the district level. Night curfew remains in force from 11 pm to 5 am but people can be seen roaming on roads without any fear. They are travelling in trains, buses and visiting banks without being checked. There is no logic of imposing such restrictions without execution hence the state authorities must pay attention towards it.Prateek Tondwal, RohtakCovid protocol goes for a toss at ralliesAt a political rally near here, where thousands of people were confined to a congested compound there were no observance of Covid protocols. No one was wearing mask or observing social distancing. However, such gatherings are banned in Haryana yet the policemen present there simply didn’t bother to check masks or vaccination certificates of the people. The politicians shouldn’t organise such massive rallies at the moment.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/broken-signboard-does-not-serve-any-purpose-357504
03-01-2022||Kurukshetra||International E-Conference in Kurukshetra University||Preserving greenery of regionGurugram: Saanvi Sehgal (9), of Class IV from Pathways School, Gurgaon, has created a Watch and Ward Army initiative along with students of other schools in the National Capital Region (NCR) to preserve the greenery of the region. She led a delegation of students that met with Gyanesh Bharti, IAS, Commissioner, South Delhi Municipal Corporationon (SDMC), on Friday and handed over a representation to him expressing concern about the concretisation of footpaths with no open space being left around the trees.Student brings laurelsYamunanagar: A student of Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar, Jagdeep Singh of MA English (previous year) has won second place in the national-level competition on the topic 'Speeches from Shakespeare'. The propramme was organised by DAV College for Girls, Yamunanagar. The officiating principal of the college, Dr Ritu Kumar, congratulated the student and the faculty members of the English department.DAV pupils win medalsAmbala: Students of DAV public school, Ambala, have proved their mettle in the fields of sports after winning three gold, four silver and one bronze in the National Karate championship held at Kota University, Rajasthan, from December 26 to 28 , 2021.Vedanti, Megha, Priyanshu, Shikha, Devanshi and Aadeshwar along with Vardan made the school proud.E-campus placement driveHisar: IFour students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology, Hisar, have been selected in the e-campus placement drive of Noida-Based Global Logic organised by the training & placement cell of the university. Pratap Singh, director, placement, said Global Logic, Hitachi Group Company, is a leader in digital product engineering. Dr Aditya Vir Singh, assistant director informed that Akshay and Prince Kalra from BTech CSE 2022 batch, Ritik Sharma from BTech. IT 2022 batch and Pooja Sain from MCA 2022 batch have been selected.Five-day dairy trainingFatehabad: A five- day dairy training was organised by Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences under the scheme of NABARD in Bighar village in Fatehabad district. As many as 50 participants took part in the training. The objective of the training was to enhance the technical knowledge and skills of animal farmers so that they could increase their income by increasing the animal production per unit. Dr Sajjan Singh, convener of the training programme, and Deputy Director of Animal Husbandry Department Dr Kashi Ram conducted the training. t present in the college and computer science department.PhD entrance resultsMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) declared entrance examination held for PhD courses in various subjects. Students can see the results declared with their login ID on the university website. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar said a list of successful candidates would be displayed on January 3 while another list of selected applicants to be invited for interview on January 11 will be declared on January 5. Thereafter, the final list for the admission will be issued on January 12 while selected applicants will be able to deposit fees on January 12 and 13.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/international-e-conference-357503
03-01-2022||Yamunanagar||Haryana Diary: Rakesh Tikait continues to pull crowds||All talk, no action on Thanesar roadsKurukshetra: The poor condition of roads in the city area has become the centre of politics in Thanesar. Not only Opposition leaders but also leaders of coalition partner JJP are not shying away from targeting the Thanesar BJP MLA and criticising the government departments for the poor condition. While the politicians are making all efforts to take advantage of the situation and are planning protests to gain politically, the local residents continue to suffer.Officers pleased, supporters dejectedJhajjar: The recent expansion of the state Cabinet has left supporters of an MLA in Ahirwal region dejected as they were confident of a Cabinet berth for their leader who has been in the race of ministership since the formation of the coalition government. His name also came up for discussion prominently this time after some media houses described him as a strong contender, but he and supporters had to face disappointment. In contrast, administrative officers of his district are happy with the development. “We have heaved a sigh of relief as the MLA still does not miss the opportunity to intervene in administrative work. The situation would have aggravated had he become minister,” reacts an officer.Covid restrictions to hit VIP eventsFaridabad: The imposition of Covid curbs till January 12 may be the last resort to check the spurt in cases in the district, but it has hit programmes aimed at the publicity of some VIPs in the district. The Sansad Khel Mahotsav, an important sports event on which funds to the tune of several thousands have been spent, has been postponed. Insiders claim that some ministers or MLAs who had been super busy in holding public programmes in the past few months and had been garnering good space in media stand to be disappointed by the lockdown curbs. Many of these VIPs had been attending two to three public functions daily for the past several weeks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tikait-continues-to-pull-crowds-357502
03-01-2022||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra University closed for students from Jan 3 to 12||Following the state government’s guidelines to contain the spread of Covid-19, Kurukshetra University on Sunday issued a notification to keep the university closed for students from January 3 to 12.The KU has decided to conduct online classes for students and suspended the physical attendance with immediate effect. The faculty members have been asked to take their classes online from respective schools/departments/institutes.Hostellers are allowed to stay in their hostels subject to strict observance to Covid appropriate behaviour and norms. For the faculty and employees, the KU has asked the heads of departments and institutes concerned to ensure they are fully vaccinated. The non-teaching employees of the KU, including those employed through outsourcing will attend their offices as usual. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ku-closed-for-students-from-jan-3-to-12-357500
03-01-2022||---||NGO donates quilts to needy kids in Yamunanagar||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, January 2A team of Manvta Jan Shakti Foundation, an NGO, helped children and women in slums, near Yamunanagar railway line, on on the night of December 31, and celebrated the New Year by distributing woollens, shoes and quilts among them.The NGO donated clothes for about 150 children and women, eight quilts and 21 pairs of shoes.Sanjiv Sharma, state secretary of the foundation, said the children and the women were happy after getting goods of daily need.“The foundation also urged them to keep their slum and the surroundings clean,” said Sharma. He said the NGO had been working for the past one year to help the needy and motivate them to plant saplings. On the occasion, district president Rajiv Kumar, district president of Mahila Morcha and other members were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ngo-donates-quilts-to-needy-kids-357499
03-01-2022||---||To upgrade skills, Ambala to train domestic staff||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, January 2To help people, who have been working as cooks, nannies and home nurses get better remuneration, and also those, who are ready to take up such jobs, the Ambala administration has launched a training course through Red Cross Society.The initiative aims to provide job opportunities to needy people, especially women and girls, and help local residents get police verified domestic staff.Red Cross Society is providing free of cost 15-day training and also plays the role of a service provider in this programme. Vijay Laxmi, secretary, Red Cross, Ambala, said, “A programme has been launched in which training will be provided to people, who want to take up jobs of home nurses, nannies, cooks and domestic help.” “While those, who are interested in jobs of home nursing and nannies are being trained by the Health Department, and those, who are interested to work as cooks and domestic help, will be initially engaged at the old age home and provided training through a trainer of the hotel management institute, in batches. After the completion of the 15-day training, they will be given certificates,” she said. DC Vikram Singh said, “Elderly sometimes require specialised care at their homes, in getting medicines, walking and other daily routines.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-upgrade-skills-ambala-to-train-domestic-staff-357498
03-01-2022||---||Action sought against those who take admission in Haryana schools  with fake EWS certificates||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, January 2Amid the row over the admission of students belonging to the economically weaker section (EWS) under Rule 134 A of the Haryana School Education Rules, a private body has now demanded legal action against people who prepare fake income certificates to get benefit under the scheme.While the parents have been seeking admissions for children under Rule 134 A, the private schools have been raising questions over the authenticity of income certificates being submitted.The Rule 134 A of the Haryana School Education Rules provides for free education for 10 per cent seats in private schools for students under the below poverty line (BPL) category and the economically weaker section (EWS). The annual income of such parents should be less than Rs 2 lakh. Kulbhushan Sharma, president, Federation of Private Schools Welfare Association, said, “Every year, allegations are put on private schools that they do not give admission to the needy. The schools have been asking the government to clear dues of previous years and ensure only genuine students get admissions.”“It has been seen that wrong candidates are being enrolled with the help of fake income certificates. People know that if they are caught, the only penalty will be cancellation of their ward’s enrollment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/action-against-fake-certificates-sought-357497
03-01-2022||Faridabad||3 murders in 24 hours rock Faridabad||Three persons were murdered into two incidents in the past 24 hours in the city.In the first incident, two labourers, identified as Akash (23) and Rambir (42), were hacked to death, while another person, identified as Monu (25), was seriously injured, when a group of unidentified persons attacked them with sharp weapons and iron rods here in a house at the Parvatiya colony last night. The accused barged into their rooms at 12.30 am when they were asleep, according to a complaint lodged with the police. The reason behind the assault is yet to be ascertained and the identity of the attackers is unknown. The police have registered a murder case against unidentified persons.In the second incident, Rahul (23) of Sagarpur village in the district was stabbed to death by some youths, last evening. About two years ago, Rahul had picked a quarrel with Hariom, another villager. It was reported that Rahul was called by Hariom last evening on some pretext and attacked with knives by four to five persons, when he reached to meet him at 7 pm on Saturday. Rahul was a practising lawyer in a local court. The police have registered a case, but no arrest has been made so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-murders-in-24-hours-rock-faridabad-357496
03-01-2022||Deepender Deswal||Bhiwani mining mishap: Relief sought for victims' families||Tribune News ServiceHisar, January 2Praveen and Naveen of Rohtak’s Bhaloth village received the body of their uncle Dharambir after 36 hours of the rescue operation from the debris of the pit No. 38 in the mining zone of Dadam village of Bhiwani.Main source of livelihoodWe are aware of the risk but the mining zone is the main source of livelihood for us. A few incidents have occured in the past, but we never thought such a mishap could ever take place. — Amit, Dadam Resident Dharambir was employed as a driver of a dumper truck at the mining site. He was among the five persons who died after a huge stone fell on them within minutes of them reaching the site to resume mining operations.“I had also come with him in these hills earlier. I never had an idea that it could prove so deadly. My uncle used to say that there are risks in the mining zone. Some incidents have occurred,” he said, adding that they would take their uncle’s body to their native Bhaloth village in Rohtak.Meanwhile, relatives and villagers demanded compensation for the families of the victims. Narender, a relative of another victim Bijender of Baganwala village in Tosham, said he had been working in the mines from early days. Narender said, “I have also worked in these mines.” Bijender was a machine operator, Narender added. He was married and also had a son, said Narender.Amit of Dadam village said, “Around 200 persons from the village are working in the mining area. We are aware of the risk involved in mining. A few incidents have occured in the past, but we never thought such a mishap could ever take place.”This landslide was the biggest mishap at the mining zone in Dadam village. Though there had been small incidents when stones fell resulting in death or injuries to workers, big stone sliding over was never heard off by people residing in adjoining villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/relief-sought-for-victims-families-357495
03-01-2022||Yamunanagar||Seeking regularisation, guest teachers protest at Jagadhri||Guest teachers today held a protest march at Jagadhri in the district to protest against the state government’s failure to fulfil their demands.They have been sitting on a dharna on the Jagadhri-Ponta Sahib national highway near Aggrasain Chowk since December 25 in support of their demands, including regularisation, service rules and basic salary on a par with other teachers.Guest teachers in large numbers from across the state assembled at the dharna place in Jagadhri today.They raised anti-government slogans and took out a protest march in the evening starting from Aggrasain Chowk to Sapphire hotel.In the day, a five-member delegation of guest teachers met DC Parth Gupta and SP Kamaldeep Goyal. Nitin Lamba, chief organising secretary, Sangrash Samiti, said the DC spoke to Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar, who would meet the delegation andEducation Department senior officers in Chandigarh on Monday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/seeking-regularisation-guest-teachers-protest-357494
03-01-2022||Geetanjali Gayatri||There's danger but we have no choice: Mine worker||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 2Happiness turned sour in minutes for all workers involved in operations at the Dadam mining site in Bhiwani’s Tosham block with the landslide that resulted in five deaths yesterday.Thirtyfive-year-old Ashwini Dahiya, engaged in transporting mining material, has spent the last two days watching bodies being extricated from the debris, rescue teams working round the clock and hope dwindling with every passing hour. “The landslide took place at around 9 am and I reached here at 9.15 am. Though none of the victims were personally known to me, it came as a shock to know that my co-workers lay buried beneath the debris,” he says.With operations closed for over 50 days at Dadam, the workers received a message on December 31 that mining was resuming the next day.“There was celebration as the mine started filling up with workers. This is our only source of income and everyone was happy that they were getting back to work. However, the first day of the New Year and the resumption of mining operations turned into a tragedy as the mountain came sliding down and buried those who had reached the work pit,” Dahiya says.Since then, Dahiya and other villagers stayed put as the operations continued.“The last body has been found. They called in the ambulance, indicating that it has been extricated. Though we know we are working in perilous conditions, I never thought I would see bodies being pulled out from the debris. The danger is real but we have no choice. After this incident, it will be difficult to get the fear out of our heads but we will come back and put ourselves in danger again because there is no other source of income in this desert-like stretch,” he said.While two workers were cremated today, the bodies of others were handed over to the kin after the autopsy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/theres-danger-but-we-have-no-choice-mine-worker-357493
03-01-2022||---||Japan Foundation gifts books to Haryana CM Khattar||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, January 2The Kurukshetra University Vice-Chancellor, Prof Som Nath Sachdeva, greeted Chief Minister Manohar Lal on the New Year eve at his residence and handed over books received from Japan Foundation, New Delhi.As a goodwill gesture, the Director General, Japan Foundation, New Delhi, Koji Sato, had sent a set of books of Japanese language, art, culture, society, religion and mythology, along with a letter written in Hindi, to the Chief Minister.Khattar is learning basic Japanese culture and language in a three-month duration online basic certificate course from Kurukshetra University.While thanking the Japan Foundation, Khattar said, “I am glad to receive these books. I will cherish this gift forever. We need to learn about different cultures and languages to expand our knowledge and respect other cultures. Books are the best companions in this endeavour for all.”The Chief Minister further said, “We need to teach our students at least one foreign language and extra skills so that they can get employment and learn about different cultures.” The Kurukshetra University Registrar, Dr Sanjeev Sharma, Dean, Faculty of Arts and Languages, Prof Brajesh Sawhney, Curator, Dharohar Museum, Dr Vivek Chawla, and Dr Jitender Jangra were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/japan-foundation-gifts-books-to-cm-khattar-357491
03-01-2022||Nitish Sharma||Kurukshetra University road contract terminated over tardy work||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, January 2Following continuous delay in the completion of Pipli to Kurukshetra University road project, the PWD (B&R) Department has terminated the tender of the construction agency. This is the second time when the tender of the same stretch has been terminated by the department due to poor pace of work.3-member panel formed to assess workA three-member committee has been formed to assess the work done by the contractor so that a fresh tender for the remaining work can be floated. The committee will visit the site on Monday and will submit its report in a couple of days. — Arun Bhatia, Executive Engineer PWD (B&R)Has continuously been missing deadlinesThe six-laining project was announced by the Chief Minister in 2015 and a budget of Rs 57.53 crore was to be spent on this project.The civil work was to be done at a cost of Rs 44.23 crore, while the remaining amount was to be spent on paver blocks and electrification work.The project started in December 2018 and was scheduled to be completed by December 2019. Only 4 per cent work was done, following which the tender was terminated. A fresh tender was allotted in 2020. The work resumed in April end and it was scheduled to be completed in 15 months but the project again missed its deadline.As per the information, following the request made by the agency, the department had extended the deadline up to February 8 this year, but due to the snail pace of the project, it has been terminated again, with just around 50 per cent work done. A penalty was also imposed for non-execution of the work. The project has become an ordeal for Kurukshetra residents. With the termination of tender, the project is set to be delayed further.Due to the poor pace of work, Thanesar BJP MLA Subhash Sudha had to raise the issue in the Haryana Assembly during the winter session.As per the department, despite various correspondences and persuasion by the department, no efforts were made by the agency to accelerate the progress of work proportionate to the time lapsed and to ensure its completion within the extended time. The road is the lifeline of the city, but the work was delayed due to which the public is suffering. Executive Engineer PWD (B&R) Arun Bhatia, said “Following continuous delay, the tender has been terminated, and the contractor has been asked to stop the work with immediate effect. A three-member committee has been formed to assess the work done by the contractor so that a fresh tender for the remaining work can be floated. The committee will visit the site on Monday and will submit its report in a couple of days. A fresh tender will be floated soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kshetra-varsity-road-contract-terminated-over-tardy-work-357490
03-01-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||1.25 lakh in 15-18 age group to be vaccinated in Faridabad from today||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, January 2The district Health Department has identified around 1.25 lakh beneficiaries proposed to be covered under the Covid vaccination drive starting from Monday for 15-18 age group.A senior Health Department official said while the eligible youngsters in the 15-18 age group were expected to be covered within three to four weeks, the vaccination of other categories would be carried out simultaneously so that the target was achieved in the minimum possible time period.The district has achieved around 84% of the vaccine target so far. He said though the 100% target of the first dose had been achieved already, there were over 1.5 lakh adults who were yet to get the second dose.Claiming that the inoculation had been going on smoothly, Dr Maan Singh, incharge, Covid vaccination drive in the district, said the success depends upon the awareness among the residents, as the threat of the third wave was not over. Though the surfacing of Omicron had been a cause for concern, he said full vaccination and following necessary SOPs would certainly help in controlling the infection.Revealing that around 60 vaccination centres had been set up across the district so far, Dr Singh said more of these were expected to be made functional in educational institutions soon.Meanwhile, with 83 new cases reported on Sunday, the number of active cases in the district has gone up to 333 — the highest in the past seven months. A total of 2,661 samples were collected on Sunday. The recovery rate has slipped down to 98.95% from 99.2% last week. The doubling period, however, has been reduced to 1,209 days from 33,348 days last week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-25l-in-15-18-age-group-to-be-vaccinated-in-fbad-from-today-357489
03-01-2022||Ambala||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij not to address plaints in person||Following a surge in Covid cases, Home Minister Anil Vij has decided not to redress the grievances of the public at his residence. The complainants can now send their grievances to the Home Minister through e-mail and by post.Raminder Singh, media adviser to the Home Minister, said a large number of people from across the state reach Ambala to raise their problems before Vij, but due to the rising covid cases it had been decided that he would not redress the complaints at his residence. The complainants can send their complaints through e-mail on anilvijcomplaints@gmail.com and through the post. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vij-not-to-address-plaints-in-person-357488
03-01-2022||---||Haryana state readies for imminent third Covid wave||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 2Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the state was working strenuously to deal with any situation that may arise due to the third wave of Covid.‘PrecautionAry’ doses from Jan 10The health staff, frontline workers and senior citizens of the state will be given ‘precautionary’ doses from January 10. The vaccination of 15-18 age group will also start from Monday. They will be given Covaxin shots. — Manohar Lal Khattar, Chief MinisterKU postpones Ratnawali festKurukshetra: Amid the Covid surge, the Department of Youth and Cultural Affairs of the KU has postponed the state-level Ratnawali festival till further notice. It was scheduled for January 8 to 11. In a letter, a KU official said the fest had been postponed in view of Omicron emergence and the rising Covid cases. TNSThe Chief Minister presided over a review meeting on Covid here today. All Deputy Commissioners of the districts joined the meeting through videoconferencing. He directed the Deputy Commissioners to review the functioning of oxygen plants, hospitals and the availability of other necessary equipment in the districts. The Chief Minister said the Deputy Commissioners should also alert the local and inter-departmental committees of their districts, so that their services could be availed when required. Services of anganwari workers and the Education Department can also be sought. He said the bus stands, mini secretariats, malls, gyms and other public places should be kept under surveillance, and entry of people without the vaccination certificate should be restricted.The CM said vigil should be kept on travellers coming from abroad till it was ensured they did not have Covid symptoms. He said the test report of the new variant takes time, and till then they should be advised to stay under home isolation.The CM further said the facility of testing the new variant had been started at the Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak. He said the new variant was spreading rapidly. The movement of people at night should be strictly observed, he said. The CM said a fine of Rs 500 at individual level and Rs 5,000 at institution level could be imposed, if they were found flouting the Covid guidelines.Khattar said cases were increasing in Gurugram, Faridabad, Panchkula, Sonepat and Ambala. These districts have been kept in Group A as the risk of spread is high there. He asked the Deputy Commissioners to review the Covid cases daily and analyse the pattern, if any. About 3 lakh vaccination doses were being administered every day, and so far, about 3.45 crore (2 crore-first dose, 1.44 crore-second dose) people had been vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/state-readies-for-imminent-third-wave-357486
03-01-2022||Ravinder Saini||In Haryana, CBSE schools to move HC over Class VIII board exam||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, January 2Private schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) are at loggerheads with the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) over the latter’s directive on conducting Class VIII board exams in all schools of the state.Illogical decisionThere’s resentment among CBSE schools... BSEH decision is illogical. We have no other option, but to approach the court . — Anil Kaushik, State Prez of Private Schools’ AssnSchools refuse to get registeredNothing wrongThere’s nothing wrong with the decision. CBSE bylaws state that schools up to Class VIII have to follow directives of the state concerned. — VP Yadav, Vice-Chairman, Haryana School boardThe schools have not only decided that they will not get registered with the BSEH for the purpose, but have also resolved to file a writ petition in the high court against the decision. They say that the BSEH cannot force any school affiliated to other boards to follow its directive.“Mandating Class VIII exams by the BSEH for all schools will mean dual affiliation, which is neither practical nor feasible. Hence, we are resisting its decision and are all set to challenge it in the high court. Since the schools (opposing the decision) possess a no objection certificate issued by the state government, allowing them to affiliate with any board for the purpose of curriculum, assessment and exam structure, it is beyond our understanding why the BSEH is imposing its decision,” said Anshul Pathania, district president, Haryana Progressive School Conference (a group of CBSE-affiliated schools).The syllabus for Class-8 differs from school to school and a common examination such as this would disrupt the current curriculum followed in schools affiliated to other boards, Pathania said.The BSEH had asked all schools to register themselves on its website before January 10 so that students could get enrolled for Class VIII examination. All schools, however, took a collective decision at a recent meeting to not get registered in protest, said Pathania.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-haryana-cbse-schools-to-move-hc-over-class-viii-board-exam-357458
03-01-2022||---||2 more bodies found, Bhiwani landslip toll five||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh/Bhiwani, Jan 2A day after the landslide at Dadam mining zone in Tosham block of Bhiwani, two more bodies were recovered, taking the toll to five. The deceased were identified as Dinesh Dutt of Hoshiarpur and Dharambir of Bhaloth village in Rohtak.A fact-finding committee headed by Additional Deputy Commissioner Rahul Narwal will conduct an inquiry into the incident and look into any possible violations in carrying out mining operations.At least 70 members of the NDRF and the SDRF were deployed for the rescue operation. Deputy Commissioner RS Dhillon said, “A case will be registered against the contractor.” Jarnail Singh (50), an eyewitness, said he was at the site when he saw the landslide near pit number 37-38. “A thick blanket of dust had enveloped the site. There was a change in shift at 8 am, which was why not many workers were present. This was the first-of-its-kind incident since I started working here over two decades ago,” he said.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said all clearances for mining were given by the central department. “Once a detailed investigation is carried out, we will take action against the guilty,” he said. Contractor Vedpal Tanwar, a representative of Govardhan Mines, said they had sublet the site to Kumkum Mines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-more-bodies-found-bhiwani-landslip-toll-five-357449
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mishap averted: Army chopper makes emergency landing in Haryana's Jind; all on board safe||An Army helicopter, flying from Bathinda in Punjab to Delhi, made an “emergency landing” in an agricultural field in Haryana’s Jind district on Sunday and all the three persons on board are safe, a police official said.There was no immediate statement from the Army.“The Army helicopter, which was flying from Bathinda in Punjab to Delhi made an emergency landing in Jajanwala village in Jind district,” Inspector Rajesh Kumar told PTI over phone from Jind. All three on board the helicopter are safe, the Station House Officer (SHO) of Narwana police station said.     Asked about the reason for the emergency landing, he said, “There could be some technical issue, but Army authorities can speak on this”.After the helicopter landed in the fields, many villagers gathered at the site. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/army-chopper-does-emergency-landing-in-haryanas-jind-all-on-board-safe-357303
