07-01-2022||---||Haryana CM Khattar holds yagna for Modi's long life, demands dismissal of Channi govt||Panchkula, January 7Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday demanded the dismissal of the Charanjit Singh Channi government and imposition of President’s rule in Punjab.Khattar and Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta performed a yagna at the Mansa Devi temple for the long life of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.He alleged that the Congress dispensation was unable to ensure law and order in the state citing Wednesday Prime Minister “security breach” as evidence. Khattar along with State Home Minister Anil Vij and State BJP chief OP Dhankar submitted a memorandum to Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya at the Raj Bhavan here regarding the Ferozepur incident.“We submitted a memorandum to the Governor requesting President to take strict action against Punjab government,” Khattar later told reporters.“I have made an appeal to the President that Punjab government should be dismissed and President’s rule should be imposed under which forthcoming assembly polls in the state should be held.“In the upcoming polls, political leaders of various parties will campaign and Prime Minister will also visit the state again, and it appears that the incumbent regime in Punjab will be unable to ensure law and order,” he said.Earlier on Friday morning, Khattar, State Assembly Speaker and BJP MLA Gian Chand Gupta, former Union Minister R L Kataria, and other senior party leaders performed a ‘yagna’ and ‘Mahamrityunjay’ religious ritual at Mata Mansa Devi temple in Panchkula for “long life of Prime Minister Narendra Modi”.The memorandum mentioned how Prime Minister’s convoy was blocked for several minutes in Ferozepur by some “Congress goons” who were holding protest there.“We are world’s biggest democracy. The way obstacles were created in Prime Minister’s programme in the state is totally unacceptable,” Khattar said.“Why arrangement for an alternative route was not made? The state government gave clearance, but road was also blocked by protesters, to say that administration did not know about this is hard to believe,” he said, adding the incident smacks of conspiracy.Khattar said he heard police also egged the protesters on .   In what the MHA defined as a “major security lapse”, the prime minister’s convoy was stranded on a flyover due to a blockade by protesters in Ferozepur on Wednesday after which he returned from poll-bound Punjab without attending any event or rally.Khattar said law and order responsibility lies with state government and the Channi dispensation had utterly failed in this.“If Punjab government says there was no lapse, then why did they form a probe committee?” he asked.Khattar alleged that Punjab government knew that weather was inclement for the last couple of days and road route may have to be used for Prime Minister’s travel.He said Channi looked “uneasy” during the inauguration of projects in Ferozepur which was done via video conference and attended by both CMs.Khattar said even Congress leaders are in a “cath-22 situation” whether to condemn the security lapse or not.“Still some Congress leaders have condemned the incident,” he said.He also termed Modi the most popular prime minister of the country till date. He said Modi took bold decisions which his predecessors feared to touch.“No one was ready to touch Article 370 in J&K and he took a big decision to scrap it. The way for construction of Ram Temple was cleared during his regime,” Khattar said.He also said decisions like the Citizenship Amendment Act were taken in the nation’s interest. — With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-khattar-holds-yagna-for-modis-long-life-demands-dismissal-of-channi-govt-359034
07-01-2022||The number of traffic cops on duty in the city is very less in comparison to the traffic flow||Increase traffic cops in Faridabad||SK Sharma, FaridabadVoter card not received yetI am going to highlight a lapse on the part of District Election Office, Karnal, as I have not received the voter I-card of my mother even after three month of applying online. I applied for it on August, 10, 2021 with all required documents and it was approved on September 13. I have also deposited the fee for it. I have been running from pillar to post for my mother’s voter I-card, which is the main document. I want to highlight this issue so that nobody faces any difficulty in future.Sonal Goyal, KarnalAdmission to pvt schools difficult for EWS studentsIt is surprising that the state and district authorities are proving helpless in getting admissions done for students of economically weaker sections(EWS) ensured at private schools under the rule 134A of the Haryana School Education Rules 2003 even after no stay orders by the High Court in this respect. The authorities are issuing warnings to private schools daily but taking no action against them. Students and their parents are compelled to take rounds of schools and government offices. The authorities should either ensure the admissions of all selected students in the schools concerned or respond clearly to the parents that they are unable to execute the policy so that the parents can approach the court.Raj Kumar, RohtakWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/increase-traffic-cops-in-faridabad-358982
07-01-2022||Kaithal||Two students win gold||E-shramik card campRewari: E-Shramik card camp was organised by NSS volunteers of Indira Gandhi University (IGU) at Mahaniawas village in which about 50 e-shramik cards were made. Vice-Chancellor Prof SK Gakhar said the card would play an invaluable contribution in availing the benefits of the Central and state governments. Registrar Prof Pramod Kumar said this work of the NSS unit was a commendable step towards helping people. Meanwhile, the NSS volunteers also distributed warm clothes among needy people.CUH holds workshopMahendragarh: A workshop over 'Feed growing India with the goodness of bajra products' was organised at the Central University of Haryana (CUH) to make women aware of new business models and promotion of quality products. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar said the foodgrains available in India were rich in nutrition and they could be developed as a brand. The workshop was held in collaboration with Vigyan Bharti, Haryana and Science for Equity, Empowerment and Development (SEED), Ministry of Science and Technology.Birth anniversary celebratedYamunanagar: The 138th birth anniversary of Seth Mukund Lal was celebrated at MLN College, Yamunanagar. While paying floral tributes to his statue, Dr Rahul Khanna, officiating principal of the college said he (Seth) not only paved the way for the new generation decades ago but also instilled a sense of education and nationalism among the youth. He said he was a forerunner who lit the flame of knowledge in Yamunanagar. On this occasion, all teaching and non-teaching staff members were present. Sweets were distributed among all.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-students-win-gold-358979
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||NOC must for drawing groundwater||The Haryana Water Resources Conservation, Regulation and Management Authority has directed that all users (except exempted category) drawing or proposing to draw groundwater would obtain NOC as per the guidelines. They will submit their applications for NOC through an online portal-https://hwra.org.in latest by January 31, 2022.An official spokesperson said the authority had also made it clear that after January 31, 2022, applications would only be accepted with the late fee of Rs1 lakh. The tariff would be applicable on all applicants already drawing groundwater from the date of issuance of the guidelines by the state government, which was December 23, 2020, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/noc-must-for-drawing-groundwater-358976
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Budget session to be 'paperless': Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta||The forthcoming Budget session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha is set to be ‘paperless’ as Speaker Gian Chand Gupta today fixed a 45-day deadline for execution of the project. A meeting of various stakeholders, including officials of the Public Works Department, the National Informatics Centre and the National Informatics Centre Services Incorporated, was held here today to review the progress of the project.Gupta said the detailed project report of the project had already been approved. A two-day workshop started today to train the Vidhan Sabha staff. A training programme for legislators would be organised soon, he said.Gupta said the NICSI, a government department providing IT solutions, would help the Vidhan Sabha go ‘paperless’ in the next three years.Recently, a team of the Vidhan Sabha had toured Bihar and Arunachal Pradesh to study the workings of the ‘paperless’ proceedings in the states. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/budget-session-to-be-paperless-358974
07-01-2022||Gurugram||Palwal police nab two arms smugglers||The Palwal police nabbed two arms smugglers — Isha and Jalis of Janghawali village in Mathura— near the Karman border in Hodal subdivision. Six illegal country-made pistols, over 100 cartridges and a bike were seized from their possession. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-smugglers-held-358972
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||District courts in Haryana switch to virtual mode||District courts across Haryana have largely shifted to virtual mode of hearing cases and imposed other restrictions.Officials with disabilities and pregnant staff are required to work from home. Any official residing in a containment zone will also be exempted from coming to office till the area’s de-notification. The arrangements will continue till January 12. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dist-courts-switch-to-virtual-mode-358971
07-01-2022||Jhajjar||'No vax proof, no petrol' in Jhajjar||The District Food and Supplies Controller (DFSC) has directed the fuel stations and LPG agencies to check vaccination certificates of customers before providing them petrol and cylinders. JP Saini, DFSC, Jhajjar, said, “Teams of officials will be formed to carry out surprise inspections at the fuel stations.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-vax-proof-no-petrol-in-jhajjar-358970
07-01-2022||Karnal||Man arrested with 3-kg opium in Karnal village||A team of special staff, Karnal, arrested a man with 3-kg opium, near Kherisarafali village of the district. The police also seized a car from his possesion that he used for smuggling drugs.Ganga Ram Punia, SP, said the accused had been identified as Gurjaint Singh of Chogama village. On a tip off, the team laid a naka near Kherisarafali village and arrested the accused with opium hidden in the car, he said. During investigation, he said he had brought the opium from Pehowa . He had bought it for Rs 2 lakh per kg from Sunny to be supplied in different parts of Haryana. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-arrested-with-3-kg-opium-358968
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Stress laid on development of villages in Haryana||The Haryana Development and Panchayats Minister, Devender Singh Babli, said work should be done towards developing the rural areas of the state expeditiously. He said such plans should be formulated for the development of villages which laid emphasis on fulfilling the basic facilities of the villagers on the lines of cities. Development and Panchayats Minister was holding a review meeting with officials of the Development and Panchayats Department on Thursday regarding the progress of the schemes of the department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stress-laid-on-development-of-villages-358966
07-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||Consider minor's preference in child custody cases: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 6The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that the court in child custody matters was required to take into consideration the minor’s preference to stay with either of the parents or the grandparents. The ruling came in a case where a minor wanted to stay with her grandparents. The mother’s claim, on the other hand, was that a minor’s custody could not be claimed by anyone, once the natural guardian, the mother, was alive.Well-being most importantA mother or father’s right to a minor’s custody was not absolute. The child’s well-being, and not the legal right of a particular party, was of utmost importance in such matters. Punjab & Haryana High CourtJustice Sant Parkash asserted that the most important consideration, which must always weigh with the court in making orders on the appointment of guardians, was the minor’s welfare. It was true that a mother, being the minor child’s natural guardian, had a preferential right to claim her daughter’s custody, but the utmost consideration before the court was the minor’s well-being and not the legal right of a particular party.Justice Sant Parkash added that the term guardian was required to be taken in its widest possible sense. It was required to be seen not only in terms of money and physical comfort, but was also required to include the child’s moral and ethical welfare. The term custody, too, was required not to be interpreted in its strict physical sense. It meant sense of supervision and control over a child. The mother or father’s right to the custody was circumscribed by the consideration of the minor’s welfare, which was decisive for custody claim.“In the case of the custody of a minor child, the court is expected to strike a just and proper balance between the requirements of the welfare of the minor child and the rights of the parents over the minor child. The court should also take into consideration the preference of the minor child to stay with either parent or grandparent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/consider-minors-preference-in-child-custody-cases-hc-358965
07-01-2022||---||3 Panipat cops suspended, one sacked for negligence||Tribune News ServicePanipat, January 6Superintendent of Police Shashank Kumar Sawan suspended three police personnel — two sub-inspectors (SIs) and a constable — and dismissed a special police officer (SPO) reportedly for their inhuman behaviour and negligence in their duties in two separate incidents reported in Samalkha area.Murder & robberyTwo bike-borne assailants had shot at ghee trader Rajkumar Mittal alias Raju on Mata Puli road and looted his cash bag and mobile phone on Tuesday evening. After getting information, an emergency response vehicle (ERV) of the police reached the spot. The trader, lying on the road in a pool of blood, was alive at that time.The people requested the police personnel to rush him to the hospital in their vehicle but the police personnel refused to take him to the hospital saying that “their new vehicle would get dirty due to blood stains”. The SP suspended the EVR staff, including SI Karambir and constable Sombir, and dismissed the SPO from service.The second incident was also reported at Samalkha police station on Tuesday night. Surender Wadhwa, a businessman of Prashant Vihar in Delhi, said that he, along with his driver Mukesh Kumar, was on the way to Delhi from Chandigarh on Tuesday night. When they reached near Pattikalyana village, his driver stopped the car to freshen up.Meanwhile, three youths started beating the driver and looted Rs 1,000 from him. As Surender tried to save his driver, they also assaulted him and looted Rs 25,000 from him at gunpoint and fled away.They immediately called up 112. After getting information, ERV-557 reached the spot in which SI Haridutt and a policeman were there. SI Haridutt started beating the driver. The SI was reportedly drunk at that time. Surender again complained at 112 about SI Haridutt’s behaviour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-panipat-cops-suspended-one-sacked-for-negligence-358963
07-01-2022||Gurugram||Cyber fraud gang busted in Haryana, 7 arrested||The Faridabad police busted an interstate gang with the arrest of seven persons, including the kingpin. The gang had duped 187 persons in 21 states.The miscreants posed as employees of the SBI and called the victims from a toll-free number. Cash worth Rs 22.60 lakh, 35 mobile phones, 109 SIM cards and 15 ATM cards have been seized.“The accused had bought the data from a website to call credit cardholders of the SBI through a customised app. They asked the persons to change their card and ask for personal information, which they used to transfer the amount to their account, said the police. The accused have been identified as Sonveer, alias Sonu, Rahul of Bhind in MP, Aman of Etawah, Shakti of Bihar and Delhi residents Pankaj and Abdullah (kingpin), and Subhan of Farrukhabad in UP.They had committed 21 crimes in Haryana, including five in Faridabad. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cyber-fraud-gang-busted-7-arrested-358961
07-01-2022||---||Cheeka bypass: Rs 28 cr relief for landowners||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 6Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, while chairing the meeting of the High Powered Land Purchase Committee (HPLPC) here today, approved Rs 28.51 crore as the negotiating amount for the landowners, whose holdings would be purchased through e-Bhoomi. The land will be used for construction of bypass from Cheeka to the Patiala road in Kaithal.The Chief Minister, while interacting with the Deputy Commissioners of Kaithal and Fatehabad through video-conferencing, said after the purchase of landholdings, the work on the proposed projects in Kaithal should be expedited.Landowners, who had consented to give their lands for the proposed government projects, also attended the meeting. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala and Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma were also present at the meeting.He interacted with the landowners of Cheeka, Badsui, Harigarh, Kingan, Kalar Majra, Peedal and Titina villages. The bypass would benefit residents of Cheeka and neighbouring villages, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cheeka-bypass-28-cr-relief-for-landowners-358960
07-01-2022||Parveen Arora||Rs 14 lakh embezzled in Karnal via 'fake' IDs of TB patients||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, January 6An alleged scam involving lakhs of rupees has been unearthed in the tuberculosis (TB) unit of the Karnal Health Department as the funds meant for nutritional support under the Nikshay Poshan Yojana have been transferred to fake patients.STAFF INVOLVEMENT SUSPECTEDSoon after the issue came to my notice, I got a probe conducted and found multiple fake IDs of patients. We are suspecting the involvement of our staff so we got an FIR lodged for a detailed probe. — Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil SurgeonThe authorities suspect that fake IDs of patients have been generated and funds were transferred to them.Under the Nikshay Poshan Yojana, a sum of 500 per month is given to a TB patient to buy food for six months.Taking a serious note on the multiple IDs of the same patient on the portal, Civil Surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma constituted a three-member committee led by Deputy Civil Surgeon Dr Kulbir Singh. The panel found that several fake patients’ IDs were generated and funds were transferred. The accurate figure is yet to be known, but the department expects it could be over Rs 14 lakh.He did not rule out the involvement of any department employee as only a limited officials knew the password of the portal.The Civil Surgeon further claimed that there was a proper system to transfer funds to the accounts of the patients. “It is verified at different stages. An ID is generated for each confirmed TB patient and his status is verified by the team members at different stages,” he added.Meanwhile, the SP said they had registered a case under Sections 120B, 409 and 420 of the IPC had been registered against unknown persons. “We are inquiring all angles and the investigation has been handed over to the Economic Cell,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/14-lakh-embezzled-in-karnal-via-fake-ids-of-tb-patients-358959
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker nominates panel members||Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta has nominated MLA Sudhir Singla as the chairperson of the panel of privileges and Narender Gupta, also an MLA, as member of the panel for the local bodies and panchayati raj institutions.As per a notification issued by the Vidhan Sabha, MLA Neeraj Sharma has been appointed the member of the local bodies and panchayati raj institutions panel and MLA Shailly as the member of the public health, irrigation, power and public works (B&R) panel. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panel-members-nominated-358954
07-01-2022||---||Haryana state leads in solar water pumps' installation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 6Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar said the state had become a leader in the country as regard to the installation of solar water pumps for promoting micro-irrigation under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Urja Suraksha Utthaan Mahabhiyan(PM-KUSUM).The Chief Minister today provided solar pumps to farmers during a digital inauguration programme held through video-conferencing from Chandigarh. The government is giving 75 per cent subsidy on these pumps. On this occasion, people who have done remarkable work in the field of solar energy were also honoured.The CM also released a booklet of the Solar Water Pumping Programme and a utility booklet for the farmers. He directed the tubewells of less than 50 horsepower which were running on electricity and being used for agriculture purposes should be shifted to solar energy in the state. Power Minister Ranjit Singh was also present on the occasion. Deputy Commissioners and officers of the New and Renewable Energy Department also joined the meeting online from their respective districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/state-leads-in-solar-water-pumps-installation-358953
07-01-2022||Sunit Dhawan||EWS admission row: 2 MLAs protest in Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, January 6A high-voltage drama took place at the Rohtak mini secretariat today as two sitting MLAs publicly castigated officials of the Education Department and administration over the denial of admission to eligible students by private schools under Rule 134-A.Govt serious about Rule 134-AThe govt is serious about admissions under the Rule 134-A and the matter is under the cognisance of the CM. — Capt Manoj Kumar, Rohtak DCIndependent MLA from Meham Balraj Kundu and Congress MLA from Rohtak Bharat Bhushan Batra reached the mini secretariat today along with parents of the EWS children who were not being admitted to private schools under Rule 134-A.Kundu threatened to sit on a dharna with the aggrieved parents and lock the local offices of the Education Department if the eligible students were still not admitted to private schools.The Meham MLA accused the DC of running away from his responsibility. Meanwhile, DC Capt Manoj Kumar cautioned the residents against getting misled by the propaganda pertaining to admissions under Rule 134-A.“Nobody is above the law and we will not allow anyone to lock the government offices,” the DC said in a statement issued later in the day. He warned the locals not to take the law into their hands under anyone’s influence or be ready to face the music.The DC said all-out efforts were being made by the Education Department, court and operators to resolve the issue.Meanwhile, DEO Vijay Laxmi said notices had been issued to the school managements against which the complaints of refusing admissions under Section 134-A had been received.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ews-admission-row-mlas-protest-in-rohtak-358952
07-01-2022||Yamunanagar||Ethanol-laden truck flagged off in Yamunanagar||SK Sachdeva, chief operating officer of the Saraswati Sugar Mills (SSM), Yamunanagar flagged off an ethanol-laden truck on Thursday.The ethanol has been supplied to the depot of Indian Oil Corporation, Rewari.“With the production capacity of 100-kilo litre per day, the ethanol production plant is working at 100 per cent capacity since its inception,” said SK Sachdeva. He said a molasses-based ethanol production plant had been set up with an investment of Rs 200 crore on the premises of the SSM. He further said the ethanol plant was inaugurated through video link by Aditya Puri, managing director of the company on December 22, 2021. “After the inauguration of the ethanol plant, the consignment (ethanol) was first time sent to the Indian Oil Corporation at Rewari, today,” said SK Sachdeva.Sachdeva said this ethanol plant was a big achievement for Haryana and Yamunanagar district. “This ethanol plant will prove to be a milestone in the success story of the ‘self-reliant India’, scheme, launched by the Government of India to make India self-reliant in all fields,” said SK Sachdeva. On this occasion, DP Singh, senior vice-president (cane) of SSM, Manoj Verma, SK Bhardwaj, Kuldeep Chaudhary and Sudhir Chandna, in-charge of Ethanol Plant were present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ethanol-laden-truck-flagged-off-in-ynagar-358949
07-01-2022||Parveen Arora||Karnal: Layout plan of elevated corridor changed||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, January 6Drawings and layout plan of the elevated corridor on single-pillar technology on the Railway Road have been changed. Now, not only the length of the proposed corridor will be increased, but also another flyover will be linked to it between the Railway Road at Committee Chowk and the old bus stand.Will help ease traffic congestionWe have changed the drawing and layout plan of the elevated corridor and this will help in easing the traffic congestion at Committee Chowk, Railway Road, near the old vegetable market, and the bus stand road. — Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-CUM-CEO, KSCLEarlier, a 2.5 km-long two-lane flyover was proposed between Haryana Nursing Home on the dividing road of Sector13 and 14 and Vikram Marg on the Railway Road at the cost of Rs 95 crore, but now the length of the flyover has been increased by around 300 meters towards Vikas Marg and now it will start from near Nirankari Bhawan. As per officials, now the cost of the project has increased to around Rs 150 crore.Both flyovers will be constructed under the Smart City project. Karnal Smart City Ltd. (KSCL), will float tender mid-January. The work allotment is likely to be done in February.The authorities claimed that this step was being initiated keeping in view the increasing traffic influx in the city in coming years. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had already given the nod for the construction of the elevated corridor last year to ease the traffic congestion in the city.“We have changed the drawing and layout plan of the elevated corridor and this will help in easing the traffic congestion at Committee Chowk, Railway Road, near old vegetable market, and bus stand road,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-CEO KSCL.“It will provide a hassle-free passage for those commuters who have to go to other places such as national highway-44 from Kaithal road, Mall road, railway station, Hansi Road and vice-versa,” Yadav added.After the construction of both flyovers, one of the major problems of the city of parking will also be resolved to a larger extent as space under the flyovers will be used for construction of parking lots, he added.The length of the two-lane flyover on the Railway Road is around 2.8 km and its width will be 9 meters. Similarly, the length of the flyover between Committee Chowk and Karan Park near the old bus stand will be around 1km.Earlier last year, traders opposed the move and had submitted their resentment to the district authorities, but later they were assured by the authorities that it would be on single-pillar technology. “These pillars will be erected on the place of divider so there will be no change in the present market space,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/layout-plan-of-elevated-corridor-changed-358948
07-01-2022||Karnal||Partial lockdown in Karnal||With a surge in Covid cases, a partial lockdown has been imposed in Karnal district with effect from Thursday.WHAT’S ALLOWED & WHAT’S NOTShops of non-essential products would be closed by 6 pm, while hotels, restaurants, standalone and shops selling essential goods, medical stores and petrol pumps among others would have to be shut by 11 pm, said DC Nishant Kumar Yadav while interacting with mediapersons here.Karnal has witnessed a sudden surge in Covid cases in the past one week. On Thursday, 107 persons tested positive, while five Omicron cases were confirmed. At present, there were 281 active cases in the district, said Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon.“Since Karnal continues to report fresh cases at an alarming rate, so the government has included it along with five other districts — Panipat, Kurukshetra, Rohtak, Jhajjar and Yamunanagar — in Group A category. Panchkula, Ambala, Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat are already part of this category. A partial lockdown has been imposed in Karnal,” Yadav added.He said they would ensure the implementation of the Covid protocol. He urged the locals to follow the curbs to curtail the virus spread. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/partial-lockdown-in-karnal-358945
07-01-2022||Rohtak||Omicron strain in 7 of 92 samples in Haryana||Seven of 92 Covid samples from Haryana have been found to contain the Omicron variant. The remaining 85 have the Delta variant.Also read: Omicron is not common cold, warns WHOSources said in the first lot, 103 samples of Coronavirus RNA had been sent for whole genome sequencing (WGS) at the state’s first and only next-generation WGS lab in Rohtak. “Of these, 11 samples could not be analysed due to poor RNA. Of the remaining 92 samples, Omicron variant was found in seven and Delta in 85,” revealed the sources.Prof Dhruva Chaudhry, State Nodal Officer for Covid, said the random samples of positive patients from across Haryana had been sent for the WGS to the Rohtak laboratory. “Of the seven cases of Omicron, five are of patients from Karnal and two from Sirsa,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/omicron-strain-in-7-of-92-samples-358943
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid: Curbs in six more Haryana districts till Jan 12||Amid the rising Covid cases in Haryana, the authorities have ordered the closure of cinema halls, multiplexes and sports complexes in six more districts till January 12, according to an official order.12 Rohtak PGIMS docs infectedAs many as 13 healthcare workers, including 12 doctors and a steno, of Rohtak PGIMS tested positive for Covid on Thursday. Dr Varun Arora, incharge of the Covid Control Room at the PGIMS, said one of the affected healthcare workers had been hospitalised and 12 were under home-isolation. TNSThe six districts where the restrictions will be applicable are Karnal, Panipat, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Rohtak and Jhajjar.The restrictions were imposed in Gurgaon, Faridabad, Ambala, Panchkula and Sonepat from January 2 to 12.According to the latest order issued by the Haryana State Disaster Management Authority on Wednesday, the restrictions will be applicable in all 11 districts till 5 am on January 12.Cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes shall remain closed, the order stated.Malls and markets will be allowed to open till 6 pm. However, shops selling essential items like milk and medicine shops will be allowed to open at all times to enable them to serve the public at large, it said.According to the restrictions imposed earlier in five districts, the closing time for malls and markets was 5 pm.All sports complexes, swimming pools and stadia shall remain closed except when being used for training of sportspersons for participation in national and international sports events, the order said. All entertainment parks and B2B exhibitions are prohibited, it said.Government and private offices, except for emergency/essential services, have been advised to function with 50 per cent staff attendance, it added.The order said other restrictions released, vide its order dated January 1 and applicable till January 12, shall continue as before. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/curbs-in-six-more-districts-till-jan-12-358942
07-01-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||NGT takes suo motu notice of Dadam landslip in Bhiwani, to probe violations||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 6Taking suo motu notice of Dadam mine landslide in Bhiwani, in which five workers were killed, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has constituted an eight-member panel to ascertain the nature of violations and extent of damage caused to the environment. The incident took place at a mine allotted to Govardhan Mines and Minerals at Dadam hills on January 1.Illegal mining was detected last yearThe committee will comprise representatives of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Regional Office of Central Pollution Control Board, Chandigarh, National Disaster Management Authority, Directorate General of Mines Safety, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, State Environment Impact Assessment Authority, Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) and District Magistrate, Bhiwani. The committee will look into issues of compensation paid and payable, safety precautions taken and required to be taken and steps to prevent recurrence of such happenings in future. The committee has got two months to furnish its report.The NGT is already hearing a separate matter related to alleged illegal mining by Govardhan Mines and Minerals. Vide an order dated July 20, 2021, the Tribunal had observed that contradictory reports on illegal mining had been submitted by a committee led by the ADC and the forest, mining and groundwater departments.While the ADC’s committee pointed out that the mining project had created illegal paths in the forest area and at the time of inspection, mining equipment was found in non-minable area, the other departments had given a clean chit to the firm.The Tribunal had then ordered the constitution of an eight-member committee headed by Justice Pritam Pal (retd) to probe the matter.Justice Pal, in the interim report dated October 13, 2021, concluded the project proponent had done illegal mining over 300 sq m in Aravalli plantation area (forest land).It recommended to the HSPCB to impose environmental compensation of a suitable amount and to the forest department to recover the cost of stones mined illegally.Mining pits were found 109 m deep against the permissible depth of 78 m. The committee concluded to determine the period of illegal mining, the Haryana Space Applications Centre, Hisar, will submit a report based on satellite imagery.On damage to Dadam distributary, the committee asked the centre to submit the report regarding illegal mining in the portion where the depth of mining pit had gone down to 200-250 ft and the period during which the said mining was done.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ngt-takes-suo-motu-notice-of-dadam-landslip-to-probe-violations-358888
