08-01-2022||Ambala||Lt Colonel files harassment complaint against in-laws in Ambala||A Lieutenant Colonel has filed a case against her in-laws for allegedly causing her physical and mental harassment, police here said on Saturday.Lieutenant Colonel Nidhi Dhania is presently posted in Light Air Defence Regiment at Ambala Cantt.She had filed a complaint naming her father-in-law Kuldeep Singh and mother-in-law Sheela as her harassers with Ambala SP Jashndeep Singh Randhawa after which an FIR was lodged, said police.In her complaint, she alleged that due to the exigencies of her work, she was posted at different stations and was unable to give her best due to continuous harassment by her in-laws.She said the two made her life a “living hell” and it was only her duty to the nation that made her strong enough to withstand the cruelty, police said.According to the complaint, Dhania had married Sandeep Kumar on April 18, 2018 in an arranged marriage with consent of both families.The dowry articles were also provided by her as per her in-laws’ specific demands, she wrote in her complaint.“My mother-in-law always used to taunt me for not giving them huge gifts in dowry,” she alleged.She said that her in-laws have lately been pressuring her husband to divorce her and to get married again to a rich girl who can fulfil their demands, despite the fact her husband told her that he loved her and does not want to remarry.Dhania alleged that her mother-in-law made a condition that either she should give her salary to her or leave her work in the army and become a housewife.She said her mother-in-law also filed a “false and frivolous” complaint against her before her Commanding Officer in Meerut against her, according to police. As a result her seniors and her colleagues started asking her about her personal life which became a subject of ridicule amongst her colleagues, she wrote.She said when the inquiry was carried out by her CO, the allegations were found to be false and the matter was closed.She alleged in the complaint that her in-laws also issued a public notice disowning her husband and her.The matter is being investigated, police said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lt-colonel-files-harassment-complaint-against-in-laws-in-ambala-359450
08-01-2022||Tribune Web Desk Chandigarh||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala tests positive for Covid-19||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said on Saturday he had tested positive for Covid-19.Chautala made the announcement in a tweet and asked everyone who’d come in contact with him over the last 24 hours to isolate themselves and get tested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-deputy-chief-minister-dushyant-chautala-tests-positive-for-covid-19-359395
08-01-2022||---||Rain, thunderstorm to continue over Punjab, Haryana: IMD||New Delhi, January 8Light to moderate rain/thunderstorm activity is likely to continue over Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Rajasthan till the next 24 hours, the IMD has said.It said that it would subside thereafter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/light-to-moderate-rain-thunderstorm-activity-likely-to-continue-over-punjab-haryana-till-next-24-hours-imd-359356
08-01-2022||---||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij pays surprise visit to Panchkula Civil Hospital||Panchkula, January 7As Covid cases continue to rise, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij today conducted a surprise inspection at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 and took stock of the PSA oxygen plant and other medical arrangements to tackle the third wave of the pandemic.He said the second genome sequencing lab of the state would be set up in Panchkula.“A genome sequencing laboratory is already functional at Rohtak. Another will come up in Panchkula,” he stated.He said the state was “atmanirbhar” with regard to the medical oxygen availability and fully prepared to tackle the third wave.Speaking to mediapersons, Vij said the state would not face an oxygen crisis as it did during the second wave.“At least 84 oxygen plants have been set up at government hospitals and medical colleges across the state, while 54 have been set up at private healthcare facilities,” he said. On December 31, Vij had conducted a suprise inpection at the Faridabad Civil Hospital.Hitting out at Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi over Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security breach, he said democracy did not mean that the Prime Minister could be stopped anywhere in the midst of the public.He said Channi’s clarification corroboratesdhis involvement in the “well-planned conspiracy” to stop the Prime Minister’s cavalcade.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vij-pays-surprise-visit-to-civil-hospital-359285
08-01-2022||On the entrance of Top Khana Bazaar from the Staff Road side||Ambala: Bovines feeding on waste from garbage bins||Col RD Singh (retd), AmbalaStray cattle threat to commuters in BhiwaniStray cattle roaming on roads in Bhiwani town are a threat to commuters as it causes accidents. The district authorities should paste radium tape on the horns of the stray cattle so that they can be spotted from a distance at night to avoid mishap.Kuldeep Sharma, BhiwaniFix collector rates of propertiesThe collector rates of residential, commercial, industrial plots, shops, showrooms and agricultural land have been increased by 5 to 20 per cent from this new year. The Haryana Government should fix the collector rates of all types of properties as per the actual market rates. The existing rates of stamp duty prescribed for the registration of various types of documents are also very high which needs to be reduced in public interest. The rates of stamp duty should not exceed 3 per cent of the amount of consideration for the concerned documents to be produced for registration.Shakti Singh, KarnalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bovines-feeding-on-waste-from-garbage-bins-359280
08-01-2022||Faridabad||Three held for student's murder in Faridabad||IAS gets new postingChandigarh: The government on Friday gave additional charge of Additional Labour Commissioner and Additional Director ESI to CEO Haryana Khadi and Village Industries Board, Virender Lather. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-held-for-murder-359279
08-01-2022||Karnal||Pandit Chiranji Lal Sharma Government College NCC cadets win trophies||Guest lecture on quantum chemistryFaridabad: A guest lecture on quantum Chemistry was organised by the department of chemistry, of the Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, recently. According to principal Dr Krishan Kant Gupta, the lecture was delivered by Dr Ashutosh Shukla who has done his PhD from IIT-Madras and is currently working as a assistant professor at Amity University, Patna. The resource person highlighted the important discoveries in the field of quantum chemistry and made the students aware of various phenomenal concepts like Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, Schrodinger wave equation etc. Faculty of PG classes along with 55 students attended the programme.Inter-college poster-making contestYamunanagar: In the series of National Mathematics Day programmes, a state-level inter-college poster-making competition was organised by the department of mathematics, Guru Nanak Khalsa College. College principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said in the competition, 181 participants from mathematics department of various colleges participated and highlighted their mathematical imaginations on the posters. The head of the department, Prof Gurvinder Kaur, said that Ritika Jat, a student of DAV College for Girls, Yamunanagar, secured first position in this competition; Nivea of the host college bagged second position and K Sahil secured third position.K'shetra lad brings laurelsKurukshetra: Aarav, a ClassVI student of Tagore Global School, Kurukshetra, brought laurels to the school by winning a silver medal in the 16th Matsogi Do National Championship -2021-22 held in Maharashtra. He participated in martial arts. His efforts were lauded by principal Dr Jayeta Auddy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-college-ncc-cadets-win-trophies-359278
08-01-2022||---||Centres for research on  e-mobility to come up soon in Haryana||Chandigarh, January 7Five ‘centres of excellence’ will be opened in Haryana for research and development in e-mobility. The centres will be started at 20 ITIs also. This was stated by Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala.He presided over a meeting with senior officials of the Industries and Commerce Department to finalise the draft of the Haryana Electric Vehicle Policy. Minister of Industries and Commerce Anoop Dhanak was also present at the meeting. Chautala said the five centres would be given financial assistance of Rs 5 crore each, and those to be started at 20 ITIs would get Rs 25 lakh each. He directed the officials to ensure there was no shortage of funds for research and other fields. He said the government employees would also be given concession on purchase of e-vehicles. The Deputy Chief Minister said the Haryana Electric Vehicle Policy was being drafted with focus on e-vehicle manufacturers, end-user drivers and those setting up charging stations. Exemptions would be given to them. He said the state planned to increase the number of e-vehicles in the state in 2022.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/centres-for-research-on-e-mobility-to-come-up-soon-in-haryana-359277
08-01-2022||Karnal||42K acres of 46 villages under controlled area||To encourage organised development in the district, around 42,000-acre land of 46 villages of Gharaunda and Indri blocks have been kept under controlled area. No fresh construction will be allowed outside ‘lal dora’ in these villages and change of land use (CLU) permission will be required for the construction.Among these, 41 villages are of Gharaunda block while five villages fall under Indri block, said Vikram Kumar, District Town Planner (DTP). “To regulate construction work outside lal dora in these villages, these villages have been kept under controlled area category. No further construction will be allowed outside lal dora without the CLU,” the DTP maintained. Residents have raised voice against this notification and demanded the government to withdraw it. Several advocates also met Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav and submitted a memorandum in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/42k-acres-of-46-villages-under-controlled-area-359276
08-01-2022||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar man found dead in car||The body of a man was found in his car near the cremation ground of Chhappar village of Yamunanagar district. The deceased has been identified as Gurdev (24) of Manka village.On the complaint of the father of the deceased, a case was registered against unknown persons under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC at Chhappar police station on January 6. The complainant said his younger son Gurdev had been living at his aunty’s house in Talakaur village of Yamunanagar district for the past five to six years. He added that he came to know at about 5 pm on Thursday that his son was lying in his car near the cremation ground of Chhappar village.“When we reached there, we found him dead in his car and found an injury mark on his head,” alleged the complainant. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-man-found-dead-in-car-359275
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana withdraws recognition to Sikkim school board||The recognition granted by the Board of School Education, Bhiwani, Haryana, to secondary or senior secondary examinations conducted by the Board of Open Schooling and Skill Education, Sikkim, Gangtok, has been withdrawn.Giving information in this regard, board president Dr Jagbir Singh said any examination conducted by the Board of Open Schooling and Skill Education, Sikkim, Gangtok, was now not considered equivalent to any examination conducted by the Board of School Education, Bhiwani, Haryana. It was not included in the equivalence list, he added. The equivalency list is available on the website www.bseh.org.in. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/recognition-to-sikkim-school-board-withdrawn-359274
08-01-2022||Panipat||Panipat: 2 booked for Rs 45-cr fraud||The Sadar police have booked two brothers for an alleged fraud of Rs 45 crore with a builder. Both accused were partners in real estate business with the complainant.Attar Chandra of Babarpur Mandi, the complainant, was the director in Real Heights Developers Private Limited, while Sanjay Gupta and his brother Rajesh Gupta of Eldeco were shareholders and partners in the company.Chandra alleged that the accused had defrauded the Town and Country Planning Department and sold flats to hundreds of allottees. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-2-booked-for-45-cr-fraud-359273
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana Government to formulate panchayat land lease policy||The Haryana Government is formulating a panchayat land lease policy to increase panchayats income, besides supporting industries to flourish.Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala presided over a meeting of senior officials of the Development and Panchayat and Industries and Commerce Department.He directed officials concerned to formulate the panchayat land lease policy, which would generate substantial income from leasing out panchayat land. “This income will lead to maximum development of rural areas. If industries are set up on panchayati land in villages, job opportunities will also be created for the local youth,” the Deputy CM added.“It is endeavour of the state government to establish industries on non-agricultural land in villages so that rural youth can get jobs. This will also help industries to get workers easily, while migration towards cities will also be reduced,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-to-formulate-panchayat-land-lease-policy-359272
08-01-2022||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar: Rain brings cheer to wheat growers||Farmers are upbeat as the prevailing weather conditions — rain, chill and fog — are proving beneficial for wheat and other crops.The rain has helped in natural irrigation of all crops including wheat, sugarcane, mustard and vegetables. Besides, this rain will also help in tillering of wheat crop, ultimately resulting in yield increase.Meanwhile, agriculture scientists feel if the temperature continues to be low for some more days, it would prove good for the crops.“This weather will not only help in natural irrigation of wheat, sugarcane, mustard, vegetables and other crops, but also help in tillering in wheat crop,” said Jaswinder Singh Saini, Deputy Director Agriculture, Yamunanagar.According to the information available, Yamunanagar district has 88,000 hectares under wheat crop this year. With timely rain, there will be no need for the second round of irrigation in wheat crop, thereby saving power and diesel worth crores. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rain-brings-cheer-to-wheat-growers-359271
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Poor to get free treatment in hospitals on HSVP land in Haryana||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today launched a portal for providing free treatment to poor patients in private hospitals that have been allotted land by the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) in urban estates.These hospitals will now maintain real-time data of patients belonging to the BPL category or Class IV employees who are being given treatment on concessional rates. In order to ensure transparency, the CM directed the authorities of such hospitals to maintain data in real time and upload all necessary details along with bills and supporting documents on the portal.Khattar connected with various hospitals allotted land by the HSVP through videoconferencing and took extensive details regarding the treatment of such patients and also addressed their issues.Hospitals like Artemis Medicare Services Pvt Ltd, Fortis Heart and Multi Speciality Hospital, Medi City (Medanta), Gurugram; Pushpanjali Hospital, Rewari, and Sarvodya Hospital, Faridabad, provided detailed information about their offered charges and facilities being given to such beneficiaries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/poor-to-get-free-treatment-in-hospitals-on-hsvp-land-in-haryana-359270
08-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||Reduce tree felling by cutting paper use in courts: NGT||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 7The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has asserted that there was undoubtedly a need to reduce the felling of trees by cutting down on the use of paper in courts. But the NGT, at the same time, left it on voluntary initiatives and awareness on the part of the users.“While there is undoubted need for reducing felling of trees by reducing the use of paper, such result has to be achieved by voluntary initiatives and awareness on the part of users,” NGT’s Principal Bench at New Delhi asserted.The matter was brought to the NGT’s notice after a former District and Sessions Judge MM Dhonchak moved a “letter petition” against the Registrars of all the courts across the country for protecting forests and environment by saving paper in courts.Among other things, Dhonchak suggested printing on both sides of the page to reduce wastage.Now practising as an advocate, Dhonchak added only one side of the paper was being used almost at every level in the judiciary, leading to “colossal wastage” behind which there was absolutely no logic. The “rampant wastage somewhere hints at colonial mindset and it is high time the judiciary should shed it at once like a hot potato”, he added.Dhonchak argued even if it was assumed for a while that some inconvenience would be caused in using both sides of the paper, the hassle was negligible compared to the end achieved in terms of saving trees. Describing green spaces as the lungs of a country, Dhonchak submitted these were even otherwise being eaten up by commercial and infrastructural developments and a direction by the NGT could save crores of trees.Taking up the matter through videoconferencing, the NGT Bench of chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel and expert member Dr Nagin Nanda observed the applicant was seeking a direction to stop unnecessary wastage of paper to prevent the felling of trees. It was stated that one side of the paper was being used in judiciary only resulting in unnecessary wastage of paper. “Such a reform cannot be expected by way of judicial order of this tribunal. The application is accordingly disposed of,” the Bench asserted.Colonial mindsetA former District and Sessions Judge MM Dhonchak said only one side of the paper was being used almost at every level in the judiciary, leading to “colossal wastage” behind which there was absolutely no logic. The “rampant wastage somewhere hints at colonial mindset and it is high time the judiciary should shed it at once like a hot potato”, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/reduce-tree-felling-by-cutting-paper-use-in-courts-ngt-359269
08-01-2022||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar: Man booked for hateful post on Facebook||The police have booked a man for allegedly hurting religious sentiments of Sikhs by uploading a hateful post on Facebook.On the complaint of Harpreet Singh of Balauli village of Yamunanagar, a case was registered against the suspect under Section 295-A (deliberate and malicious act, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class) of the IPC at the Chhachhrauli police station yesterday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-booked-for-hurting-feelings-359268
08-01-2022||Faridabad||Faridabad double murder: Two held||Cracking a double murder that took place six days ago in a locality here, the police have arrested two persons.Revealing this, a police official said the accused — Pankaj and Rohit of Nangla Part-2 here — killed two labourers and injured another one while trying to rob them on January 1 night. The incident took place around 12.30 am when the victims were asleep in an under-construction building in this colony.The victims — Akash (23) and Rambir (42) — woke up when the accused tried to steal their money and the latter assaulted them with knives, hammer and iron rods before fleeing with Rs 2,000 and mobile phones. While the two of them succumbed later, the third one was seriously injured. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-double-murder-two-held-359267
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Tanwar to take out anti-govt rally from Jan 14||Former MP and senior Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Ashok Tanwar today announced “jansankalp yatra” to expose various acts of omission and commission of the BJP-JJP government.Addressing a press conference here, Tanwar said the yatra would begin from Faridabad on January 14 and cover all 90 Assembly segments in 60 days covering over 4,000 km. “The yatra will culminate into a big rally,” he added. During the yatra, Tanwar said, the TMC had set a target of enrolling 5 lakh members.Seeking a judicial probe by a sitting HC judge into the landslide at the Dadam mining site, he said role of BJP leaders in mining contracts should also be looked into. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tanwar-to-take-out-anti-govt-rally-from-jan-14-359265
08-01-2022||Bhiwani||Bhiwani landslip probe report will be made public, says Dy CM Dushyant Chautala||Turning the heat on the Opposition, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala stated that the report of the inquiry committee instituted by the state government into the landslide at Dadam mining zone in Bhiwani district would be made public and action would be taken against anyone found guilty of negligence in the matter.Editorial: Regulate mining: Curb illegal practices in money-spinning sectorInteracting with mediapersons during his visit to Bhiwani today, Dushyant stated that it has become a habit with Opposition party leaders to see a “scam” in every incident. “The inquiry is likely to be completed very soon and it will be made public,” he said while expressing regret over the demise of five persons in the incident.The Haryana Government has set up a fact-finding team headed by the Additional Deputy Commissioner Bhiwani Rahul Narwal.Alerting the public and health authorities, the Deputy CM said that Covid infection is increasing at a high rate and there is a need to be more careful now. He said that instructions have been given to the Health Department to speed up the vaccination campaign.Reviewing the development works in a meeting with the district officials, Dushyant issued instructions to the officials to complete the projects within the stipulated time.The Deputy CM directed the officials of the Public Health Engineering Department that the problem of waterlogging on the vacant land of the Municipal Council near the Loharu Road overbridge in the city should be resolved on priority. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhiwani-landslip-probe-report-will-be-made-public-says-dy-cm-359259
08-01-2022||Karnal||Karnal: BJP men burn effigies of Congress leaders||In a protest against “lapse” in the PM’s security, BJP workers today burnt effigies of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, former president Rahul Gandhi, and Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi.District BJP chief Yogendra Rana, Mayor Renu Bala Gupta, CM’s representative of Karnal segment Sanjay Bathla, former district president Ashok Sukhija and others demanded a case against Channi. “We want the Punjab Government to be suspended and the President’s rule be imposed instead,” Rana said. Gharaunda MLA Harvinder Kalyan called it an unfortunate incident. He accused Channi of hatching a conspiracy against the PM. — TNSPolitical stunt: BKU||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-men-burn-effigies-of-congress-leaders-359255
08-01-2022||---||Haryana CM demands President rule in Punjab||Chandigarh, January 7Alleging security breach during PM Narendra Modi’s visit to Punjab on January 5, CM Manohar Lal Khattar today demanded the dismissal of the Charanjit Singh Channi government and holding of the upcoming Assembly polls in the state under the President’s rule.Earlier during the day, Khattar offered prayers at Shri Mata Mansa Devi temple in Panchkula and performed Maha Mrityunjya Yajna with Speaker Gian Chand Gupta.A delegation comprising the CM, Home Minister Anil Vij, Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar, Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma, Sports Minister Sandeep Singh and state BJP president OP Dhankar submitted a memorandum to Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, describing the PM’s security breach as a conspiracy.The memorandum called the protesters who blocked Modi’s route Congress’ goons. “To fail the PM’s programme, Congress put the PM’s security in danger,” the memorandum, which was addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind, added.Holding a press conference later, Khattar said the prima facie lapses were visible. “A route is allowed only after it’s cleared. I can’t agree with the fact that it happened without the knowledge of the Punjab Government,” he added.On Channi’s assertion that he couldn’t fire at the protesters, he said the Prime Minister’s security was a different issue. “It is the Chief Minister’s responsibility to control the crowd and maintain law and order. The PM is leading 130 crore people,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-demands-prez-rule-in-punjab-359250
08-01-2022||Parveen Arora||Despite spreading awareness, people continue to fall prey to cyber fraud: Cops||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, January 7Even after initiating several steps to spread awareness on cyber crimes and online frauds, people continue to fall prey to the cyber fraudsters in the district, say the police. Even the educated people are lured by them. As per the data gathered by The Tribune, 161 cases of cyber crime, online fraud and of Information Technology Act had been registered last year till December 14 in the district, causing a loss of around Rs 1.70 crore to the victims.In around 50 cases, people were cheated through Internet banking, account verification, OTP sharing, cloning of ATM and others. Around 30 cases are related to e-wallets as fraudsters cheated people through Google Pay, Paytm, PhonePe.In a few cases, people have been ‘blackmailed’ by women after luring them to pose naked on-screen video call and later constantly demanding money and threatening to make the videos go viral on social media.The police say people are lured with the help of fake links, messages which are being sent on their mobile phones or social networking sites, which they easily open and are trapped. Elderly persons and first-generation technology users are the most vulnerable for cyber crime as they easily fall prey to the glib talk of fraudsters, the police official added.“Apart from online fraud of getting account details, OTP and others, a new type of fraud has become popular and that is luring people on the pretext of lottery ticket which is sent on the Whatsapp number of the victim,” said inspector Kavita, SHO, Cyber police station.“I got a call that I had won Rs 25 lakh in a lottery ticket and in just 10 minutes, I was made a member of a WhatsApp group which had 180 members. I had been asked to deposit Rs 2 lakh as processing fee, but I immediately quit the group,” said a 60-year-old woman of the city.Rohit Kumar (name changed), a resident of the city, said he had received a message of a withdrawal of Rs 20,000 couple of months back and when he contacted the bank, he was shocked the payment was withdrawn from an ATM, but he did not use his ATM card. “I was told that someone had cloned his ATM,” he added.The police claim that they conduct camps to spread awareness, besides establishing cyber desk at the police station level. “We organise camps in schools and colleges to make youngsters aware of such crime, so that they do not fall prey to the fraudsters,” said Ganga Ram Punia, Superintendent of Police (SP).Tracing percentage low in such casesThe tracing percentage of such cases is very low as only 26 cases had been traced so far, while 18 cases had been cancelled and the trial of four cases is going on in courts. Nearly 43 cases were declared untraced, said the police.Organising camps for youngstersWe organise camps in schools and colleges to make youngsters aware of such crime. Ganga Ram Punia, Superintendent of PoliceWas asked to deposit Rs2L processing feeI got a call that I had won Rs 25 lakh in a lottery ticket and in just 10 minutes, I was made a member of a WhatsApp group which had 180 members. I had been asked to deposit Rs 2 lakh as processing fee, but I immediately quit the group. — Woman resident, Karnal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/despite-spreading-awareness-people-continue-to-fall-prey-to-cyber-fraud-cops-359246
08-01-2022||---||Haryana CM's Flying Squad registered 242 cases||Chandigarh, January 7Special teams of the Haryana Chief Minister’s Flying Squad conducted surprise raids on 554 places, registered 242 cases and arrested 340 persons across the state in 2021.An official spokesman said total fine and value of other items recovered during these raids was more than Rs 13.89 crore. These raids were conducted after receiving information about various irregularities committed by accused persons.The purpose of these raids was to check manufacturing of adulterated and spurious products, including illicit liquor, busting of fake call centres, GST frauds, electricity theft, black marketing of domestic gas and oxygen cylinders, illegal mining, drug peddling, checking of overloaded vehicles, irregularities in issuing driving license, and registration certificate, he added.Out of the total cases registered, 124 were under investigation while charge sheet in 118 FIRs had been submitted in courts concerned, he said.The spokesperson said that flying squad teams raided 107 places to clamp down manufacturing of adulterated and spurious products and arrested six persons in this connection. These raids led to recovery of fines and goods to the tune of over Rs 3.64 crores, he added. In a drive to check illicit liquor, flying squad teams arrested 114 persons in 98 surprise raids, which led to the recovery of over Rs 3.98 crore from accused, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cms-flying-squad-registered-242-cases-359241
08-01-2022||---||Haryana's unemployment rate 6.1%, CM counters Congress||Chandigarh, January 7Rubbishing the claims of the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) of over 34 per cent unemployment rate in Haryana, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said it was actually only 6.1 per cent.He relied on the self-declaration made by residents in Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP).Holding a press conference on Friday, Khattar said around 98 per cent of the families had been registered under the PPP.“To date, a total of 65.78 lakh families have been registered and the population is 2.57 crore. Of these, 1.73 crore are in the 18 to 58 age group. Among them, 10.60 lakh persons have declared themselves unemployed,” the CM added.“Based on income verification, the data of 1.48 lakh households with an annual income of less than Rs 1 lakh was prepared as of December 1, 2021. The third phase verification of the income of the families registered under the PPP has been completed. Meanwhile, the fourth phase of income verification between Rs 75,000 and Rs 1 lakh is still underway,” he added.The CM further said as many as 91,900 families had participated in the Antyodaya fairs. Of these, assistance to around 58,200 families has been assigned to the departments concerned.“The counselling of the remaining families is being done by the departments. Also, assistance to 27,600 families has already been given,” he added.The state government has set a target to uplift 1 lakh families by March 2022.On the occasion, the CM announced a hike of Rs 200 per student in reimbursement given to private schools for admissions to the students belonging to economically weaker sections (EWS) under Rule 134-A of the Haryana School Education Rules for 2021-22.Party highlighting unrealistic figureSince the Cong has a habit of spreading rumours, it’s highlighting an unrealistic figure of 34% released by the CMIE... It has been adopting tricks to defame the govt. Petty politics over such figures isn’t right. — Manohar Lal Khattar, CM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryanas-unemployment-rate-6-1-cm-counters-cong-359236
08-01-2022||Nitish Sharma||Haryana: Amid EWS admission row, last date further pushed to Jan 15||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, January 7Amid the ongoing row over admissions to students belonging to the EWS under Rule 134-A of the Haryana School Education Rules, the deadline has been further extended till January 15.Nearly 2,000 EWS students were allotted schools under Rule 134-A in Ambala, of which just around 400 students have been admitted till Thursday. Earlier, December 24 was the last date, which was extended till December 31 then to January 7 and now, it has been further pushed.Meanwhile, parents of the students who are yet to get admission protested outside the office of the District Education Officer in Ambala city. The parents said they had been struggling to get their wards admitted to the allotted schools. “The administration must ensure that our children get admissions soon as the delay has been causing a loss to their studies.”DEO Suresh Kumar said: “All efforts are being made to ensure that all children get admission. Also, the government has further extended the last date of admissions and hiked the reimbursement to the schools.” “Now the reimbursement for students studying in classes I to V has been increased from Rs 300 to Rs 500 in rural areas and for those in classes VI to VIII from Rs 500 to Rs 700 in urban areas. Similarly, the reimbursement for students studying up to class V in urban areas is increased from Rs 500 to Rs 700 and those in classes VI to VIII from Rs 700 to Rs 900,” he added.However, the private school associations seem unimpressed with the decision of increasing the reimbursement by Rs 200 per student.Prashant Munjal, state vice president, Haryana Progressive School’s Conference, said: “We never sought a hike of Rs 200. All we want is reimbursement as per the Right to Education Act. We have also decided that the students who have gotten their transfer certificates can stay with their previous schools so that their studies are not affected.” Clear dues firstThe govt should first clear the dues with interest and ensure that only genuine candidates get admissions. It should also eliminate the difference in reimbursement between rural and urban areas. — Kulbhushan Sharma, president, federation of private schools welfare association||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amid-ews-admission-row-last-date-further-pushed-to-jan-15-359235
08-01-2022||---||Schools to face fine for flouting fee rules in Haryana||Rohtak, January 7Unaided private schools will now have to pay a penalty of Rs 30,000 up to Rs 2 lakh if they are found guilty of violating the provisions under Rule 158 of the Haryana School Education Rules.The recent amendment to the rules has made a provision of the fine. Significantly, three levels have been set up to slap the penalty.Anshul Pathania, secretary, Rohtak CBSE School Association, said it was for the first time that a provision of penalty had been made for the violations pertaining to Rule 158. “The fine amount is too much and also not affordable for many schools hence I raised the issue at an online meeting of the district officials and school representatives taken by the ACS (School Education) on Wednesday. I even urged him to make a provision of fining the parents too, in case of late fee deposit,” he added.Pathania further said the state authorities had been demanded to reduce the penalty amount to a reasonable level otherwise it would cause resentment among the schools across the state.Meanwhile, Vijay Laxmi, District Education Officer, said all schools had been asked to submit Form VI (pertaining to details like students’ strength, infrastructure, teachers, fee, etc) by February 1. “The meeting was held to make all district education officers aware of the amendment to Rule 158 of the Haryana School Education Rules so that it is implemented efficiently,” she said.The School Education Department has devised a formula to regulate the fee in unaided private schools. The fee hike in these schools will now be either linked to the expenditure incurred by the institution or the consumer price index.3 LEVELS FOR PENALTYFirst violation: A fine up to Rs30,000 for primary schools, Rs50,000 for middle and Rs1 lakh for secondary and senior secondary institutionsSecond violation: A fine of Rs60,000 for primary schools, Rs1 lakh for middle and Rs2 lakh for secondary and senior secondary institutionsThird violation: It is punishable with an add-on penalty of the second violation and the de-recognition of the schoolEXEMPTIONPrimary schools charging up to Rs12,000 per annum while middle/secondary/senior secondary institutions up to Rs15,000 per annum have been exempted from fee regulation provisions||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/schools-to-face-fine-for-flouting-fee-rules-in-haryana-359233
08-01-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Surajkund mela put off due to Covid surge||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, January 7The surge in Covid cases has led to the postponement of the 35th edition of the Surajkund International Crafts Mela scheduled to be held between February 4 and 20 this year. This event was suspended last year on the same grounds. An official spokesperson said the state government had taken the decision in view of the spread of the new variant of Omicron in the country. The announcement of the new date of the fair will be decided later after taking into account the circumstances of the pandemic.Revealing that though the preparations of the world famous event was going on in full swing and expected to be completed soon, officials of the district administration and the Department of Tourism confirmed the postponement of the event late this evening. Speculations was on about the suspension of the event for the past few days in wake of the surge in the number of fresh cases. The officials said strict guidelines were already in force to implement SOPs related to the pandemic.The district has been in the list of the cities where partial lockdown conditions have already been enforced according to which markets and shops have been allowed to remain open till 5 pm only and the presence in the restaurants and hotels cut to 50 per cent.In a meeting held here today, the district administration announced that while the Republic Day function would also be organised under the Covid protocol, the decision regarding the hosting of cultural programmes would depend on the conditions prevailing at that time. “If the condition deteriorates, the number of people attending the function can be curtailed,” said a senior official. “Though preparations of the fair have been going on, the decision regarding the postponement came this evening,” said DC Jitender Yadav.Earlier in the day, Rajesh Joon, Divisional Manager, Haryana Tourism, said 80 per cent of the preparations had been done and any move depends on the decision of the state government. While the Great Britain has been partner nation, Jammu and Kashmir had been announced as the theme state this year. The last mela held in 2020 had over 10 lakh visitors.The district reported 580 fresh cases on Friday, which is the highest in the past eight months. With the number of active cases rising to 1,648, 52 containment zones have been announced. Faridabad and Gurugram account for over 65 per cent of the total cases in the state.District reports 580 fresh casesPreparations were going onThough preparations of the fair have been going on, the decision regarding the postponement came on Friday evening. — Jitender Yadav, Deputy Commissioner||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/surajkund-mela-put-off-due-to-covid-surge-359232
08-01-2022||Deepender Deswal||In Hisar, sample sent for testing after 3 days||Tribune News ServiceHisar, January 7In a lapse on the part of health officials, the sample of a person with Covid symptoms was sent for testing to the laboratory three days after the health authorities took the sample.The patient has quarantined herself after she realised she was showing symptoms of cough and cold.According to the information available, the 25-year-old woman gave sample to the civil hospital in Hisar on January 4 for real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for suspected Covid infection.She said that she suffered from cold and cough at her office and opted to get tested for Covid. “I have quarantined myself as the infection is growing in the region,” she said.The woman said that she waited for 48 hours and approached the civil hospital authorities through an acquaintance to know the status of the sample.“But I was told that no report was available for my sample. But I got an SMS on my mobile phone today,” she said, adding that she was not contacted by the health staff in the past three days. Deputy Chief Medical Officer Dr Subhash Khatreja said that the samples collected at the Civil Hospital were sent for testing at the Maharaja Agrasen Medical College, Agroha, in the district.The Covid situation is getting worse as 38 new cases of Covid positive were detected today which has taken the number of active cases to 142 in Hisar today.In Jind district, 32 persons tested Covid-positive today, taking the total number of active cases to 72, while 1,814 samples are pending with the testing agency. Fatehabad district, too, reported 21 positive cases today, taking the total number of active cases to 47. With 17 samples testing positive for Covid in Bhiwani, the district has 44 active cases today.Got tested on Jan 4I went to the Civil Hospital to get tested on Jan 4 and waited for 48 hours. When I approached the staff to know the status of the sample, they said no report was available. But I got an SMS today. — The patient||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-hisar-sample-sent-for-testing-after-3-days-359231
08-01-2022||---||Haryana records 40% rise in Covid cases||Chandigarh/Hisar, January 7Haryana today witnessed 40 per cent rise in fresh Covid cases as 3,748 new patients got added to the tally. As many as 2,678 cases were reported in the state on Thursday.Among the fresh cases, Gurugram recorded the maximum at 1,879, followed by Faridabad (580), Panchkula (313), Sonepat (191), Ambala (156) and Karnal (142). Nine Omicron cases were also detected today. So far, 123 persons have tested positive for Omicron variant in the state. Among them, only 31 are active.As many as 882 people recovered and there are 10,775 active cases in the state. Three deaths were reported today with two from Ambala and one from Yamunanagar. The daily positivity rate jumped from 5.91 per cent to 8.11 per cent in the last 24 hours.Meanwhile, taking note of a spurt in Covid cases, Hisar Deputy Commissioner Dr Priyanka Soni today met health department officials and private hospital owners to improve coordination and management of health services in the district.Directing private hospitals to put all arrangements in place amid the looming threat of the third wave, she said: "All hospitals should be well equipped with beds, oxygen and all other preparations for the treatment of patients. Arrangements in the paediatric wards should also be made in advance. The hospital staff should ensure that the statistics are updated regularly on the health department's portal."Dr Soni said all hospitals must display the total number of beds at the facility and the beds available on the hospital premises, the prescribed treatment rates for Covid patients and the rates of lab tests, etc.She said oxygen plants had been set up at the Civil Hospitals of Agroha Medical College, Hansi and Hisar. "All hospitals should keep sufficient stock of oxygen cylinders ready," the Deputy Commissioner added.Establish Covid care centres, Deputy Commissioners toldThe government on Friday issued an advisory to contain the spread of Covid and advised all Deputy Commissioners to establish Covid care centres in rural and urban areas. The advisory tells them to review their stock of oxygen and essential medicines. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-records-40-rise-in-covid-cases-359230
