10-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||Covid-19: Punjab and Haryana HC adopts odd-even formula for hearing cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 10Adopting odd-even formula for hearing cases, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday scaled down its functioning to almost half following the outbreak of the Covid third wave.An order issued this evening made it clear that three Division Benches would function daily.The Benches headed by Justice Augustine George Masih, Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao would function on “odd” dates such as first, third and fifth.The Benches headed by Justice Ajay Tewari, Justice Ritu Bahri and Justice G.S. Sandhawalia would function on even dates such as second, fourth and sixth.The first Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli would hold Court every Monday, Thursday or any other day.The order also made it clear that five Single Benches would hear civil matters and writ petitions, and 13 Benches would take up criminal matters during the odd dates. On even dates, four Single Benches would hear civil matters and writ petitions, and 13 Benches would take up criminal matters  The order was passed “keeping in view the upsurge of Covid-19 cases in the States of Punjab, Haryana and Union Territory Chandigarh, the government advisories and with a view to ensure the safety of the Judges, advocates, staff and litigants”.It followed recommendations by a special committee in consultation with the Additional Solicitor-General of India, Advocates-General of Punjab and Haryana, UT senior standing counsel and public prosecutor, and the president of the Senior Advocates Bar Association, along with president and secretary of the High Court Bar Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-punjab-and-haryana-hc-adopts-odd-even-formula-for-hearing-cases-360020
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||As Covid cases rise, Haryana closes down schools, colleges till January 26||Haryana government has decided to keep all schools and colleges in the state closed till January 26—a development as Covid-19 cases rise exponentially fuelled by the highly transmissible Omicron variant. Education Minister Kanwar Pal said online classes will continue, allowing schools and colleges to focus on helping students prepare for upcoming examinations. Schools and colleges were closed for their winter break from January 3 to 12, 2022.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/as-covid-cases-rise-haryana-closes-down-schools-colleges-till-january-26-359988
10-01-2022||The accompanying photograph||Panchkula MC must rise to the occasion||Vinayak, PanchkulaMuddy road at vegetable market in KaithalI want to bring the attention of the administration of Kaithal city towards the road in front of the new vegetable market which is muddy and it is difficult for anyone to walk here. It happens in every monsoon.Gourav, KaithalNo checking of vaccine certificate at public placesNo checking of vaccination certificates is carried out at the bus stand, railway station, banks and other public places in the district putting a question mark over the execution of directives issued by the state government to contain the coronavirus which has already started wreaking havoc. The cases are rising considerably daily but people are still negligent towards adopting Covid appropriate behaviour. The possibility of complete failure like second wave cannot be ruled out if the authorities do not ensure the execution of the Covid guidelines.Jivesh, RohtakIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchkula-mc-must-rise-to-the-occasion-359921
10-01-2022||Faridabad||Haryana Diary: Development projects cause for concern||Minister relieved after Cabinet expansionJhajjar: A minister from South Haryana was relieved after the recent expansion of the state Cabinet. His chair seemed to be at threat after the speculation ran rife that he would be replaced. Interestingly, a section of local leaders and workers of his party too had started stating that he might be replaced. However, this did not happen, leaving leaders and workers worried, as they feel the ‘netaji’ is now aware of their ‘intentions’.Encroachments recorded on cameraAmbala: Unhappy with the encroachments, Commissioner, Ambala MC, Dhirendra Khadgata not only issued challans but also got the entire action recorded on a camera. He narrated the problems being faced by shopkeepers. The Commissioner said despite repeated warnings, the store owner was not removing the encroachment, inconveniencing fellow shopkeepers.Dr Gupta ‘elated’ after getting ULB DeptHisar: Dr Kamal Gupta, who was inducted in the state Cabinet after he was given the charge of the Urban Local Body Ministry, was apparently ‘on cloud nine’. Interacting with the party workers in Hisar last week, he had said there were 41 IAS officers under him and he had urged his followers to enjoy the feeling of becoming a minister. People of Hisar feel Dr Gupta will help speed up works. His followers said it was too early to expect a major change and one should give some more time to Dr Gupta.MC employees, councillors in tug of warPanipat: After the CID chief’s letter allegedly exposed corruption in the Panipat MC, a tug of war has started between the employees and ruling party councillors. The Commissioner has initiated preliminary action against the MC employees, whose names were mentioned in the letter, and ordered an inquiry into the matter. An employees’ union leader has blamed some ruling party senior councillors and their associates for the ‘rising corruption’. However, the councillors are silent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/development-projects-cause-for-concern-359920
10-01-2022||Hisar||Seeds processing centre opens at Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University||Students excel in competitionAmbala: Two students of the St Joseph School excelled in the field of science and technology competition held by the Government of India. In this competition, many students from all over India participated. Of them, two students of the school Samriti and Pratham Jeet Kaur of Class IX were awarded with 'Inspire Manak Award'. Director Kiran Bannerjee, deputy director Ashima Kiran Bannerjee, senior manager Abhijit Bannerjee and principal Amita Sachdeva congratulated the teachers, parents and students, especially the subject teacher Alka.Charity programmeAmbala: A charity programme "Sahaay- Let's join hands together" was organised at Bhartiya Public School, Ambala Cantonment, to help the poor, needy and underprivileged people. The chief guest of the programme was Renu Phulia, Commissioner, Ambala Division. Principal Munish Jain said the aim of the programme was "selfless service to the humanity". Chairman AD Gandhi said the best way to find yourself is to lose yourself in the service of others. For this noble cause, SD Sabha donated 100 blankets. Old and new woolen clothes collected by the children and staff of the school were also distributed among the needy. Renu Phulia said there was no better new year gift than providing warm clothes to the needy during the winter season and the crisis of Covid-19.Online contestYamunanagar: The Mukand Eco Club of Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar, organised an online contest "National environment youth parliament 2022: Nurturing environment leaders". The contest was organised with the cooperation of Kurukshetra University. Students from all streams participated in the contest. Abhishek Uppal of BSc (medical) secured the first position and Deeksha Sharma from BCA secured the second position. Dr Rameshwar Garoch was the coordinator of the event and Dr Mahesh, Dr Rahul Singh and Prof Ankur were the judges in the programme. The officiating Principal of the college Dr Rahul Khanna congratulated the winners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/seeds-processing-centre-opens-359919
10-01-2022||Kurukshetra||Car rams into divider in Shahabad, 2 die||Two youths were killed and three suffered injuries when the car they were travelling in hit a divider on the Delhi-Ambala national highway in Shahabad on Sunday.The deceased were identified as Rahul (21) and Kunal (21) of Gurugram, while the injured were identified as Ashish, Anuj and Ankush. As per information, the victims were on their way from Gurugram to Manali when the accident took place around 2 am. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/car-rams-into-divider-in-shahabad-2-die-359918
10-01-2022||---||CITU leader challaned  for violating traffic rules in Rohtak||Rohtak, January 9The traffic police here issued a challan of Rs 17,000 to Sanjeev Kumar, district (urban) president of the Bhawan Nirman Kamgar Union (BNKU) and district vice-president of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) on charges of using mobile phone while riding motorbike, disobeying police orders and not having driving licence and registration certificate.The CITU leader alleged that he had shown all documents to the cops who were carrying out checking operation at Bhiwani Chungi here on Thursday, but they “deliberately” fined him and also impounded his motorbike.Meanwhile, CITU and the BNKU workers have decided to hold a demonstration outside the SP residence on Monday to mount pressure for withdrawal of the challan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/citu-leader-challaned-for-violating-traffic-rules-in-rohtak-359917
10-01-2022||---||19 booked in clash outside  Karnal  police station||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, January 9The Titram police station in Kaithal district has registered two cases against 19 persons following a clash between two groups that led to bullet injuries to two persons and injuries to oneperson. Kaithal SP Lokender Singh also constituted three teams to arrestthe accused.“Two FIRs have been registered on the complaints of both groups and 14 persons have been booked under Sections 307, 323, 506, 148, 149 and 120 B of the IPC and Sections 25 and 27 of the Arms Act in one case, while five persons of the second group were booked under Sections 307, 323, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC sections 25 and 27 of the of the Arms Act,” said the police.As per the information, there was a dispute between Harish Garg and Kuldeep Balu following which Harish had also filed a complaint against Kuldeep. On Saturday, they had come to the police station to settle the dispute mutually, but they got involved in a group clash. Several rounds were fired there, that led to bullet injuries to Pradeep Kumar of Garhi village, and Amit Kumar of Franswala village, while Binnu Singhof Garhi villagesustained multiple injuries with sharp-edged weapons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/19-booked-in-clash-outside-karnal-police-station-359916
10-01-2022||---||SP Anshu Singla serves tea to officials on night duty in Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra, January 9The policemen during night domination duty were surprised when Anshu Singla, Superintendent of Police (SP), Kurukshetra, visited the nakas and served tea to the officials.A spokesperson said it had rained on Saturday and the weather was cold, so the SP decided to arrange tea and biscuits for the officers. The policemen praised the Superintendent of Police for her gesture.The police performed their duty in every situation and season, the Superintendent of Police said. The Kurukshetra police were her family, and it was her responsibility to take care of their health, she said.During night domination in Kurukshetra, 33 nakas were set up and 363 policemen were deployed to check the vehicles. Besides, 112 officials were on duty. As per the information, 1,144 vehicles were checked and eight challans were issued. As many as 19 challans were issued for not wearing face masks.33 nakas laid, 363 cops deployed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sp-serves-tea-to-officials-on-night-duty-in-kurukshetra-359915
10-01-2022||---||In Jind, another new road caves in||Jind, January 9Road infrastructure in Jind town continues to crumble with every spell of rain, as another patch of the newly constructed road near Devi Lal Chowk sunk in yesterday’s showers.Residents alleged that the poor work of earth-filling and substandard material used in the construction work were getting exposed in the current spell of rain. The road sank a few feet deep on the Devi Lal chowk.“There is a need to send a strong message to the officials responsible for the mess in the town. Even though huge funds had been spent by the government, the repeated incidents of washing away and sinking of roads was a matter of serious concern which needs to be probed,” said Raj Kumar Goyal, president of a local NGO Jind Vikash Sangthan.The town has recorded 33 mm of rainfall in three days, resulting in the inundation of several areas, including Rani Talab, Rohtak Road, Patiala Chowk, under-pass on the Mini Bypass etc.Even the BJP local MLA Dr Krishan Middha had raised the issue in the Assembly after the newly constructed patch of road was washed away in monsoons. He had blamed the district officials for poor work and demanded strict action against them.Later, the Assembly Speaker sent a Subject Committee of the Assembly, comprising five MLAs, to Jind town which inspected several public places in the town.Probe neededThe repeated incidents of washing away and sinking of roads is a matter of serious concern which needs to be probed. — Raj Kumar Goyal, president, Jind vikash sangthan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-jind-another-new-road-caves-in-359914
10-01-2022||---||Retaining wall of Sonepat railway overbridge collapses||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, January 9The retaining wall of the railway overbridge on the Gohana road collapsed on Sunday following rain in the district for the past three-four days. Traffic in the city was disturbed due to it.The district administration has temporarily filled the hole by putting stones into it and directed to stop the movement of heavy vehicles on the road till it is repaired permanently. The same flyover portion had caved in 10 days ago.Deputy Commissioner Lalit Siwach visited the flyover today and also called a meeting of three departments — Public Works Department (PWD), National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and Municipal Corporation (MC) — on Monday to chalk out a permanent plan for the maintenance of the flyover.As per sources, the retaining wall of the flyover had caved in around 10 days ago and the shopkeepers nearby had even protested seeking its repair. But it was filled with soil temporarily by the administration at that time.Following continuous rain in the past three days, water started leaking from the retaining wall and a big hole has formed. A truck got stuck in this hole and was pulled out with the help of two cranes. But due to heavy rain on Saturday night, the retaining wall and a big portion of road caved in on Sunday.DC Lalit Siwach, along with the officials of PWD and MC, reached the flyover and inquired about the reasons from the engineers.Siwach directed the police to stop heavy vehicular movement on the flyover by putting barricades at entry and exit points. The DC also directed GM Roadways to divert buses on Gohana and Jind route.Siwach said that the railway flyover was constructed in 2014. Later, the road was declared a national highway and the flyover was handed over to the NHAI, but it was again handed over to the PWD.An estimated budget for its repair has been prepared by the three departments — PWD, NHAI and MC, he added. The hole has been filled up temporarily so far and the work for its permanent repair would start soon, the DC added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/retaining-wall-of-sonepat-railway-overbridge-collapses-359913
10-01-2022||Geetanjali Gayatri||Extension on cards for prisons' correctional service awardees like their Haryana Police counterparts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 9Awardees of the Correctional Service Medals in the Prisons Department could soon get incentives like their counterparts in the Haryana Police, who are awarded for meritorious service.Sources said the Prisons Department had framed a proposal on the lines of the incentives of the extension of service given to the non-gazetted police personnel, who had been awarded the Police Medals. The proposal has been sent to the Home Department for approval.According to the draft policy, the department has recommended that non-gazetted prison officials, who have been awarded the President’s Correctional Service Medal for Gallantry and the President’s Correctional Service Medal for Distinguished Service be granted two-year extension in service.The policy mentions that the recipients of the Correctional Service Medal for Gallantry and the Correctional Service Medal for Meritorious Service be granted one-year extension. This will be subject to the physical fitness to discharge prison duties and a satisfactory service record.For the gazetted non-IPS officers who are recipients of the Correctional Service Medal, the policy has recommended a one-year extension in “exceptional cases” and would be the sole prerogative of the state government.Sources in the Prisons Department said the Centre confers four kinds if medals for prison officers and officials for good work as a token of appreciation.The proposal states that these personnel expect that state government to also recognise their performance. This expectation is further fuelled by the fact that the Police Department already has such a provision whereby the awardees are recognised for their exemplary services. This policy has been in place since 2010 and it would be only in the fitness of things to grant them extension in service since there are no financial benefits accruing to the recipients for any of the awards.Sources said the proposal could shortly come through since the government seems to be open to the idea.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/extension-on-cards-for-prisons-correctional-service-awardees-359912
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Entrepreneurs who passed out from ITIs to be honoured by Haryana Government||The Haryana Government today decided to felicitate the youth who have become entrepreneurs after passing ITI courses from government and private industrial training institutes (ITIs). The objective of this scheme is to encourage self-employment among the youth who have passed out from ITIs of Haryana.Haryana Skill Development and Industrial Training Minister Mool Chand Sharma said that a new scheme had been approved in this regard.Under this scheme, three best entrepreneurs at the district level will be honoured with an award having cash prize of Rs 10,000, Rs 7,500 and Rs 5,000, respectively. The awards will be presented by the chief guest on Republic Day every year.He said of all these 66 entrepreneur award winners at the district level, three would be honoured by the CM at the state-level function on the occasion of World Youth Skills Day on July 15.The state-level award of Rs 50,000, Rs 40,000 and Rs 30,000 will be given to the candidates adjudged first, second and third respectively.He said that for inviting applications for this award, an advertisement would be issued by the department in October every year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/entrepreneurs-who-passed-out-from-itis-to-be-honoured-by-haryana-government-359911
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Applications for 980 posts of Medical Officers invited in Haryana||Health Minister Anil Vij has said 980 Medical Officers (MO) (Haryana Civil Medical Services Group-A) would be recruited soon with an objective to ensure robust healthcare services in the state.He said an advertisement had also been issued in this regard and applications had been invited from eligible candidates. He said the Health Department has issued an advertisement for the recruitment of Medical Officers. He said these officers would be kept as regular recruits in various health institutions of the state.Vij said of these 980 posts, 270 posts were of general category, 472 of SC, 80 of BC-A , 25 of BC-B and 133 posts of the EWS category. He further said the information about the benefits of reservation and application form, eligibility etc was available on the website of the state Health Department’s http://haryanahealth.nic.in. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/applications-for-980-posts-of-mo-invited-in-haryana-359910
10-01-2022||---||Haryana CM Khattar lauds PM call to observe 'Veer Baal Diwas' in memory of Sahibzadas||Chandigarh, January 9Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on the Parkash Purb of Guru Gobind Singh that December 26, the martyrdom day of Sahibzada Zorawar Singh and Sahibzada Fateh Singh, would be marked as ‘Veer Baal Diwas’. He said it would help instill patriotism among people.The Chief Minister, while paying homage to Guru Gobind Singh, said he always fought against injustice. He envisioned a harmonious society. The nation would remember his valour for ages, he said. Guru Gobind Singh was a symbol of dedication and bravery, who had sacrificed everything for the protection of religion and culture, said the Chief Minister.‘Veer Baal Diwas’ will be observed on the day Sahibzada Zorawar Singh and Sahibzada Fateh Singh attained martyrdom. The ideals of Guru Gobind Singh and the four Sahibzadas were a source of strength for everyone, said the Chief Minister.Khattar also paid tributes to Sir Chhotu Ram, the ‘messiah’ of farmers on his death anniversary today. He said the vision of Deenbandhu would inspire us to strengthen social harmony and brotherhood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-lauds-pm-call-to-observe-veer-baal-diwas-359909
10-01-2022||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Yamunanagar-Jagadhri MC to beautify six parks||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, January 9The authorities of the Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ), have taken an initiative to beautify parks in twin cities of Yamunanagar and Jagadhri.The MCYJ has decided to undertake beautification work of six parks comprising Shaheed Bhagat Singh Park, Thapar Tailor Park, Chhota Dushehra Ground Park, Shiv Shankar Mandir Park, Saundhi Ground Park and Shiv Mandir Ground Park.Shaheed Bhagat Singh Park falls in Ward 8 and the rest five parks are situated in Ward 9 of the MCYJ.The MCYJ will spend Rs 71.31 lakh on the beautification work of these parks and tenders have been called to allot the work.“As much as Rs 34.68 lakh will be spent on undertaking works related to development and beautification of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Park, which falls in Ward 8. Similarly, five parks of Ward 9 will also be developed and beautified by spending Rs 36.63 lakh. The tenders have been called to undertake works in these six parks,” said Madan Chauhan, Mayor of the MCYJ. According to information, there are 106 parks in the twin cities. As many as 60 parks are being maintained by the MCYJ, while the rest 46 parks are being looked after by the Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs), societies and other organisations. The MCYJ had increased the maintenance charges of parks being looked after by various RWAs, societies and other organisations. “The RWAs, societies and other organisations were finding it difficult to maintain the parks, so we increased the maintenance charges from Rs 2 to Rs 5 per square metre. The increased maintenance charges are being paid from September 2021, so that the RWAs, societies and organisations are able to look after the parks properly,” said Mayor Madan Chauhan.He said they were focusing on beautification of the parks to enhance the beauty of the twin cities. He further said with the development of the parks, the residents would also be able to get good environment.“Under the drive, we have so far undertaken beautification work of several parks and the beautification work of other parks will be done in the future,” said Madan Chauhan.106 in twin citiesOf the total 106 parks in the twin cities, as many as 60 are being maintained by the MCYJ, while the rest 46 are being looked after by the Resident Welfare Associations, societies and other organisations||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-jagadhri-mc-to-beautify-six-parks-359908
10-01-2022||---||Association tells Haryana govt to pay dues to private schools||Ambala, January 9The Federation of Private Schools Welfare Association on Saturday said the government had been trying to portray private schools in a bad light, and it should come out with a better policy regarding Rule 134-A of Haryana School Education Rules, if it really wanted to end the dispute.Kulbhushan Sharma, association president, said, “The government is trying to portray the private schools in a bad light, whereas it is not serious about providing good quality education to poor children. The government wants to create an atmosphere of uncertainty in the field of education by creating a dispute between parents and private schools. We have no objection in teaching the students belonging to economically weaker sections, but the government should first clear the pending dues. I also have no clue as to what is stopping the government from reimbursing the schools as per the Right to Education Act.”“If the government is looking forward to end the dispute, it should come out with a clear policy regarding the reimbursement amount and dates for releasing reimbursement. It should also ensure that only genuine candidates get admission and there should be legal action against those who prepare fake income certificates. The government should resolve the issue as per the law and after consulting representatives of private schools instead of pressuring the schools and announcing a meagre increase in the reimbursement amount. By not communicating with each other, not only will this dispute continue every year, but litigation in courts will also increase,” he added.Sharma said the dues pending since 2015-2016 should be paid with 12 per cent interest. He also questioned the difference between the reimbursement amount between rural and urban areas. He said the government should also eliminate the difference in reimbursement between rural and urban areas.No problem teaching poor kidsWe have no objection in teaching the students belonging to economically weaker sections, but the government should first clear the pending dues. — Kulbhushan Sharma, president, federation of private schools welfare assn||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/association-tells-govt-to-pay-dues-to-private-schools-359907
10-01-2022||Parveen Arora||Karnal: Work on village community health centre yet to resume||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, January 9The construction work of the building of Community Health Centre (CHC) in Nigdhu village, situated on the border of three districts Karnal, Kurukshetra and Kaithal, is stalled for the past seven months.So far, only the boundary wall has been constructed, while the remaining work could not be started due to the death of the proprietor of the agency assignedthe construction work of the CHC by the government, said an official of the PWD (B&R).Following the request of the proprietor’s wife of terminating the tender and settling the payment of the boundary wall without any penalty, the Superintending Engineer (SE), Karnal Circle PWD (B&R), has requested the Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) to terminate the previous tender and also invite fresh tender for the remaining work.Earlier, Nigdhu, which is the centre place of around 30 villages, had a Primary Health Centre (PHC) and it had been running from a small building of the panchayat situated on the state highway since 1985. Residents had been demanding the upgrading of the PHC to CHC as well as the new building.The government had approved one demand of the new building of the PHC and the work was allotted to M/S DS Infatech Pvt Ltd on February 1, 2019 of Rs 370.41 lakhs and the time limit was 15 months. After the allotment of the work, the government had decided to upgrade the PHC to CHC, so a revised administrative approval for the construction of the CHC was approved by the Director General Health Services, Haryana, on August 10, 2020, said sources in the department.The agency was directed to start the work as per the revised architectural drawings received from the Chief Architect on August 17, 2020. The agency started the work, but only the boundary wall was completed at the cost of Rs 60 lakhs. In the meantime, the proprietor of the agency, Devender Singh Anand, died in June 2021 due to Covid, thereafter the work came to a standstill.“I have received a request from the wife of Devender Singh Anand to terminate the tender and also to settle the dues up to the construction of the boundary wall without leving any penalty, which I have sent to the ACS of our department. I have also requested that a fresh tender be called for the construction of the remaining work of the CHC,” said Sandeep Goel, SE, PWD (B&R Karnal) Circle.Angry over the stalled work and no attention being given by the authorities to this project, the residents met Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar last month and apprised him of the stalled work. “We had raised the issue with the CM and were assured the work would start soon. Almost one month is going to pass, but the work has not been resumed,” said Shri Chand Gupta, ex-sarpanch of Nigdhu village.Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, said he would inquire about the delay in the work from the PWD and the Health Department authorities.Will probe delay in workI will inquire about the delay in the work from the PWD and the Health Department authorities. Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, KarnalCM assured work would start soonWe had raised the issue with the CM and were assured the work would start soon. Almost one month is going to pass, but the work has not been resumed. — Shri Chand Gupta, ex-sarpanch of Nigdhu villageRequest to call for fresh tenderI have also requested that a fresh tender be called for the construction of the remaining work of the CHC. — Sandeep Goel, SE, PWD (B&R) Karnal circle||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/work-on-village-community-health-centre-yet-to-resume-359906
10-01-2022||---||Villagers on Rohtak-Panipat highway demand toll-free passage||Rohtak, January 9Having paid toll tax for several years before the farmers’ protest, residents of 16 villages located around Makrauli toll plaza on the Rohtak-Panipat highway now want free passage through the toll booth.They have submitted a memorandum to the toll plaza in this respect. Raju Makrauli, who is leading the villagers, said the decision to ensure toll-free passage for residents of 16 villages and leaders of farm unions was taken at a panchayat of these villages held at Makrauli toll plaza yesterday.“These villages include Rithal, Kahni, Ghilaur, Khera, Jasia, Sanghi, Khidwali, Katwada, Jindran, Brahmanvaas, Bansantpur, Dhamar, Makrauli Khurd, Makrauli Kalan, Chamaria and Ghuskani. Since the villagers have to use the highway to go to Rohtak every day for different reasons and the majority of them cannot afford the toll tax, we are demanding toll-free passage by showing their identity card,” he added.Jasbir Singh, manager at the toll plaza, said residents of nearby villages had been given the facility of monthly pass for Rs 285 for private vehicles. They could avail the facility by showing their residence proof. Their memorandum has been sent to the higher authorities for consideration.“We will follow the directives received from higher officers in this respect,” the manager added.Meanwhile, Virendra Hooda, national president of Toll Hatao Sangharsh Samiti, announced the national and state office-bearers of his outfit.“Mahendra Rana of Delhi has been appointed the national general secretary, Raveena Kumari is national spokesperson, Dheeraj Tohana is president of Haryana, Charan Kalka is general secretary, Michael Saini and Wazir Singh Makrauli are spokespersons. Harish Hoon has been appointed president of Uttar Pradesh (UP), Hamid Malik of Jammu and Kashmir, Dayanand Patil of Karnataka and Anil More of Maharashtra,” the manager added.Submit memorandum||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/villagers-demand-toll-free-passage-359905
10-01-2022||---||Sacked teachers on indefinite dharna in Jagadhri||Yamunanagar, January 9Sacked physical training instructors and drawing teachers today started an indefinite dharna at the New Grain market in Jagadhri, seeking their reinstatement in job.They said they would continue their dharna until their demand was met by the government.The Punjab and Haryana High Court had sacked 1,983 physical training instructors in September 2012. Later, the Supreme Court had also upheld the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s order to cancelthe appointment of 1,983 physical training instructors. A court had also sacked the services of 816 drawing teachers.Yashwant Rana, president of the sacked PTI and Drawing Teachers Sangrash Samiti, said an 11-member delegation of the PTIs and drawing teachers met Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar at his residence in Jagadhri today.He said he invited their delegation for a meeting with officials of the Education Department in Chandigarh tomorrow. Rana said their demand was that the government should reinstate and adjust them, adding that they would continue their dharna until their demand was met by the government.Meet education ministerAn 11-member delegation of the physical training instructorsand drawing teachers met Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar at his residence in Jagadhri. — Yashwant Rana, PTI and Drawing teachers sangrash samiti chief||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sacked-teachers-on-indefinite-dharna-in-jagadhri-359897
10-01-2022||---||Sonepat man fakes death to avoid jail sentence||Sonepat, January 9A man who was involved in various criminal cases, including liquor smuggling etc in Uttarakhand, in connivance with his family members, reportedly posed himself as dead after getting a fake death certificate from the Municipal Corporation (MC), Sonepat, and Health Department and produced it in various courts in Uttarakhand and got his name removed from the criminal cases.The matter came to the fore when a person filed a complaint against him on CM Window and ASP Sonepat conducted an inquiry in the matter. Following the inquiry report, a case was registered against the accused and his family members.Bhanwar Singh of Vikas Nagar on the Kakroi road, in his complaint at the CM window against Sanjay, his wife, his brother Narender and Narender’s wife said that all were natives of Nakloi village and presently living in Arya Nagar on the Kakroi road.He further alleged that several criminal cases, two under the Excise Act, one under the Gangster Act, another under the Motor Vehicles Act in various police stations of Uttarakhand in 2007, 2008, had been registered against Sanjay.He was released on bail in these cases, but didn’t appear in the courts concerned again.The courts at Dehradun and Kotdwar, Pauri Garhwal had served non-bailable warrants against him in 2012 and these reached the Sadar police station here, the complainant said.Meanwhile, his brother Narender, along with his family members, informed about Sanjay’s death to the MC, Sonepat, and to the Health Department and got a fake death certificate of Sanjay from the department.They produced the fake certificate before officials in the district and had sent a report of his death to courts in Uttarakhand, after which his name had been removed from the criminal cases.Besides, Sanjay got his Aadhaar card in 2018 and also got driving licence in 2012. He was working as a driver in a private construction company in the Municipal Corporation, Sonepat.A police inquiry revealed that the accused Sanjay had got the fake death certificate in 2009, which they had produced in the courts in Uttarakhand to get the benefits in the cases there.Forged death certificateA police inquiry revealed that the accused had got the fake death certificate in 2009, which they had produced in the courts in Uttarakhand to get the benefits in the cases there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-man-fakes-death-to-avoid-jail-sentence-359891
10-01-2022||---||Haryana BJP president OP Dhankar says Cong hid facts on revolutionaries||Karnal, January 9Launching a scathing attack on Congress, BJP state president OP Dhankar on Sunday said the Congress had deliberately hidden the sacrifices of revolutionaries such as Subhas Chandra Bose, Bhagat Singh and others as part of a well-planned conspiracy. He was chairing a meeting of the party workers to review the preparedness for the 125th birth anniversary of Subhas Chandra Bose, will be observed as ‘Parakram Diwas’ on January 23. The party would organise programmes in around 7,500 places, and the workers would sing patriotic songs, he said.Dhankar, along with around 125 party workers and leaders, visited the Cellular Jail in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.He said the BJP was making efforts to give recognition to the unsung warriors of the freedom struggle.On virtual rallies for the upcoming elections in five states, he said the BJP was ready. He said the BJP would repeat landslide victory in UP, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur.BJP to hold 7,500 gatherings amid surgeNotwithstanding the rapid surge in the number of Covid cases, the state unit of the ruling BJP is planning to hold as many as 7,500 public gatherings at the ward and the panchayat level to honour freedom fighters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-bjp-president-op-dhankar-says-cong-hid-facts-on-revolutionaries-359888
10-01-2022||---||Patrolling along HPCL pipeline in Hisar police range up||Hisar, January 9Taking note of the pilferage of crude oil from the pipelines of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) passing through the districts of Hisar police range, the Inspector General of Police reviewed the security arrangements.The IGP, Rakesh Kumar Arya, who held a meeting with the officials, the police and the HPCL, directed the police to constitute a committee to inquire into the unsolved cases in this connection. Arya stated that crude oil theft by puncturing the pipeline is a serious matter which could result in a mishap.He directed the police of respective districts to intensify patrolling along the oil pipeline twice in the day time and once at night every day.The IGP said the HPCL pipeline connecting Kanpur to Bathinda covers 191 km in Hisar police range. This includes 75 km in Sirsa district, 49 km in Fatehabad district, 45 km in Hansi police district, 20 km in Hisar district and 2 km in Jind district.According to the information available, 14 criminal cases had been registered in Hisar police range in connection with pipeline oil pilferage in the past 10 years. “The police had solved eight cases and arrested the accused in these cases,” he said, adding that cases of oil theft, which remained undetected, included two cases in Hisar district, three in Hansi police district and one case in Fatehabad district.The IGP directed the districts to resume investigation by constituting a committee under the supervision of a gazetted officer. Balwan Singh Rana, Deputy Inspector General of Police-cum-Superintendent of Police Hisar, Surender Bhoria, Superintendent of Police Fatehabad, Arpit Jain, Superintendent of Police Sirsa, Narender Bijarania, Superintendent of Police Jind, Dr Nikita Gehlot, Superintendent of Police Hansi, and HPCL General Manager Anurag Subhash attended the e-meeting.14 FIRs in 10 years||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/patrolling-along-hpcl-pipeline-up-359887
10-01-2022||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra University staff seek cashless medical facility||With Covid cases rising at a rapid pace, Kurukshetra University employees and pensioners are seeking cashless medical facilities from the state government.Currently the medical claims are settled by the university as per its policy.The teaching, non-teaching and pensioners of the university are seeking the facility from the state government. As per information, there are around 360 regular teachers, around 1,450 non-teaching staff, and 1,700 pensioners.A KU official said, “While everything is being governed by the government and even it wants to make appointments of employees, the facility was not being provided to the university on the pretext of the varsity being an autonomous body. The government should extend the facility touniversity employees and pensioners. In the event of any eventuality, the employees have to first arrange money and later the bills arepartially reimbursed by the university as per its policy.”A KU professor said the KU should enter into an agreement with some good hospitals and provide cashless facility until the government extends the facility.Kurukshetra University Non-Teacher Employees Association president Neelkanth Sharma said, “The government must extend the policy and cover all universities and pensioners in the larger interest.”Meanwhile, Davinder Sachdeva, who retired as assistant registrar from the KU, said, “Pensioners face financial issues and due to age-related ailments, they need extra medical care as well. The government is providing cashless facilities to its employees and pensioners for certain life-threatening emergencies. We have raised the matter with the KU authorities and with the government, but to no avail. The government should show magnanimity towards the educational institutes and cover the universities too.” — TNSGive benefit to universitiesCovid cases are on the rise, employees are growing older, and they also need medical facilities. The universities are being kept out of the medical facility so far. We have raised the matter with the KU admn and soon will take it up with the govt.Dr Vivek Gaur, president, Kurukshetra University teachers association||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ku-staff-seek-cashless-medical-facility-359886
10-01-2022||---||Committee to map Covid patients in Rohtak||Rohtak, January 9Amid surge, Rohtak Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) chairman Capt Manoj Kumar has constituted a committee to map Covid cases and subsequently set up macro and micro-containment zones in the areas of high concentration in the city.The committee comprises Rohtak SDM, Civil Surgeon and a representative of the local Municipal Corporation.Apart from this, 12 Covid care/isolation centres with a capacity of more than880 beds have also been established in the district with a view to check the spread of the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/committee-to-map-covid-patients-in-rohtak-359881
10-01-2022||Karnal||Upload bed status on portal, Karnal private hospitals told||The Karnal administration has directed the private hospitals in the district to give their consent for the treatment of Covid patients and notify the number of beds available on its portal.The hospitals have also been asked not to charge more than the fixed rates and ensure treatment on Ayushman card. The hospitals charging extra amount will have to face action.The district on Sunday reported 181 cases. While 17 patients have recovered, the active cases have mounted to 772. However, the positive sign is that a majority of the patients are asymptomatic and under home isolation.Notably, Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) has an isolation ward of 30 beds. “Keeping in mind the case surge, we have asked the private hospitals to give their consent for the treatment of Covid patients,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner.“All hospitals will also check the proper availability of oxygen, beds and medicines so that they can easily combat the situation in coming days,” he added.Meanwhile, Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon, said the private hospitals had been asked to provide information of every positive case to the Health Department. “A separate ward for Civid patients will have to be established in private hospitals.”He said the non-NABH certified hospital would charge Rs 8,000 per day for facilities like isolation bed with oxygen, while Rs 13,000 for bed without ventilator and Rs 15,000 for bed with ventilators, inclusive of everything. “In the NABH certified hospitals, Rs 10,000 will be charged per day for isolation bed with oxygen and other facilities, Rs 15,000 for bed without ventilator and Rs 18,000 for bed with ventilator. All the hospitals will have to display the rates.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/upload-bed-status-on-portal-karnal-private-hospitals-told-359880
10-01-2022||Hisar||28-year-old Hisar doctor succumbs to Covid, had kidney ailment||Dr Shilpi, posted as epidemiologist under the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme in the district, died of Covid after battling the disease for about one week. The 28-year-old doctor was fully vaccinated.She had tested positive when she was at her home in Sirsa on January 4. When her condition deteriorated, she was shifted to a hospital in Delhi where she died today.One of her colleagues in the Civil Hospital said she suffered from kidney failure.Dr Subhash Khatreja, Deputy Civil Surgeon, Civil Hospital in Hisar, said she had tested positive during the first and second waves. “She was an enthusiastic health worker who never shied away from duty and responsibility. She was working at the post of epidemiologist in the IDSP at Civil Hospital, Hisar, for the past two-and-a-half years,” Dr Khatreja said.She had got both doses of Covid vaccine. A multipurpose health worker who was working with Dr Shilpi in civil hospital, Noor Mohammad, said that Dr Shilpi was very devoted to her duty. “It is not clear how she got infected with Covid,” he informed.Hisar district has a total of 290 active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-doc-succumbs-had-kidney-ailment-359876
10-01-2022||Bijendra Ahawat||In 14 days, Faridabad cases mount to 2,932||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, January 9The district has registered a rise of almost 53.30 times in the number of active cases in the past 14 days. There cases have risen from 55 on December 27 to 2,932 on January 9.With this, the current positivity rate has shot up to 25.19 per cent, which is more than 25 times.According to officials concerned, the Health Department has also increased the testing. Revealing that 3,486 persons were tested on Sunday, an official said a total of 11,518 tests had been conducted in the past three days.Claiming that the surge had been a part of the third wave that began last month, Civil Surgeon Dr Vinay Gupta said while the surfacing of the Omicron variant could not be ruled out as one of the major reasons behind the spike, the failure of the people to abide by the rules or SOPs in a proper manner had also been a prominent cause.Dr Gupta said wearing masks, social distancing and ensuring proper sanitisation were still the key steps to prevent the surge.According to the Health Department bulletin, a majority of the fresh cases surfaced in the recent past have been from the urban pockets, while 10 per cent patients are from rural areas.The district reported 878 new cases on Sunday, which is the highest in the past eight months. While this made the active cases rise to 2,932, the recovery rate has slipped to 96.46 per cent. The number of hospitalised patients is 79, while the Omicron count is 32. The samples of all admitted patients would be sent for the Omicron test, the Civil Surgeon added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-14-days-faridabad-cases-mount-to-2-932-359873
10-01-2022||Ravinder Saini||No oxygen plant in 17 private hospitals of Haryana||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, January 9At least 17 private hospitals in Rohtak, Jhajjar and Mahendragarh districts are yet to establish oxygen plants on their premises even as the surge in Covid cases has set alarm bells ringing across the state.The state government had, in May last year, made it mandatory for all hospitals with 50-plus beds to set up oxygen plants within six months to avoid repeat of a panic situation witnessed in April last year.Of the 17 hospitals, eight are in Rohtak, six in Jhajjar and three in Mahendragarh. Sources say under the Haryana Clinical Establishment (Registration and Regulation) Act, it is mandatory for every hospital with 50 beds or more to have an oxygen plant on its premises. But hospitals try to avoid it due to space and fund constraints, they say.With the rise in Covid cases, the health authorities are set to act tough against the violators. Dr Jaswant Punia, Civil Surgeon, Rohtak, said the district had 13 private hospitals with 50-plus beds. “Five hospitals have the oxygen facility. We recently held a meeting with managements of other eight hospitals and asked them to set up plants to avoid action. They have assured us of compliance by January 20,” Dr Punia said.Dr Sanjay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, Jhajjar, said of 11 private hospitals in the district, five had the facility, while the process to set up plants was underway in four others. The remaining two hospitals had been warned of action if they failed to meet the criteria, he said.Dr Ashok Kumar, Civil Surgeon, Mahendragarh, said two hospitals had expressed their inability to set up the facility citing its high cost. “We have directed them to establish the plant as it is mandatory,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-oxygen-plant-in-17-private-hospitals-of-haryana-359777
