11-01-2022||---||Cold wave, cold day conditions, dense fog in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh over next couple of days||New Delhi, January 11Cold wave and cold day conditions along with dense to very dense fog during night/morning hours are very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, and Uttar Pradesh over the next couple of days, the IMD has said.According to the weather office, cold wave conditions in isolated pockets is very likely over Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh during January 13 to 15 and also over northeast Rajasthan during around the same periodCold day conditions can also be expected in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, West Uttar Pradesh, north Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat state over the next two days.Dense to very dense fog is also likely over parts during night/morning hours in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, Uttar Pradesh over the next four to five days; and in north Rajasthan and north Madhya Pradesh during the next two days.Meanwhile, two fresh western disturbances will also affect the Northwest, first on January 16 and second on January 18 which are expected to cause precipitation over Western Himalayan Region and light/scattered rainfall over adjoining plains, the IMD said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cold-wave-cold-day-conditions-dense-fog-in-punjab-haryana-and-chandigarh-over%C2%A0next-couple-of-days-360336
11-01-2022||The waterlogging problem at Noorwala in the city has become an unending problem. The pond in the middle of Noorwala has been overflowing due to continueous rain for the past three to four days due to which residents of Hari Singh Colony||Waterlogging a perpetual problem at Noorwala in Panipat||Ramesh Panwar, PanipatLight rain leads to flooding of the areaLight rain in Idgah Colony, Ward 20, Sonepat, leads to flood. It becomes impossible to go other side of the street for groceries or necessities. We have informed about it to the Mayor, Nagar Nigam, Sonepat, but all in vain. We request the respective authorities to take effective measures. Mohamed Iliyas, SonepatWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/waterlogging-a-perpetual-problem-360213
11-01-2022||Gurugram||Vaccination camp for students at Pathways School, Gurugram||Workshop on life skillsKurukshetra: The centre for entrepreneurship, Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, began a 10-day workshop on employability, entrepreneurship and life skills. Chief guest, KU Vice-Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva said India had been at the forefront of innovation and entrepreneurship since ancient times. He congratulated the participants on choosing to enroll for the workshop and expressed hope that at the end of the 10-day workshop, they would be equipped to contribute their bit towards making themselves and the nation self-reliant. The dean academic affairs, Manjula Chaudhary said to become a successful entrepreneur, it was not necessary to have specialised knowledge of economics or commerce.Ridge Valley School kids jabbedGurugram: Gurugram-based Ridge Valley School in collaboration with Haryana Government organised a vaccination camp for students on the school premises. As many as120 students of the school (age between 15 and 18 years) received doses of Covaxin under the supervision of school management and the UPHC team. Nidhi Tewari, Principal, said, "We are determined to provide a secure atmosphere to our children and we also believe that getting students vaccinated on the school campus lessen the chances of infection as compared to other places. The exciting response of parents for getting their children vaccinated is surely a sign towards winning the battle at the end."NSS camp on school premisesRohtak: Students of Scholars Rosary Senior Secondary School, Rohtak, got tips on first-aid and meditation during an NSS camp organised on the school premises. The school director, Dr Ravi Gugnani, said a Covid-19 vaccination camp was also organised on the occasion. Red Cross official Dheeraj Saini gave tips on first-aid, while Heartfulness trainer Dr Virender Phogat explained different aspects of meditation. The participants were also educated about fitness regimes and precautions to be taken during the prevalence of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vaccination-camp-for-students-360212
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||On-the-spot admission in Haryana ITIs||In all government and private Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) of the state, daily on-the-spot admission will be done against the vacant seats at the institute level till January 15.These admissions will be purely on the basis of the combined merit of new and old applications received till each date and no reservation will be applicable in this. An official spokesperson said after the registration in the desired institute, the applicants needed to submit their merit card on the next day of registration at 11 am along with all original certificates and admission fee (online/cash).Merit card can be downloaded from the admission website www.itiharyanaadmission.nic.in. Institute-wise number of vacant seats and other terms and conditions mentioned in the prospectus can also be checked on the admission portal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/on-the-spot-admission-in-itis-360211
11-01-2022||Faridabad||10 days on, serial killer guard held for teen's murder||A 54-year-old security guard arrested in connection with the murder of a 22-year-old girl here recently is a serial killer, the police said.A police spokesman said the accused, identified as Singhraj of Jasana village who worked as a security guard at a private hospital, had allegedly strangled the girl to death on December 31. He was arrested on Saturday.The victim, according to cops, was known to him and was called by the accused on pretext of some work on the day he allegedly killed her. The police said Singhraj strangled her after she resisted his attempt of molestation and dumped the body in the bushes near a canal.Though initially a missing case had been registered, the police had booked the accused for murder now. Claiming that the accused had been suffering from a mentality similar to that of a psycho killer, the police said the accused had admitted to killing three minor girls in 2019, 2020 and 2021. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-days-on-guard-held-for-teens-murder-360209
11-01-2022||Panipat||Four conductors, two drivers suspended in Panipat||The Panipat Roadways Depot General Manager today suspended six employees — four conductors and two drivers — for alleged misappropriation of government funds, long absence from duty, route diversion and low income.Besides the GM, the Roadways recommended registration of a criminal case against one of the suspended conductors. GM Kuldeep Jangra told The Tribune that conductors Krishan Kumar, Virender, Sanjay and Rinku Raja had been suspended, while drivers Rakesh and Jogender were also suspended with immediate effect and their details had been sent to the Headquarters. “The allegations leveled against the suspended employees were found correct during the inquiry. The police have also been recommended to register a criminal case against Krishan Kumar for misappropriation of government funds,” Jangra said. Kumar was reportedly caught with old tickets of Rs 760 and Rs 6,495 was found from him during a special checking conducted by the GM at the Shamli bus stand in UP. Besides, he did not even give tickets to the passengers after taking money from them, the GM said. Besides, the scheduled time of the bus was 6.30 pm from Shamli, but it was still at the bus stand at 8 pm. Driver Jogender and conductor Sanjay were suspended for diverting from the designated routes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-conductors-two-drivers-suspended-in-panipat-360208
11-01-2022||Hisar||Rs 50 lakh fine for power theft in Hisar division||The power utility launched a drive against electricity theft and detected 346 cases in Hisar division. It imposed a penalty of Rs 50.20 lakh on those indulging in power theft.A total of 108 teams of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) had conducted the drive to detect incidence of power theft in the division. The officials said low load and tampering of electricity meters were found rampant in some villages. The Nigam will lodge an FIR if any defaulter fails to pay the fine within stipulated time, a spokesman said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/50l-fine-for-power-theft-360207
11-01-2022||Ambala||Special girdawari sought for Haryana farmers||The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) has requested the CM and Agriculture Minister to order a special girdawari and compensation for the farmers who have suffered crop loss due to the incessant rain in the past few days.Rakesh Bains, BKU (Charuni) spokesperson, said, “Several crops, including wheat, potato, mustard, cauliflower and other vegetable crops, have suffered damage due to the excessive rain over the past few days. The union has requested the Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Agriculture Minister JP Dalal for the special girdawari and compensation so that the farmers could be saved from financial losses.”District Horticulture Officer Ajesh Kumar said, “Vegetable crops, especially potato, have suffered damage due to the rain, but the exact situation will be clear after a couple of days.”Deputy director, agriculture, Ambala, Girish Nagpal, said, “The insured farmers have been asked to report their loss at the block-level offices within 72 hours for compensation. A toll-free number has also been provided to the farmers. So far, nearly 200 farmers, including those producing wheat and mustard, have applied for compensation. Around 10,000 hectares is affected due to the excessive rain, but the exact situation will be clear after two-three days.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/special-girdawari-sought-for-farmers-360206
11-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||Don't allow hostile complainants to defeat criminal justice system, Punjab and Haryana HC tells trial court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 10The Punjab and Haryana HC has ruled that the trend of complainants turning hostile in criminal cases must not be allowed to trounce the criminal justice system.It scuttles entire prosecution caseThe trend of complainant turning hostile sets a bad precedent and as a matter of fact scuttles the entire prosecution case. Such process must not be allowed to defeat the criminal justice system. — Justice Harnaresh S Gill, High CourtJustice Harnaresh Singh Gill of the High Court also directed the trial court to take immediate action “in accordance with law” against a complainant in a snatching case for taking a complete summersault. The ruling by Justice Gill came after an accused in a snatching case sought regular bail. One of the grounds taken by the accused for bail was that the complainant in the case had turned hostile. Justice Gill observed the complainant had leveled specific allegations against the accused at the time of lodging the FIR, but had turned hostile “very conveniently”.“The trend of complainant turning hostile sets a bad precedent and as a matter of fact scuttles the entire prosecution case. Such process must not be allowed to defeat the criminal justice system,” Justice Gill asserted. The accused had moved the High Court against the State of Haryana and another respondent for bail in a case registered in June 2020 for attempt to murder, snatching and other offences under Sections 307, 379-B, 392, 398 and 34 of the IPC and the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959, at the Dujana police station in Jhajjar district.His counsel contended that the petitioner had been falsely implicated in the present case. He was in custody since March 11, 2021, and the complainant had not supported the prosecution version. He had turned hostile while appearing as a prosecution witness before the trial court. Opposing the prayer, the state counsel submitted that the complainant had made a complete summersault and connived with the accused. Specific allegations were leveled against the petitioner and a co-accused. The pistol used was recovered from the co-accused. The petitioner had snatched the complainant’s purse. The complainant’s Aadhaar and voter card were recovered from him.Justice Gill asserted the petitioner and co-accused snatched the complainant’s purse at gunpoint. Further, gunshot was attributed to co-accused. “No ground is made out to enlarge the petitioner on bail. Dismissed,” Justice Gill concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dont-allow-hostile-complainants-to-defeat-criminal-justice-system-hc-tells-trial-court-360205
11-01-2022||---||10 new railway stations for Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 10As many as 10 new railway stations will be built on the eastern and western dedicated freight corridor passing through Haryana.Besides, possibilities of exploring the industrial sector around these stations will also be considered.With this, the Centre has also been proposed to develop a Regional Rapid Transit System (Resort Rapid Transit System) rail route from Delhi to Hisar to facilitate connectivity from Hisar airport to Delhi airport.CM Manohar Lal Khattar shared this information while interacting with the media after holding a meeting with Union Minister of Railways Ashwini Vaishnaw in Delhi today.Timely decisions had been taken to speed up the works and processes of various railway projects in Haryana in a time-bound manner, said Vaishnaw.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-new-railway-stations-for-state-360204
11-01-2022||Kaithal||Kaithal: ASI suspended for clash outside police station||Superintendent of Police (SP) Lokender Singh on Monday suspended an Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) following a clash and firing incident between two parties outside the Titram police station on Saturday.The SP took this decision after the ASI allegedly failed to control the situation following a panchayat in a case of threatening and demanding ransom. The suspended ASI has been identified as Sandeep Singh, who was an investigating officer in this case.“During the investigation, it came to fore that ASI Sandeep has failed to take effective preventive action as per the law. Negligence while discharging the duty would not be tolerated at any cost,” the SP said, adding that a departmental inquiry had been initiated against him.Harish Kumar of Kaithal had a land dispute with Kuldeep of Balu village, following which the former had filed a police complaint. To settle the case mutually, a panchayat was called but it failed to bear any fruitful result. After the panchayat, both the parties got involved in an altercation and the firing took place. In this incident, three persons suffered injuries — Pradeep Kumar of Garhi village, Amit Kumar of Franswala village and Binnu Singhof Garhi village.The police had registered cross-FIRs and arrested five persons in the case, the SP added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/asi-suspended-for-clash-outside-police-station-360203
11-01-2022||Rohtak||HCMS doctors on mass leave today; OPDs closed||The state executive body of the Haryana Civil Medical Service (HCMS) Association has resolved that the HCMS doctors at all government hospitals/health centres across the state will be on mass casual leave on January 11 to press for the fulfilment of their demands.Bone of contentionSources said the demand to stop the direct recruitment to the posts of the SMO was the bone of contention between the doctors and the state authoritiesThe doctors will provide only emergency, post-mortem and Covid (life-saving) services in public interest even while being on casual leave on Tuesday. All regular services will be provided as usual on January 12 and 13 as per routine.However, there will be total shutdown of all services, including emergency, Covid and post-mortem, with effect from January 14 until their demands are met.The demands of the HCMS doctors include the creation of a specialist cadre, stoppage of the direct recruitment of the SMOs and restoration of the HCMS quota in admissions to postgraduate medical courses.“We will go in for an indefinite strike which would mean total shutdown of all state-run health facilities across Haryana with effect from January 14,” said Dr Jasbir Panwar, president of the HCMS association.The HCMS doctors complain that direct recruitment to the posts of SMO brings stagnation in the cadre, the top brass of the department asserts that it is part of the service rules, logical and in the larger interest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/docs-on-mass-leave-today-opds-closed-360202
11-01-2022||Gurugram||Kin of 692 Covid victims apply for relief in Gurugram district||Families of 692 Covid victims in Gurugram district have applied for compensation.The government had promised Rs 50,000 ex gratia to the families who lost their loved ones to Covid. As per the records of the Health Department, 928 deaths were reported due to the virus in the district.2 panels formedTwo panels will address grievances. If an applicant doesn’t get the ex gratia in 30 days or the hospital refuses to give the documents, they can complain to the panel. — Dr Yash Garg, Gurugram DCSo far, the dependents of 692 dead have demanded compensation from the district, of which 615 have been forwarded to the headquarters.Deputy Commissioner Dr Yash Garg said 500 offline and 192 online applications had been received with the district administration for grant money.“All cases will be processed within 30 days of the submission of the required documents. The applicant will have to attach a copy of the death certificate of the deceased and a copy of the Covid positive report with the application. This scheme has been linked with the family identity card,” the DC added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kin-of-692-victims-apply-for-relief-360201
11-01-2022||Panipat/bhiwani||Three killed in road mishaps in Panipat, Bhiwani||Three persons were killed in two separate road accidents in Panipat and Bhiwani today.Two persons, including a man and his eight-year-old niece, were killed on the Chautala road near Sewah village this afternoon. The victims were identified as Shokeen and his niece Shifa of Kairana in Shamli district of UP. As per the police, Shokeen, along with Shifa, was on his way to Rohtak from Kairana to meet his in-laws. As they reached the Chautala road near Sewah village, an oil tanker, coming from the opposite side, hit their motorcycle.4 die in Nuh mudslideShokeen and Shifa died at the spot, while one woman, Vidya of Sewah village, who was standing there, sustained serious injuries in the accident. The police reached the spot and sent the bodies to the mortuary at the General Hospital for post-mortem. The oil tanker was impounded and a case against the driver was registered.In Bhiwani, one person was killed and around 15 others injured when a Haryana Roadways bus collided with two trucks near Dhanana village on the Bhiwani-Jind Road today. Sources said the bus collided with a truck coming from the opposite direction while the bus driver was trying to overtake it. The truck driver died in the mishap. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-killed-in-road-mishaps-360199
11-01-2022||---||Haryana Govt issues fresh SOPs to probe corruption cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 10Haryana Chief Secretary has issued directions to all administrative secretaries, divisional commissioners and heads of department on the approved SOPs for the processing of cases under Section 17-A of the Prevention of Corruption Act.Approval mustUnder Section 17-A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, no police officer shall conduct any inquiry or investigation into any offence alleged to have been committed by a public servant without the previous approval. This includes both in-service and retired public servants.Under Section 17-A “no police officer shall conduct any inquiry or investigation into any offence alleged to have been committed by a public servant” without the “previous approval”.This implies both for in-service and retired public servants. However, no approval is required in case of public servants being caught taking money red-handed.The police officer in receipt of an information shall place the matter before the police officer of “appropriate rank” for seeking approval. The DGP or equivalent officer will be the police officer of “appropriate rank” in case of union ministers, cabinet ministers, MPs, CMs, state ministers, judges of the apex court and high court and chairpersons or MDs of public sector enterprises and public sector banks.Similarly, the DGP or ADGP or equivalent officer will be the appropriate police officer for receiving proposal against public servants drawing pay at level 14 and 15 as per the Seventh Pay Commission, and board-level directors, senior management-level appointees, executive directors, deputy managing directors of public sector enterprises and public sector banks.The police officer of “appropriate rank” will then submit the proposal for approval to the officer designated by the “appropriate government or authority”. The “appropriate government or authority” means the Vigilance Department or the administrative department of the state government, as the case may be, or an authority competent to remove the public servant concerned from his office.The Administrative Department or Authority will examine the proposal within the statutory timelines. It shall examine the proposal by independent application of mind and take an appropriate decision under Section 17-A of the Act for being conveyed to the police officer of the appropriate rank.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-issues-fresh-sops-to-probe-corruption-cases-360197
11-01-2022||---||Now, deadline for settling criminal cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, January 10Home Minister Anil Vij on Monday fixed the deadline for disposing of criminal cases. He said this while presiding over a meeting of police officers through videoconferencing.Send report to ADGPAfter the complaint is disposed of, its report should be sent to the ADGP concerned. — Anil Vij, Home MinisterVij said if any case remains pending for more than 10 days from today, then its responsibility and accountability would be of the Station House Officer (SHO) concerned.Similarly, if any case remains pending for more than 20 days, then the responsibility and accountability will be of the Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) concerned. Also, if any case remains pending for more than 30 days, then the responsibility and accountability will be of the Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) concerned. Moreover, if any case remains pending for more than 45 days, then the responsibility and accountability will be that of the Superintendent of Police (SP) concerned. The SP will have to give his comments in such cases along with the record due to which there was a delay in the disposal of the particular case.If any case remains pending for more than 60 days, the responsibility and accountability will be of the Inspector General of Police (IG) or Commissioner of Police (CP) concerned. The IG or CP will have to give their comments regarding the delay in the particular case along with the record as to why the matter reamined pending.During the meeting, the Home Minister directed the police officers that a separate register should be maintained in every district for each complaint sent by him and only officers above the level of the Deputy Superintendent of Police should take further action on it. He said after the complaint was disposed of, its report should be sent to the Additional Director General of Police concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-deadline-for-settling-criminal-cases-360195
11-01-2022||Gurugram||6 more members of infant trafficking gang nabbed in Gurugram||The Gurugram police have nabbed six more members of the infant trafficking gang and rescued a boy.Among the six accused, two are the father and mother of a four-month-old infant who was to be sold at Rs 4.5 lakh. The child was saved as the deal was called off as the boy was not of fair complexion.With the vigilance of a cab driver, the Gurugram police on Saturday busted a gang of infant thieves and rescued two girls of about 25 days. The arrested have been identified as Satyendra, Reena, Palak, Kanchan, Veena and Pooja, all residents of Delhi. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-more-members-of-infant-trafficking-gang-nabbed-360193
11-01-2022||---||No fire NOC: 28 banquet halls, hotels, restaurants put on notice in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, January 10A team of fire division of the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) has served notices on 28 hotels, restaurants and banquet halls of the city for not having fire NOC from the fire division to run their establishments.Certificate from fire cell mandatoryThe Haryana Fire Act and NBC 2005/2016, part 4, has made the NOC mandatory from the fire cell about the fire safety measurement. The orders of the Firefighting Services, Haryana, and the National Green Tribunal made it compulsory for all establishments to have theNOC.They have been given one week to avail the NOC, otherwise action will be initiated against them under the Haryana Fire Act-2009 and National Building Code (NBC).As per the information, the Haryana Fire Act and NBC 2005/2016, part 4, has made the NOC mandatory from the fire cell about the fire safety measurement. The orders of the Firefighting Services, Haryana, and the National Green Tribunal (NGT) made it compulsory for all establishments to have this NOC.Following the directions of KMC Commissioner Manoj Kumar, a team of fire cell inspected various hotels, restaurants and banquet halls and found that 28 were running without the NOC. “The fire fighting systems are compulsory for all commercial, industrial and institutional buildings. These equipment should be renewed on an annual basis,” said the KMC Commissioner.Devender Narwal, EO, KMC, said The Urban Hotel, Hotel Globe, Maharaja Golden Guest House, Hotel AS, Hotel Bright, Yello Saphire, Arman Hotel, Happy Hours, Hotel Comfort-In, Kalonji, Divine TC banquet hall, K Town Hotel, Aakashdeep, Mansrover Hotel and Guest House, Hotel Pearl, Leela Grand, Hotel Star, 8 planet and Hotel Anand Residency, and others hotels, banquet and restaurants are among those that have been issued notices.Rajiv Bhardwaj, Fire Officer, said there was a simple procedure to get the firefight equipment and fire NOC. The applicants have to apply with the required documents and after following some steps their NOC will be released.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-fire-noc-28-banquet-halls-hotels-restaurants-put-on-notice-360192
11-01-2022||---||Kurukshetra University emeritus professor Raguvendra Tanwar appointed ICHR chief||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, January 10Dr Raguvendra Tanwar, professor Emeritus and former Registrar, Kurukshetra University, has been appointed chairman of the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR), New Delhi. Professor Som Nath Sachdeva, Vice-Chancellor, KU, congratulated Prof Tanwar and said, “It is indeed a great honour for the KU fraternity and all stakeholders of KU that Prof Tanwar has been appointed the chairman of the ICHR.As per the gazette notification of the Union Government, Prof Tanwar’s tenure as ICHR chairman will be for three years. Professor Tanwar served the history department of KU for 42 years and held important positions including chairperson, dean of the faculty, dean students welfare, dean academic affairs, registrar, and professor emeritus. He was appointed the Director of Haryana Academy of History and Culture in 2016. He also served as a UGC national fellow, a prestigious position in academia from 2002-2005.Prof Tanwar is a world-renowned expert in the field of partition studies and Jammu & Kashmir and has published a large number of books and research papers in the national and international journals in these areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ku-emeritus-professor-appointed-ichr-chief-360191
11-01-2022||---||Ambala MC: Nominated councillor Puja Chaudhary sworn in||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, January 10Puja Chaudhary was administered oath as the third nominated councillor of the Ambala Municipal Corporation on Monday.Puja, wife of Jannayak Janta Party state spokesman Vivek Chaudhary, was nominated after Vivek’s name was withdrawn. Two names from the BJP while one name from the JJP was forwarded for the post of nominated councillors of the Ambala Municipal Corporation. Sandeep Sachdeva and Suresh Sahota from the BJP were administered oath in November last year.Puja Chaudhary thanked Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala and the JJP high command for the opportunity and said she would raise local issues and work for the development. Ambala Mayor ShaktiRani Sharma, Ambala Municipal Corporation Commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata, and several other officials were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nominated-councillor-puja-chaudhary-sworn-in-360190
11-01-2022||Mukesh Tandon||MC sets up enforcement wing for demolition drives in Panipat||Tribune News ServicePanipat, January 10The Commissioner, Municipal Corporation (MC), Panipat, has established a special enforcement wing to launch a special drive for the demolition of illegal structures to curb the encroachment menace and sealing of properties to speed up the recovery process of property tax. The enforcement wing will work on alternate three days in a week.Earlier, civic body faced a lot of problemsEarlier, there was no enforcement wing due to which the Municipal Corporation had to face a lot of problems in managing the team of various departments for launching demolition drives in the city. — RK Singh, Commissioner, Municipal CorporationRecovery process at slow paceBesides, a list of 48 defaulters has also been prepared by the Municipal Corporation who owe Rs 10 crore property tax .RK Singh, Commissioner, MC, said earlier, there was no enforcement wing due to which the MC had to face a lot of problems in managing the team of various departments for launching demolitiondrives in the city.Now, a special enforcement wing has been established in the MC . Three alternate days in a week i.e. Monday, Wednesday and Friday will be fixed for launching demolition and sealing drive, the Commissioner said.Besides, the MC Commissioner also wrote to the Deputy Commissioner and Superintendent of Police to appoint a Duty Magistrate and to provide police force, respectively for the day fixed by the MC to launch a special sealing and demolition drive.Besides, a list of 48 defaulters has been prepared who owe Rs 10 crore property tax and have failed to deposit their dues even after several notices issued to them and every defaulter mentioned on the list owes over Rs 1 lakh property tax, he asserted.Now, the enforcement wing will launch a special drive to seal the properties of the defaulters soon, he added.Notably, the recovery process of property tax in the Municipal Corporation was going on at a very low pace and around Rs 3.80 crore of property tax has been collected so far against the proposed demand of Rs 45 crore this financial year 2021-22.As many as 1.43 lakh (units) properties are registered in 307 colonies in the Municipal Corporation record of which 45,528 residential, 12,059 commercial, 3,739 industrial units, 1,244 institutional units, vacate plots 31,371, mix use plots 48,401 and 1,506 are special category units.As per sources, the MC had passed the budget of Rs 161.5 crore for the present financial year 2021-22. The Municipal Corporation had set the target of recovering Rs 45 crore as property tax in the current financial year but it has received only around Rs 3.80 crore so far.As per the sources, a total of Rs 245.49 crore property tax was pending for the past many years in the Municipal Corporation record and it gradually rises every year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mc-sets-up-enforcement-wing-for-demolition-drives-in-panipat-360189
11-01-2022||Faridabad||Shortage of doctors, nurses ails Faridabad Civil Hospital||With only 44 of the total sanctioned posts of 70 being functional, the Badshah Khan (BK) Civil Hospital here is faced with acute shortage of doctors. Being one of the largest government hospitals in the state it is also faced with the shortage of nurses and paramedics. It caters to over 2,200 patients in the OPD daily.“Though it has been an issue of concern for the past few years, the shortage of the doctors and staff is likely to adversely affect not only the treatment of the general patients but also in dealing with the Covid surge,” said the Health Department sources. While the hospital has the total sanctioned posts of 70 doctor, it has been left with functional strength of 44, which is 37.14 per cent short.The sanctioned posts include two deputy medical superintendents, five senior medical officers, 55 medical officers, four dental surgeons and four doctors hired through the NHM (National Health Mission). Eight doctors tested Covid positive recently and are unable to attend to patients, it was revealed. There was no medicine specialist (physician) at present.Nine out of the 53 filled posts of medical officers here have been lying vacant for long and have not been replaced through fresh recruitment or appointment for the past several years. Their absence has been put in the category which includes long leave, medical leave, absent and resigned in the official records. The shortage of nurses has also been an issue of concern as only 18 out of the total sanctioned posts of 100 are on the rolls. Though the attachment of 22 nurses through the NHM has given some relief, it is claimed that 11 of them have tested Covid positive, affecting the routine work, according to a senior doctor.The crunch of specialist doctors in medicine, paediatrics, anaesthesia and general duty officers in the casualty has been hitting the hospital’s functioning. Around 30 posts of doctor and 40 nursing officer are yet to be sanctioned for the 96-bedded Covid hospital set up here last year.The issue has been taken up with the authorities and is likely to be addressed soon, said Dr Savita Yadav, principal medical officer at the Civil Hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/shortage-of-doctors-nurses-ails-faridabad-civil-hospital-360187
11-01-2022||Hisar||Hisar DC Priyanka Soni gets booster dose of Covid vaccine||Deputy Commissioner (DC) Priyanka Soni was administered the precautionary or booster dose of the Covid vaccine at the local Civil Hospital on her birthday on Monday.She has appealed to the health staff, frontline workers and senior citizens to get the third dose of the vaccine.The DC said from January 10, the government has started administering the third dose of the vaccine across the country and all health and frontline workers, senior citizens and those suffering from serious diseases in the district were eligible.On Monday, the district reported 64 new Covid cases, which took the active infections to 331. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-dc-gets-booster-jab-360186
11-01-2022||Ambala||25 Ambala doctors positive in 2 days||As many as 25 doctors and 21 health workers have tested positive for Covid in Ambala over the past two days.Following this, the Health Department has closed the dental and ENT OPDs in the district from Monday.With 303 people testing positive on Monday, the active cases have mounted to 1,466 in Ambala. Two deaths — a man (32) of Ambala Cantt who was suffering from TB, and a woman (60) of Barara, who had undergone a surgery, have been reported.Meanwhile, DC Vikram Singh and ADC Sachin Gupta inspected the oxygen plant and the arrangements at the Civil Hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/25-ambala-docs-positive-in-2-days-360185
11-01-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Educational institutes in Haryana shut till Jan 26||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 10The Haryana government on Monday decided to keep all schools and colleges closed till January 26 in view of the increasing cases of Covid.Next 7-10 days crucialAs of now, the state is witnessing both Delta and Omicron cases. Omicron is three to five times more infectious. It is raging as a number of doctors and nurses have been infected. Next seven to 10 days are crucial. Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, State Nodal Officer for covid69% omicron cases of foreign travellersChandigarh: Till January 9, a total of 136 Omicron cases, including 57 from Gurugram and 32 from Faridabad district, have been detected across the state. Of the total 136 patients, 82 are international travellers while 13 are their contacts. This implies that 69.9% of Omicron cases in the state are related to the foreign travellers.Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar said online teaching would continue during this time and schools and colleges would focus on the preparation of the upcoming examination.Amid surge, the authorities have extended the Covid curbs to eight more districts.Chief Secretary Sanjeev Kaushal issued orders for Sirsa, Rewari, Jind, Fatehabad, Mahendragarh, Kaithal, Bhiwani and Hisar in Group A districts. Cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes will remain closed along with sports complexes, stadia and swimming pools. Entry to all entertainment parks remains prohibited. The offices, both government and private, except for emergency or essential services, are advised to function with 50% attendance. Moreover, the malls and markets will be allowed to open up to 6 pm. The bars and restaurants are allowed to operate with 50% seating capacity.Meawhile, the state’s weekly cases have jumped 8.4 times within the past seven days i.e.from January 3 to 9. It recorded 19,234 cases and eight deaths in the past week.Between January 3 and 9, Gurugram topped the state with 9,386 cases i.e. 48.8% of the total infections. Faridabad reported 2,745 weekly cases, followed by Panchkula with 1,608 cases and Ambala with 1,160 cases. In the week from December 27 to January 2, the state had recorded 2,284 cases and two deaths.Despite the rise in cases, Fatehabad showed a dip of 21% in testing, followed by Hisar (9%), Kurukshetra (9%), Bhiwani (5%), Rewari (3%), Panipat (1%) and Jind (1%) in the past two weeks (December 27 to January 9). However, Gurugram’s testing rose by 72% and that of Rohtak by 55%, as per the weekly Covid report of the Health Department.On January 3, the state had a daily positivity rate of 2.63%, which jumped to 10.64% on January 9. In Faridabad, the daily positivity rate jumped from 4.71% on January 3 to 23.26% on January 9, while for the same period in Gurugram, it shot from 7.49% to 19.66%. Meanwhile, Panchkula had a daily positivity rate of 15.15% on January 3 which jumped to 19.57% on January 9, while Ambala saw a jump from 3.94% to 18.23% in the same period.Meanwhile, there has been no let-up in the Covid surge as the state reported as many as 5,736 fresh infections and five fatalities on Monday. The state also reported 26 cases of Omicron variant, taking the tally to 162, of which 17 are active while the rest have been discharged.The recovery rate stood at 95.93%, the bulletin added.— With PTI inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/educational-institutes-shut-till-jan-26-360183
11-01-2022||Ravinder Saini||Amid Covid surge, 2,100 wedding bookings cancelled in Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, January 10Owners of tent houses, banquet halls, hotels and band groups in Rohtak district are staring at huge losses yet again. The reason: Bookings for over 2,100 weddings scheduled to be held in the first quarter of this year have been cancelled after the imposition of fresh restrictions in view of a sudden surge in Covid cases.Orders called off1,600 for wedding tents250 for banquet halls300 for celebrations in hotels100-person cap on wedding functions has dashed hopes of owners of tent houses, banquet halls, hotels and bandsAs per the latest Covid guidelines, maximum 100 persons are allowed at a wedding function. “Over 3,000 weddings were scheduled to be solemnised in Rohtak district in the first quarter of the year and people had started booking tents and caterers in October last year. Over 1,600 bookings for tents have been cancelled so far and 40 of them were with me,” said Dilbagh Saini, general secretary, Tent Dealers Welfare Association, Haryana. The scheduled weddings had either been postponed or would now be solemnised at home without much fanfare, he said.Sunil Rathi, president of the Rohtak Banquet and Resort Welfare Association, said over 70 per cent (250) bookings had already been cancelled so far. “April to June is the peak season for weddings and the bookings for that period generally start from January. But, people are now in a “wait and watch” mode, awaiting the lifting of curbs,” he added.Ashok Bhambhri, president of the Rohtak Hotel and Banquet Association, said Covid restrictions and health awareness among people were the main reasons behind the cancellation of hotel bookings in Rohtak city for over 300 weddings.“Having suffered huge losses over the past two years due to Covid, we were expecting good business this year, but the re-imposition of restrictions has dashed our hopes,” said Satish Kirar, owner of Indraj Band.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amid-surge-2-100-wedding-bookings-cancelled-in-rohtak-360145
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court adopts odd-even for hearing of cases||Adopting the odd-even formula for hearing cases, the HC today scaled down its functioning to almost half following the fresh outbreak of Covid. An order issued this evening made it clear three Division Benches would function daily.The Benches headed by Justice Augustine George Masih, Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice MS Ramachandra Rao will function on “odd” dates such as first, third and fifth.The Benches headed by Justice Ajay Tewari, Justice Ritu Bahri and Justice GS Sandhawalia will function on even dates such as second, fourth and sixth. The first Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli, will hold court every Monday, Thursday or any other day. Five Single Benches will hear civil matters and writ petitions, and 13 Benches will take up criminal matters during the odd dates. On even dates, four Single Benches will hear civil matters and writ petitions. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-adopts-odd-even-for-hearing-of-cases-360134
