12-01-2022||Noida||Four-time Congress MP Avtar Singh Bhadana joins RLD||Avtar Singh Bhadana on Wednesday severed ties with the Congress and joined the Jayant Chaudhary-led Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) ahead of Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. The four-time Lok Sabha MP from Faridabad, Haryana, will be fielded by the RLD from Jewar Assembly constituency in Gautam Buddh Nagar district of Uttar Pradesh, party sources told PTI.Chaudhary on Wednesday took to Twitter to announce the 64-year-old Bhadana’s entry into his party RLD and shared their pictures together.The meeting took place in New Delhi, the sources said.The Twitter post was re-tweeted by Bhadana, who had joined the Haryana unit of the Congress over three decades ago and went to become a minister in the state Cabinet in 1988.Bhadana was last elected to the Lok Sabha for the fourth time in 2009.Assembly polls in Jewar, currently held by BJP’s Dhirendra Singh, are scheduled on February 10.The results will be announced on March 10.Jewar has 3.46 lakh voters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-time-congress-mp-avtar-singh-bhadana-joins-rld-360647
12-01-2022||Trucks and bumpers loaded with sand and bajri are unloaded on road berms in various parts of Kaithal city by traders dealing in sale of such materials. The land on which this business activity is carried out belongs to the state PWD||Building materials piled on roadside in Kaithal||Satish Seth, KaithalIssue of waterlogging remains unaddressedDespite spending a budget of several hundred crores on upgrading and maintenance of the civic infrastructure each year, the Municipal Corporation and other agencies of the city have failed to provide a stable and long-term solution to the problem of waterlogging. While the recent downpour exposed the tall claims of the civic agencies and the officials concerned, the money of the taxpayers seems to be going down the drain as there is hardly any improvement and it is the residents who are at the receiving end. Even the offices of the district administration and the Municipal Corporation are waterlogged after every downpour, which is a matter of grave shame and failure of the official machinery.AK Gaur, FaridabadIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/building-materials-piled-on-roadside-in-kaithal-360575
12-01-2022||Faridabad||Haryana State Energy Conservation Award for Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh||Inter-varsity yoga contestHisar: Students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, have performed well in the inter-university yoga competition organised at the Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology, Bhubaneswar, Orissa. The winning team was accorded a warm welcome on its arrival at the university. Vice-Chancellor Prof Baldev Raj Kamboj congratulated the winning team and yoga instructor Basant Kumar and team manager and wished them a bright future. Basant Kumar informed that teams from 160 universities across the country had participated in the competition. Promila, Devi, Anushka, Pooja, Madhu Verma, Raveena participated in the girls' team and got the team first place. In the individual event, Anushka brought laurels to the university by getting a bronze medal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/energy-conservation-award-360574
12-01-2022||---||Karnal: Man found dead in fields||Karnal, January 11Vijay, a 25-year-old man, of Daniyalpur village of the district was found murdered in the fields of his village this morning.The police found empty bottles of liquor and glasses from the crime scene. His body bore injuries marks. The family members suspected the involvement of Vijay’s friends in the incident.“We have registered a case under Section 302 and 34 of the IPC against two persons – Kaki, alias Ravinder, of Budhakhera in Karnal city and Neeraj of Daniyalpur. Kaki has been arrested, while the investigation is on. The actual cause of the death will be known after the post-mortem report,” said Himadree Kaushik, ASP, Indri.She said the FSL team had collected some vital evidences from the crime scene.Family members of Vijay said he had gone from his home with his friends on Monday, but did not return. On Tuesday morning, Vijay’s body was found in the fields, where they had taken drinks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-man-found-dead-in-fields-360573
12-01-2022||---||1 held for selling SIMs illegally in Gurugram||Gurugram, January 11The CM flying squad nabbed a UP man selling mobile SIM cards without taking IDs to foreign nationals.14 operational SIM cards, 20 mobile phones and 52 non-working SIM cards, Rs 18,500 cash and a motorcycle have been recovered from his possession.The arrested has been identified as Ravindra Singh (38), a native of Mujaffarnagar in UP.Two accomplices of the accused are absconding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-held-for-selling-sims-illegally-in-gurugram-360572
12-01-2022||Panchkula||Panchkula: Work on for welcome gate near Mansa Devi Complex||The work on the installation of welcome gates has been started at all entrances to the Municipal Corporation Panchkula area, with the installation of the structure of the welcome gate erected near the Mansa Devi complex, the entry from Chandigarh to Panchkula.Panchkula MC Mayor Kulbhushan Goel said a grand welcome gate was being built at the entry to Panchkula on behalf of the IT Park of Chandigarh. He said the welcome gate would be erected on Tuesday night by diverting the traffic and its beautification work was yet to be done. He said that the pillar to be built in the middle of this entry gate would have the Ashoka Pillar along with the Ashoka Chakra. By diverting traffic on Tuesday, this welcome gate was erected till late night. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/work-on-for-welcome-gate-near-mansa-devi-complex-360571
12-01-2022||---||Faculty development programme at Guru Jambheshwar University, Hisar||hisar, January 11A six-day faculty development programme on 'Recent trends and issues' was started by the department of mechanical engineering, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar. The event was organised under the aegis of the All-India Council for Technical Education. The Vice-Chancellor, Prof Baldev Raj Kamboj, said in his inaugural address that mechanical engineers were making new discoveries. He gave detailed information on new areas of mechanical engineering like smart materials, robotics, bio-mechanics and green technology. He said there were immense opportunities for research and employment in the field of mechanical engineering, which should be taken advantage of by the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faculty-development-programme-at-gju-hisar-360570
12-01-2022||---||Kurukshetra University observes 65th foundation day||Kurukshetra, January 11Kurukshetra University observed its 65th foundation day on Tuesday.Congratulating teachers, students and non-teaching staff, KU Vice-Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva said the day was dedicated to all those personalities with whose efforts the KU was able to make a mark at the national and international levels today. The university has got A plus grade by NAAC and is among the top 20 universities given the autonomous status by the MHRD. Prof Som Nath Sachdeva said the foundation stone of the university was laid by the first President of India, Dr Rajendra Prasad, on January 11, 1957.On this occasion, the Vice-Chancellor said that to encourage research and development at the KU, a notification had been issued to give awards to seven best researchers in five categories.The VC said, “To further encourage research and development in KU, awards will be given to the teachers of the university. Nominations have been sought for this and the names of the teachers who will receive the award will be announced soon. To promote research, a grant of up to two lakh rupees will be given to the faculty member for minor projects, under which they will be able to do their research work without any constraint.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ku-observes-65th-foundation-day-360564
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Pact to enhance collaboration between UK, Haryana||The British Deputy High Commission, Chandigarh, and Foreign Cooperation Department, Haryana, has signed a Framework of Engagement (FoE) to enhance bilateral cooperation between the UK and Haryana today at the residence of CM.The FoE was signed by Aroline Rowett, British Deputy High Commissioner, Chandigarh, and Yogender Chaudhary, Principal Secretary, Foreign Cooperation Department, Haryana.The FoE covers broad areas of work that will help build collaboration between the UK and Haryana.“I’m very pleased that we have been able to put into action the ideas discussed by the Chief Minister and Lord Ahmad of Wimbledon. The signing of the FoE gives us a strong foundation on which to build our future collaboration. I look forward to seeing our partnership,” said Rowett. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pact-with-uk-to-enhance-collaboration-360553
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar reviews work of Kaushal Rozgar Nigam||The state youth, who have lost government jobs due to court cases or other reasons, should be given priority while calculating their experience in employment provided through the Haryana Kaushal Rojgar Nigam. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar gave these directions during a meeting of senior officers concerned of the nigam on Tuesday.The CM also directed the officers that SMS alerts should reach the mobile phones of the registered youth when applications were invited for recruitment to the posts for which they were registered in the nigam. He further said if the candidate holds the experience of a post during regular or outsourced job of the state government, then earlier experience would also be considered in the application for other posts.During the review meeting, it was informed that the registration of 32,571 youth was underway on the nigam’s portal while the process of 2,333 had been completed so far.Principal Secretary to CM; Principal Secretary, Skill Development and Industrial Training; Principal Secretary, Industries and Commerce; were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-reviews-work-of-kaushal-rozgar-nigam-360551
12-01-2022||Deepender Deswal||Hisar: Town Park in bad shape, courtesy poor upkeep||Hisar, January 11The Town Park, the main park in Hisar, has been in bad shape, thanks to the negligent attitude of the authorities who are responsible for its upkeep. Thousands of people visit the town park daily for morning and evening walk, however, they blame the official apathy for the lack of maintenance of the park.Located along the district jail in the old Police Lines Area (PLA) along the Delhi Road, the Town Park spread over eight acres was constructed about two decades ago. The park is the main attraction of residents due to its central location as people from the PLA sector, Sectors 13,15,16,17, Bank Colony, Green Park, Krishna Colony, Defence Colony and even from the far off localities arrive in mornings and evenings.The basic infrastructure and facilities, including the toilet, open gym, waterfall, fountains are rendered useless. Surender Narang, a morning walker to the park, said the toilet was unclean. “The toilet sheets are broken. The water keeps on leaking. There is no provision of cleanliness and hygiene”, he said. Besides, the machines of the open gym which was set up just before the Covid pandemic is also not operational.Narang said local MLA Dr Kamal Gupta had also visited the park and was also apprised of the problems. “Sirsa BJP MP Sunita Duggal also came for morning walk once and we also pointed out the problems to her. On another occasion, we have also brought the matter to the notice of Hisar BJP MLA Brijendra Singh”, he said adding that now, Hisar MLA Dr Gupta had become the minister of Urban Local Bodies in the state government and the local residents now hope that the condition of the town park will improve now.Dr Mahender Juneja, a municipal corporation member, said he had taken up the issue with the district authorities concerned. “The waterfall and fountains used to be a major attraction in the town. But in the absence of maintenance, the fountains are just a showpiece now. Even the footpath for the morning walkers also need to be repaired”, he said. Dr Juneja said the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) was responsible for the maintenance of the park.An official of the HSVP stated that they were in the process of allocating the tender for the maintenance of the town park. “Earlier, we had opened the bid for the maintenance but the tender had to be recalled on technical grounds. I hope that the fresh tender process will be successful”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-town-park-in-bad-shape-courtesy-poor-upkeep-360550
12-01-2022||---||One HCS, two HPS officers transferred in Haryana||Chandigarh, January 11The Haryana Government has given the additional charge of Estate Officer, HSVP, Jagadhri, to Sushil Kumar-III, HCS, Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil), Jagadhri, with immediate effect.The government has also issued transfer orders of two HPS officers.Rajnish Kumar, DSP, Barara, Ambala, has been posted as DSP, Bilaspur, Yamunanagar. Ashish Chaudhary, DSP, Bilaspur, Yamunanagar, has been posted as DSP, Barara, Ambala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-hcs-two-hps-officers-transferred-360548
12-01-2022||---||Haryana CM: Private units must give relief to sewermen who die on duty||Chandigarh, January 11Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said if a sewerman died while cleaning, his family was given an assistance of Rs 10 lakh.So far, the amount had been given to the families of 57 sewermen across the state, he said today, while presiding over a meeting of the State Monitoring Committee constituted as per the Manual Scavenging Act. If private companies engaged in cleaning were reluctant to provide the amount, action would be taken against them, he said.Cooperation Minister Banwari Lal was also present during the meeting.The Chief Minister directed the Public Health Engineering Department to ensure sewerage cleaning machines were available in rotation at all Municipal Corporations.The Chief Minister directed the officers of the Urban Local Bodies Department to form a committee of employees engaged in cleaning work, and make arrangements for awarding contracts.Chief Minister Monohar Lal Khattar said manual cleaning of sewerage was prohibited throughout the state. The State Public Health Engineering Department was training the sanitation workers to use state-of-the-art equipment. The State Monitoring Committee has been constituted to impose a complete ban on manual cleaning. He said the committee members should meet timely to take necessary decisions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cm-private-units-must-give-relief-to-sewermen-who-die-on-duty-360546
12-01-2022||---||Target of 50,000 solar tubewells by 2022-23 in Haryana||Panchkula, January 11Haryana Power and New and Renewable Energy Minister Ranjit Singh said today that a target had been set to provide 22,000 solar tube-well connections for the year 2021-22, out of which 15,000 such connections had been provided so far and the remaining 7,000 would be given by March 2022.Ranjit Singh stated this while addressing the state-level Energy Conservation Award Distribution Programme organised by the New and Renewable Energy Department in Panchkula on Tuesday.He said by the year 2022-23, a total of 50,000 solar tube-well connections would be provided across the state. He said the cases of power theft had reduced in the past seven years and the line loss was likely to be less than 14 per cent in the financial year 2021-22.Singh said in the coming times, Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal and Sonepat were going to become the biggest industrial hubs of North India and power sector had a significant contribution in this development. Today, the pace of development works had accelerated due to the uninterrupted power supply and these days, there had been a lot of awareness among the people about the use of renewable energy in industries, buildings, educational institutions and even in villages, he added.He also honoured industries, building owners and educational institutions for their efforts in the field of energy conservation. He distributed awards to various categories of energy consumers under the Energy Conservation Act 2005. He also released a handbook titled “Best practices on energy conservation for hospitals”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/target-of-50-000-solar-tubewells-by-2022-23-in-haryana-360544
12-01-2022||Parveen Arora||Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran faces staff crunch, one SDO taking care of four cities||Karnal, January 11The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), the urban development arm of the Haryana Government, is facing acute shortage of staff, particularly in the engineering wing, in Karnal and Kaithal cities, hampering the working of the department.Karnal has three sanctioned posts of the SDO –one in the Superintending Engineer (SE) office, two in the XEN office comprising two sub-divisions. Of these sanctioned posts, only one SDO has been deployed who is looking after the work of the three SDOs in Karnal, and taking care of Yamunanagar, Kaithal and Kurukshetra. Moreover, the department in Karnal does not have a permanent SE and Estate Officer (EO). Both officers have been given the additional charge of Karnal.The worrisome situation can be gauged in the engineering wing in both districts, with Karnal having six sanctioned posts of the junior engineer (JE), out of which four are lying vacant. Similarly, Kaithal has three sanctioned posts of the JE, out of which one is yet to be filled.Both districts are facing the shortage of clerical staff also. In Karnal, 13 posts of clerk are sanctioned. Of these, 10 are lying vacant, while in Kaithal, one post of clerk out of three is yet to be filled.As per sources in the department, due to the shortage of the SDOs and JEs, the water and sewerage system in the HSVP sectors is affected adversely and the complaints related to the leakage of water supply, sewerage system and others are not resolved on time.However, the Karnal Municipal Corporation has been given the charge of roads and storm water of most of the HSVP sectors, while the remaining work like water, sewerage is maintained by the HSVP. Besides, the works of laying of the water supply, storm water, roads and sewerage in new sectors is also done by the HSVP.The same situation is in Kaithal city. “People come to us with their complaints regarding sewerage and water supply leakage, but due to the shortage of staff, we are unable to resolve these on time. Besides, the monitoring of complaints is very difficult due to the shortage of the SDOs and JEs,” said an employee of the HSVP.Meanwhile, officials claimed that they had been making efforts to resolve the complaints of the residents on time. “We have sent demand to the higher authorities to fill all vacant posts. We are making efforts to resolve the complaints of residents on time so that they do not face any problem,” said Dharamvir Singh, XEN, HSVP, Karnal.Officials get additional chargeThe department in Karnal does not have a permanent Superintending Engineer and Estate Officer. Both officers have been given the additional charge of Karnal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hsvp-faces-staff-crunch-one-sdo-taking-care-of-four-cities-360543
12-01-2022||---||Atal Park in Karnal to have open-air theatre in 2 months||Karnal, January 11Atal Park, the largest park of the city, situated along the NH-44 on around 40-acres, will have an open-air theatre soon as the work on it has gained pace. The authorities claim that the project of open-air theatre is likely to complete in two months.The open air theatre is being developed in this park under the Smart City project by Karnal Smart City Ltd. (KSCL), an agency looking after the smart city project, under the beautification and renovation of the Atal park project. A sum of Rs 19 lakh will be spent on this project, said an official of the KSCL.The authorities claimed that the vision behind developing this project is to add congregation space in the park which can be used as a celebration space for neighborhood and used for outdoor events at the city level.“We have taken up the rejuvenation of Atal Park in two phases. In the first phase, we have filled the gaps of existing park by adding additional seating spaces with appropriate locations and orientation along with more gazebos to accommodate more groups of people. We have developed a water channel with jumping jets. Hardscape and softscape will enhance existing water channel with jumping jets fountains. Lighting work on the entry gates and near fountains will enhance the beauty,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-CEO, KSCL.“Work of phase I has been completed in November 2021,” he added. Now, in the phase II they have taken up the construction work of the open-air theatre, which is being developed in 1180 sq meters in the northern corner of the central water body. It will have the capacity of around 150 persons at a time, Yadav maintained. “The massing of backdrop walls and landscape will create drama in the space.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/atal-park-in-karnal-to-have-open-air-theatre-in-2-months-360540
12-01-2022||Parveen Arora||Cheeka bypass gets govt nod||Kaithal, January 11Aimed at easing the traffic flow on road between Kaithal and Patiala, connecting Haryana and Punjab states, the state government has given its consent to Cheeka bypass as more than 70 per cent of farmers whose land is coming under the alignment have given their consent to the project.The district authorities have started the process for purchasing the land from the farmers, after which the possession process will start. This bypass will be of nearly 12 km between Tatiana and Pidhal villages under the Guhla Assembly constituency in the district. A sum ofRs 54 crore will be spent on the project, which, as per the officials, will overcome the traffic jam problem on state highway 11. This road leads to Ghaghar river so the vehicles carrying sand also cause traffic jams here.Besides, the new grain market of Cheeka is also on this road and during the procurement season, this road witnesses traffic chaos. Apart from it, the marble market of Cheeka also attracts people, leading to traffic congestion on this road, said an official.This project is a long-pending demand of residents and local MLA Ishwar Singh had raised this issue at several platforms. “I am thankful to the CM and the Deputy CM for giving this project to my constituency, which was a long-pending demand. It will give much-awaited relief to commuters form traffic congestion,” Ishwar Singh said adding that this step will attract investors to Cheeka.Around 60 acres was required for this project. Out of 115 farmers, 91 farmers have given their consent on the e-Bhoomi portal of the state government. They have had several rounds of meeting with the local MLA, DC Pradeep Dahiya and the XEN of PWD B&R, Varun Kansal. The farmers had a meeting with the high-powered land purchase committee headed by CM Manohar Lal Khattar, and attended by the Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala through video-conferencing last week, in which final negotiation of rates was done with the farmers.“We along with Ishawar Singh had several rounds of meeting with the farmers, whose land are required for this project. Over 70 per cent farmers have given their consent, so now we have started the process of purchasing the land,” said Pradeep Dahiya. “After this project, we will take up the widening work of Kaithal-Patiala road ,” said the DC. After the construction of this bypass, the residents will get smooth traffic flow between Kaithal city and Patiala, but it will also provide them easy connectivity with Punjab, the DC said. Farmers and residents are also elated with the nod. “If residents of Kaithal go to Patiala for any purpopse, it takes them an hour to reach, but this bypass will save around 15-20 minutes,” said Gurcharan Singh, a resident of Kaithal.Grain market witnesses traffic chaos in procurement season0ver 70% farmers have given consentWe along with MLA Ishawar Singh had several rounds of meeting with farmers, whose land are required for this project. Over 70 per cent farmers have given their consent, so now we have started the process of purchasing the land. Pradeep Dahiya, Deputy CommissionerLong-pending demandI am thankful to the CM and the Deputy CM for giving this project to my constituency, which was a long-pending demand. It will give much-awaited relief to commuters form traffic congestion. Ishwar Singh, local MLA||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cheeka-bypass-gets-govt-nod-360539
12-01-2022||Nitish Sharma||Schools, colleges shut, demand for scientific apparatus drops||Ambala, January 11The shutting down of educational institutions due to rising Covid cases have become a matter of concern for manufacturers of the scientific goods in Ambala as the demand for scientific apparatus has decreased in the market.For Ambala’s science industry, 80 per cent of the business comes from educational institutions and science laboratories.The manufacturers said following another spike in cases and shutting down of educational institutions, the demand for their products in the market had declined.Vikram Chaudhary, president of the Ambala Scientific Instruments Manufacturers Association, said: “After a bad phase, the industry had started receiving new orders in the recent months for the next session, but the educational institutions have been closed again and several clients have either started putting their orders on hold or are cancelling them. With not many orders, manufacturers have reduced their production as there is no point in piling up the stock. They are working with just 30 to 40 per cent of their capacity.”The association president said there were more than 1,500 small and big units in Ambala, but due to not much demand, around 10 per cent of small units have either closed or are on the verge of closure. The government should announce some aid for the industry.Arun P Bansal, former president of the Scientific Apparatus Manufacturers and Exporters, said: “A sense of uncertainty has prevailed in the market. There were orders from colleges, but after the shut down, they have started cancelling their orders.”Can’t face lockdownWe can’t completely close the operations as we have to pay salaries to workers. The market is in no position to face another lockdown kind of a situation. Arun P Bansal, ex-prez, scientific apparatus manufacturers & exporters Few new queriesThe scientic manufacturing industry is going through a tough situation due to the pandemic. Payments are stuck and new queries are few. Vikram Chaudhary, prez, Ambala scientific instruments manufacturers assn||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/schools-colleges-shut-demand-for-scientific-apparatus-drops-360535
12-01-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat & Ravinder Saini||Faridabad, Jhajjar factories bear brunt of genset ban||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad/Jhajjar, January 11The ban on generator sets to improve the air quality index (AQI) has hit the industries in Faridabad and Jhajjar districts hard with the production coming to a standstill during long power cuts being imposed daily.The situation has forced the industrialists of both the districts to take up the issue with the Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region, seeking permission to use gensets. Both the districts have more than 30,000 large, medium and small scale industrial units, which provide direct and indirect employment to lakhs of people.“The long power cuts halt the production due to which a majority of the units fail to fulfil their commitment towards the market, making them suffer losses,” said BR Bhatia, president, Faridabad Industries Association.Rajiv Chawla, president, Integrated Association of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (IAMSME) of India, said the ban was a major stumbling block. “Gensets are used only for backup during power failures, severe scarcity and interruptions in supply. The recent downpour led to major power disruptions, resulting in losses and threat of order cancellations for the manufacturing units. Already reeling under the Covid crisis, the industry is now facing a tough situation due to curbs on gensets and fuel,” he added.Narinder Chhikara, senior vice-president, Bahadurgarh Chamber of Commerce and Industry (BCCI), Jhajjar, said having suffered a huge loss for over a year during the farm agitation, industries in the town were now grappling with power cuts. “Besides halting the production, power cuts also pose a serious threat to the safety of employees, especially in those units where machines need to cool down after being switched off. In case of power failure, such machines are cooled down by using diesel gensets, which takes at least two hours. These machines cause fire if the process of cooling down is not completed in time,” he added.Rahul Verma, SDO, UHBVN, Bahadurgarh, said adequate power supply was being given to the industries in the town. No industrialist had lodged complaints regarding power cuts so far, he added.AQI BETTER, LIFT CURBSThe ban on gensets was imposed when the AQI had gone worse. Since now it has improved hence the ban should be lifted so as to bail the industries out of crisis. BR Bhatia, president, faridabad industries association||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-jhajjar-factories-bear-brunt-of-genset-ban-360533
12-01-2022||Sumedha Sharma||24 depts functioning without head in Nuh||Gurugram, January 11Owing to to the shortage of staff, the administrative machinery in Nuh district continues to be in a shambles. Around 24 departments in the district are functioning without any head or regular employees.The Women and Child Welfare Department does not have any Child Development Project Officer. Moreover, the anganwaris are functioning with skeletal staff. There is only one tehsildar and one naib tehsildar in the district.The District Education Officer (DEO) and the project officer, Sarva Shiksha Abhiyaan, are retiring at the end of this month and there is no replacement available so far. Also, the Public Relations Office entrusted with advertising about vaccination has only one District Public Relation Officer (DPRO).“Many departments are struggling with the shortage of staff and as many as 24 are without a Head of Department (HoD). The charge of these is allocated additionally to the heads of other departments. We have written to the state authorities,” said Deputy Commissioner (DC) Shakti Singh.“Nobody wants to be posted at Nuh. People either get themselves transferred to other areas or remain on leave. A handful of us are handling multiple departments. Some departments do not even have peons. We have been repeatedly asking the government to provide staff,” said a senior official.Meanwhile, MLA Aftab Ahmed said, “There are hardly any teachers, doctors and officers. The administration has crumbled, and people are suffering.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/24-depts-functioning-without-head-in-nuh-360529
12-01-2022||---||5,746 new Covid cases in 24 hrs in Haryana||Karnal, January 11Haryana witnessed 5,746 fresh Covid cases in the past 24 hours, taking the active cases to 26,813. The positivity rate today was 13.89 per cent, while the cumulative positive rate was 5.36 per cent.Twentysix patients were found infected with Omicron, taking the tally to 162. Of these, 17 patients are active and 145 have been discharged, revealed the state bulletin.As per the bulletin, 51,557 samples were taken by the Health Department across the state today. Of the total positive cases, 7,68,717 patients had recovered so far across the state.Till January 10, 21,690 positive cases, out of 8,05,633 positive cases, were in home isolation, the bulletin added.As per the bulletin, 10,080 people had succumbed to the virus infection. The fatality rate wa 1.25 per cent in the state, while the recovery rate was 95.42 per cent.The bulletin further stated that on Tuesday, 2,32,591 persons were administered the Covid vaccine, with first dose to 1,12,786 persons, second dose to 1,08,141 and precaution dose to 11,664 persons.So far, as many as 21723198 target people have been administered the first dose, while 15540860 have been given the second dose, said the bulletin.Meanwhile, the academic fraternity as well as the owners/managers of teaching institutes in many parts of the state have questioned the logic behind closing the educational institutes, including schools, colleges and coaching centres, till January 26, maintaining that education does not seem to be a priority of the authorities concerned.They questioned bars and restaurants allowed to operate with 50 per cent seating capacity.Dinesh Kumar, who runs a private teaching academy, pointed out that a number of teachers working at coaching centres had been rendered jobless due to the discontinuation of the regular classes.“In a bid to cut their expenses, the owners/managers of some institutes had switched over to the online teaching mode, while the others had completely stopped functioning as of now. Thus, many teachers working there on a part-time basis had lost their jobs,” he explained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-746-new-covid-cases-in-24-hrs-in-haryana-360519
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Specialist cadre demand accepted by Haryana government||Acceding to one of the key demands of doctors hinting strike, CM Manohar Lal Khattar today gave in-principle approval to the creation of specialist cadre post for MD or MS doctors.Besides, doctors will not be given any administrative work and will practice in their concerned specialty only.The government will create a special sub-cadre for specialists, who will be designated as consultant or senior consultants. Earlier, a doctor with MBBS and MD/MS qualification used to be in the same cadre. However, with the creation of the specialist cadre post, these doctors will be able to focus on their work.Moreover, the specialists will now be posted in renowned hospitals than in the PHCs, which will ensure swift promotions. The decision will also be beneficial for patients as they will get the consultation of specialists. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/specialist-cadre-demand-accepted-by-haryana-government-360509
12-01-2022||Sunit Dhawan||Haryana Government imposes ESMA as HCMS docs go on protest||Rohtak, January 11Healthcare services at the government facilities across the state were adversely affected as a number of the HCMS doctors remained on mass casual leave to press for the fulfilment of their demands on a call given by the HCMS Association today.The Haryana Government imposed the Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA), prohibiting the healthcare workers from going on strike for the next six months.“This indicates that somebody wants to sabotage the fight against Covid. Hence, the imposition of ESMA was necessitated,” he stated.Reports from different districts indicated that the strike call by the HCMS Association evoked a mixed response in the state. The OPD services remained paralysed at many state-run hospitals, though the doctors performed the emergency, post-mortem and Covid-care services.The demands of the HCMS doctors include the creation of a specialist cadre, stoppage of direct recruitment to the posts of SMO and restoration of the HCMS quota in admission to postgraduate medical courses.The HCMS Association has threatened a total shutdown of all services, including emergency, Covid and post-mortem, with effect from January 14. “We will go ahead with our plan to observe indefinite strike if our demands are not met and are ready to face the consequences,” said Dr Jasbir Panwar, president of the association.Hisar: The OPD services remained adversely affected at the Civil Hospital in Hisar as the medical officers remained on strike on the call of the HCMS Association.Nonetheless, the Hisar Civil Surgeon, Dr Ratna Bharti, took charge of the OPD services and attended the patients herself. Nearly 2,000 patients visit the OPDs at the Civil Hospital in Hisar per day.HCMS Association, Dr Rajiv Dabla district chief said they had been discussing their concerns with the state authorities, but to no avail.Ambala: The call of strike given by the HCMS Association did not get much response in Ambala and the doctors were seen attending their OPDs.The district president of the association, Dr Mukesh, said: “The call was not much successful here in Ambala as the doctors did not participate in the strike. The association cannot force the doctors to participate in the strike.”Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said: “The OPD services were not affected in Ambala district. Except for the 30 doctors who were tested positive and a few others who were already on leave, the remaining staff was on duty.”Karnal: On the call of the HCMS Association, the doctors at the government hospitals in the district remained on mass casual leave, which affected the OPD services in the district. Only emergency and post-mortem duties and Covid vaccination services were discharged. Many patients had to go to private hospitals due to the strike.Dr Sandeep Abrol, district president, HCMS Association, said the government should consider their demands positively as they had been seeking the creation of the specialist cadre with financial incentive, as well as 40 per cent reservation in postgraduation courses for in-service candidates. “Specialists should not be recruited as SMOs by giving them administrative work. They should be part of the specialist cadre instead,” he added.Plan to obstruct fight against CovidThe move has been taken in view of a group of doctors striking work to obstruct the fight against Covid. Their demands have been approved and being met, but they still went on a strike. — Anil Vij, Health and Home minister||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-imposes-esma-as-hcms-docs-go-on-protest-360501
12-01-2022||New Delhi||Expect dense fog, more chill over next few days||Cold wave conditions, along with dense to very dense fog during night/morning hours, are likely to continue in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and UP over the next couple of days, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has said.According to the IMD, cold wave conditions were likely in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and parts of Rajasthan from January 13 to 15. It further said, "Dense fog is also likely in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh over the next four to five days."Two fresh western disturbances will also affect the north-west, first on January 16 and second on January 18. These are expected to cause precipitation over the western Himalayan region and rainfall over the adjoining plains, the IMD said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/expect-dense-fog-more-chill-over-next-few-days-360474
12-01-2022||Sumedha Sharma||Fearing lockdown, Gurugram migrants head for villages||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, January 11As the Covid crisis continues to deepen and restrictions turn stringent, migrants have started leaving the city fearing a lockdown.Gurugram has been reporting over 2,000 cases daily since last few days and several parts, including prominent high-rises, have been converted into containment zones.The rising numbers have led to panic as migrants fear job loss and getting stuck in lockdown. They are thus making a beeline to their home towns. Be it domestic helps, roadside vendors, construction workers or other daily wagers, a majority of migrants, primarily hailing from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal, are seen crowding bus stands and other transit points, jostling to leave the city. The rush is higher during night hours when private buses are more operational.“The society where I used to work has been locked down after several cases surfaced. I have no job or money left. I got a message on my phone that borders may be shut again. So, I am taking my family back home and will return once the situation gets normal,” said Savita, a cook from UP. She boarded a bus with her three children and husband from Rajiv Chowk.“Last time, too, they had said there will be no lockdown. But everything was shut and we were left high and dry. Had to borrow money... can’t take chances again. We will be moving to Bengal in a special bus tonight,” said Jameel Khan, a roadside tailor.The panic and the exodus have left city shop owners harried. “All barbers of my saloon are from Aligarh and want to leave by weekend. I have tried reasoning with them, offered them a place to stay but to no avail,” quipped Rehman, owner of Chaand saloon in Sanjay Gram area.The local industries too have started reporting exodus and are making arrangements for their workers to stay on factory premises. “A majority of my workforce comes from Kapasehra in Delhi and 10 per cent did not report for work today. We are yet to recover from earlier losses and the fresh exodus will hit us hard again,” said Rahul Chaudhary, a garment factory owner.The local administration has, meanwhile, issued a warning against spreading rumours on social media. “There are restrictions, but no lockdown has been imposed. The people shouldn’t believe in rumours,” said Deputy Commissioner Dr Yash Garg.In panic mode||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fearing-lockdown-gurugram-migrants-head-for-villages-360449
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana govt declares strike by doctors illegal, invokes ESMA||Health services in government hospitals in Haryana were hit on Tuesday as doctors suspended OPD work in support of their demands, prompting the authorities to declare their stir as illegal by invoking the Essential Services Maintenance Act.The doctors are demanding the creation of specialist cadres for them and stopping the direct recruitment of senior medical officers.Buckling under pressure amid the Covid crisis, the government acceded to one of the key demands of the doctors with Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar giving in-principle approval to the creation of specialist cadre post for MD or MS doctors.Emergency services and COVID-19 vaccination drive continued in the state but OPD services were affected due to the strike, said Rajesh Sheokand of Haryana Civil Medical Services Association, a body representing government doctors.Health Minister Anil Vij tweeted, “ESMA has been invoked in Haryana, now for six months health workers won’t be able to go on strike. This step has been taken as a group of doctors has gone on strike which is creating obstacle in steps being taken to contain the Covid surge.The Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) allows the government to declare a strike illegal in the public interest.An official statement issued Tuesday evening said the doctors will not be given any administrative work and will practice in their concerned speciality only.When asked about ESMA being invoked, Health Minister Vij told reporters that the decision was taken keeping in view the surge in Covid cases in the state.The entire country is fighting Covid and taking steps to contain the virus spread. Amid this, a group of doctors going on strike is not acceptable, especially when an in-principle decision was taken with regard to their demands, he said.“I had accepted their demands and sent these to the chief minister and other relevant departments. We had a positive approach towards their demands. After meeting with the chief minister yesterday, in-principle approval was also given.“However, they (the doctors) said even if in-principle approval was given, they will still go on strike. It seems there is someone behind them who wants to create obstacles in this fight against Covid, so we had to invoke ESMA,” Vij, who also holds the home portfolio, said      Regarding in-principle approval to the creation of specialist cadre post for MD or MS doctors, the statement said, “In-principle approval has been granted today wherein the government will create a special sub cadre for specialists who will be designated as Consultant or Senior Consultants.”   “Earlier, a doctor with MBBS qualification and MD/MS qualification used to be in the same cadre.”“However, with the creation of specialist cadre posts these doctors will be able to focus on their work which will definitely protect their interest. Moreover, the specialist cadre doctors will now be posted in leading hospitals rather than Primary Health Centres (PHCs) which will ensure their swift promotions thereby nurturing their talent,” the statement said.The chief minister said the doctors have a very pivotal role to play in the society especially in the present crisis situation and the government is committed for their welfare, the statement quoting him as said.The government order invoking ESMA said strike by doctors or other categories of employees of health department including those engaged on contract, honorarium basis etc and working in various entities including National Health Mission, Food and Drug Administration, Ayush, Haryana, has been prohibited for a period of six months.“...An emergent public health situation has arisen due to surge in Covid cases and any strike by employees of health department, Haryana, at this time shall gravely affect the health and essential services required to safeguard the life of community,” the order said.Haryana has seen a surge in Covid cases during the past fortnight. PTI हरियाणा में एस्मा लागू कर दिया गया है, अब 6 महीने तक हड़ताल नहीं कर सकेंगे स्वास्थ्य कर्मी । यह कदम करोना की रोकथाम में बाधा डालने के लिए डॉक्टरों के एक समूह द्वारा हड़ताल पर चले जाने के कारण उठाया गया है ।||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-invokes-esma-doctors-cannot-go-on-strike-for-next-6-months-anil-vij-360338
