14-01-2022||---||Mamaearth approaches Gurugram Police after several customers complain of fraud calls||Sanjay YadavGurugram, January 14Lifestyle brand Mamaearth has approached Gurugram Police with allegations of impersonation after several customers complained of fraud.The company said several of its customers were promised free gifts to lure them into paying into their own accounts.  The complaint, filed by Honasa Consumer Pvt. Ltd, the parent company of Mamaearth, said that some 471 verified customers were contacted through calls, SMS, Whatsapp, and emails.Fraudsters enticed customers through promises of cashbacks and free gifts such as televisions, mobile phones, refrigerators, laptops, and air conditioners to lure customers into supposedly buying Mamaearth products worth Rs 4,999.Customers were directed to what they claimed was Mamaearth website and asked to add products to their cart. They would then be directed to pay either through UPI or net banking. Once they did, their money would be sent directly to fraud accounts set up for the purpose, the complaint said.“The company has not started any promotional offer,” the company clarified.Police have registered an FIR has been registered for cheating (Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code) and cheating by using a computer (Section 66-D of Information Technology Act),  Inspector Bijender Kumar, SHO of the Cyber Crime Police Station, said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mamaearth-approaches-gurugram-police-after-several-customers-complain-of-fraud-calls-361254
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Cold weather conditions prevail in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions prevailed in many parts of Punjab and Haryana on Friday.Hisar in Haryana reeled under intense cold, recording a minimum temperature of 4.3 degrees Celsius, the meteorological department said.Sirsa also experienced a cold night, recording a low of 5.4 degrees Celsius, while Gurgaon's minimum temperature settled at 7.5 degrees Celsius.However, Ambala registered an above normal temperature at 10.3 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Bathinda reeled under intense cold and recorded a low of 4.2 degrees, while Amritsar recorded a minimum temperature of 7.8 degrees Celsius. Gurdaspur, too, experienced a cold night, recording a low of 5.2 degrees Celsius.Jalandhar recorded a low of 8.6 degrees, while Moga registered a low of 5.9 degrees. Ludhiana's minimum settled at 8.8 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 11 degrees Celsius.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cold-weather-conditions-prevail-in-punjab-haryana-361193
14-01-2022||After a five-day long incessant rain||Sewerage choked in Ambala sector||Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityWaterlogging a nuisance for residentsDespite tall promises of the civic authorities since years we don't have any water drain on either side of the main road in Rajendra Park from Daultabad flyover to Vishnu Garden. This leads to waterlogging and commuters and residents are inconvenienced during rains. There have been many accidents due to this. We have complained to the civic authorities many times but all in vain.Sandeep Chowdhary, GurugramWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribuneinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sewerage-choked-in-ambala-sector-361095
14-01-2022||Karnal||Students bring laurels||Students selected for science congKarnal: Dhruvika, a student of Class IX and Nishchay of Class VIII of Dyal Singh Public School, main branch, have been selected for the national-level competition in 29th National Children Science Congress conducted online by the Haryana Vigyan Manch. As many as 97 teams participated and presented their science models. Out of which 16 teams were selected for the competition. Students' seed balls prepared under the guidance of Jyoti Puri got selected at the national level which will be conducted in February, 2022. Principal, Sushma Devgun and headmistress, Priya Kapoor, congratulated the team and gave them their best wishes.Indira Gandhi varsity signs pactRewari: Indira Gandhi University (IGU) authorities signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Vaish Mahasammelan, an outfit of Vaish Community, to carry out research work on Maharaja Agrasen. Vice-Chancellor Prof SK Gakhar said the project would enable researchers to conduct a study on the life of Maharaja Agrasen whose centuries-old teachings were still relevant in the welfare and uplifting of society. Rajiv Jain, state president of the Mahasammelan, Prof Mamta Kamra, Prof Tej Singh, Dean (Academic Affairs), Dean (Examination Affairs), ProfVijay Kumar, Dean (Student Welfare) were also among those present on the occasion.Programme on road safetyMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) in association with the Indian Road Safety Campaign organised a five-day faculty development programme (FDP) on the university campus. Vice Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar said every citizen should be aware and responsible towards road safety. Manas Chaudhary and Deepanshu Gupta of the Indian Road Safety Campaign apprised about the importance of the campaign. The president of ICT Pvt Ltd, Prof PK Sikdar and Dr Ankit Kathuria of IIT-Jammu were expert speakers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/students-bring-laurels-361093
14-01-2022||Yamunanagar||Man threatens to kill Yamunanagar cop; booked||The police have booked a person for allegedly threatening to kill a CIA-I incharge of the Yamunanagar police.On a complaint of Head Constable Vinod Kumar, posted at the CIA-I, a case was registered against Virender Pratap under Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC at the Yamunanagar City police station on January 11.Vinod, in his police complaint, said he had received a WhatsApp call from an international number on January 11 at 12.30 pm. He said the caller introduced himself as Virender Pratap and told him that he had called him as the CIA-I incharge was not answering his phone.The Head Constable said the caller told him that the CIA-I incharge had brought his brother Surya Pratap on production remand to Yamunanagar from the Ambala Central Jail in connection with a ransom case. He alleged his brother was being falsely implicated in the case and said he had already been implicated in Raghunath murder case of Yamunanagar. Vinod said the caller threatened to murder the CIA-I incharge for allegedly implicating his brother in false cases. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-threatens-to-kill-cop-booked-361092
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Khattar greets former MLA on 100th birthday||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar has wished the first MLA of Bharatiya Jana Sangh of united Punjab who was elected in 1957, Sahiram, on his 100th birthday and prayed for his healthy life. The Chief Minister called him up on Wednesday and enquired about his well-being. Sahiram currently lives with his family in Sakta Khera village in Sirsa district. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-greets-former-mla-on-100th-birthday-361091
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||HAFED signs pact with IFFCO for urea product||The Haryana State Cooperative Supply and Marketing Federation Limited (HAFED) has signed a memorandum of understanding with the Indian Farm Forestry Development Cooperative (IFFCO) regarding arrangement of a newly launched product — IFFCO Nano Urea (liquid) in 500 ml pack.A spokesperson of HAFED said the I FFCO Nano Urea Pack was the best alternative of the 45 kg bag of urea having same nutrients.He said farmers could purchase the product from the sales outlets of the Cooperative Marketing Society and the PACS in the state for Rs 240 per 500 gm bottle/pack. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hafed-signs-pact-with-iffco-for-urea-product-361090
14-01-2022||---||5 nabbed for planning armed robbery in Gurugram||Gurugram, January 13The Gurugram police nabbed five armed robbers while they were conspiring to rob a petrol pump in the New Colony area.A Brezza SUV, a pistol and a knife were recovered from their possession. An FIR was registered at the New Colony police station in this regard.The arrested men were identified as Anuj Kadiyan, a resident of Beri in Jhajjar, Ajay, a resident of Khedi village in Panipat, Vinesh, a resident of Morwala in Charkhi Dadri, Ravinder, a resident of Panipat, and Wajid, a native of Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh. On a tip-off, a police team, led by inspector Rajesh Kumar, SHO, New Colony Police Station, conducted raids at Firozgandhi Colony near the petrol pump where the accused were plotting to execute the robbery. The team nabbed the accused in their SUV.“The accused had already hatched a dacoity plan of crores in Faridabad, but we had foiled their attempt. We are questioning the accused and hope many other cases will be solved,” said inspector Rajesh Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-nabbed-for-planning-armed-robbery-361088
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Kumari Selja seeks relief for vegetable farmers in Haryana||State Congress Committee president Kumari Selja today said the BJP-JJP coalition government should compensate farmers for the damage caused to their crops by the rains in the state at the earliest.For this, a survey should be conducted immediately so that relief should be extended to vegetable farmers. She said wheat and mustard crops have also been damaged in this rain. In a statement issued today, Selja said due to continuous rains for several days, the fields got waterlogged. The potato farmers suffered the most due to waterlogging.She alleged that due to the farmers’ agitation which lasted for more than a year, the state government was treating them with a sense of vengeance.“Therefore, till now, the compensation for the crops damaged last year has not been given. After the crop failure in the monsoon season, the government had ordered a special girdawari under the pressure of the Opposition, but the farmers are still waiting for the compensation.” Selja said being anti-farmer, the state government had not been able to make arrangements for urea and other fertilisers as per the requirement of the farmers. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/selja-seeks-relief-for-vegetable-farmers-361086
14-01-2022||Kaithal||HSSC paper leak: Assistant clerk of 5th Battalion in Haryana Police Academy arrested||The Kaithal police on Thursday arrested an assistant clerk of the 5th Battalion in Haryana Police Academy, Madhuban, in connection with the paper leak of police constable (male) examination conducted by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) on August 7, 2021.So far, the police have arrested 68 accused including 11 who were carrying reward. Confirming the arrest, Superintendent of Police Lokender Singh said that the accused has been identified as Kailash Vashisth, a resident of Sector-29, Kurukshetra. Kailash got arranged a copy of the question paper and answer key for his friend Navneet of Barela in Dadri. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/asst-clerk-of-5th-battalion-arrested-361085
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||No section of society happy under BJP-JJP rule in Haryana: Bhupinder Hooda||Former CM and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today said the Congress government made Haryana No. 1 in many parameters of development but the BJP-JJP government pushed the state into the abyss of decline.“During our government, the state was top in per capita income, per capita investment, employment generation, development, prosperity and respect for farmers, sportspersons and elders. But ever since the BJP came to power, it is setting new records of negative developments every day,” he said. “The BJP-JJP government had already made Haryana No. 1 in unemployment, crime, drugs, corruption, pollution and misery, but now the state also tops in inflation rate,” he said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-section-of-society-happy-under-bjp-jjp-rule-hooda-361084
14-01-2022||Ravinder Saini||Covid crisis: Migrants struggle for livelihood in Rohtak||Rohtak, January 13Stringent Covid restrictions are again forcing migrant workers to return home. With the Covid crisis deepening, business of construction material has also been hit.“Though a lockdown has not been clamped yet, the situation is similar to it. We are struggling to make both ends meet as people are avoiding construction and other works in view of the pandemic. From the past five days I don’t have any work,” says Suraj, a distressed construction labourer from Uttar Pradesh, who stands at a Labour Chowk near old ITI here.Like Suraj, the Covid crisis has taken a toll on hundreds of other construction workers too forcing them to return home. “Rohtak has more than 30,000 migrant workers engaged in construction activities. Among them, 21,000 are associated with contractors while the remaining either work independently or go to labour chowk at various places in the district to eke out a living. Over 10,000 have not been getting work since there has been a surge in Covid cases,” said Sanjeev Kumar, Bhawan Nirman Kamgar Union district (urban) president.He said contractors were also bearing the brunt of Covid situation as new government projects were not kicking-off while people were waiting for the third wave to subside before getting new construction and renovation works done.Rajinder, a mason from Jhansi (UP), said his several co-villagers had returned home after not getting work for over a week. “They have now engaged in agricultural work at the village. The earnings may have dropped but they are employed here,” he added. Dhani Ram of Madhya Pradesh said the district authorities were not allowing crowds at labour chowks and also threatened to issue challans for not following Covid appropriate behaviour.Dilbagh, a construction material supplier, said his business had reduced up to 30 per cent due to the Covid situation as people were avoiding construction works. “Both construction material suppliers and labourers have been passing through a difficult phase after a surge in Covid cases,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-crisis-migrants-struggle-for-livelihood-361083
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid curbs in all Haryana districts now||Chief Secretary Sanjeev Kaushal today issued orders for including all districts for strict Covid restrictions meant earlier for Group A districts.As announced on January 10, the restrictions were enhanced from 11 to 19 districts in the state.But now, all cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes will remain closed along with sports complexes, stadia and swimming pools across the state. Entry to all entertainment parks remains prohibited. The offices, both government and private, except for emergency or essential services, are advised to function with 50 per cent staff attendance. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/curbs-in-all-dists-now-361082
14-01-2022||Karnal||Family members of Karnal man create ruckus; refuse to lift body||Family members, relatives and friends of a 25-year-old man continued to stage a protest for the second consecutive day and refused to lift the body from the post-mortem house of the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC).The deceased, Pradeep of Jato Gate in the city, had died on January 11. The family members of the victim alleged that he got lethally injured following an attempt to murder.As per the kin, when Pardeep returned home on January 7, he was badly injured. He was taken to a hospital where he succumbed to his injures on January 11. The family members, in a police complaint, alleged that two persons had tried to murder him. “The police did not take any action and we will not lift the body until any arrests are made,” said Meena, mother of the deceased. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/family-members-of-karnal-man-create-ruckus-refuse-to-lift-body-361081
14-01-2022||---||Land transfer for North India's 1st disease control branch in Ambala district completed||Chandigarh, January 13Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij today said that the first branch of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) of the North India would be established in Ambala and the process of land transfer had been completed.New viruses will be detected at centreThe State Health Department transferred 4 acres of the 11 marla land in Ambala Cantonment to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for the NCDC branch and the construction work would be completed in three phases.Today the registration of the land took place in the Ambala cantonment tehsil. A four-storeyed building for the branch of the NCDC will be constructed in the first phase at a cost of Rs 20 crore at Naggal in Ambala Cantonment, followed by a laboratory equipped with modern equipment in the second phase.Earlier, the Municipal Council Ambala Sadar had transferred the land to the State Health Department for Rs 2.03 crore, after which the land has now been handed over to the Union Health Ministry.Vij said many serious, new diseases and viruses would be investigated and their data would be analysed in the national level NCDC branch of Ambala. Genome sequencing would be done to know the virus in the laboratory. Apart from this, the lab will have tests for the Nipah virus, Zika virus, rabies, zoonotic disease, Covid, Omicron, Hepatitis, besides other serious viruses and all kinds of new tests. This centre will play an important role in the early detection and diagnosis of diseases.Vij said till now, this type of test was done only at the NCDC located in Delhi, but now with its establishment in Ambala, would become a major testing centre of North India. This will also save time. Samples of serious and new diseases from all over North India will be checked in the lab at Ambala and research on bacteria would also be done here. After this, the results of the investigation would be given to the Health Department accordingly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/land-transfer-for-north-indias-1st-disease-control-branch-in-ambala-dist-completed-361080
14-01-2022||---||Sanitary inspector fined Rs 20K in Gurugram district for not fulfilling his duty||Chandigarh, January 13Haryana’s Right to Service Commission has imposed a penalty of Rs 20,000 on a senior sanitary inspector.On the receipt of a complaint from a resident of Sector-12A, Gurugram, regarding lack of sanitation prevailing in his area which is under the purview of the notified service, the commission took immediate cognisance of the complaint.During investigation, it was found that the complaint is valid and it was due to negligence found in work of senior sanitary inspector of that area despite having a good strength of 1,600 sweepers at his disposal.Member of the commission Meenaxi Raj said they have imposed a penalty of Rs 20,000 on Senior Sanitary Inspector Rishipal Malik for not fulfilling his duties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sanitary-inspector-fined-20k-361078
14-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||Sedition provision misused in hoax call case: Faridabad court||Chandigarh, January 13After over a year that a person was booked for sedition on the allegations of making a hoax call to the railway authorities regarding explosive substance on a train, a Faridabad court has ruled that the provision had been misused.Committed offence under Railway ActThe petitioner had to board Shree Dham Express. As he was away from the railway station, he made a hoax call to ensure that the train did not leave the station. A public prosecutor said the petitioner had committed an offence, punishable under Section 174 and other Sections of the Railway Act.Additional District and Sessions Judge Narender Sura made it clear that Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) had been wrongly added to the case to aggravate the offence.Judge Sura also directed the public prosecutor to forward a copy of the order to “the higher police officers to apprise them of the misuse of Section 124A of the IPC”.The accused, Anshul Agnihotri, had filed the bail petition in an FIR registered for sedition and another offence under Sections 124A and 505 of the IPC on December 29, 2020, at the RPF police station in Faridabad.His counsel contended that the petitioner had been falsely implicated. The allegations were of making a hoax call to the railway authorities, regarding explosive substance in Shree Dham Express. But Section 124A had been added just to aggravate the offence. Even if the allegations were taken as these were, ingredients of Section 124A were “not available by any stretch of imagination”.Opposing the bail plea, the public prosecutor submitted that the petitioner had to board Shree Dham Express. As he was away from the railway station, he made the hoax call to ensure that the train did not leave the station. He added the petitioner had committed an offence, punishable under Section 174 and other Sections of the Railway Act and the same would be added as investigation was still pending.“After going through the record of the case, the public prosecutor failed to convince the court how provisions of Section 124A of the IPC are attracted in the case as there was no intention on the part of the petitioner to bring or to attempt to bring into hatred or contempt, or excites or attempt to excite disaffection towards the government. The court is of the view that it is a misuse of the provision contained in Section 124A of the IPC,” Judge Sura observed. Granting bail with certain conditions, Judge Sura added the petitioner was in custody since January 3. Investigation and trial would take long time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sedition-provision-misused-in-hoax-call-case-fbad-court-361076
14-01-2022||---||Haryana pollution board for action against officials of industries' corporation||Panipat, January 13The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has recommended action against the erring officials of Haryana State Industries Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) for their alleged connivance with industrialists in the discharge of untreated industrial effluents from the storm water lines by bypassing the common effluent treatment plant (CETP) in the industrial zone at Barhi in Sonepat.Legal action will be initiatedA letter had been written to the Industries Department, Haryana, to initiate departmental action against the erring officials of the HSIIDC at Barhi for violating pollution norms. Besides, legal action will be initiated into the matter accordingly. — S Narayanan, Member Secretary, HSPCBA joint committee of the River Yamuna Monitoring Committee (RYMC), along with a team of the State Environment Surveillance Task Force (SESTF), had conducted a raid in the Haryana State Industries Infrastructure Development Corporation industrial zone at Barhi on January 4 and found the pollution norms’ violations.The River Yamuna Monitoring Committee members had also submitted a detailed report into the matter, while the Sonepat regional officer of the HSPCB had also sent the facts to the HSPCB headquarters.The HSPCB, in a letter to the PS, Industries Department, had mentioned that a team of the National Mission of Clean Ganga (NMCG) had also pointed out the improper working of the common effluent treatment plant at Barhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pollution-board-for-action-against-officials-of-industries-corporation-361075
14-01-2022||---||Three arrested for murder of ghee trader in Samalkha||Panipat, January 13The police have claimed to solve the blind murder mystery of ghee trader Rajkumar Mittal, alias Raju of Samalkha, today and arrested three accused allegedly for their involvement in the murder and looting of cash from the trader.One among 4 was friend of trader’s sonVansh, one among the four accused, was friends with the son of the deceased ghee trader and he knew about Rajkumar’s routine that he used to go alone after collecting money daily in the evening, the SP said. He made a plan with his three associates Prashant, Deepak and Anshul to loot the cash bag from him.Rs1 lakh reward on their arrestSuperintendent of Police (SP) Shashank Kumar Sawan had announced a reward of Rs 1 lakh on their arrest.Superintendent of Police (SP) Shashank Kumar Sawan had announced a reward of Rs 1 lakh on their arrest. Ghee trader Rajkumar (45) was shot dead on January 4 in Samalkha.SP Sawan at a press conference held here today said the accused arrested had been identified as Prashant of Panchvati Colony, Vansh, alias Vishu, of Mata Puli Road and Anshul of Shastri Colony of Samalkha town while the main accused Deepak, alias Kuku, of Atta village in Samalkha is on the run so far.Following a tip off, the CIA-1 team headed by Inspector Rajpal arrested the three accused from near Pawati village on Wednesday, he added.Vansh, one among the four accused, was friends with the son of the deceased ghee trader and he knew about Rajkumar’s routine that he used to go alone after collecting money daily in the evening, the SP said. He made a plan with his three associates Prashant, Deepak and Anshul to loot the cash bag from him.After that Prashant and Deepak had come to loot the trader on Tuesday evening on a motorcycle, but when he opposed them, Deepak fired at him and ran away after snatching his cash bag, the SP added.The three accused were produced before the court on Thursday and the court has sent them on five-day police remand, the SP maintained.Deepak has a criminal record as he was wanted in a double murder case at the Gohana Sadar police station for allegedly murdering two persons in Bhainswal Kalan village in October last year, the SP asserted. Notably, the SP has already announced a reward of Rs One lakh for getting information about the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-arrested-for-murder-of-ghee-trader-361074
14-01-2022||Karnal||Three more night markets to be developed in Karnal city soon||After witnessing good response from the night market in Sector 12, three more such markets will be developed in different parts of the city under the Smart City project by Karnal Smart City Ltd. (KSCL), an agency looking after the project.Locations of the new night markets have also been earmarked by the authorities.“The night market in Sector 12 has witnessed a good response so we have decided to develop such markets in three other places. Two markets will be developed on Canal Front on the Western Yamuna Canal and one on the vacant platform of Sector 8 market,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner,-cum-CEO, KSCL, while reviewing the progress of the Smart City project in the conference room on Thursday.“The work on the Canal Front is about to complete. We will develop both markets at the entry points of the front from Kachwa Road and Kaithal Road. Directions have also been issued to contact the willing vendors, so that we can start the markets by the end of February,” the CEO maintained.Apart from this, the CEO also discussed the beautification work under the flyovers on NH-44. “ Spaces under all flyovers are being beautified under the Smart City project. Paintings with different themes are being painted. We will also provide sitting space under the flyovers along with plantation. Vending places are being developed,” he added.The CEO also said the city would have Gandhi Park near Mahatma Gandhi Chowk. “We are expecting it will be completed by February 15,” he added.He also reviewed the progress of the beautification of green belts of Sectors 6,7,13 and 14. These green belts will have jogging track, pathway, open-air theatre, sitting space as well as Wi-fi facility.The CEO said for the beautification of Meera Ghati Chowk, the national flag will be hoisted at the height of 100ft, the foundation work of which has been completed. It is likely to completed by January 26.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-more-night-markets-to-be-developed-in-city-soon-361072
14-01-2022||Parveen Arora||Govt buildings in Karnal sans fire NOC||Karnal, January 13Lives of hundreds of people who visit government offices every day are put to risk in case of an emergency as most of the government buildings in the city have not bothered to get no objection certificates (NOCs) from the Fire Department of the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC).Ensure compliance of normsWe will get the NOC soon. We will also ensure compliance of norms in all offices. We will issue notices to officials concerned, asking them to follow norms of fire safety and obtain an NOC — Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, KMCOfficials to check NOCsThe City Magistrate and the Fire Safety Officer have been directed to check the NOCs of all government departments and issue notices accordingly. — Nishant Kumar Yadav Deputy CommissionerRules should be same for allLast week, the Fire Department issued notices to 28 hotels, restaurants and banquet halls for not having the NOC, but the department did not issue any notice to the government offices. The implementation of norms should be the same for everyone. — Rajesh Sharma, RTI ActivistAn RTI query filed by a Karnal-based RTI activist Rajesh Sharma revealed that buildings of government offices have only fire safety equipment. The Fire Safety Officer (FSO) also admitted, while talking with The Tribune, that most of the key departments, including both buildings of Mini-Secretariat, Judiciary Complex, building of Power Corporation in Sector12, Haryana Shari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) office, both malls, income tax office, EPF office, Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC), Civil Hospital and others are without the NOC, which is mandatory.The new building of the KMC, under which the Fire Department comes, does not have the NOC so far. This building was inaugurated recently by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. “We have shortlisted the departments and we will issue letters so that they can obtainNOC,” said Rajiv Bhardwaj, FSO.“The NOC is compulsory under the Haryana Fire Services Act 2009 and National Building Code of India 1983, revised, 2005/2016 part-IV. It is given only after the owners of the building file applications with the Fire Department. Non-compliance is an offence, punishable under the Act,” said the RTI reply.RTI activist Sharma had also sought information on the number of private hospitals, and schools having the NOC. The relief is that most of the hospitals and private schools have the NOC.“The fire NOC is mandatory for all establishments, but in Karnal which is city of the Chief Minister, the buildings of key government departments had been constructed without the fire NOC and nobody has taken the initiative to file for it,” said Sharma.Last week, the Fire Department issued notices to 28 hotels, restaurants and banquet halls for not having the NOC, but the department did not issue any notice to the government offices, he added. He said the implementation of norms should be the same for everyone.Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, KMC, said the KMC had applied for the NOC and inspection for which has already been done by the authorities concerned. “We will get the NOC soon. We will also ensure compliance of norms in all offices. We will issue notices to officials concerned, asking them to follow norms of fire safety and obtain an NOC,” said the Commissioner.Deputy Commissioner, Nishant Kumar Yadav, said the City Magistrate and the FSO have been directed to check the NOCs of all government departments and issue notices accordingly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-buildings-in-karnal-sans-fire-noc-361071
14-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: BSF Deputy Commandant, kin nabbed for 'duping' 3 businessmen of over Rs 100 crore||The Gurugram police nabbed a Deputy Commandant of the Border Security Force (BSF), his wife and sister for allegedly defrauding three businessmen of over Rs 100 crore by promising them a construction contract in the National Security Guard (NSG).The mastermind of the fraud posed as an IPS officer posted in the NSG. Over Rs 13 crore and six luxury cars have been recovered from the accused. The accused were identified as the mastermind of the fraud BSF deputy commandant Praveen Yadav, his wife Mamta Yadav and his sister Rituraj Yadav and Dinesh Kumar, a native of Hisar.It was on January 8 when one Narain Das Israni had filed a complaint with the Gurugram police that Yadav had duped him of Rs 65 crore, promising construction work in the NSG. Similarly, businessman Davinder Yadav also alleged a similar fraud amounting to Rs 37 crore.Following the complaint, FIRs were registered at the Manesar police station and an SIT has been formed by police commissioner K K Rao yesterday.“The key accused Praveen Yadav is deputy commandant with the BSF and had recently applied for the voluntary retirement scheme. He came on deputation in NSG, Manesar, for the time. He had incurred losses of over Rs 40 crore in shares. He formed a private firm by making his wife and sister directors. With the help of the fake letter head and the seal of the NSG, they also got the bank account of the firm and another on the name of the NSG in Axis Bank and started extorting money in the name of building an internal road. The accused had, after duping people, got luxury cars and luxury apartments on rent. He was trying to dupe many persons in the name of construction work at the Hyderabad centre of the NSG, but some people raised an alarm and approached the police, which led to their arrest,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, crime and head of the SIT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bsf-officer-kin-nabbed-for-duping-businessmen-361068
14-01-2022||Mukesh Tandon||Demolition drive in Panipat postponed after protest||Panipat, January 13Hundreds of people, including a large number of women, on Thursday opposed a demolition drive carried out by the Irrigation Department to remove illegal structures on the department’s land here.The protesting women also laid on the road in front of the JCBs to oppose the drive as the officials tried to demolish a temple on Jatal road. The department said that the land is being vacated for the construction of a road that was announced by the CM.A team of the Irrigation Department headed by XEN Suresh Saini in the supervision of Duty Magistrate-cum-ATP Navin Kumar, along with police force, reached Jatal road to demolish encroachments there. As the people saw the demolition team, they gathered at the gate of the Lord Shiva temple there. The protesters, including a number of women, stood at the gate of the temple and opposed the drive.The police tried to forcibly remove the protesters and started demolishing a wall of the temple, but some protesters started pelting stones on the team. Some protesting women laid on the road in front of JCB machines. A woman climbed on the JCB’s cabin after which the drive was stopped by the officials.SDM Dheeraj Chahal reached the spot and pacified the protesters.Chahal said that the people want to meet the Deputy Commissioner. The demolition drive has been postponed for the time being.Saini said that there was a drain from Assandh road to sugar mill but it was abandoned in the 80s. It was around 50-ft wide. People had encroached upon the land along the drain. The department today tried to carry out a demolition drive to vacate its own land, he said.Some people had even gone to court and others had gone to the High Court, but the department had won all the cases, he added. A total of 103 structures, including two temples, were found constructed illegally on the department’s land, he said.The XEN added that the Chief Minister had announced a plan to construct a 40-ft bypass which would connect Assandh road to Gohana road.A final notice was served on the encroachers on December 29, 2021 to vacate the department’s land within a week. The notice period ended on January 6, the XEN said. The demolition drive has been postponed as the number of protesters was more than the police force, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/demolition-drive-in-panipat-postponed-after-protest-361067
14-01-2022||Pradeep Sharma||Now, 8 model schools in Mewat under Education Department||Chandigarh, January 13The tug-of-war between the Education Department and the Mewat Development Agency (MDA) over the control of eight government model schools has ended with the department taking over the schools in the educationally backward region.The decision, which is set to affect over 333 teaching and non-teaching staff besides thousands of students, is touted to be taken to bring education standards in the backward region on a par with the rest of the state.The schools included those situated at Nuh, Ferozepur Jhirkha, Punhana, Taurau, Nagina, Hathin, Madhi and Khanpur Ghati.An order issued by Mahavir Singh, Additional Chief Secretary (School Education), said now, the Haryana Civil Services (Pay, Allowances, Leaves, Conduct, Punishment & Appeal) Rules, 2016 would be applicable to all employees like other state government employees.The control of the model schools has been a bone of contention between the department and MDA for several years. Since the Mewat region is represented by Opposition Congress MLAs, the Opposition accused BJP-JJP government of neglecting the region in the education field.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-8-model-schools-in-mewat-under-education-department-361066
14-01-2022||---||Security lapse at Haryana Education Minister's house in Jagadhri, 18 cops suspended||Yamunanagar, January 13Superintendent of Police, Yamunanagar, Kamaldeep Goyal, has taken a major action against 37 employees, including 18 policemen, three special police officers and 16 personnel of the Home Guards Department, for their alleged negligence in duty related to the security at the residence of Haryana Education Minister, Kanwar Pal Gujjar, in Jagadhri city of Yamunanagar district.Negligence in dutyOn January 11, the policemen failed to stop protesting teachers from reaching the residence of the Education Minister in Jagadhri, posing a threat to the safety and security of the minister and his family members.The SP suspended 18 cops, including five sub-inspectors and three assistant sub-inspectors. Out of them, 14 policemen were suspended today, while four had been suspended yesterday. He also marked a departmental inquiry against them.Besides, the SP terminated the services of three special police officers and sent back 16 personnel of home guard to their department. He also wrote to the Home Guards authorities for departmental action against them.The action of suspension came after a group of sacked physical training instructors (PTIs) and drawing teachers undertook a “prabhat pheri” on Tuesday morning (January 11) from the new grain market, Jagadhri, to the residence of Education Minister, Kanwar Pal Gujjar, violating the Covid protocol.However, the policemen failed to stop them from reaching the residence of the Education Minister in Jagadhri, posing a threat to the safety and security of the minister and his family members. The sacked teachers had been sitting on a dharna in the new grain market, Jagadhri, for several days seeking their reinstatement in their jobs. However, the police forcefully lifted their dharna that day (January 11).On the complaint of head constable Ashok Kumar, posted at the Buria Gate police post, a case was registered against the sacked 200-250 PTIs and drawing teachers under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act 2005 at the City police station, Jagadhri, on January 11.The SP said that during investigation, they checked the CCTV cameras and found that the sacked teachers had a scuffle with the policemen outside the residence of the Education Minister.He said the sacked teachers also caused hindrance in government duty; therefore, Sections 147, 149, 332 and 353 were later added in the FIR registered against them on January 11.He added that the policemen and the personnel of the Home Guards Department also failed to perform their duty properly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/security-lapse-at-edu-mins-house-18-cops-suspended-361063
14-01-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Rs 4 cr 'bogus bill' scandal hits Haryana Forest Department||Chandigarh, January 13A scam involving alleged embezzlement of government funds through bogus bills has come to light at the Haryana Forest Department’s Research Division in Pinjore.Glaring anomaliesThe alleged bungling, amounting to Rs 4 crore, is learnt to have taken place in the first quarter of 2021. It’s a curious case of plants allegedly being ferried on a motorbike, lakhs of polythene bags meant for seedlings going missing and excess payments worth lakhs being made into the accounts of labourers.Principal Chief Conservator of Forests VS Tanwar said a committee had been constituted to investigate the matter. Jitender Ahlawat, who was the Deputy Conservator of Forests at the Research Division when the alleged misappropriation took place, maintained the “inquiry would bring out the truth”.A preliminary report submitted by Chief Conservator of Forests (Development) G Raman to Tanwar on January 3 mentioned that Ahlawat was given a target in February 2021 to prepare 12 lakh seedlings at a cost of Rs 1.8 crore. The seedlings were to be planted in 14.40 lakh polythene bags (20 per cent extra bags considering wastage).A total of 6.68 lakh polythene bags (without soil) were supplied by the Haryana Forest Development Corporation between February 6 and 17. But it was shown that 6.62 lakh bags had been filled by February 10, a week before the last supply of bags was delivered. The last batch of 3.62 lakh bags was delivered in March, taking total bags supplied to 10.30 lakh. The department, however, produced bills for planting 12 lakh seedlings. More so, it was allegedly shown that the work to fill up soil in all 12 lakh bags was completed in February even though 3.62 lakh of these bags were supplied in March.“Even if there was zero wastage, only 10.30 lakh plants are accounted for. It implies 4.10 lakh seedlings (if the total is 14.40 lakh bags) were never grown,” claimed Raman.An amount of Rs 74.68 lakh was spent on procuring farm yard manure and sand, but there is no record to show from where it was bought and how it was transported. In his report, Raman pointed out that bills worth Rs 2.49 crore were sanctioned in February and March. Of this amount, Rs 61.62 lakh was sanctioned for labourers, including their EPF and ESI. But as per records, the work was done through machines in nurseries on which Rs 1.88 crore was spent. Raman also pointed out that incurring such huge costs on machines exceeded the approved limit of the department and it needed to be probed.An amount of Rs 69.30 lakh was shown paid as labour wages (EPF and ESI included) and as contractual profit for the upkeep of 12 lakh seedlings between April and September 2021. However, an allegedly excess bill of Rs 1.66 crore was raised. “Of the balance of Rs 97.62 lakh, Rs 84.47 lakh has been shown as expenditure on the maintenance of plants without engaging any labour or machines and also without paying any other charges such as EPF, ESI or contractual profit. This is clear embezzlement of government funds and warrants a vigilance inquiry,” said Raman.In an instance of “bogus bills”, plants were allegedly moved from Shekhpura nursery in Karnal to Panipat (30 km apart) in vehicle no. HR07-T9253 in February and Rs 46,575 was spent. An inquiry found the registration number was of a bike.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-cr-bogus-bill-scandal-hits-haryana-forest-department-361037
14-01-2022||Mansa||Security along Haryana border up in wake of Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections||In the wake of the Vidhan Sabha elections, an inter-state meeting between senior police officials from Mansa and Sirsa district of Haryana was held to chalk out a strategy to keep law and order under control and keep a check on inter-state criminal activities. Mansa SSP Deepak Pareek, along with other police officials, visited Sirsa and held a meeting with his Sirsa counterpart Arpit Jain.“Mansa district shares the border with Haryana and it’s important to maintain an intensive vigil to check inter-state criminal activities on both sides in the wake of the Vidhan Sabha elections. Important aspects such as safety and security were discussed during the meeting.“Joint security teams would man sensitive areas sharing inter-state border with regard to criminal activities to keep a watch on drug peddlers and criminals so that elections can be conducted peacefully in the state. After the meeting, we also conducted checking at different areas,” the Mansa SSP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/security-along-haryana-border-up-361009
