16-01-2022||Chandigarh||New law kicks in, 75 pc jobs in Haryana with maximum Rs 30K pay mandatory for locals||As the law in Haryana that provides 75 per cent reservation in private sector to job seekers from the state came into effect, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Sunday said it will open new avenues of employment for thousands of youth.The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, applies to jobs offering a maximum gross monthly salary or wages of Rs 30,000 and it came into effect on Saturday.It is a “historic day” for the youth of Haryana, Chautala said in Sirsa.He said the labour department has also created a dedicated portal where companies in the state will have to reflect the number of vacancies and this will be constantly monitored by the government.Violation of any provision under this Act will be a punishable offence, he cautioned, adding a helpline number has also be introduced.Notably, providing 75 per cent reservation in private sector jobs was a key poll promise of Chautala’s Jannyak Janta Party (JJP).In the 2019 Haryana Assembly polls, the BJP, which fell short of simple majority, formed the government in alliance with the JJP.In November, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had said the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, will be made applicable with effect from January 15 this year.Though the government had promised that the Act will apply for all jobs that offer a gross monthly salary up to Rs 50,000, it issued another notification last year specifying that the upper cap had been reduced to Rs 30,000.In March 2021, Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya had given his assent to the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020.The state government had last year said the said Act will be applicable to employers of private sector companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms, partnership firms and any person who employs 10 or more persons on salary, wages or other remuneration for the purpose of manufacturing, carrying on business or rendering any service in Haryana.                                     #DushyantChautala                                     #Haryana                                     #jobreservation                                     #privatesector||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-75-per-cent-jobs-in-haryana-with-maximum-rs-30k-pay-mandatory-for-locals-361828
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Biting cold sweeps Punjab, Haryana; Chandigarh shivers at 8.2 degrees Celsius||Severe cold weather conditions prevailed in many parts of Punjab and Haryana on Sunday with Chandigarh, the common Capital of the two states, recording a low of 8.2 degrees Celsius.The maximum temperatures in the two states have also registered a sharp fall and have been hovering in the range of 11 degrees Celsius to 14 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Gurdaspur recorded a minimum temperature of 5.6 degrees Celsius while Bathinda saw the mercury settle at 6.2 degrees Celsius, according to the meteorological department.Patiala experienced a cold night at 7.5 degrees Celsius. Jalandhar recorded a low of 8.6 degrees Celsius while Moga registered a low of 6.3 degrees Celsius. Ludhiana’s minimum settled at 8.7 degrees Celsius while Amritsar recorded a low of 8.4 degrees Celsius.Hisar in Haryana reeled under intense cold, recording a minimum temperature of 6.8 degrees Celsius while Ambala recorded a low of 7.7 degrees Celsius. Sirsa also experienced a cold night recording a low of 6.1 degrees Celsius while Gurgaon’s minimum settled at 7.2 degrees Celsius.                                      #ColdWave                                     #PunjabHaryana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/biting-cold-sweeps-punjab-haryana-chandigarh-shivers-at-8-2-degrees-celsius-361785
16-01-2022||---||Woman hit  for honking in Gurugram||Gurugram, January 15A woman was allegedly thrashed by a man driving a Scorpio car after she honked at him seeking a pass on the road in Sector 83.According to the complaint filed by the woman, the incident happened on Thursday night at around 9:15 pm.“I was on my way home from the market when I honked at the car parked in the middle of the road. The man was standing outside his car and made obscene gestures at me. When I objected, he punched my nose and I started bleeding. The man fled away when a crowd gathered,” the woman told the police.An FIR has been registered against an unidentified man under Sections 323, 354-A, 506 and 509 of the IPC at Sadar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-hit-for-honking-in-gurugram-361646
16-01-2022||Hisar||Hisar records 262 +ve Covid cases, highest spike in a day||Hisar district reported the highest number of Covid cases in a single day today in the third wave as 262 persons tested positive for the virus.The Deputy Civil Surgeon, Dr Subhash Khatreja, said the district had a total of 810 active cases today while reports of 1,381 samples were awaited. He said the recovery rate was 96.46. Dr Khatreja said at present, 1,193 persons were under surveillance while a total 1,193 persons had tested positive since December 25, 2021 till today.Hisar had witnessed the highest number of deaths in the first and second wave in the state due to Covid 19 , resulting in 1,142 deaths. However, there has been no Covid death in the third wave in the district. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-records-262-ve-covid-cases-highest-spike-in-a-day-361643
16-01-2022||---||Last date for licence of wood-based units extended||Chandigarh, January 15The Haryana Government has decided to extend the deadline for filling the online form for the grant of new licenses of wood-based industries from January 15 to February 15.An official spokesperson said in view of the availability of wood, the state government had invited online applications for granting new licenses from December 15, 2021, the last date of which was fixed as January 15, 2022, but due to technical glitches in the portal, the applicants wishing to take new licenses could not fill their application forms within the given timeline.However, prioritising the interest of the wood-based industries, the state government has now extended the time for filling the online forms, added the spokesperson. The spokesperson further informed that for the wood-based industries, the online portal www.haryanaforest.gov.in would now be open till February 15 and the applicants from Panchkula, Yamunanagar, Ambala, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Panipat, Sonipat, Rohtak and Jhajjar could submit their applications.The applicants are advised to visit the website of the Forest Department for detailed information about the terms and conditions and necessary guidelines to apply for the same, said the spokesperson.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/last-date-for-licence-of-wood-based-units-extended-361640
16-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||‘Pre-deposit’ must for realtors’ appeals, rules Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, January 15The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that appeals by promoters against orders passed by Real Estate Regulatory Authority could be entertained by the Real Estate Appellate Tribunal only after they had complied with the “pre-deposit” condition as the same was not “onerous”.The Bench made it clear that the petitioner-promoters could not establish that the obligation of pre-depositing the amount was “onerous”. A mere inconvenience or hardship in diverting funds could not be construed as an onerous circumstance necessitating waiver/relaxation of a statutory mandate. “No such circumstance has been, prima facie, brought on record and the pleading falls short of demonstrating any difficulty in making a pre-deposit, leave apart the same being onerous for the petitioners to comply with,” the Bench of Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice Vinod S Bhardwaj asserted.The ruling came on a bunch of over 70 petitions filed against the state of Haryana and other respondents by the promoters. The Bench was, among others, assisted by advocates Anurag Jain and Preeti Taneja, who appeared for the allottees. Additional Solicitor General of India Satya Pal Jain also appeared before the Bench. Taking up the matter, the Bench asserted the issues for adjudication were whether the authority had jurisdiction to direct return/refund of the amount and/or interest to the allottee under Real Estate (Regulatory and Development) Act; and whether the pre-deposit condition under Section 43(5) of the Act for entertaining an appeal could be waived/relaxed by the High Court for being onerous or “established hardship?”Referring to Section 43, the Bench asserted the “proviso mandates the promoter to deposit at least 30 per cent of the penalty or such percentage as may be determined by the tribunal or the total amount of the refund to be paid to the allottee including interest and compensation imposed on him”.The Bench added Section 43(5) did not override the powers of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution. “There was no prohibition against the High Court in exercising its jurisdiction in an appropriate case and to alter/modify/waive the requirement of mandatory pre-deposit,” the Bench observed, adding that the powers vested in it under Article 226 could be exercised to ensure complete justice. The statutory provision contained in the Act could not curtail the constitutional powers conferred upon the Writ Court.The Bench added: “A petitioner seeking indulgence of Writ Court to seek exemption from statutory mandate must establish strong reasons and to establish deprivation of its statutory remedy of appeal by demonstrating to the satisfaction of court its inability to arrange for pre-deposit despite all reasonable efforts.RERA can entertain refund plaintThe Bench asserted the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) would have the jurisdiction to entertain a complaint by an allottee seeking refund of the amount and interest on the refund amount as well as for payment of interest on delayed delivery of possession and/or penalty and interest thereon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pre-deposit-must-for-realtors-appeals-rules-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-361639
16-01-2022||---||Offices shifted to new Krishi Sadan in Ambala||Ambala, January 15Offices of Deputy Director Agriculture and Assistant Plant Protection Officer were shifted to the newly constructed Krishi Sadan in Ambala City on Saturday. However, the building will be formally inaugurated by Chief Minister Haryana Manohar Lal Khattar in the coming days.Both offices have been shifted due to the poor condition of the old building.Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel, who was present on the occasion, said, “There are around 11 different offices of the Agriculture Department and the offices were being run from different buildings. The farmers have to visit these offices at different locations to get their work done. In 2016, we requested the Chief Minister for the Krishi Sadan project so that all offices could be brought under one roof. The project was approved by the CM and the building is ready.”“To avoid any mishaps due to the dilapidated condition of the existing building, two offices have been shifted. The remaining offices will be shifted soon and the building will be formally inaugurated by the Chief Minister. A video-conferencing room has also been constructed here where the progressive farmers will be able to learn different techniques of different agriculture universities through video-conferencing”, he added.The Deputy Director of Agriculture, Girish Nagpal, said, “Due to excessive rainfall, the roofs of the offices had started leaking following which the offices were shifted. Different allied offices, including soil conservation, engineering wing and hydrologist of the Agriculture Department are being run from different locations. Now all offices will be available under one roof.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/offices-shifted-to-new-krishi-sadan-in-ambala-361638
16-01-2022||Nitish Sharma||Work on hospital extension building at snail's pace in Ambala||Ambala, January 15The construction work of the extension building at Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment, is going on at a slow pace. The project was started in August 2019 and was to be completed in two years but even after missing its deadline nearly five months ago, the project is still around 50 per cent complete.Will help decongest premisesWith the construction of the additional building, we will be able to decongest the hospital. It will be beneficial for the staff and the patients if the additional building with the required changes gets ready at the earliest. Vinay Goel, deputy medical superintendent-cum-nodal officer for constructionJune deadlineNearly 50 per cent work has been completed and the time extension till June has been recommended. The contractor has been directed to complete the work by June. Sumit Dalal, sub-divisional officer PWD (b&r)The extension building is being constructed at a cost of Rs 77.44 crore.The Health Department had planned to shift at least 100 beds, a couple of OPDs, besides offices in the extension building due to space crunch.An official said, “In the existing buildings, only the patient care services were planned while the other essential requirements remained neglected due to space crunch. There is no proper office space for officials, counselling room, physiotherapy department, and drug store to name a few. Makeshift arrangements have been made to tackle the situation. The paediatrics and gynaecology OPDs are being run in the IPD block of the hospital. Even a costly lithotripsy machine is being run from a makeshift room. Currently, there is a makeshift ICU here and there is a need to set up a proper ICU for the best care of patients.”“Initially, as per the project, an eight-storey building, including two basements, was to be constructed but later changing its design, the top two floors were merged. We can still make the best use of the space available by making some changes in the design of the under-construction building as per the requirement of the hospital. The Covid pandemic has already arrived as a real-time rehearsal, and we must be ready to tackle such pandemics in future also for which we have to ensure adequate space to handle patients and also to control the spread of infections”, he added.The Deputy Medical Superintendent-cum-Nodal Officer for construction, Vinay Goel, said, “It is a 200-bedded hospital but due to space crunch an additional building was sanctioned and it is under construction. There are some space-related issues that we have been facing in the existing buildings. With the construction of the additional building, we will be able to decongest the hospital. It will be beneficial for the staff and the patients if the additional building with the required changes gets ready at the earliest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/work-on-hospital-extension-building-at-snails-pace-361637
16-01-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Pandemic takes toll on development projects in Faridabad||Faridabad, January 15Major development projects in the city have become a victim of sluggish work due to pandemic conditions and delayed payments. Despite being launched several years ago, these are not likely to see the light of day soon.Revealing this, sources in the district administration claim that as the projects are three to four years old, the cost involved is over Rs 1,000 crore. While the work on these got hampered by the lockdown conditions and ban on constructions due to pollution, the pace has also been impeded by the encroachments, delayed payments and non- availability of workforce, it is claimed.The prominent include the project of International Convention Centre proposed to have come up in Sector 78. Costing Rs 378 crore, it was to be built by the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP). Though its foundation stone came up in August, 2019, no work has been started as the authorities concerned are yet to release the tender. The number two project, cost wise, is the bridge over Yamuna river near Manjhawali village to connect Greater Noida. With a budget of Rs 315 crore, its foundation was laid in 2014. But its completion is still several months away, according to officials.The Rs 115-crore renovation project of the Nahar Singh International cricket stadium, launched in February 2019, is far from being over even after three years. It may take another two years as hurdles persist, says the contractor.The project aims at raising the spectator capacity to 40,000. The Rs 80-crore project of the construction of the 4-km-long smart roads, taken up in 2018, is not likely to be completed within the next 12 months due to similar issues, say the sources.The Rs 79-crore project for the revival of Badkhal lake has also got delayed by over two years. The construction of the new MCF headquarters building, MCF auditorium at Ballabagarh, multi-level parking in Sector 12, upgrading of the bus-stand and re-construction of main roads are among the affected ones. “Efforts are on to complete the projects soon,’’ says Divisional Commissioner, Sanjay Joon.Main projects facing the brunt||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pandemic-takes-toll-on-development-projects-in-faridabad-361635
16-01-2022||---||Less than 3% oxygen beds occupied in Haryana||Chandigarh, January 15As Covid cases saw a jump of 2.4 per cent in Haryana, less than three per cent oxygen beds were occupied in both private and government hospitals.The state recorded 9,050 cases with Gurugram topping the chart with 3,349 cases, followed by Faridabad (1,764), Ambala (522) and Panchkula (510). Seven deaths were reported with two from Sonepat and one each from Gurugram, Ambala, Yamunanagar, Bhiwani and Kaithal.There are a total of 5,160 oxygen beds available in government hospitals but only 123 (2.4 per cent) were occupied till today. Similarly, out of 9,058 oxygen beds in private set ups, just 293 (3.2 per cent) have been occupied.Among ICU beds, only 23 (4.5 per cent) are occupied in government hospitals and 126 (3.7 per cent) in private ones.As far as ventilators are concerned, 20 (3.2 per cent) are in use in government ones and 24 (2.3 per cent) in the private hospitals. A total of 46,025 samples were collected today. The daily positivity rate was 18.36 per cent.The state has already achieved 100 per cent vaccination rate of first dose and 77 per cent of second dose in 18 plus age group.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/less-than-3-oxygen-beds-occupied-in-haryana-361633
16-01-2022||Deepender Deswal||Employees on contract shown the door, testing slows down in Hisar||Hisar, January 15As the Covid positive cases are increasing daily in the district, the testing has been affected adversely in the absence of the staff concerned which was deployed especially for the purpose in Maharaj Agrasen Medical College in Agroha town of Hisar district.Service rules being framedThe Health Department is in the process of framing service rules for the staff for these contractual employees. They will be taken back as per norms following the completion of formalities. Dr Alka Chhabra, Director, medical college, AgrohaThe testing staff, designated as research scientists (RSs) and research assistants (RAs), was hired on a contract basis by the Health Department in the Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory established in the medical colleges of Haryana, including Agroha Medical College under the microbiology department for Covid testing in June 2020.Sources said the 11-member staff of RSs and RAs were handed over relieving orders on January 10, effective with retrospective date of December 31, the sources said.Having qualification of MSc in life sciences, these testing experts were roped in by the Health Department when the number of coronavirus cases started increasing in the first wave of Covid. “They worked tirelessly during the first and second wave when the testing went up to as high as 6,000 samples per day. Now again, when the Omicron virus is infecting people at much higher speed, there is need for faster testing of the samples. But the marching orders have put entire the workload on the laboratory technicians (LTs) who were associated with the testing work with the RSs and RAs. The sources said the Health Department used to give extension on a six monthly basis to these employees. Similar laboratories were established in Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College in Karnal and SHKM Government Medical College in Mewat district. Dr Alka Chhabra, director, Medical College, Agroha, said the LTs were carrying out the testing of the Covid samples.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/employees-on-contract-shown-the-door-testing-slows-down-in-hisar-361632
16-01-2022||Gurugram||Goods worth Rs 30 lakh stolen||Governor congratulates 76-yr-old yoga gold medallistChandigarh: Governor Bandaru Dattatraya congratulated Ramchandra Ahlawat, resident of Lakdia (Jhajjar), for winning gold medal in yoga at the age of 76. Ahlawat has secured first position in the 50+ age group in the International Yoga Festival held in Puducherry. tnsIGNOU invites applications for various coursesChandigarh: Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU), Delhi, has invited applications for admission to various courses in January 2022 session. Online admission can be taken through the admission portal https://ignouadmission.samarth.edu.in, for which the candidates have to first register. TNSEdu board to hear unfair means cases on Jan 20Chandigarh: The Board of School Education, Haryana, Bhiwani, has called the candidates involved in unfair means cases in the Haryana Teacher Eligibility Test for hearing on January 20. The list of candidates is available on the board’s website.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/goods-worth-rs-30l-stolen-361631
16-01-2022||---||28-yr-old Kaithal woman selected for UNESCO||Kaithal, January 15Divya Sharma (28), a resident of Kalayat town in Kaithal, has been selected as an education policy and research consultant at the UNESCO headquarters in Paris.Her father Mukesh Sharma, Chief Technical Officer in Civil Hospital Kalayat, confirmed her selection and said that it was a proud moment for the family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/28-yr-old-kaithal-woman-selected-for-unesco-361630
16-01-2022||---||District officers can now apply for PM awards||Chandigarh, January 15The administrative officers of Haryana can now apply for ‘Prime Minister Awards for Excellence in Public Administration-2021’. The applications can be filled from January 20 to February 4.An official spokesperson said the PMO had decided to award the annual awards for excellence in public administration this year on the basis of new themes.In these subjects, the work of the government officials will be evaluated for awards based on Poshan Abhiyan, Khelo India, PM Svanidhi Yojana, Ek Jila Ek Utpad Yojana (one district-one product) and delivery of services and innovation without human intervention.Under this award, a trophy, scroll and an incentive of Rs 20 lakh will be given. He said the four schemes that had been selected for evaluating the performance of officers in the districts were among the top priorities of the PM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/district-officers-can-now-apply-for-pm-awards-361629
16-01-2022||---||Education Department official gets four-year jail term for bribe||Yamunanagar, January 15Jagadhri district court today awarded four-year imprisonment to an official of the Education Department for accepting a bribe from a retired teacher to get her departmental pension made.On the complaint of Baldev Raj, husband of the retired teacher, the State Vigilance Bureau registered a case against Shravan Kumar under sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act on July 21, 2017.Shravan Kumar was posted as Section Officer in the office of the District Education Officer, Yamunanagar.Baldev said his wife retired as a teacher from a government-aided senior secondary school on March 31, 2017, and had visited the official several times to get her file prepared. “The officer demanded Rs 4,000 to do the work. However, the deal was done in Rs 2,000,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/education-department-official-gets-four-year-jail-term-for-bribe-361628
16-01-2022||Karnal||Haryana: Kin seek govt help to bring body from Greece||Kin of the 30-year-old Vikram Singh, who reportedly died in Greece under mysterious circumstances, staged a dharna outside the mini secretariat, demanding help from the government in bringing his body back to India.The kin also met Home Minister Anil Vij.“I will wait till Monday. I have been making rounds of various offices to bring the body of my son back, but to no avail,” said Harpreet Kaur, mother of the deceased.The mother had alleged the involvement of her daughter, agent Narwair Singh and others in the death of her son.The police arrested the deceased’s sister and Narwair Singh last week.SP Ganga Ram Punia said they had sent the representation of the family members to the MEA. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kin-seek-govt-help-to-bring-body-from-greece-361627
16-01-2022||Ravinder Saini||Jhajjar remembers trio who unfurled Tricolour 100 years ago||Jhajjar, January 15Patriotism filled the hearts of all those present at a function when grandsons of freedom fighters Pandit Shri Ram Sharma, Rao Mangli Ram and Lala Hari Singh Jain jointly hoisted the national flag on top of Town Hall in Jhajjar city on Saturday.It was the same place where their grandfathers — without caring for their life – had unfurled the Tricolour after taking off the Union Jack during the freedom movement exactly 100 years ago on January 15, 1922.The district administration had invited them for the function organised to mark 100 years of this historical event to recall the contribution of the three patriots in the freedom struggle and to felicitate their family members.“My grandfather Pandit Shri Ram Sharma jumped into the freedom movement after quitting his studies. At that time, he was pursuing graduation from Hindu College, Delhi, and was influenced by Mahatma Gandhi. Though the college principal asked him not to leave his studies, my grandfather was so passionate that he did not pay heed to him,” said Anshul Sharma, a retired bureaucrat.He maintained his grandfather, along with other freedom fighters, was arrested by the police immediately after hoisting the Tricolour at Town Hall. He was awarded one-year jail and a penalty of Rs 500 but the punishment failed to dampen his patriotic spirit. He continued to actively participate in the movement against the British and went to jail several times.Pawan Yadav, grandson of Rao Mangli Ram, said all the freedom fighters who hoisted the Tricolour were subjected to torture after their arrest. They were tied to police horses with a chain and dragged to the police station. “This is the first time that the district administration has taken the initiative to organise an event to honour the contribution of our ancestors in the freedom movement. Such functions should be organised every year so that the young generation gets inspiration from their courage,” he added.Deputy Commissioner Shyam Lal Punia said it is a matter of pride for the district administration that it was recalling the contribution of its freedom fighters and also celebrating the historical event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-remembers-trio-who-unfurled-tricolour-100-years-ago-361625
16-01-2022||Rohtak||Haryana: No free passage to nearby residents, says toll company Shiva Corporation Limited||Residents of 16 villages here, who were demanding toll-free passage through Makrauli toll plaza located on the Rohtak-Panipat highway, have suffered a setback as Shiva Corporation Limited has rejected their demand while citing guidelines of the National Highway Authorities of India (NHAI).It has asked the villagers to get their monthly pass made for Rs 285 per month to avail the toll concession policy framed for nearby villages.Residents of Rithal, Kahni, Ghilaur, Khera, Jasia, Sanghi, Khidwali, Katwada, Jindran, Brahmanvaas, Bansantpur, Dhamar, Makrauli Khurd, Makrauli Kalan, Chamaria and Ghuskani villages recently held a panchayat in support of their demand.They had also submitted a memorandum to the manager of the toll plaza in this respect. The manager then forwarded their memorandum to higher officials of the company.“There is no provision in the NHAI guidelines for free passage to residents of nearby villages. Hence, the demand has been rejected. But they have been asked to get their monthly pass made at concessional rates,” said Jagdish, manager at Makrauli toll plaza and an officer of the Shiva Corporation Limited.He said many villagers had already got monthly passes made and many more are coming daily for it. —                                     #NHAI                                     #Tollplaza                                     #Tollwoes||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-free-passage-to-nearby-residents-toll-company-361624
16-01-2022||Parveen Arora||Reduce market fee, rural fund charges: Rice exporters to Haryana govt||Karnal, January 15The hike in market fee and increase in charges of Haryana Rural Development Fund (HRDF) by the state government have not gone down well with rice exporters of the state. They have demanded that the government should provide benefits to the rice industry for its survival in this hard time, instead of increasing taxes.Expenses maximum in haryanaIn Haryana, we have to pay 6.5% expenses comprising 2.5% ‘dami’, 2% market fee and 2% HRDF. But in Punjab, the exporters pay only 4.5% — 2.5% ‘dami’, 1% each of market fee and RDF. In Delhi, UP and Uttarakhand, total expenditure is 3%, in MP 1.7% and in Rajasthan 3.6%. Vijay Setia, Ex-chief, all-India rice exporters associationDemanding a level-playing field on a par with the exporters of neighbouring states, the Haryana Rice Exporters Association (HREA) has sent a memorandum to CM Khattar apprising him of the “discrepancies” in the total expenses comprising market fee, commission and HRDF in comparison to other states.“We are facing tough competition from neighbouring countries in the international market. We are also at a disadvantage as compared to neighbouring states’ rice exporters as we have to pay high market fee, HRDF and dami (commission),” said Vijay Setia, former president of the All-India Rice Exporters Association (AIREA).“Haryana is a major contributor in rice export, but here, the market fee and other expenses are higher than in the neighbouring competing states. We have to pay 6.5 per cent expenses comprising 2.5 per cent ‘dami’, 2 per cent market fee and 2 per cent HRDF. But in Punjab, the exporters pay only 4.5 per cent including 2.5 per cent ‘dami’, 1 per cent each of market fee and RDF,” he said.Sushil Jain, president of HREA, said that with a substantial difference in all the expenses, the rice exporters in Haryana are facing discrimination. “The hike in fee will affect the industry. We should be provided a level-playing field with the exporters of other states to enable us to compete in the international market. We request the government to reduce the market fee from 2 per cent to 1 per cent and HRDF on basmati paddy from 2 per cent to 0.5 per cent,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/reduce-market-fee-rural-fund-charges-rice-exporters-to-haryana-govt-361623
16-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court raps police for ‘careless’ investigation in drugs case||Chandigarh, January 15The Punjab and Haryana High Court has called for an inquiry into the way a drugs case, allegedly involving “heavy” recovery of contraband, was dealt with after observing that it resulted in the grant of bail to an accused.The High Court also directed the forwarding of the order’s copy to Haryana Director-General of Police for taking “necessary steps” if deemed appropriate.Justice Avneesh Jhingan asserted the recovery was heavy. But the way the investigation and filing of challan was dealt with under the stringent provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was required to be looked into at the appropriate level.Justice Jhingan asserted: “As per the stand taken by State it was a case of negligence. Without commenting upon the stand of the State, it would suffice-to-say that it resulted in grant of bail to the petitioner, in spite of the bar under Section 37 of the Act”.Section 37 makes it clear that severity or strictness in granting bail was applicable to offences involving commercial quantity. It indicates that no person accused of an offence punishable under this law “shall be released on bail or on his own bond unless — the public prosecutor has been given an opportunity to oppose the application for such release and where the public prosecutor opposes the application, the Court is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such offence and that he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail”.The matter was brought to Justice Jhingan’s notice after the accused filed a petition challenging order dated March 26, 2021, whereby default bail was declined. In a criminal case, the challan has to be presented within a specified timeframe, or else extension in time is required to be sought. Failure to present the challan within the stipulated period gives the accused an “indefeasible right” to get “default” bail, in the absence of extension in time granted by the Court.The Bench was told that challan in the FIR dated July 1, 2020, was presented on September 22, 2020, without the FSL report. His counsel added the issue whether challan without FSL report amounted to filing of incomplete report was referred to a Division Bench and interim bail was granted. He further relied upon another High Court decision in a similar matter.Directing conditional release on bail, Justice Jhingan added a specific query was posed to State as to why extension for presentation of challan beyond the specified period was not applied for. The State counsel, in turn, submitted departmental inquiry had been initiated against the investigating officer for negligence.Case of negligenceIn a criminal case, the challan has to be presented within a specified timeframe, or else extension in time is required to be sought. Failure to present the challan within the stipulated period gives the accused an “indefeasible right” to get “default” bail, in the absence of extension in time granted by the Court||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-raps-police-for-careless-investigation-in-drugs-case-361621
16-01-2022||Mukesh Tandon||Kisan Morcha expels outfits led by Balbir S Rajewal , Gurnam S Charuni over poll plunge||Sonepat, January 15The farmer unions contesting the Punjab Assembly elections would no longer be part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body that spearheaded the year-long agitation against the now-repealed three central farm laws said on Saturday.The prominent BKU (Bharatiya Kisan Union) factions that have been expelled from the SKM are those headed by Balbir Singh Rajewal of Punjab and Gurnam Singh Charuni from Haryana.Rajewal has floated the Samyukt Samaj Morcha to contest the Punjab poll while Charuni’s outfit is named Samyukt Sangharsh Party. Both are contesting the February 14 elections in an alliance. Twentytwo of the 32 farm unions from Punjab that comprised the SKM regrouped under Rajewal to float the political outfit. Rajewal and Charuni were core committee members of the SKM.The decision to expel their outfits was taken today during a general house meeting organised by the SKM at the ‘Kisan Andolan’ office at Singhu border. Farmer leaders Rakesh Tikait, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Jagjeet Singh Dallewal, Yogendra Yadav and Yudhvir Singh were among those present.Opposing 2 partiesThe Samyukt Kisan Morcha isn’t opposing any farm organisation, but only the two political parties (floated by Rajewal and Charuni). Joginder Singh Ugrahan, BKU-Ekta presidentUgrahan, BKU-Ekta president, said any farm outfit or leader taking the poll plunge or getting indirectly involved in electoral politics couldn’t be part of the SKM. “The SKM isn’t opposing any farm organisation, but only the two political parties (floated by Rajewal and Charuni),” he maintained. If needed, said Ugrahan, the decision may be reviewed after three months.The SKM said their organisation was apolitical and no politician was allowed on any stage during the over 12 months of their agitation. Yudhvir said Tikait would visit Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh for three days from January 21 to press for the sacking of Union Minister Ajay Mishra whose son Ashish is accused of mowing down protesting farmers last year. “Tikait will meet victims, jailed farmers and officials. If there is no progress, a siege may be laid in Lakhimpur by farmer organisations. A ‘pucca morcha’ may be started there,” he said.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha leadership also warned of launching ‘Mission UP’ (against the BJP) from February 1 if the Union Government failed to fulfil its promises, including formation of a committee on MSP and cancellation of police cases against protesters. “We will observe January 31 as ‘Vishwasghat Diwas’ (betrayal day) and hold nationwide protests at block and district headquarters’ level,” the SKM said. Besides, the SKM will support the countrywide strike on January 23 and 24 called by central trade unions.Warns of another agitation from Feb||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kisan-morcha-expels-outfits-led-by-balbir-s-rajewal-gurnam-s-charuni-over-poll-plunge-361580
