19-01-2022||---||Two more of infant trafficking gang held in Gurugram||Gurugram, January 18The police nabbed two more members of the infant trafficking gang and rescued a six-month-old girl child from their possession. Both were produced in a city court from where the police have taken the woman on remand while the man was sent to judicial custody. In this case, total 13 accused has been arrested so far. Three are on police remand while 10 are in judicial custody.Inspector Manoj Kumar, SHO of the DLF Phase 3 police station and investigating officer of the case, said two more accused had been identified as Anand and a woman have been arrested from Alwar, Rajasthan. A six-month-old girl child was rescued from their possession.“The woman used to approach buyers to sell the child. At the same time, the accused Anand used to buy children from the poor and needy. Apart from this, Anand used to work as a labourer. It has come to the fore in the investigation that along with selling the children, the accused used to prepare fake documents for people”, said inspector Manoj Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-more-of-infant-trafficking-gang-held-in-gurugram-362432
19-01-2022||---||25 agendas passed at Karnal civic body meet||Karnal, January 18The General House meeting of the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Tuesday remained peaceful, but the issues pertaining to stray dogs, monkey menace, stray animals, and pathetic condition of roads remained in focus. Besides, the issue of increasing the number of sanitation workers was also raised.Overall development our aimWe are putting in efforts to bring about overall development in all 20 wards without any discrimination. Renu Bala Gupta, MayorStrategy being plannedA strategy is being chalked out on stray dogs at a higher level. For catching monkeys, we are in touch with contractors. Manoj Kumar, MC CommissionerCouncillors, including that of the ruling BJP, raised these issues and tried to corner officials. Mayor Renu Bala Gupta, who chaired the meeting and Commissioner Manoj Kumar assured the House that these issues would be resolved soon.The Commissioner told the House that instructions had been issued to sanitation workers to challan those who left their animals on roads. “A strategy is being chalked out on stray dogs at a higher level. For catching monkeys, we are in touch with various contractors,” said Commissioner. Mayor Gupta said till the contractor was finalised, a cage would be kept in each ward.As many as 30 agendas were kept in the meeting, of them 25 were passed, while four are pending and one remained incomplete. Besides, five issues were kept out of the agenda, and they were approved. Residents of Jhanjahri village, which was earlier a panchayat and later included in the KMC limits, had to face disappointment as the agenda of removing Jhanjhari from the KMC limits and giving it a panchayat status again could not be passed.Gupta, councillors along with officials discussed the progress of the agendas passed in the last meeting that was held on June 30. The House has given nod for a piece of land for the community centre at Madanpur village, intermediate pumping station in Gurunanakpura for proper sewerage, laying of fresh sewerage and water supply pipelines in Ward 15 at a cost of Rs 1.7 crore, community centre and water supply tank in Ashok Vihar Colony of Ward 6 near the Haryana Police Academy, Madhuban.The House also passed the agenda of selling shops to tenants who had been running these for the past 20 years and the agenda of earthfilling in the plots of dairies on Pingli roads. An agenda of purchasing furniture for the new building of the KMC was also passed. The agenda for increasing manpower in the KMC was also passed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/25-agendas-passed-at-civic-body-meet-362430
19-01-2022||---||Four arrested for loot on NH-44||Karnal, January 18A team of the CIA-1 on Tuesday arrested four persons in an alleged case of thrashing two persons of Kurukshetra and looting them on the NH-44 in Gharaunda on January 11.The police recovered the SUV which they had looted from Punjab. They were taken on two-day police remand to find out their involvement in any other case. The police are yet to recover the looted money and other belongings.The accused were identified as Gurmail Singh of Katiwala village in Himachal Pradesh, Abdul of Tibi Bakshiwala in Panchkula, Taru of Assandh in Karnal and Ravi of Brahmani in Kaithal district. They were arrested from Sector 4, said Deepender Singh, in charge CIA-1.“They thrashed Vishavnath Sharma of Kurukshetra and his driver when they were returning to their home from Delhi in the wee hours of January 11. They could not loot their vehicle,” he added.The Gharaunda police had registered a case under Sections 379-B, 341, 427, 506 of the IPC and 25/54/59 of the Arms Act in the matter. The case was handed over to the CIA-1 by the Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia. The CCTV footage played a vital role in cracking this case.Gurmail and Abdul had looted the SUV used in the case from Punjab, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-arrested-for-loot-on-nh-44-362427
19-01-2022||Sunit Dhawan||Farmers demand relief for waterlogged fields in Rohtak district||Rohtak, January 18Wheat crop on thousands of acres in different villages of Rohtak district is submerged in water, following the untimely rain which lashed the region recently. Farmers who have sown wheat in their fields are worried over the damage being caused to their crop.Heavy lossesOur fields are waterlogged following the recent spell of rain, which is damaging the standing wheat crop in our and neighbouring villages. Mohit Hooda, farmer, Rurki village“Our fields are waterlogged following the recent spell of rain, which is damaging the standing wheat crop in our village as well as the neighbouring villages,” says Mohit Hooda, a young farmer of Rurki village in Rohtak district.Amarjeet, Surender and Dalel Dhaka of Sundana village in the district point out that water has accumulated in around 300 acres of land, due to which wheat crop is getting damaged. The farmers have demanded a special girdawari to assess the damage caused to their crop and then suitable compensation.Meanwhile, the All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) has decided to stage a demonstration to demand a special girdawari, compensation for kharif crops and raise other concerns of farmers at the local mini secretariat on January 19.“Wheat crop has been damaged in dozens of villages of Rohtak district due to the recent spell of rain. The compensation for the damage caused to paddy and cotton crops is also pending,” said Preet Singh, the president of the district unit of the AIKS.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-demand-relief-for-waterlogged-fields-362425
19-01-2022||Yamunanagar||Two men held with intoxicating tablets||A team of the anti-narcotics cell of the police have arrested two persons and recovered contraband of 400 intoxicating capsules and 520 tablets from their possession.The accused were identified as Prem Prakash and Lalit of Said Mohammad Pur village of UP’s Saharanpur district.Meanwhile, spokesperson of the police Chamkaur Singh said the said the accused were on Tuesday sent to judicial custody by a court after the completion of their two-day police remand. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-men-held-with-intoxicating-tablets-362424
19-01-2022||Panipat||Man shoots self in Israna; seven booked for abetment to suicide||A 45-year-old man reportedly shot himself with his licensed pistol in Lakshmi Nagar of Israna in the district.The police have booked seven persons allegedly for pressurising him for abetment to suicide (Section 307, IPC) and began a probe into the matter.The deceased, Pratap Singh of Karad village, was living in Lakshmi Nagar in Israna along with his family. He had a business of generators.The body was found lying in a pool of blood on a bed in his garage on the ground floor of his house on Tuesday morning. His licensed pistol was found lying there and a suicide note was also recovered by the police from the spot.Anand, younger brother of the deceased, in his complaint to the police, said his nephew Rahul came in contact with Rohit of Lakhu Buana and Rohit brought his nephew in the business of finance. Rahul had taken Rs 30-32 lakh from some people and given the money to Chirag through Rohit. The matter came to him and his brother (now deceased) four-five days ago. They assured them to give the money back in April, but on Monday evening, they came to their brother’s shop and pressurised him and threatened to kill the family, forcing him to takke the extreme step, he alleged. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-shoots-self-in-israna-seven-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide-362422
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Dadam landslide: Ex-IAS officer to head probe panel||The Haryana Government has decided to reconstitute the committee formed under the chairmanship of Bhiwani Additional Deputy Commissioner to inquire into the landslide incident at Bhiwani’s Dadam on January 1 this year.SS Prasad, IAS officer (Retd), is now the chairman of this committee.Apart from him, Haryana State Pollution Control Board member secretary, Bhiwani Deputy Commissioner, Bhiwani Additional Deputy Commissioner, Bhiwani Additional Superintendent of Police, Tosham Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil), Bhiwani Divisional Forest Officer, Bhiwani District Mining Officer and the State Geologist, Mines and Geology Department will be the members of this committee.On January 1, a landslide happened in Bhiwani’s Dadam, in which five persons died and three were left injured. To investigate the incident, the Bhiwani Deputy Commissioner had ordered an inquiry under the chairmanship of the Additional Deputy Commissioner.The state government, having taken cognisance of the matter, has now decided to reconstitute the previously formed committee. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dadam-landslide-ex-ias-officer-to-head-probe-panel-362421
19-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||Declare status of minor children from first marriage in protection pleas: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, January 18The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it mandatory for couples performing second marriage or in live-in relationships, despite subsisting marriages, to declare the status of the minor children from the first marriage in their protection pleas.The direction on the administrative side came about two months after Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan directed the Registrar-General to come out with the commandments. Justice Sangwan had also ruled that the couple would be required to give details of moveable and immoveable properties and their income.They would also explain the manner in which they would take care of minor children in their upbringing and education. Justice Sangwan had also set February 1 as the deadline for compliance with the conditions before clearing such or similar protection petitions for hearing.A notice issued by the High Court today said: “This is for the information of all advocates/litigants that in all the protection petitions, where party alleges that they are in a live-in relationship despite subsisting marriage or where it is alleged that the petitioners have performed second marriage, a declaration be made regarding the status of the minor children from the first marriage and by giving details of moveable and immoveable property as well as income of the petitioners be made, explaining the manner, in which the petitioner(s) will take care of the minor children for their upbringing, education etc. otherwise objection will be raised with effect from February 1.”Justice Sangwan in his order had asserted the courts were not to act as post officer and simply forward protection pleas to the police for gauging threat perception and doing the needful without commenting on marriage’s validity.The court were, to the contrary, required to apply judicial mind to protect the rights of legally wedded first wife and minor children in case of the husband’s second marriage during the subsistence of the first.Justice had also exercised suo motu power to rescue a mother of five, whose husband performed second marriage. Justice Sangwan had further directed Nuh Deputy Commissioner/ Superintendent of Police to attach her husband’s land. Directions were also issued to Nuh Tehsildar to ensure the payment of the one-fourth of the land’s sale proceeds to the wife for taking care of her minor children “so that they may stay in the mainstream and may not become hardcore criminals to earn their livelihood or to survive by illegal means”.Justice Sangwan was hearing protection petition by the woman’s husband and his second wife after both performed second marriage. An advocate stated on behalf the petitioner-husband’s first legally wedded wife that five children were born out of the wedlock. But the husband refused to maintain her and the children aged between 1½ and 11 years.The caseJustice Arvind Singh Sangwan was hearing protection petition by the woman’s husband and his second wife after both performed second marriage. The advocate stated on behalf the petitioner-husband’s first legally wedded wife that five children were born out of the wedlock. But the husband refused to maintain her and the children, aged between one and a half and 11 years||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/declare-status-of-minor-children-from-first-marriage-in-protection-pleas-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-362420
19-01-2022||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Yamunanagar: Court acquits one in murder case, terms probe casual||Yamunanagar, January 18Sessions Judge Deepak Aggarwal has asked the Yamunanagar Superintendent of Police (SP) to look into the probe conducted into a murder case by an investigating officer (IO) in a “casual manner” and to act accordingly against the erring official.The Sessions Judge passed this order while delivering a judgment in a murder case on January 14.The judge had to acquit a murder accused in the absence of concrete evidences, which could not be established due to the improper investigation conducted by the IO of the case.The judgment reads that keeping in view the nature of the offence, this court is of the opinion that the IO has conducted the investigation in this case in a casual manner and left several lacunae.“Had the IO probed the matter properly by bringing the CCTV footage on record, joining the owner of the factory as well as other independent witnesses available at the spot and resorted to scientific investigations like the matching of blood groups etc, it certainly would have helped this court in arriving at a conclusion in a better way,” reads the judgment.It further reads, “Hence, a copy of this judgment is ordered to be sent to the Yamunanagar SP for looking into the matter and act accordingly against the erring official.”According to information, on the complaint of a plywood factory chowkidar, Amar Nath, a case was registered against Madan Ram, alias Sitamani, under Section 302 of the IPC at Sadar police station, Yamunanagar on April 21, 2021.The complainant had said that Madan Ram and Chhote Lal worked in the said factory. He said Madan Ram beat Chhote Lal with a wooden stick on the factory premises on the night of April 21, 2021. “Chhote Lal had died due to the injuries caused by Madan Ram,” Amar Nath had alleged in his police complaint.As per the judgment, the court had to acquit the accused after the defence counsel contended that the owner of the factory was not joined in the probe, footage of CCTV cameras installed in the factory were not collected by the IO and no independent witness joined the investigation at the time of interrogation of the accused as well as the alleged recovery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/court-acquits-one-in-murder-case-terms-probe-casual-362419
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Short-term work exempted from job law: Haryana Deputy CM||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala has said that the new startups and new IT/ITES companies will be given exemption for two years under the “Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020”. Apart from this, short-term (45 days) works will be exempted from this act.Open to talks with industryThe govt had decided to give 75% quota to the state youth in the private sector. On opposition against the Act, a solution will be found after talks with the industrial bodies that had filed a plea in court. Dushyant Chautala, dy cmChautala made this announcement during a “Meet the Press” programme held at the Chandigarh Press Club today.Giving details of the exemption given in the Act, the Deputy CM said in addition to the sowing of crops, embroidery, primary works related to fruits, vegetables, tea leaves, coffee, fish, animals etc. also taken up under the ‘Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act’. ‘2020’ were exempted. Exemptions had also been given to domestic servants and those industries for which skilled workers were not available.Dushyant added that this law came into force in the state from the midnight of January 15 and would be applicable to industries having more than 10 employees. He said the companies were continuously getting themselves registered on the portal of the Labour Department. So far more than 22,000 companies had got their registration done and 3,280 youths had also got themselves registered from across the state.Regarding the propaganda being done by the opposition against the Act, he said in the year 2008-09, many such incidents took place in big industries due to which local youths were deprived of employment. He said the “Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020” was opposed politically and non-politically as well, but we did not stop in the interest of the youth. He said we would find a solution after discussing it with the industry associations that had filed a petition in the court. —                                     #DushyantChautala                                     #HaryanaDeputyCM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/short-term-work-exempted-from-job-law-haryana-deputy-cm-362418
19-01-2022||Karnal||Anganwari workers’ bid to gherao Haryana CM’s camp office in Karnal foiled||Beating cold wave, hundreds of anganwari workers and helpers on Tuesday thronged the roads and protested near the Chief Minister’s camp office in Prem Nagar in the city to press their demands.They wanted to gherao the camp office, but heavy police force foiled their attempt. They tried to overpower the barricades installed by the police at some distance of the camp office, but failed and they had ‘scuffle’ with the police.They sat on the road and raised slogans against the state and Union governments. Later, in the evening, Duty Magistrate Tehsildar and CM’s representative of his constituency Sanjay Bathla reached there to pacify them. After an assurance of a meeting with the CM, protesting workers and helpers handed over a memorandum to them.On the call of coordination committee, workers and helpers today took out protest march towards the CM’s camp office. They were demanding the implementation of assurances given in 2018. The protesting workers and helpers said they were assured of raising the wages of each worker by Rs 1,500 and of each helper by Rs 750 per month in 2018, but to no avail so far.Rupa Rana, president of aganwari workers and helpers association, along with CITU district president Satpal Saini and others said all workers and helpers had been staging dharna for the past over one month in the bitter cold, but the government was not listening to their demands. “We demand that our demands be accepted with immediate effect,” they said. —                                     #HaryanaCM                                     #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anganwari-workers-bid-to-gherao-haryana-cms-camp-office-foiled-362416
19-01-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Vigilance Bureau arrests Kaithal SDM over corruption charges||Chandigarh, January 18The State Vigilance Bureau (SVB) on Tuesday arrested Kaithal Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Amarinder Singh, a 2019-batch Haryana Civil Services (HCS) officer, for allegedly taking bribe and allowing overloaded trucks to ply.Four persons nabbed so farA total of four persons have so far been arrested in the case. The anticipatory bail petitions of ASI Jaspal Singh and RTA Inspector Ajay Saini have already been dismissed. Nothing has been recovered from the SDM. Somesh Kumar, Investigating officerThe case is related to the previous posting of Amarinder when he was given the additional charge of the Regional Transport Authority (RTA), Ambala, in October 2021.Transporter Dev Raj, a resident of Kaithal, made a complaint to the SVB that he was made to pay Rs 20,000 through Google Pay for getting released his overloaded truck on November 3, 2011, in Ambala. The RTA staff allegedly told him that he could continue to ply overloaded trucks after paying the bribe on a monthly basis and provided him a number too for payments.Dev Raj paid Rs 18,000 for allowing three trucks on November 19, 2021. His trucks were not stopped till December 5, 2021. Thereafter, he was contacted again and was asked for charges for December. For two trucks, Rs 12,000 was allegedly demanded for the RTA staff, and in return a sticker was promised for the safe passage.On Dev Raj’s complaint, on December 17, 2021, the SVB conducted a raid at the office of Gurpreet Singh, alias Lucky Trading Company, Motor Market, Ambala, from where the latter was apprehended and Rs 12,000 bribe money was recovered.The stickers of ‘DPS Fresh Fruit’ meant for the safe passage of overloaded vehicles were also recovered from Gurpreet. Later on Gurpreet’s interrogation, his co-conspirator Jaspal Singh and a driver on contract basis with RTA-Ambala, Karanvir Singh, were nabbed. On their interrogation, Rs 20,000 more was recovered from Gurpreet.After RTA Gauri Midha went on leave, additional charge was given to Amarinder. Thereafter, on his indication for allegedly fixing monthly charges for allowing overloaded vehicles, transporters were contacted.A deal was struck to collect Rs 6,000 per truck per month by Gurpreet and Jaspal from the transporters for the safe passage of overloaded vehicles.For October, Rs 3 lakh was allegedly collected and after retaining Rs 22,000, Gurpreet and Jaspal allegedly paid Rs 2.78 lakh to ASI Jaspal Singh posted in the RTA-Ambala on deputation since September 11, 2021. That amount, according to the ASI, was allegedly paid to RTA Inspector Ajay Saini and Amarinder.Similarly, Rs 4 lakh was allegedly collected in November and of that Rs 3.72 lakh was paid to the ASI for further payment to Saini and Amarinder.The ASI wanted to become the approver in the case and had recorded his statement under Section 164 of the CrPC on December 24, 2021. Even, the SVB had moved an application for the grant of pardon to him but withdrew it on January 17.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vigilance-bureau-arrests-kaithal-sdm-over-corruption-charges-362415
19-01-2022||Deepender Deswal||Better infra helps Sirsa villages fight Covid||Sirsa, January 18With sprawling campus, cleanliness inside the wards, better medical and testing facilities, the Community Health Centre (CHC) in Nathusari Chopta town stands out as an ideal health centre in this remote area of Ellenabad subdivision of Sirsa district.New health centres establishedEarlier, the hospital staff was running the CHC from an old building with space crunch. The govt then set up new buildings of the PHCs in Darba Kalan, Ding, Kagdana, Madhosinghana and Jamal villages of Ellenabad. Dr Navneet Singh, SMOVillagers said till a few months ago, they were struggling for bare minimum health facilities.“We had to rush to far off towns in Sirsa or Hisar for any medical emergency, especially during the first and second wave of the pandemic,” said Rohtash Kumar, a panch of Nathusari Kalan village.However, the CHC has recently added health infrastructure, including laboratory facilities for different kinds of tests such as complete blood count (CBC), lipid profiling, sugar test.Dr Navneet Singh, Senior Medical Officer (SMO) and incharge at the 30-bed CHC in Nathusari Chopta town, said this transformation took place after the second wave.“We are now geared up for the third wave of Covid. We have adequate infrastructure, including 10 oxygen concentrators, besides adequate number of jumbo and B-type cylinders,” Dr Singh said.Ravinder Kumar, a staff member in the CHC, said there was still a shortage of medical officers, nurses and lab technicians at these health centres.“Two posts of MOs and six posts of nurses, besides lab technicians are lying vacant at CHC Nathusari Chopta,” he said, adding that facilities improved after beds and testing machines were provided by social activist Meenu Beniwal through corporate social responsibility funds.Bhal Singh, a resident of Darba village, said: “Earlier, villagers were dependent on the quacks as the region lacked in private medical facilities with qualified doctors,” he said.Another resident Shamsher Singh said: “Despite being a high profile Assembly segment, the poor health infrastructure was a matter of concern for residents. We are thankful to the joint efforts of the government, social activists and corporate for this change.”Meanwhile, Dr Avtar Singh, incharge of PHC Darba, said with better health facilities, the institutional delivery too has been improved in the past couple months with almost 99 per cent deliveries taking place in government hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/better-infra-helps-sirsa-villages-fight-covid-362414
19-01-2022||---||Amid Covid surge, curbs extended till January 28 in Haryana||Chandigarh, January 18Amid a spurt in Covid cases, the Haryana Government on Tuesday extended various restrictions across the state till January 28.The Haryana State Disaster Management Authority (HSDMA) tonight extended the restrictions, which were first imposed earlier this month in view of the big spike in cases.Under the restrictions, all multiplexes, cinema halls and theatres will remain closed. The sports complexes and swimming pools will also remain shut. Also, all entertainment parks and B2B exhibitions are prohibited.Both government and private offices, except for emergency and essential services, have been advised to function with 50 per cent strength.Visitors to the shopping malls, hotels and restaurants had been advised to strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.However, in the orders issued on Tuesday, gyms and spas have been allowed to work at 50 per cent capacity while the liquor shops will remain open till 10 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amid-surge-curbs-extended-till-january-28-in-harynaa-362413
19-01-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Shoddy probe into heist, Gurugram court raps cops||Chandigarh, January 18A Gurugram court has lashed out at the Special Task Force (STF) for being silent on the role of police officers responsible for supervising the investigation into the multi-crore heist involving several cops, including an SP-level officer, three doctors and gangsters.The theft had taken place at a residential society in Sector 84 of Gurugram on August 4. The STF has so far recovered Rs 5.8 crore, gold and foreign currency.The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Jasbir Singh observed, “There is complete silence with regard to the role of supervisory officers. This court in its previous order had deprecated the approach of the agency for being inert and soft when it comes to the examination of role of officers in covering up the heist.”The court added, “The source of money and the purpose for which it was stored have not been traced.” The order, dated January 17, said, “The court’s power for ensuring a proper investigation stemmed from the power given under Section 156(3) CrPC. Further failure to do so shall be viewed seriously.”In its previous order, the court had observed that as per the prosecution case, main players in the case were Dr Suchender Jain Nawal and gangster Vikas Lagarpuria. They had allegedly planned the heist, which was committed by the henchmen of Lagarpuria. Dr Nawal had allegedly provided information to Lagarpuria about the unaccounted money. For covering up the case, he reportedly involved IPS Dheeraj Setia, the then DCP Gurugram, and allegedly gave him a bag containing 3 kg gold and $135,000.After the case hit the headlines, Setia returned the cash and gold to Dr Nawal, but allegedly kept $2000 for the help already extended in covering up the matter.Dr Nawal had revealed the involvement of Setia on November 13, but the STF issued a notice to him on December 2. The court observed that Setia might “have exerted his influence upon his subordinates to twist the probe to make it appear a case of Rs 50 lakh theft”.Money Source untraced||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/shoddy-probe-into-heist-gurugram-court-raps-cops-362402
