22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Congress leader Bhupinder Hooda tests positive for Covid-19||Senior Congress leader and former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Saturday said he has tested positive for Covid-19.He said he has isolated himself at home.“After experiencing some Covid-like symptoms, I got myself tested and am Covid positive. On the advice of doctors, I have isolated myself at home. I would request everyone who came in contact with me over the last few days to take appropriate precautions and get themselves tested,” Hooda, who is the Leader of Opposition in Haryana, tweeted.Notably, three weeks ago, Hooda’s son and Congress leader Deepender Singh had also tested positive for Covid-19.The two had also tested positive for the viral disease last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-leader-bhupinder-hooda-tests-positive-for-covid-19-363557
22-01-2022||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram boy beaten up over Instagram video||Gurugram, January 22A class X student was allegedly thrashed by group of men following an altercation over an Instagram video on Thursday.The accused held the student hostage using weapon, thrashed him and fled after threatening to kill him. The student is injured critically and is being treated in a private hospital. An FIR has been registered at Badshahpur police station.A complaint filed by the student Mohit, a resident of Saktapur village claimed that he had an altercation with two youths of the village over a video shared on Instagram. He told the police that the incident took place around 2:00 pm on Thursday when he was going for a walk from the village towards the hilly area with his friend.“At the same time, Sitesh, a villager called me and asked where I was. After five minutes Sitesh and Nikhil along with dozen of youth arrived in a car and bike and started beating me with sticks and iron rods. One of them hit on my head with a sharp object and threatened to kill and all were fled from the spot. My friend rushed me to the hospital”, Mohit told police.As per the statement of Mohit an FIR has been registered against two main accused and others under sections 323 (causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC and section 25-54-59 of arms act at Badshahpur police station.“FIR has been registered and we are conducting raids to nab the accused who are absconding from their houses”, said Inspector Dinkar, SHO of Badshahpur police station.                                      #Instagram||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-boy-beaten-up-over-instagram-video-363546
22-01-2022||---||Haryana cops attacked at Nalagarh dhaba||Solan, January 21A team of the Haryana Police was allegedly attacked by 18 to 20 people at a dhaba on the Ropar Road in Nalagarh last evening, where they were inquiring about the owner whose name had figured in a case under the NDPS Act.Sub Inspector (SI) Surjeet Singh, head constable Naresh Kumar and Special Police Officer (SPO) Naseeb Singh from Thanesar in Kurukshetra district had come to Nalagarh last evening. They had apprehended Amarjeet Singh, a resident of Plassi Kalan village in Nalagarh on January 18 with 4.5-kg opium. Amarjeet had told the police that Jeet Singh, who runs a dhaba on Ropar Road in Nalagarh, had asked him to procure one-kg contraband for which of Rs 50,000 was given to him.As soon as the police team started inquiring about Jeet Singh, 8 to 10 men attacked their official vehicle with rods. SPO Naseeb Singh was attacked on his head with a sharp edged weapon by Jeet Singh’s son Hitesh while SI Surjeet Singh was hit by an iron rod on his left hand and leg.As per their complaint, another son of Jeet Singh, Harmeet, snatched the service revolver, a gold chain and Rs 52,000 from SI Surjeet Singh while another miscreant snatched the mobile phone of SPO Naseeb Singh.Baddi Additional SP Narender Kumar, while confirming the news, said a case under Sections 147, 148, 149, 323, 356, 382, 353 and 332 of the IPC, for rioting, causing hurt, assault, theft and Section 3 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act had been registered. The two accused, Harmeet and Hitesh, have been arrested and further probe was underway.In a cross case, Harjesh Kumar, the third son of Jeet Singh, lodged a complaint that five to six people came to his dhaba last evening around 8:15 pm and asked whether food was being served. They, however, started a scuffle in which a revolver belonging to them fell down. It was later deposited in the Nalagarh police station, Harjesh has claimed.A case has been registered as per the complaint of Harjesh and probe is underway, officials said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/haryana-cops-attacked-at-nalagarh-dhaba-363416
22-01-2022||---||Murder accused arrested from Nagaland||Jind, January 21In a major breakthrough in the trader murder case in Jind town, the Jind Police and the Special Task Force (STF) of Haryana police has arrested the main accused Baljeet, a resident of Pokharikheri village in Jind district along with two accomplices from Dimapur town of Nagaland.DSP Jitender Khatkar informed mediapersons that the police would bring the accused to Jind through transit remand from a Nagaland court.The DSP said that they got a tip-off that Baljeet, main accused in murder case of Jind trader Shyam Sundar Bansal, was hiding in Dimapur town of Nagaland along with his accomplices Kuldeep and Manjeet. The Haryana Police, with the help of the local police of Nagaland, arrested the accused.7 arrested for murder bidKaithal: The police have arrested Sandeep, Gurmeet, Sunny, Anil, Aman, Jagmohan and Amit for allegedly opening fire on Mandeep of Guna village. The police also recovered a country-made pistol, a bike and another vehicle used in the crime. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/murder-accused-arrested-from-nagaland-363337
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana allows guard room, toilet on 200 sqm plots||The Haryana Government has allowed construction of a guard room and a toilet in the stilt area of plots up to 200 metres.An amendment in the Haryana Building Code, 2017, has allowed the construction of a guard room and a toilet up to a maximum of 16 square metres in stilt area for plots upto 200 square metres (sqm). The area of guard room and toilet allowed for plots above 200 square metres would be 20 square metres.However, the area on which guard room and toilet would be constructed would form part of the floor area ratio (FAR), stated an order. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/guard-room-toilet-allowed-on-200-sqm-plots-363336
22-01-2022||---||Haryana's new policy to issue NOC to private nursing institutions||Chandigarh, January 21The Haryana Government has formulated a policy with regard to issuance of no objection certificate (NOC) to self-financed nursing institutions in the state. Now, only those institutes, which fulfil the stated criteria, will be allowed to start admission for the said course.An official spokesperson of the department said, “A policy has been formulated to issue NOC to private/self-financed nursing institutions with the objective of imparting quality education in the field of nursing.”“The policy has been formulated keeping in mind the current modern technology and requirements. It has been decided by the state government that admissions to diploma and degree nursing courses for the 2021-22 academic session will be allowed only in institutions, which fulfilcriteria of the policy,” he added.“All nursing institutes are required to submit information in this regard by registered post or in person at the office of the Department of Medical Education and Research by 5 pm on January 30,” he said. “No document will be entertained thereafter,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-policy-to-issue-noc-to-private-nursing-institutions-363335
22-01-2022||---||Minister seeks report on broken Pehowa road from PWD||Kurukshetra, January 21Minister of State for Sports and Youth Affairs Sandeep Singh has ordered the PWD (B&R) to collect samples of a recently constructed stretch leading towards Helwa village from Guldehra village, in Pehowa, after he saw potholes on the road.As per the information, the minister was on his way to attend events in the rural areas. When he saw potholes on the road he started inspecting the stretch.The minister came to know that the road was repaired a month ago. Expressing displeasure with quality of the work, he called the XEN of the PWD (B&R) and asked him to visit the area, prepare a report and also get the samples of the material used in the road construction checked.Minister Sandeep Singh said, “Deficiency in the work has been observed. It seems no attention was paid towards the quality of material used in construction. There are potholes on the road, which give bumpy ride to commuters.”“Road samples will be sent for testing. Action will be taken against officials concerned if samples fail test. Directions have been issued to the XEN PWD (B&R) to get the road constructed properly and ensure good quality work,” the minister added.All other recently constructed and repaired roads would also be checked, the minster said. The minister, also Pehowa MLA Sandeep Singh, directed officials concerned to ensure that only good quality material was used in construction of all roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minister-seeks-report-on-broken-road-from-pwd-363333
22-01-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad district Health Department faces shortage of ambulance drivers||Faridabad, January 21The district Health Department is facing an acute shortage of ambulance drivers. At least 87 drivers are required in the department (Civil Hospital), but only 49 are available.According to sources driver strength is 47.12 per cent short of the standard requirement. The Health Department has a fleet of 29 ambulances. Minimum three drivers are needed for one ambulance as per the duty rotation of eight hours daily, reveal the sources in the Civil Surgeon’s office.Their functional strength has reduced to 46 as three drivers are on official duty with senior district officials it is claimed. “Given the functional strength, this staff is capable of running only 15 ambulances round-the-clock. These include 19 drivers from the Haryana Roadways, who have been shifted on temporary basis, the sources added.The state government had sanctioned six new ambulances and one mobile medical unit, but without drivers recently.“The strength of drivers may have gone up to 49, but their permanent number still remains at 31. Nineteen drivers will be shifted back to their parent department after some time,” said an official of the Health Department on condition of anonymity. These drivers had been deployed in the department keeping in view the ongoing Covid situation, he added.The department is already facing shortage of doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff. However, claiming that transfer of 19 drivers to the Health Department has improved the situation, Civil Surgeon Dr Vinay Gupta said, “The department is not facing any issues at present.Three drivers needed to run ambulance 24x7“With a total of 29 ambulances at the disposal of the Health Department, two or three ambulances or drivers remain on the VIP duty or assigned tasks other than patient care. An ambulance needs three drivers as per protocol,” say official sources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/health-dept-faces-shortage-of-ambulance-drivers-363332
22-01-2022||Faridabad||Faridabad: Woman booked for murdering father-in-law||The police have registered a case in connection with a murder that took place at a colony in Ballabgarh town of the city around midnight last night.According to a complaint lodged with the police, the incident took place when the victim, identified as Bharat Singh, was fired upon by a gun in his sleep. His death came to light this morning when the family members found him in a pool of blood around 6 am.Charging the wife of the victim’s elder son with the murder, Jasoda Devi, wife of the victim, Bharat Singh, said his husband, who was living with his elder son Vinod and his wife Geeta, in New Friends Colony, had been murdered by her daughter-in-law who, she said, had been pressuring him to transfer his property in her name for the past some time.Geeta, according to the police, was present at the house, but was missing since the murder. The accused had acquired a country-made revolver yesterday only after making some payment, it was alleged. A hunt was launched to nab the culprit after registration of a case under Section 302 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act, said a police official.Victim under pressure for transferring propertyThe victim, Bharat Singh, who was living with his elder son Vinod and his wife Geeta, in New Friends Colony, was murdered by his daughter-in-law who had been pressuring him to transfer his property in her name for the past some time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-booked-for-murdering-father-in-law-363331
22-01-2022||Sanjay Yadav||Absconding police officer Dheeraj Setia applies for bail in multi-crore Gurugram heist case||Gurugram, January 21Suspended IPS Dheeraj Setia, wanted for a multi-crore heist in Gurugram and being searched by the Special Task Force (STF), has applied for anticipatory bail. The court will hear the petition on Monday.Setia has already moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court for quashing of FIR against him. He has also filed an application in district and sessions judge court, Gurugram, for transfer the case to another court. That hearing is scheduled for February 8.The local court has time and again, through its observations, highlighted many loopholes in the investigation and the STF believes that Setia holds answers to key questions like involvement of other policemen or seniors and disposal of stolen money etc.The STF is conducting raids to nab absconding IPS Dheeraj Setia and Delhi Police’s suspended ASI Vikas Gulia but have no clue so far. The STF has submitted a 2,000-page chargesheet against 12 accused in this case.Meanwhile, the local court today cancelled the bail plea of Dr Sachender Jain Nawal, one of the key accused in the case. “We will move the Punjab and Haryana High Court for the bail of Dr Nawal,” said Rahul Chauhan, lawyer of Dr Nawal.After the bail application of Dr GP Singh, another accused in the case, was rejected on Monday, he moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The hearing has been scheduled for January 24. Dr Nawal and gangster Vikas Lagarpuria have emerged as the masterminds in the heist that was committed on August 4, 2021. Dr Nawal and Dr Singh were arrested by the STF of the Haryana Police on November 11, 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/absconding-police-officer-applies-for-bail-in-multi-crore-heist-case-363330
22-01-2022||Rohtak||BJP plans 7,500 gatherings across Haryana to honour freedom fighters||The rapidly rising number of Covid and Omicron cases in Haryana notwithstanding, the ruling BJP plans to hold 7,500 public gatherings across the state to honour freedom fighters and their family members.Covid protocol to be followedThe Covid protocol will be followed at all events. No permission is required from the authorities as there will not be more than 75 persons at any event to be held in the open. Shailender Pandey, BJP spokesmanThe felicitation programmes are slated to be held at panchayat and ward levels on January 23 to felicitate soldiers of the Azad Hind Fauj, freedom fighters and their family members to mark the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose.Addressing a news conference here today, BJP spokesman Shailender Pandey said 75 persons would attend each such programme, being held as part of the Amrit Mahotsav. “The stories of freedom fighters, who have remained unsung till now will be brought before the people,” he stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-plans-7-500-gatherings-across-state-to-honour-freedom-fighters-363329
22-01-2022||---||4 fined Rs 88L for illegal mining in village of Yamunanagar district||Yamunanagar, January 21Nearly 58,800 metric tonnes of raw mining material, consisting gravel, stones and bajri, was extracted by illegal mining on about 4-acre “shamlat deh” land (a category of panchayat land) in Taharpur Kalan village of Yamunanagar district.As per an assessment by the Mines and Geology Department, Yamunanagar, regarding this loss, the accused stole raw mining material worth Rs 88.20 lakh and also committed theft of royalty amount of Rs 29.40 lakh by digging the said land.The Development and Panchayats Department, Yamunanagar, identified the accused as Abdul Kayum, a former sarpanch of Jaitpur village, and Aslam, Sukhbir and Puran Chand, three residents of Taharpur Kalan village.Sources said the Panchayat Department swung into action, when the chowkidar of Taharpur Kalan village, Liyakat Ali, informed the block development and panchayat officer, Chhachhrauli, Jogesh Kumar, on December 22, 2021, that some persons were carrying out illegal mining on the “shamlat deh land in their village.BDPO Jogesh Kumar, along with a patwari and the panchayat secretary of the village, visited Taharpur Kalan village on December 22, 2021, and found evidences of illegal mining carried out recently on the “shamlat deh” land in the village.After his visit to the said village, the BDPO wrote a letter to the District Mining Officer, Yamunanagar, requesting him to prepare a report of the loss caused by illegal mining on the “shamlat deh” land.“On January 10, 2022, I gave a notice to four persons who stole the mining material of Rs 88.20 lakh from the village and told them to deposit the amount with the Panchayat Department within 15 days,” said Jogesh Kumar, BDPO, Chhachhrauli.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-fined-rss-88l-for-illegal-mining-in-village-of-yamunanagar-district-363328
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana, Himachal Pradesh sign MoU to build Adi Badri Dam||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar today said that the Saraswati river, which has been extinct for many years, would be rejuvenated with the construction of Adi Badri Dam. Religious beliefs would also be revived with the rejuvenation of Saraswati river. Besides, the area would also develop as a pilgrimage site.ML Khattar, CMSaraswati river to be rejuvenatedSaraswati river, which has been extinct for many years, will be rejuvenated with the construction of Adi Badri Dam. Besides, the area will also develop as a pilgrimage site.The Chief Minister said this while speaking at the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signing ceremony held for the construction of the dam at Adi Badri in the presence of Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur at PWD rest house, Panchkula, on Friday.Haryana Chief Secretary Sanjeev Kaushal and Himachal Pradesh Chief Secretary Ram Subhag Singh officially signed a memorandum of understanding for the construction of the dam in the presence of both Chief Ministers.Khattar said that today, his 35-year-old dream has come true. He had travelled in 1986-87 in connection with the research being done regarding the revival of the Saraswati. This journey started from Adi Badri in Yamunanagar and went up to Kutch.Due to the construction of Adi Badri Dam, 20 cusecs of water would flow continuously in the Saraswati river, added the Chief Minister.For conducting research on Saraswati, a chair has been set up at Kurukshetra University and Haryana Saraswati Heritage Development Board has also been established. The Haryana Government has notified an area of 200 km from Adi Badri to Ghaggar river via Kaithal for Saraswati river. A mention of it can also be found in the revenue records.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-himachal-pradesh-sign-mou-to-build-adi-badri-dam-363327
22-01-2022||Is a civic issue bothering you?||Accumulated sewage water a bane of Hisar locality residents||Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Accumulated sewage water a bane of residentsThe Shanti Nagar locality in Hisar has been facing problems due to dirty water accumulating on the streets. The sewerage line has been blocked for many days, which has resulted in overflowing of the sewage. When it rains, the problem becomes even more serious. Despite complaints to the Municipal Corporation, Mayor and Senior Deputy Mayor, there is no improvement in the situation. Kashmir Bhayana, HisarPanchkula on the verge of losing green coverPanchkula is on the verge of losing its 'green lungs'. Due to proposed 'construction of flats' in Sector 20, the sector is fast losing its green cover and no action is being taken by the authorities. The fact is that the land belongs to the HSVP, other departments like environment, pollution control, and wildlife shy away from the responsibility. It is requested that the government should take action before the existing green belt is axed and destroyed. Residents, Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/accumulated-sewage-water-a-bane-of-residents-363326
22-01-2022||Kaithal||Mathematics quiz competition at RKSD College, Kaithal||Refresher programme startedSonepat: A two-week refresher programme on the topic "Yoga and lifestyle" was started by the Human Resource Development Centre of Bhagat Phool Singh Women University. Padma Shri and head Saudi Yoga Committee Nauf Marwai attended the programme as chief guest. Speaking in the virtual programme, Marwai said the organisation of this programme is very commendable, organising various sessions of yoga and women development programmes and emphasising on strengthening yoga with international cooperation. Speaking in the inaugural session, Prof Rajendra Kumar Anayet, Vice-Chancellor of women university said yoga was a milestone in the path of achieving complete health. Dr Shefali Nagpal, Director, Human Resource Development Centre, said 35 participants from all over the country were participating in this programme.Career opportunities discussedKarnal: On the fourth day of a five-day international workshop titled, "Zero to infinity" organised by Shaheed Udham Singh Government College, Matak Majri, Indri, Karnal. In the technical session I, Dr. Rajkumaar welcomed Frank Azam, director of Studies Metropolitan City College from London, who spoke on the topic education and career opportunities in London. Azam told that there were certain job opportunities in London in various fields such as banking, accounting, finance, engineering, health-care and marketing and so on.Online session organisedHisar: The psychological guidance and counselling cell, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, organised an online session on "Covid-19 and mental health: Challenges and solutions". The session was moderated by Dr Taruna, assistant professor and associate director, psychological guidance and counselling cell. Prof. Amool Ranjan, department of clinical psychology, RINPAS, Ranchi, emphasised on how the pandemic affected the physical, social, psychological and occupational aspects of our lives.Online career, varsity festKarnal: Pratap Public School, Jarnailly Colony, in collaboration with campus coach organised an online career and university fest for students of Classes IX to XII. The programme, was inaugurated by the director principal, Pratap Public Schools, Poonam Navet, and conducted by Deepika Kapoor, Sudhanshu Sinha and Pooja Singh. Addressing the gathering, the director principal spoke on the importance of good career guidance and the need for bridging the gap between expectation of students and the needs of the industry.KU UIET students bring laurelsKurukshetra: A final-year student Pranshu Pareek of the University Institute of Engineering and Technology of Kurukshetra University got placed in Josh Technology of Group, Gurugram. On this occasion, the Vice Chancellor of Kurukshetra University, Professor Som Nath Sachdeva congratulated the student and wished him a bright future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mathematics-quiz-competition-363325
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana Govt to develop clusters for agri products in all districts||Subhash Barala, Chairman, Haryana Bureau of Public Enterprises, has said that Haryana State Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) has formulated a new industrial policy to promote industries in the state.This policy would give a boost to industries and would further enhance employment opportunities for youth.He was presiding over a review meeting of HSIIDC. Managing Director of the corporation Vikas Gupta and Financial Adviser Kiran Walia were also present at the meeting. Barala said the government is working to develop clusters for agriculture and food products in every district. Sales centres for the products would also be set up in these clusters. Farmers and youth would get direct benefit from it and their income would also increase. Barala said that under the new Land Pooling Policy of the government, new projects would be prepared by taking land from panchayats and e-marketing would be done to promote MSMEs in the state. He said the corporation has sold plots worth Rs 5,000 crore even during the Covid period and by March 31, additional plots worth Rs 5,000 crore would be sold. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-to-develop-clusters-for-agri-products-in-all-districts-363324
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana: Republic Day tableaux to feature Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s life||On Republic Day in the state, tableaux presentations or cultural programmes related to the life of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose will be organised. An official spokesperson said January 23 is the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose.In view of this, directions have been given by the state government to all Commissioners, DCs and Sub-Divisional Officers of the state to organise tableaux or cultural programmes related to Netaji’s life along with other programmes of Republic Day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/republic-day-tableaux-to-feature-netajis-life-363323
22-01-2022||---||Fire breaks out at Tibetan Market in Ambala City||Ambala, January 21A major fire broke out at the Potala Tibetan Refugee Market in Ambala City on Friday. No injuries or casualty were reported in the incident. As per the information, the fire was noticed around 3:30 am by workers who were sleeping there. They managed to escape and sounded an alert, following which fire tenders reached the spot and doused the flames.A shopkeeper said there were around 10 kiosks in the Tibetan market. The reason behind the fire was unknown and the exact loss was yet to be ascertained. Due to covid and rain, sales were already on the lower side and now the loss due to fire had further increased their trouble as the majority of the sellers had taken stock on credit.Swarnam, president of the market, said, “All kiosks and stock were gutted. We have been setting up the market here for the past 10 years. Four workers who were sleeping here managed to escape. Stock worth lakhs of rupees has been destroyed. All shopkeepers are poor and refugees. The government should extend some help to the affected shopkeepers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fire-breaks-out-at-tibetan-market-363322
22-01-2022||Nitish Sharma||MLA proposes shifting of Thanesar old bus stand to resolve traffic woes||Kurukshetra, January 21To deal with the issue of traffic jams near the old bus stand in Thanesar City, the local MLA has proposed to shift the existing bus stand to a land of Kurukshetra Development Board near BR International Chowk.Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha has submitted a proposal to Haryana Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma for the construction of a new bus stand. As per the information, the minister has directed the official concerned to examine and put up the file in a week.Subhash Sudha said, “Due to constant traffic jam near the old bus stand, a large number of people had been approaching me and demanding the shifting of the bus stand. Commuters have been inconvenienced. We assessed the situation and also talked to officials in the Transport Department. I have submitted a memorandum to the Transport Minister in which we have demanded shifting of the old bus stand and construction of a new bus stand near BR International Chowk where ample vacant land of the Kurukshetra Development Board is available.”“We have apprised the minister about the inconvenience being faced by the locals. The site proposed in the memorandum is suitable for this project. There is a vegetable market, a grain market, Kurukshetra University, National Institute of Technology, Brahma Sarovar, and other religious places, near the proposed site. The project can provide a huge relief to the city from constant traffic jams”, he added.Chief Executive Officer of KDB Anubhav Mehta said, “We are yet to receive any communication in this context as it will come through a proper channel.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mla-proposes-shifting-of-old-bus-stand-to-resolve-traffic-woes-363321
22-01-2022||Parveen Arora||Only OPD services available at polyclinic; Karnal residents irked||Karnal, January 21Three and a half years after its inauguration, the polyclinic in Sector 16 has not been able to fulfil its aim and has been reduced to only four rooms in the building.The food lab of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Department was given nearly 60 per cent portion of the ground floor of the building for temporary use in 2019, but now, the FDA has started major changes in the structure of the building by demolishing its walls, bathroom without taking permission from the Health Department and the HSVP.Use it for hospital purposesThe polyclinic must be used only for hospital purposes instead of using it for the food lab. Being the only medical facility in the old city of Karnal, its facilities should be upgraded to the level of polyclinic in Panchkula. Dr Virender Singh Lather, Principal scientist (retd) & a resident of sector 16Matter with lab in chargeWe have given this building to the FDA Department to run the food lab for some time. After the issue came to my notice, I have written to the in charge of the food lab to stop demolishing work as no major changes in the main structure of the building can be done. Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil surgeonThe polyclinic was constructed at the cost of Rs 5.58 crore and was inaugurated by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on July 29, 2018 with an aim to provide medical and emergency facilities round the clock to people living in the vicinity, who are unable to come to Civil Hospital and the KCGMC due to long distance. Facilities like specialist services, labour room, immunisation, dental clinic, ayush, indoor services, laboratory and canteen along with other emergency services were to be provided to the residents of the vicinity, but now, only the dental clinic and the general OPD facilities are being extended from this building.Earlier, the first floor of this building was to be used for labour room and indoor services, but later, this floor was reserved for intermediate reference laboratory (IRL), at present running from the Civil Hospital.Resentment prevails among residents for reducing the polyclinic for just OPD services. Yudhveer Saini, a councillor, said the polyclinic was started to provide better health facilities, especially emergency services at night, to the people of slum and the vicinity, but only OPD and dental services are available and that too up to 3 pm. “We demand the government to run a round the clock labour room and emergency services,” he added.As per sources, the FDA Department has started demolishing work for setting up a latest food lab, but for it no permission was taken.“We have given this building to the FDA Department to run the food lab for some time. After the issue came to my notice, I have written to the in charge of the food lab to stop demolishing work as no major changes in the main structure of the building can be done,” said Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon. “I have also brought the issue to the notice of the Deputy Commissioner as well as the higher authorities,” he added. Poonam, in charge of the food lab, did not give a clear reply, but said talk to the Commissioner, FDA Department. Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, said after the issue came to his notice, he had sent the Karnal SDM to visit the site and submit a report.“I will take action according to the report, So far, I have asked them to stop demolishing the structure further,” said the Deputy Commissoner.Changes in structure without permissionFood and Drug Administration Department was given 60 per cent portion of ground floor to run a food lab, but now, it started making major changes in its structure by demolishing walls without taking permission from the HSVP and Health Department||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/only-opd-services-available-at-polyclinic-karnal-residents-irked-363320
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Paperless Haryana Assembly: April 30 new deadline||Haryana Vidhan Sabha on Thursday set a new deadline of April 30 for making the entire functioning paperless.Earlier, the complete digitisation was to take effect from the upcoming Budget session but due to Covid and delay in procurement of infrastructure, the new deadline was agreed to during a meeting headed by Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/paperless-assembly-april-30-new-deadline-363315
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||2 IAS officers transferred in Haryana||The Haryana Government on Friday issued transfer and posting orders to two IAS and two HCS officers with immediate effect.Ramesh Chander Bidhan, Director General, Development and Panchayats, has been posted as Director General, Rural Development and Secretary, Rural Development Department, in addition to his present duties. Sujan Singh, Director, Rural Development and Special Secretary, Rural Development Department, has been posted as Managing Director, Haryana State Federation of Cooperative Sugar Mills.Among the HCS officers who have been transferred include Virender Chaudhary, Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Faridabad. He has been posted as Managing Director, Cooperative Sugar Mills, Kaithal.Satinder Siwatch, Managing Director, Cooperative Sugar Mills, Kaithal, has been posted as Managing Director, Cooperative Sugar Mills, Shahbad. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-ias-officers-transferred-363314
22-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||Can't deny term suspension if other cases pending: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, January 21In a significant judgment liable to change the way sentence awarded to “habitual offenders” with prior convictions is suspended, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that relief cannot be denied merely because of the pendency of other cases or multiple convictions.Will put Accused in vicious loopStrict adherence to the rule of denial of bail on account of the pendency of other cases will put the accused in a vicious loop of never being granted bail. This is because the bail in each case would be denied due to the pendency of another case. Punjab & Haryana HCWith this, the High Court has made a departure of sorts from the much-relied-upon judgment in the “Daler Singh’s case”, which says prior convictions would disentitle an applicant for the grant of bail.The Bench was hearing a plea by a convict for the suspension of sentence in a drugs case. It was contended that the applicant had undergone more than eight years and 11 months of substantive sentence of 12 years. The matter was, as such, required to be considered for the suspension of the remaining sentence as his pending appeal was not likely to be heard in the near future due to the pandemic. Opposing the plea, the State counsel submitted that prior convictions would disentitle the applicant for the grant of bail in view of the “Daler Singh’s case”.Referring to a plethora of judgments, the Bench asserted that its perusal would show right under Article 21 of the Constitution included the right to a speedy trial and expeditious disposal of a convict’s appeal. A delayed trial/disposal of an appeal would entitle the accused/convict to the suspension of sentence, depending on facts and circumstances of each case.Justice Bedi said: “If the pendency of other FIRs is the only consideration for the denial of bail, whenever a convict/undertrial applies for bail, the same would be denied simply looking at the pendency of another case.”Justice Bedi said it would be violative of the right to speedy trial/disposal of an appeal as recognised under Article 21, as the accused would never be granted bail in any case leading to indefinite periods of incarceration, assuming that the appeal was not heard within reasonable time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cant-deny-term-suspension-if-other-cases-pending-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-363313
22-01-2022||---||56 staff found absent during inspection at HSVP office in Hisar||Hisar, January 21The Urban Local Bodies Minister (ULB), Dr Kamal Gupta, conducted a surprise inspection at the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) office here today and found 56 employees absent from their duties.The ULB minister, who is a BJP MLA from Hisar, reached the HSVP office at 9.10 am. An official accompanying him said when the minister reached the HSVP office, only Sub-Divisional Engineer (SDE), Electrical, was on duty.Nearly 80 per cent of the clerical staff was found missing from their duty. Those present in the office tried to give excuses to the minister about the absence of fellow staff members, but they were rebuked by him. The minister marked absence of the missing staff personnel in attendance registers.The minister informed that surprise inspections were being conducted in all departments, boards and corporation offices of the state government to ensure accountability of officers and employees to the public.Dr Gupta, who had been keeping low profile as an MLA, made his intentions clear to tighten the grip on the administration after he was inducted into the Cabinet by CM Manohar Lal Khattar on December 28.Sources said personnel of government departments and the Municipal Corporation office in Hisar were on alert as the minister’s surprise raid was expected anytime at the Mini Secretariat. Officials reached their respective offices at the Mini Secretariat on time today morning.However, Dr Gupta visited the HSVP office, where staff members were taken off guard, as they had not expected minister’s raid, an HSVP official said.The minister on reaching the HSVP office closed the main gate to restrict the entry of personnel, who reported late for duty.Dr Gupta said, “I have been getting complaints about absence of employees and officials at the HSVP office. Action will be taken against those found absent from duty.” During inspection, Dr Gupta visited the Administration Office, Estate Office and other offices on the HSVP campus.The minister got upset when he found that the Executive Officer (EO) was not present in his office. As the EO staff explained that he was on official tour to Bhiwani, the minister requisitioned movement register. But the staff failed to provide movement register for the EO. The minister said those found absent from duty would be served show-cause notices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/56-staff-found-absent-during-inspection-at-hsvp-office-in-hisar-363312
