23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Heavy rain lashes parts of Punjab and Haryana||Heavy rain lashed several parts of Punjab and Haryana even as the minimum temperature hovered above normal at most places in the two states, the weather office said on Sunday.Several places in the states received rain in the past 24 hours and the showers continued at many places on Sunday.Chandigarh, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Faridkot, Ferozepur, Bathinda, Rupnagar, Mohali, Moga, Gurdaspur, Ambala, Hisar, Rohtak, Panchkula, Bhiwani and Gurugram were some of the places which received rain.The minimum temperature at most places in the two states stayed above normal.Amritsar recorded a low of 10.6 degrees Celsius while Ludhiana's minimum settled at 11.2 degrees Celsius and Patiala recorded a low of 10.4 degrees Celsius.Ferozepur registered a low of 11.4 degrees Celsius while Pathankot's minimum settled at 11.7 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh recorded a low of 10.7 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Ambala recorded a low of 10.8 degrees while Hisar's minimum settled at 9.4 degrees Celsius.Rohtak registered a low of 10.8 degrees while Gurugram's minimum settled at 10.5 degrees Celsius. Sirsa also registered a low of 10.5 degrees while Kurukshetra's low settled at 11.2 degrees Celsius.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heavy-rain-lashes-parts-of-punjab-and-haryana-363765
23-01-2022||Hisar||Vehicle registration fraud||12 HCS officers transferredChandigarh: The Haryana Government today transferred 12 HCS officers. Ankita Adhikari has now been posted as Additional CEO, Zila Parishad, Faridabad, and she will serve as Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO), Faridabad. Jyoti has been posted as Additional CEO, Zila Parishad, Hisar, and she has also been appointed the BDPO, Hansi-II. Gaurav Gupta is posted as Additional CEO, Zila Parishad Bhiwani, and BDPO, Tosham; Amit Kumar as Additional CEO, Zila Parishad, Kaithal, and BDPO, Rajaound. tnsWoman molested in moving busGurugram: A 21-year-old woman working in an automobile showroom was allegedly molested by a youth in a moving private bus when she was going home in Bilaspur area on Friday. When the other passengers came to her aid, the accused managed to flee after biting her thumb. An FIR has been registered at Bilaspur police station. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vehicle-registration-fraud-363613
23-01-2022||Hisar||3 booked for extortion in Hisar village||The police have registered a case of attempted extortion and criminal intimidation against some youths on the complaint of Vijender, husband of the outgoing sarpanch of the Khanda Kheri village in the district.The complainant said that three youths, two of them identified as Ramkesh of Intal Kalan village and Pravesh of Bibipur village in Jind, had applied for information under the RTI Act about the works of the village panchayat at Khanda Kheri village. He alleged that they arrived in the village and tried to intimidate him, stating they were RTI activists. He alleged they were active as a group who were applying for information under the RTI Act from different villages in an attempt to extort money. A case under Sections 34, 384, 506 and 511 of the IPC has been registered. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-booked-for-extortion-in-hisar-village-363612
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||'Clean Haryana' drive against gambling soon||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij has directed senior officers of Haryana Police to start drive ‘Clean Haryana’ against gambling and illegal sale of liquor and drugs activities.He said that under the campaign, the DGP would constitute three or four police teams at the headquarters-level and random checks would be conducted in every village and area under every police station. If people are found involved in illegal activities, then action would be taken against the officers of that police station.He said that after that, the DGP would prepare the report and send it to him. A meeting of senior officers of Haryana Police as well those up to ACP and DSP level was organised through video-conferencing under Vij recently. The minister had said the police would have to take systematic action to ensure law and order. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/clean-haryana-drive-against-gambling-soon-363611
23-01-2022||Hisar||Principal found dead||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/principal-found-dead-363610
23-01-2022||Ambala||Black flags shown to Kurukshetra MP||The police have booked five identified and some unidentified persons for showing black flags to Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini at Korwa Khurd village in Ambala late last evening.A case has been registered against Parmeshwar, Baljinder, Gurvinder, Gurpreet, Navdeep and some unidentified people under Sections 148, 149, 332, 341, 353, 427, 504, and 506 of the IPC at the Shahazadpur police station.In his complaint, EASI Ishwar Dayal, incharge PCR-22, said the MP was returning to his home in Naraingarh after attending a wedding at Korwar Khurd village. Meanwhile, around eight-10 persons with black flags and sticks stopped the convoy, abused the MP and attacked his car. However, the policemen managed to take the MP’s convoy from there safely. The attackers also threatened the MP of dire consequences if he visited the village again.Shahzadpur SHO Rajesh Kumar said, “No arrests have been made so far.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/black-flags-shown-to-kurukshetra-mp-363608
23-01-2022||Gurugram||Class X student thrashed after altercation over Instagram video||A Class X student was allegedly thrashed by group of men following an altercation over a video on Instagram.The accused held the student — Mohit of Saktapur village — hostage using a weapon, thrashed him and fled after threatening to kill him. The student is critically injured and is being treated in a private hospital.According to the complaint filed by Mohit, it was around 2 pm on Thursday, when he along with his friend was going for a walk when two youths of the same village entered into an altercation with him over a video on Instagram. “At the same time, Sitesh, a villager, called me and asked about my whereabouts. After five minutes, Sitesh and Nikhil along with a dozen of youths arrived at the spot in a car and bike. They started thrashing me with sticks and iron rods. One of them hit my head with a sharp object and threatened to kill me before fleeing the spot. My friend rushed me to a hospital,” Mohit told the police.An FIR has been registered against the two main accused and others under Sections 323 and 506 of the IPC and Sections 25-54-59 of the Arms Act at the Badshahpur police station. “We are conducting raids to nab the accused,” said Inspector Dinkar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/class-x-student-thrashed-after-altercation-over-instagram-video-363607
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Interest waiver for women||The Haryana Government has decided to waive the interest of women beneficiaries who have taken loans from Haryana Women Development Corporation Ltd under the ‘One-Time Settlement Scheme’.One-Time Settlement planUnder this scheme, interest will be waived for those women beneficiaries who will pay the total outstanding principal amount as on March 31, 2019 in single instalment or in six instalments till June 1, 2022.A spokesperson of the corporation said that the benefit under ‘One-Time Settlement Scheme’ would be given to women after the payment of the outstanding principal amount.He said that the benefit of rebate would be given to the borrower at the time of payment of the last instalment of the outstanding principal amount. Beneficiaries of this scheme can take another loan in the future only after a gap of at least one year, he added.He said that this scheme would be valid for six months and no claim would be entertained after the expiry of the validity period of the scheme on any ground or on the pretext of any court case or arbitration. All the women beneficiaries have been called upon to take maximum benefit of this scheme. For more information, the headquarters of Haryana Women Development Corporation Ltd can be contacted. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/interest-waiver-for-women-363606
23-01-2022||---||BJP-JJP pushed state to ruin: Hooda||Kurukshetra, January 22The BJP-JJP government had brought the state on the brink of ruin and failed to action in scams, said former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Friday.‘Vipaksh Aapke Samaksh’ postponed Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the ‘Vipaksh Aapke Samaksh’ programme that was to be held in Kurukshetra on January 23, had been postponed due to the Covid guidelines. The programme will be held on the first Sunday after the restrictions are lifted.He said earnings that should have been used in the development of the state were going into the pockets of the mining mafia.“Many have died because of illegal mining, but no case under Section 302 of the IPC (murder charge) has been registered against the culprits,” he said.Referring to the scams, Hooda said the government was setting up committees in the name of investigation. Earlier also, for scams, including liquor, registry, paddy and recruitment, the government had formed committees, but no action had been taken against any person, he said.“The Opposition has been demanding that the investigation in scams should be carried out by the CBI, under the supervision of the sitting judge of the High Court. Only then, the guilty will be punished. If the government claims it is not guilty of the scams, why it is hesitating to allow a high-level fair probe?” he questioned.“Vegetables and other crops, including potatoes, have been destroyed in Kurukshetra and the surrounding areas due to the rain. However, the government has not taken any cognisance of it,” he said.He said, “Reports of various institutions show Haryana is moving in a negative direction on parameters of development. Instead of accepting the truth, the government is trying to threaten institutions such as the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) that showed unemployment figures. The BJP government in UP is seeking votes by showing the same CMIE data. This shows the doublespeak,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-jjp-pushed-state-to-ruin-hooda-363605
23-01-2022||Faridabad||IOC starts trial run of 'Extragreen Diesel'||The research and development wing of the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), the public sector giant in fuel production and supply, on Saturday started the trial run of Extragreen Diesel and Green combo lubricants.The trial will be conducted in association with the Haryana Roadways Depot of the Transport Department.Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma, who inaugurated the trial run at the local depot, said the new variant of the diesel and lubricant would be adopted by the state buses as it was expected to reduce air pollution and increase mileage by around 5%. He said the trial would be completed after a total of 40,000 km run as per the protocol announced by the IOC. The usage of the combo of diesel and lubricants was likely to incur an annual savings of Rs 40 crore to the Haryana Roadways, he said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ioc-starts-trial-run-of-extragreen-diesel-363603
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||R-Day tableau to depict sports achievements||The tableau of Haryana will showcase the achievements of India in sports at the Republic Day parade to be held in Delhi.The tableau has been made on the theme ‘Haryana - number one in sports’. The state covering only 1.3 per cent geographical area of the country and accounting for 2.09 per cent of the population, had participated in many national and international sport events, including the Olympics and brought laurels to the country, said the official spokesperson.Out of total seven medals won by India in the Tokyo Olympics-2020, Haryana sportspersons won four, including the lone gold in the individual category. The Haryana Government also honoured the sportspersons who participated in the Tokyo Olympics with cash prize of Rs 25.40 crore.The sportspersons of the state, who had brought laurels to the country in the Tokyo Paralympics 2020, were also honoured with cash prize of Rs 28.15 crore.The Haryana tableau comprises two parts. The front part consists of horses and a conch. The horses pulling the chariot symbolise the ‘vijay rath’ from the Mahabharata. The conch placed is a symbol of Lord Krishna’s shell.The second part of the tableau further comprises four parts. An arena built on the lines of the Olympics and figures of two wrestlers in a bout will be seen in the first part. On the rear two parts, figures of 10 famous sportspersons of Haryana who have played at the international level will be seen standing. On the posterior, a life-size replica of Olympian Neeraj Chopra throwing a javelin will be put up. Boxing, weight-lifting, shooting, discus-throw and hockey have been depicted. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/r-day-tableau-to-depict-sports-achievements-363602
23-01-2022||---||After desertions, Charuni rejigs Ambala unit of BKU||Ambala, January 22The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) has started reorganising its district unit in Ambala and appointed some of its office-bearers on Saturday.Activists against ‘Mission Punjab’Farmers’ unions should remain apolitical. We were associated with Gurnam, but he gave the call of ‘Mission Punjab’ following which, I left the union. I have joined Tikait group. Gulab Singh, Former vice-president, BKU (Charuni)The farmers’ union had to dissolve its district unit after differences among leaders in the local unit came to the fore and several activists, including its vice-president and Block-I president parted ways, along with their supporters.As per the information, several union activists were unhappy with the call of ‘Mission Punjab’ given by BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh, and they wanted the chief to keep the body apolitical.Gulab Singh Manakpur, who was earlier the vice-president of the district unit of BKU (Charuni), joined Tikait group.Gulab Singh said, “Farmers’ unions should remain apolitical. We were associated with Gurnam, but he gave the call of ‘Mission Punjab’, following which, I decided to leave the union. I got an offer from Tikait group. I joined it and they have given me the responsibility of senior vice-president of Haryana. I will work for farmers’ interests.”Sukhvinder Jalbera, who was earlier the Block-I president, said, “We were not happy with Gurnam’s move of participating in politics. We supported him in farmers’ struggle, and activists from Ambala played a crucial role in the agitation. We expressed our displeasure, but to no avail. We have parted ways. We got an offer from Tikait group, but we have decided not to join any union. We are planning to float our own union.”Meanwhile, BKU (Charuni) state president Karam Singh Mathana, and state spokesperson Rakesh Bains held a meeting with farm activists at the Saha grain market on Saturday and appointed the new office-bearers. Malkit Singh has been reappointed the district president. Jaswinder Singh Bhukri has been made the vice-president, and Rajiv Sharma the general secretary and the spokesperson. The union has also appointed some advisers and secretaries.Bains said, “There were some issues in Ambala, due to which, the district unit was dissolved. Some activists have left the union as per their wish, but majority of them were not holding any post in the union.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-desertions-charuni-rejigs-ambala-unit-of-bku-363601
23-01-2022||Gurugram||Fire in tent house godown in Gurugram||A massive fire broke out in the godown of a tent house in Bhondsi in the wee hours today. Goods worth lakhs were gutted in the fire.The fire brigade team brought the fire under control after five hours and also rescued two women and a man trapped on the first floor of the godown.The fire broke out in the godown of Gupta Tent House in Bhondsi at around 3.30 am on Saturday. On seeing the flames, the workers present in the godown ran out.More than 25 people in the godown and nearby houses were evacuated.After getting information, two fire engines reached the spot from Sohna. Fire brigades from Sector-29, Udyog Vihar, Manesar, Sector-37 centre were also called.“About 50 LPG cylinders on the ground floor of the godown were taken out. Preliminary investigation has revealed that it was caused by a short circuit,” said Gulshan Kalra, deputy director of fire brigade. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fire-in-tent-house-godown-in-gurugram-363600
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Over 77K calls on women's helpline, 1,872 FIRs lodged||As many as 1872 of more than 77,000 calls received on the Women Helpline number 1091 were converted into FIRs last year.Empowering women in stateWell-trained women cops are instilling confidence and courage among other women. The trust in the Durga Shakti Mobile has also increased as 13,327 new users have joined it, taking the total to over 2.31 lakh. PK Agrawal, DGPDirector General of Police (DGP) Haryana PK Agrawal said well-trained women police personnel, deputed to attend to calls on the helpline, were not only ensuring their safety and security, but also instilling confidence and courage among the women residing, working and commuting in the state.On the complaints received through this app, the police lodged 48 FIRs, took preventive action in 34 instances, and 1,583 matters were resolved amicably.He said the primary objective of the Haryana Police in the field of women safety was to sensitise the women about the need for reporting the crime and helping the police in booking the offenders. Earlier, many women used to hesitate in reporting crimes against them, but with increased awareness and other initiatives launched by the Haryana Police, the reporting of crime against women has also increased, he added.The state police have launched various social awareness initiatives, including its exemplary one-month-long “Jagriti Yatra” cycle expedition in which a team of 16 police women cyclists covered a distance of 1,400 km while heading towards 23 police districts across the state.“We are committed to ensuring the safety and security of women and are taking all possible steps on the lines of this thought,” he added.As a result of the coordinated and continuous efforts, the Haryana Police are also performing very well on the ITSSO dashboard, which is an online module available to law enforcement agencies at all levels that allow the state police to undertake real-time monitoring and management for the completion of investigation in rape cases. “The state police is currently at the sixth position in India with a compliance rate of 56.7 %,” he added. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-77k-calls-on-womens-helpline-1-872-firs-lodged-363599
23-01-2022||Sunit Dhawan||Govt fails to locate homes of more than 250 INA soldiers||Rohtak, January 22Even as the BJP regime in Haryana celebrates the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on January 23, more than 250 families of Indian National Army (INA) soldiers are yet to get recognition in the state as the authorities concerned have failed to locate their homes.80 from old Rohtak districtShribhagwan Phogat, son of INA soldier Ram Singh, maintains that as per the record obtained by him, the dependents/families of at least 80 soldiers belong to the old Rohtak district which comprises the present-day Rohtak, Jhajjar and Sonepat districts.The family members of these unsung heroes of the country’s freedom struggle are yet to get the benefits/allowances to which the dependents of freedom fighters are entitled.“I had provided the record of more than 250 unrecognised INA soldiers to the Haryana Government more than four years ago. The state Chief Secretary has written to all Deputy Commissioners to get the families of these unsung heroes identified and their homes located in their respective districts, but any concrete step is yet to be taken in this regard,” says Shribhagwan Phogat, who is the son of INA soldier Ram Singh.Phogat has met state BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar and state Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala and requested them to ensure the provision of due recognition and facilities to the family members/dependents of the unsung INA soldiers based in the state.The BJP, which is the ruling party in Haryana, is organising 7,500 public meetings across the state to celebrate Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary which falls on Sunday.“I have been struggling to get the families of INA soldiers their due recognition for years. The state authorities write to the district administrations which forward the letters to the lower officials for necessary action and in the end, the matter remains stuck in the red tape,” laments Phogat.He, however, hopes that the authorities concerned will identify and locate the families of the INA soldiers soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-fails-to-locate-homes-of-more-than-250-ina-soldiers-363597
23-01-2022||---||9 held for oil theft from HPCL pipeline||Rewari, January 22With the arrest of nine persons, the district police on Saturday claimed to have busted an interstate gang involved in oil pilferage in the pipeline of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL).HUNT ON FOR OTHER GANG MEMBERSThe accused were involved in three cases of oil pilferage in the district. They committed the crime in Sonepat, Panipat, Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh, Rohtak’s Sampla and Delhi. Raids are on to nab other gang members. Rajesh Kumar, Rewari SPThey also seized seven vehicles, including a tanker loaded with 22,000 litre petrol worth Rs 21 lakh, 12 plastic cans and two machines used in the crime. The petrol was stolen a week ago from a pipeline passing through Bhansru village in Rohtak.SP Rajesh Kumar said the accused had been identified as Ravi Kumar, alias Karan, of Chatiya Deva village; Harish, alias Mistri, and Anil, alias Sonu, of Saleempur village; Binder of Nahra village; Ravinder, alias Ballu, alias Chirkut, of Vikas Nagar in Sonepat; Vijaym alias Bholam of Ladpur (Delhi); Suraj of Mukundpur (UP); and Manish, alias Sund, of Baghpat (UP). “The accused were involved in three cases of oil pilferage registered in the district on March 23, April 10 and December 25 last year,” he added.Disclosing about their modus operandi, the SP said before perpetrating the crime, the accused used to do a recee for two-three days. “Thereafter, they called Harish, a welder, to drill the pipeline. He put a valve on the pipeline after the drilling and buried it under a gunny bag filled with sand so that others could identify the point easily. The next day, other accused reached there to commit oil pilferage. Harish used to charge Rs 50,000 for this work,” he added.The SP said Harish had been involved in this illegal trade since 2017 and was also accused in around 10 other cases. He was lodged in Delhi and Jhajjar jail for over two years and was released in 2020. “All accused were produced before a court, which sent them to three-day police remand. Vital information about other gang members is likely to be obtained during the remand,” the SP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/9-held-for-oil-theft-from-hpcl-pipeline-363596
23-01-2022||---||Surge in Faridabad, over 1K cases in 24 hours||Faridabad, January 22With a huge rise in the number of fresh and active cases since January 1, the upsurge in the number of casualties and hospitalisation has emerged as a cause for concern for the authorities of the district administration. The district reported 1,030 new cases and two deaths on Saturday.Hooda infectedChandigarh: Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda tested positive for Covid on Saturday. He tweeted that he had isolated himself on the advice of doctors. He appealed that those who had come in his contact in the past few days should get themselves tested.The office of the Divisional Commissioner has started reviewing the measures against Covid infection on a day-to-day basis and has directed the health officials to increase testing, tracing and vaccination.The death tally, which had remained halted for six months, suddenly started moving up from January 12 and the infection has claimed a total of seven lives within the past nine days, according to the health bulletin issued by the Health Department. The death data which was recorded at 717 on June 16 last year had remained still till January 11.Divisional Commissioner Sanjay Joon, who had a meeting recently, asked the officials concerned to submit a daily report of the progress and measures taken to curb the spread of the infection.Instructing the incident commanders to ensure strict implementation of Covid protocols in their respective zones, he said that the formula of triple TTT (Testing, Tracing and Treatment) should be implemented properly in sensitive areas. Violation of Covid norms and ineffective implementation of the orders of ‘No Mask, No Service’ and ‘No Vaccination, No Entry (public places)’ are said to be the main factors behind the sharp rise in cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/surge-in-faridabad-over-1k-cases-in-24-hours-363595
23-01-2022||---||Karnal ultrasound centre fails to renew registration, sealed||Karnal, January 22The Health Department has sealed the ultrasound and CT scan centre at the local Civil Hospital for not getting its registration renewed.As per the officials, the centre was running without any registration for the past one month. Civil surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma said since the machine was unregistered as per the PC-PNDT Act so it was sealed. “By Monday, the district authority will issue new registration, after which the machine will be de-sealed,” he added.Meanwhile, Principal Medical Officer (PMO) of the Civil Hospital Dr Piyush Sharma said the renewal was due in December, but both the doctors were not well due to which it could not be done. “We have applied for it now,” he added.The Civil Surgeon said no machine could be left working without registration. Since, the registration of this ultrasound machine got expired, so they took the step as per the PC-PNDT Act, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-ultrasound-centre-fails-to-renew-registration-sealed-363592
23-01-2022||Ravinder Saini||8-point drop in gender ratio in 2021||Rohtak, January 22In a major setback, the state has witnessed an eight-point drop in sex ratio at birth (SRB) last year as compared to 2020. The SRB as per the civil registration system was 922 in 2020, which declined to 914 in 2021.Significantly, 12 of 22 districts have registered the SRB less than the state average of 914. It is the second consecutive year when a decline in the sex ratio has been recorded. The SRB was 923 in 2019. A total of 5,27,967 children — 2,75,911 male and 2,52,056 female — were born last year.Performing remarkably, Rohtak has topped the SRB tally with 945 females against 1,000 males followed by Panchkula (930) and Sirsa (929). Rohtak jumped to the first position from the 16th place with an improvement of 33 points. A total of 912 females against 1,000 males were born in the district in 2020.Panchkula maintained the second position but it recorded a decline of nine points as compared to 2020. Sirsa slipped to third spot from the first position with a 20-point drop.Sonepat and Jhajjar districts, however, are the worst-performers with the SRB of 888 and 895, respectively, in 2021. Ten others districts having the SRB less than state average include Fatehabad (899), Rewari and Faridabad (903 each), Bhiwani and Mahendragarh (904 each), Palwal (907), Gurugram and Ambala (908 each), Karnal (912) and Kaithal (913).“It is for the first time in the past 10 years when Rohtak has topped the SRB tally. Persistent raids, unearthing of pre-natal gender determination test and female foeticide rackets and FIRs against those selling MTP kits are the main reasons behind this success. Seven raids under the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PC-PNDT) Act were conducted and five FIRs were lodged in 2021,” said Dr Vikas Saini, nodal officer (PNDT), Rohtak.Meanwhile, Dr Veena Singh, Director General (Health Services), could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/8-point-drop-in-gender-ratio-in-2021-363591
