03-05-2021||Editorials||Election results: Why 2021 is not 2024||The results of assembly elections to West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala — where the Trinamool Congress (TMC), the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) won respectively — have resulted in instant analysis of what this means for 2024. The conventional view is that this marks the beginning of a possible third front challenge to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), where regional leaders — especially Mamata Banerjee — will play a critical role. After all, the West Bengal chief minister has shown the model to defeat an aggressive BJP.There can be no doubt that Ms Banerjee, as well as MK Stalin and Pinarayi Vijayan, have performed impressively. There can also be no doubt that the BJP stares at a stiff political challenge because of its management of the second wave of Covid-19. But it would be premature, on the basis of specific state elections in 2021, to speak of possibilities in 2024.Three years is a long time in politics — and the BJP may well recover some of its lost political momentum in Uttar Pradesh next year if it wins the state polls. But more importantly, the third front experiment has always confronted two challenges. There is rarely a consensus on who should be the leader of such a front, and taking on Narendra Modi in presidential style elections without a leader is a hard task. Any third front idea also instantly collides with the Congress’s ambitions of being the primary opposition force — and till an understanding is developed first among regional parties and then between the regional parties and the Congress, a concerted challenge is unlikely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/election-results-why-2021-is-not-2024-101620053527890.html
03-05-2021||Editorials||The right to breathe||The oxygen crisis in India’s national capital has now entered its third week. On a daily basis, hospitals are left to wonder whether or not their next replenishments will arrive on time, with some even asking patients to keep personal back-ups ready. Hundreds gather outside gurudwaras, reach out to charitable organisations or call fly-by-night black marketers in the hope of refilling their cylinders. The desperation is visible on social media, where pleas for help, particularly for hospital beds, oxygen and medicines, have exploded since mid-April. Dozens have died due to oxygen shortage. Courts have weighed in, issued orders, and even threats, but there is little improvement in the situation compared to April 20, when the crisis first came into focus.Depending on whom you ask, the blame lies on an unending list of problems — inadequate production, lack of transport, bad coordination and political partisanship. The culpability, going by recent statements and court submissions by the Centre, Delhi government and neighbouring states, at once lies on all of them and none of them. But it is the people who are paying the price. The Union government has said Delhi did not make adequate logistical arrangements in time; the city’s administration has said the allocation itself was too little, and Delhi’s neighbours — accused of impeding the quota the Capital is due — have simply sought to deny, deflect or discredit any talk of their culpability. Officials may indeed be working to mitigate the crisis, but as long as leaders devote more time to controlling the narrative, the best of efforts are unlikely to address the scale of the problem.None of the factors contributing to the crisis are insurmountable. For example, after the Delhi High Court threatened the Union government with contempt proceedings if it did not dispatch the full share of Delhi’s 490MT of liquid oxygen by midnight on Saturday, the Capital received 445MT — the highest it has ever received in a day since the crisis began. There is a possibility that this shipment may have been at the cost of deliveries to another state, but it demonstrates the ability of governments to deliver once the stakes are raised. In this context, a series of directions issued by the Supreme Court in an order uploaded late on Sunday may finally lead to more decisive steps to alleviate the oxygen shortage. But for that, politicians — especially those in the central government — have to prioritise Delhi’s right to breathe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-right-to-breathe-101620053167593.html
