04-05-2021||Editorials||2021-22 needs a new economic blueprint||It is now clear that the second Covid-19 wave will continue to inflict great destruction across India in the coming weeks, as it has done in the past month. It is also clear that unless this second wave can be tamed and infections brought under control, economic activity in the country will continue to shrink. There are localised restrictions in various states and cities in order to curb the spread of the disease. But alongside, there is a deep sense of fear among citizens — who, remember, are also the primary economic agents as producers and consumers. Till the health crisis is addressed, the fear won’t diminish, and till fear doesn’t diminish, the possibility of the resumption of any kind of normal economic life is dim.And that is what makes it incumbent on the State to step in with a new economic plan. Given how badly the first quarter has been hit, optimistic projections of economic recovery this year will not hold. Within a month of fiscal year 2021-22, it is also clear the Union budget numbers will not hold, tax revenues will dip, expenditure requirements will increase, pushing through contentious structural reforms will become more difficult (and may not even be advisable), and the State’s responsibility for welfare of the vulnerable will only increase. The central government must draw up a new economic blueprint for the year — this can retain a degree of flexibility given the fluidity of the situation, but it needs to be based on realistic goals, timelines and numbers. This will also allow the Union government to assess the urgent needs of the time — particularly income support to the poor, concessions to the middle class, and perhaps policy tweaks to help the private sector, especially micro, small and medium enterprises, survive and stay the course — and find the required resources for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/202122-needs-a-new-economic-blueprint-101620132441420.html
04-05-2021||Editorials||End the violence in Bengal, now||Ever since the Trinamool Congress (TMC) swept to victory in the West Bengal assembly elections, the state has witnessed unacceptable political violence, directed largely at workers of other parties in the state. In a rare instance of convergence, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Left and the Congress have all alleged that it is TMC workers who have vandalised their party offices and attacked party workers, with the BJP claiming that six of its workers have been killed. The TMC has rejected the allegations, but in light of the evidence available and the fact that it remains in power in the state (Mamata Banerjee will take over, for a third time, officially on Wednesday), the denial does not appear credible.Bengal has a history of political violence, going back to the Naxal movement in the 1960s and 1970s to the coercive party machinery of the Left during its 34-year old rule. This machinery was imported, almost whole-scale, by the TMC — and the party unleashed a high degree of violence, both explicit and implicit, once it came to power in 2011. The aim was to weaken rivals and send a message to supporters of other political formations that there would be a cost to challenging Ms Banerjee. This violence was most visible in the 2018 panchayat elections, and was among the reasons for the growth of the BJP in the state.The TMC won a legitimate mandate in the 2021 assembly polls — but clearly, its political victory has not altered the political culture of the party and the state. The triumph appears to have emboldened TMC workers to go after those who dared to challenge the party’s local hegemony. But the violence is not just an effort to seek revenge or teach the Opposition a lesson, but also an attempt to consolidate power on the ground to stifle all dissent and stamp on the right of citizens to exercise free political choice. The top leadership of the party is either complicit in this violence or is unwilling to stop it — but in any case, the buck stops with Ms Banerjee. Unless she cracks down on the violence immediately, West Bengal’s chief minister, irrespective of her election success, will lose her moral and democratic standing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/end-the-violence-in-bengal-now-101620132139095.html
