06-05-2021||Editorials||The economic impact of Covid-19||The second wave of Covid-19 infections is bound to have an adverse impact on the economy. While Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das has said that its economic impact will not be as severe as that of the first wave, private forecasters are beginning to factor in the effects. For example, S&P Global Ratings has slashed its GDP forecast for 2021-22 from 11% to 9.8%. Such projections, if true, will mute the V-shaped recovery that the government was banking on. But it is important to go beyond the headline GDP numbers. Azim Premji University’s latest State of Working India report, which was released on May 5, makes a convincing case about the pandemic’s regressive impact — it has affected the poor more than the rich — on jobs and incomes. According to the report, 230 million people fell below the income poverty line (at a minimum wage of ₹375 per day) due to the pandemic. Had the pandemic not happened, according to the report, 50 million people would have come above the poverty line. The report also shows that employment recovery has stagnated at a lower benchmark than pre-pandemic levels, and even when jobs were restored, there has been a fall in quality of employment or incomes. These findings align with anecdotal accounts of the post-pandemic recovery being profit- rather than wage-led. They also underline the threat of prolonged demand headwinds for the economy. The Indian State — and this includes both central and state governments and independent institutions — was complacent about the threat of a second wave. The latest APU report should caution policymakers, both at the national and state level, against being complacent on the economic front as well. Supply-side measures, including the latest ones announced by RBI on Wednesday, will not be enough to mitigate the pandemic’s economic impact. More demand-side relief measures are needed, as the report argues. This is especially true for those who are at the bottom of the pyramid. This is not just a matter of academic debate anymore. Post-pandemic relief measures by state governments seem to have played a big role in shaping voting preferences in the recent state elections. Politicians who ignore the economic pain of the pandemic will do so at their peril.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-economic-impact-of-covid19-101620304853918.html
06-05-2021||Editorials||The battle over reservations||On Wednesday, a five-judge bench of the Supreme Court (SC) struck down Mahara-shtra’s move to extend the ambit of reserv-ations in government jobs and educational institutions to the Maratha community; this had resulted in breaching the 50% cap on reservations set by court in the Indira Sawhney judgment of 1992, taking Maharashtra’s reservation up to 68%. While the decision pertained to the state and the specific quota for the Maratha community, the relentless expansion of reservations has made a mockery of India’s entire architecture of affirmative action.Even as political parties are engaged in blame game, SC’s verdict must open up a conversation about quotas. This newspaper unequivocally supports reservations for Dalits and tribals in India — there has been historic injustice; these marginalised communities lag behind on every social and economic indicator; and ensuring affirmative action to the discriminated is fundamental to India’s goals of being an equitable, ethical democracy. But reservations have become an endless exercise in power-sharing, dependent on the political heft of the community demanding it. It is seen as a quick fix when the country is going through an employment crisis. They have become a staple demand of dominant agrarian communities (Marathas are an example) because agriculture cannot absorb the young and there aren’t opportunities in either the public or private sector. But what this requires is not additional quotas but a serious attempt to fix India’s political economy and its inherent inequities. Instead of finding ways to breach the 50% cap on reservations, expanding quotas to win over powerful communities for electoral purposes, and painting the judiciary as regressive, the political class must focus on structural problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-battle-over-reservations-101620304675591.html
06-05-2021||Editorials||Beyond image management||For any government, public communication is an important tool — to outline policies and actions, keep citizens informed, and provide its side of the story in public conversations. In a democracy, political parties running a government have an added incentive to aggressively communicate — for this is tied to shaping the public narrative and determining electoral outcomes. And, therefore, it is not wrong for any government to have internal deliberations on how best to engage with citizens. All regimes do it, and some are more successful than others.But the focus on controlling the narrative should neither be excessive nor distract the government from what should be its core job. In the middle of the most severe emergency India has ever seen, around 300 officials of the central government, as reported by this newspaper on Wednesday, were pulled in for a workshop on effective communication. The aim was to help create a “positive image” of the government, “manage perceptions through effectively highlighting positive stories and achievements”, and portray the government as “sensitive, bold, quick, responsive, hardworking etc”. The meeting may have been routine, but its singular focus was on projecting the right narrative — something also reflected in the constitution of a group of ministers last year at a time when India was battling the first wave and Chinese incursions (the story about this committee and its suggestions was first broken by this newspaper).The easiest and best way to fix a message is to fix the product. And at the moment, the lived experiences of Indian citizens — desperately pleading for oxygen cylinders and hospital beds, or struggling to get vaccinated — is so much at variance with official claims that the message won’t work. This also ends up putting the government in a box. Public communication during a pandemic must focus only on health-related issues, not how to make the government look good. It isn’t just the Centre; some states are equally focused on the narrative. This is not the time for narrative management. Accelerate the vaccine drive, get the second wave of the pandemic under some control, and perceptions will automatically improve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/beyond-image-management-101620280549774.html
