13-05-2021||Editorials||A lesson for the State and markets||The National Statistical Office released the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) numbers for March 2021 on May 12. While the 22.4% headline growth number has a strong base effect — IIP contracted by 18.7% in March 2020 — it suggests a strong revival in economic activity in March. The fact that other high frequency indicators such as Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections for April crossed ₹1.4 lakh crore also supports such a view. To be sure, tailwinds from the festive season might have had a role in this pick-up. But it will not be far-fetched to assume that both the State and the markets were beginning to believe that the economy had left the pandemic behind it. Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) touched 99.3 in the last week of February. The weekly average of daily new cases reached its lowest levels since June 2020 in the first half of February. Everybody pressed on the throttle in March. And indeed, if all had been well, India’s economic recovery may have sustained.But as India battles the second wave, it is clear that the optimism wasn’t warranted — and indeed, the spike in economic activity may well have exacerbated the health crisis. Had preventive and vigilance measures been put in place earlier, even if it had slowed down the transient economic recovery in March, the second wave may well have been muted. There is a lesson from this self-inflicted irrational exuberance — now that the government itself recognises the possibility of future waves. Markets are driven by self-interest and cannot be expected to mitigate risks from lowered vigilance against the pandemic. It is the State’s responsibility to cover for this rather than becoming a cheerleader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-lesson-for-the-state-and-markets-101620911935631.html
13-05-2021||Editorials||When India overtakes China||China’s population is growing at its slowest pace in decades, adding 72 million people in the past decade, according to the country’s census data released on Tuesday. This means that India is set to overtake its neighbour as the world’s most populous country by 2025, perhaps sooner. While India’s challenges are often attributed to its large population and the pressure it creates on resources, population growth can be an asset, if harnessed properly. India’s challenge has been visible since 2018, when the country’s working-age population (people between 15 and 64 years) grew larger than the dependent population (children aged 14 or below as well as people above 65 years). This bulge in the working-age population is going to last till 2055. Many countries — including China (which entered this stage in 1994) — have used this window to attain their developmental goals. This transition happens because of a decrease in the total fertility rate (number of births per woman) after the increase in life expectancy is stabilised.However, a young population structure, on its own, does not guarantee economic growth. This is intrinsically linked with other factors such as ensuring access to basic education, health and skilling, which can make the young population healthy and productive. A key feature of India’s population story is its regional disparity, which may be sharpened by the pandemic and its impact on the economy and state finances. According to UNFPA, the young bulge in the population will occur in the most under-developed and under-resourced parts of the country: Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh. These five states will account for more than half the growth in the labour force in India.While these states will need universal access to quality sexual and reproductive health information and services, and provisioning of education, life and vocational skills to young people, demographically advanced states such as Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi and Punjab will need to strengthen social and health security for their ageing population. The regional disparity in demography and economic development also means that there will be large-scale migration. The Centre and states must focus on issues of housing, health care, education and skills, and states must provide portability of identity proof and entitlements. India will soon race ahead of China in terms of size, but its real test is how it equips all its citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/when-india-overtakes-china-101620911934132.html
