16-05-2021||Editorials||The climate crisis and cyclones||A severe cyclonic storm, Tauktae, intensified on Saturday night into a “very severe cyclonic storm” over the east central Arabian Sea, and affected the Kerala, Goa, Karnataka and Maharashtra coastline over the weekend. According to the India Meteorological Department, it is “very likely to intensify further” during the next 12 hours, and may cross the Gujarat coast on Tuesday.While Tauktae is the first cyclone to hit India this year, climate scientists at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) have warned that the Arabian Sea is fast becoming a “cyclone hotbed”. Earlier, the Bay of Bengal used to have more cyclones because the sea surface temperature remains consistently above 28 degree Celsius, while the Arabian Sea area remained a degree or two cooler. But sea surface temperatures in the Arabian Sea have increased rapidly during the past century due to the climate crisis. Now, temperatures are often above the “warm pool threshold”, which supports the formation of intense cyclones. According to IITM, widespread extreme rainfall events (above 150 mm/day) have also increased threefold, thanks to the Arabian Sea’s warming. In reply to a Parliament question in March, the government confirmed that studies show an increasing trend of cyclonic storms over the Arabian Sea, based on data between 1965 and 2020.The warming of oceans means cyclones are now intensifying rapidly. While scientists need more investments in monitoring technology to track cyclones, state governments will now have much less time to take measures for evacuation, and, therefore, must bolster their cyclone preparedness plans now. But that is not happening. Reports suggest that the pace of the National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project, which aims at reducing the vulnerability of coastal states, is very slow in the western parts of the country. Phase II of the project was approved in 2015 and was to be completed in 2020 for Goa, Gujarat, Karnataka, and Maharashtra. But data shows early warning systems and multi-purpose cyclone shelters are yet to be completed in many of these states. Another analysis of extreme weather events in the past 50 years has revealed that though tropical cyclones were the least frequent event, they caused 28.6% of the mortalities, second only to floods responsible for maximum human deaths. The only way to limit such casualties is to understand climate science, warnings, and be cyclone-ready; there is simply no other option.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-climate-crisis-and-cyclones-101621167547861.html
16-05-2021||Editorials||Covid-19: Don’t clamp down on criticism||Last week, Delhi Police arrested 25 people in 13 police stations for putting up posters critical of the Prime Minister and the Centre’s Covid-19 vaccination policy. Nearly 1,800 posters — which read “Modiji humare bachon ki vaccine videsh kyon bhej diya? (Why did Modi send vaccines meant for our children to foreign countries?) — were found in several districts in the capital. All the cases were registered under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and other sections, including section 3 of the Prevention of Defacement of Property Act. A majority of those arrested were released on bail by Sunday. The police are trying to ascertain if the posters were printed at one press, and whether the order for the posters was given by an individual or any political party. Some news reports have alleged some opposition leaders were behind the posters.The Centre’s Covid-19 approach has become a major political faultline. However, this case isn’t about the merits of a critique of a government policy (in fact, this newspaper believes that, in principle, vaccine maitri was a good initiative); or what is an acceptable form of the critique; or who facilitated and encouraged it. It is about the constitutional right of every citizen to have a political view on an issue of national importance and propagate that view as a citizen or a member of a party.A full and free debate, including political narratives and counter-narratives, on Covid-19 will also ensure accountability, enable citizens to articulate and aggregate differences democratically, and provide the system with feedback. From political inputs to public sentiment to expert views, the State needs all the help it can get, and should see a distinct viewpoint as helpful. A clampdown on discussion and debate — even if in the form of political posters — is both wrong and unwise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid19-don-t-clamp-down-on-criticism-101621167192264.html
