19-05-2021||Editorials||On live-in couples, the HC is wrong||The Punjab and Haryana High Court (HC)’s recent ruling, refusing to grant protection to a young couple allegedly facing harassment from the woman’s family, is flawed, both in terms of earlier judicial precedents and constitutional rights. The court said that a live-in relationship could disturb the social fabric of society and was morally and socially wrong. This goes against the view of the Supreme Court (SC), which held, in an earlier case, that the assertion of choice is an “insegregable facet of liberty and dignity”. In fact, the Punjab and Haryana HC last year had remarked in a protection petition filed by a couple that the hearing need not preach on morality or human behaviour.The couple apprehended a threat to their lives — a legitimate plea given the frequency of so-called honour killings. The question before the court was about the protection to be offered to this couple to safeguard their right to life and liberty, not the ethics of live-in relationships which have been deemed legitimate. The apex court has, in the past, issued directives to states to protect couples who have chosen their partners against the wishes of their families, and even provide them safe houses. Unfortunately, HC did not follow suit. The judiciary must stand with the freedom of consenting adults, instead of weighing in on the side of oppressive social structures and illegal family diktats. It must respect the right of adults to choose their partners and be in a relationship in any form they deem fit. The couple in question — to reiterate, both are above 18 — must be accorded protection from any threat of violence, and HC ruling must be challenged and reversed at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/on-live-in-couples-the-hc-is-wrong-101621433433727.html
19-05-2021||Editorials||Let science drive decisions||On May 13, India announced that the second doses of Covishield — the mainstay of the coronavirus vaccination programme — should be given 12 to 16 weeks after the first. The decision cited data from the United Kingdom (UK), where it was seen that the vaccine triggered more antibodies in people when second shots were given up to 12 weeks later. In fact, the UK was the first country to experiment with an expanded dosing schedule, drawing criticism from several western scientific bodies that said the approach was untested. On May 15, it cited emerging clues about the B.1.617 variants, which originated in India, to reduce the gap – less than two days after the announcement in India.Minute but significant nuances of how the coronavirus vaccines work are slowly being understood. The science is evolving, and so must the strategies. However, authorities must ensure the messaging does not betray a sense of inconsistency — the likelihood of this rises if advisories are changed frequently, as has been the case with India’s dosing ones. Shortly after the UK expanded the gap in January, Indian officials first stood their ground to keep a short gap of 4-6 weeks. Two months later, India adopted a 6-8 week delay, although it was still inconsistent with UK’s 12-week gap. India now recommends that people wait three months if they had Covid-19 to get a vaccine shot – an embargo that neither the UK nor the United States follow.Also Read | How will Covid-19 impact the NDA govt’s economic record in 2024?This is not the first time the messaging from India’s official circles has varied. It has persisted with recommending the malaria drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), even though the World Health Organization (WHO) removed it from its list last summer. Similarly, it waited until May 17 to accept clues from its own scientific community (backed by global trials) to stop recommending plasma therapy. A few days earlier, the Drugs Controller General of India authorised the experimental cancer drug 2-DG, despite there being no scientific basis for it its use in Covid-19 in the public domain. Now, India will follow a delayed dosing schedule even as others accelerate vaccinations due to the B.1.617 threat. These do little to improve faith in the government’s decision-making. People are right to ask whether changes in the vaccination strategy are driven by science or compelled by shortage. The discussions leading to these decisions need to be communicated. The government and its experts owe the citizens that transparency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/let-science-drive-decisions-101621427792686.html
19-05-2021||Editorials||RBI’s reading of the economy||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has said, in its monthly bulletin released on May 17, that “the biggest toll” of the ongoing second wave of Covid-19 is “demand shock”. It listed other negatives — “loss of mobility, discretionary spending and employment, besides inventory accumulation” — but emphasised that “aggregate supply is less impacted”. Perhaps because of this, RBI concluded that “the resurgence of Covid-19 has dented but not debilitated economic activity in the first half of 2021-22” and that the economy hasn’t been as badly hit as it was last year (the central bank has added the caveat that this is a tentative assessment).RBI is partly right. Last year, during the first wave, the 68-day lockdown and the subsequent graded (and gradual) easing of more restrictions meant a significant disruption in supply. This year, the Union government, burnt from its experience last year, has steered clear of announcing a national lockdown, leaving it to the states to impose localised lockdowns. Many states did resort to these measures in April as the second wave threatened to overwhelm their health systems, but ensured that there would not be too much of a disruption in industrial activities. The Nomura India Business Resumption Index for the week ended May 16 was 61.9 (100 indicates a pre-pandemic level of activity), a sharp fall from February, when it almost reached pre-pandemic levels. This level was last seen in June 2020, after the hard lockdown ended and industrial activities started resuming. It may fall again this week and next, with many states expected to extend lockdowns as the second wave shows the first signs of ebbing, but it is unlikely it will go down to the levels of around 45 seen last April.But it may be a bit of a stretch to expect to see the same sort of pent-up consumption witnessed last year. Unlike the first wave, the crippling second one has touched many middle-class households in terms of loss of lives or severe illnesses that required extensive and expensive medical treatment. And anecdotally, both businesses and individuals expect their immediate prospects to be muted. Sentiment, both individual and business, has taken a beating. If the Indian economy has to bounce back by the third quarter of this fiscal (the second may be too soon), a proper fiscal stimulus may be called for. RBI’s confidence, while reassuring, may well be misplaced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/rbis-reading-of-the-economy-101621342759510.html
19-05-2021||Editorials||Prepare for the next challenge — heat waves||It is imperative to build adequate resilient systems to minimise the damage to the people’s health, especially those at the bottom of the pyramid and especially in times of an existing health crisis.An unusually high number of western disturbances in March, April, and May subdued the sweltering heat usually felt in these months, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). It added that similar conditions are likely to persist till May 18. While there are no other projections on heatwaves from IMD yet, an earlier advisory in March warned that “above normal seasonal maximum temperatures are likely” over most of the country.This means that state governments must begin implementing their strategies to help people cope with the effects of heat waves. There is an additional challenge — most states are under various levels of lockdown, and citizens, many of whom can’t afford cooling mechanisms, are forced to stay inside their homes, which may not be thermally comfortable. According to The Natural Resources Defense Council, nine out of 10 homes in India do not have air-conditioning. With rising peak temperatures, cooling in India is no more a luxury, but a necessity.A study by the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago show that rising temperatures can hurt economic output by reducing the productivity of human labour. The damage, the report added, is greatest when already warm days become hotter.The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has been pushing states to build resilience to extreme heat by designing their Heat Action Plans (HAPs), improving public awareness and community outreach; setting up comprehensive early warning systems, and improving interagency coordination; capacity building of health care professionals; and reducing heat exposure and promoting adaptive measures. Today, 23 states have HAPs. NDMA is now encouraging cities to go for low-cost cool roofs (roofs painted with solar reflective paint, covered in white tiles, or with white membranes), which are an easy and cost-effective way to keep indoor temperatures lower and help address the urban heat island challenge. Some states, such as Telangana, has already included a detailed strategy for installing and scaling up cool roofs for up to 300 square kilometers by 2031 in its HAP. Hyderabad has already installed 20,000 square feet of cool roofs and has included cool roofs as one of its corporate social responsibility tools.Along with Heat Action Plans, India needs long-term mitigation through passive cooling measures, better civic planning, more urban and rural water bodies, and a better understanding of the factors impacting heat retention in cities and towns in India. It is imperative to build adequate resilient systems to minimise the damage to the people’s health, especially those at the bottom of the pyramid and especially in times of an existing health crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/prepare-for-the-next-challenge-heat-waves-101621342753774.html
