20-05-2021||Editorials||30 years later, the life and legacy of Rajiv Gandhi||Rajiv Gandhi was an unusual Indian politician. He had seen both his grandfather and mother as prime ministers and grown up in a political home — yet he maintained a distinct professional identity as a pilot and attempted to live a regular urban upper middle class life, till his brother, Sanjay Gandhi’s air crash altered the trajectory of his family and Indian politics. Responding to the call of his mother, Indira, over the objections of his wife, Sonia, Rajiv Gandhi entered politics — only to become prime minister within three years, as his mother fell to assassins.This distinct background lent Rajiv Gandhi a fresh perspective when he swept to power. His historic 1985 address to the Congress, during its centenary, was a blistering critique of the way the party functioned (and it may not be coincidence that Rahul Gandhi is similarly ambivalent about his party’s political culture). He brought in technology to governance, empowered panchayati raj institutions, engineered domestic peace agreements, shepherded a rapprochement with China, promoted education for the marginalised, and mentored a generation of young leaders and technocrats who continue to play a role in Indian public life. But eventually, Rajiv Gandhi got ensnared in the same political culture he so disapproved. He practised identity politics with disastrous consequences (Shah Bano being the most obvious example), mishandled Kashmir (the scars of the rigged 1987 elections are still present), got accused of corruption (which, to be fair, never got proven in the case of Bofors but left questions about his political judgment), and led India into a disastrous military conflict in trying to keep peace in Sri Lanka, with tragic consequences.Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination on May 21,1991 was a national tragedy. To be true to his legacy, India must never allow terrorism to win, even as his party must build on his commitment to modernity and grassroots democracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/30-years-later-the-life-and-legacy-of-rajiv-gandhi-101621511503845.html
20-05-2021||Editorials||In Myanmar, a coup-induced crisis||Nearly 15,000 people from Myanmar have entered India since February, a Mizoram government official told Reuters on Tuesday. More are expected to enter, as the fighting between the military regime and insurgents intensifies. On March 10, the Centre sent a note to Mizoram, Manipur, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh, asking them to stop the influx and deport anyone who managed to get in. However, Mizoram’s chief minister, Zoramthanga, said that his government would take a humanitarian approach. This was not surprising; communities in the region share deep cultural and ethnic ties across the political border.For Delhi, the coup in Myanmar presented a dilemma, since it was torn between its values (which would require standing with democracy) and interests (which would require working with the military). But it is quite clear that this distinction doesn’t hold, for Myanmar’s undemocratic turn is clearly impinging on Indian interests — including its connectivity efforts and security interests. Domestically, New Delhi’s stance on the conflict-generated migrants can also impact Centre-state relations, especially in a sensitive region such as the Northeast. To be sure, India is not under any legal obligation to provide shelter because it is not a party to the 1951 UN Refugee Convention and its 1967 Protocol. The lack of a formal legal framework, domestically and internationally, has allowed India to follow an ad hoc approach on conflict-generated migrants, depending on their salience in domestic politics and the larger public mood. However, the customary principle of non-refoulement prohibits any State from deporting an individual back to a country where they face a threat.Also Read | More than 15,000 people from Myanmar shelter in Mizoram: OfficialIndia has to reconcile its immediate interest (keeping the influx at a manageable level) with its long-term humanitarian and democratic traditions. New Delhi should have a calibrated approach, as it seems to be doing now, leaving the humanitarian assistance to the states. But in the long-term, India must debate and formulate a refugee policy, which should look at repatriation, engagement with United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, so that other executive authorities are not put to the test every time there is an inflow of migrants. In addition, to tackle the roots of the crisis, as academic Avinash Paliwal wrote in these pages, New Delhi must bury its Tatmadaw-centric approach and quickly build relations with other power centres that seek a federal and inclusive Myanmar. Supporting Asean’s mediation efforts in Myanmar will help, but so will bring India’s own diplomatic weight to strongly counsel and warn the military regime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-myanmar-a-coup-induced-crisis-101621511263522.html
