23-05-2021||Editorials||When the pandemic hits the highest peak||A coronavirus outbreak on Mount Everest has infected at least 100 climbers and support staff, according to a report by Associated Press on Sunday. Lukas Furtenbach, an expedition organiser, said there were at least “100 people minimum positive for Covid in base camp, and then the numbers might be something like 150 or 200.” Other climbers have talked about the presence of only rapid antigen testing facilities at the base camp and the lack of adherence to protocols such as social distancing. While international climbers are required to take the RT-PCR test on arrival in Kathmandu, this isn’t uniformly followed. And there is no protocol for testing Nepali support staff. This means that Covid-19-positive climbers and staff may be mingling with others throughout the trek. The climbing season ends on May 29.Mountain tourism is an important part of Nepal’s economy, and Everest climbers alone contribute more than $300 million to the country. Last year, Nepal was forced to cancel all climbing expeditions, including those to Everest, due to Covid-19, leading to a strain on the economy and livelihood loss for the support staff. To offset these losses, Nepal issued a record 408 permits for Everest this season; an additional 125 permits have been issued for Lhotse, which uses the same base camp.While one can appreciate Nepal’s economic and domestic compulsions, opening up Everest this season — and keeping it open — is not just risky for mountaineers, but also other citizens. Nepal is already facing an unprecedented surge of cases, severely straining a weak health care system. It is time to climb down from the peak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/when-the-pandemic-hits-the-highest-peak-101621781048550.html
23-05-2021||Editorials||End the farm agitation, now||Last week, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, representing a set of farm unions, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It placed the onus of resuming dialogue to end the farm agitation on him, while sticking to its demand for the repeal of farm laws and a legal guarantee of minimum support prices (MSP). On Saturday, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that the unions should either accept the government’s offer to suspend the farm laws for 18 months or come up with an alternative proposal for talks to resume, and again rejected the demand for the repeal of laws. May 26 marks six months of the farm agitation. The movement is a classic example of how a grassroots struggle can lose its way because of rigidity and the absence of sound political leadership. It succeeded in bringing issues of India’s political economy, especially the transition in agriculture, to the forefront; it raised genuine questions about the process through which farm laws were pushed through in Parliament; it represented a moment of mass assertion in politics and pushed the government onto the defensive; and it drew international solidarity.But farm leaders failed to capitalise on their own political success. On January 26, elements within the movement turned violent, tarring India’s Republic Day celebrations. The unions refused to acknowledge that the government was willing to introduce a set of amendments to address their concerns, not wholly but substantially. They did not take up the government’s reasonable offer of the suspension of laws — an 18-month suspension effectively means the laws are unlikely to come into force during the term of the current Lok Sabha. They imposed impossible demands such as a legal guarantee for MSP, which will have inflationary consequences. And most fatally, they have continued mass protests even as the second wave has devastated lives in Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and west UP — and these political congregations would have played a role in spreading the infection, putting at risk the lives of farmers, their families, community, and society at large. With the Centre reiterating that its offer is on the table, the farm unions must accept the 18-month suspension of laws, end their agitation, explain to their own base why maximalism won’t work, focus on the pandemic, and engage in consultations to improve the legal framework over the next year-and-a-half. Instead of intensifying protests, it would be wiser to use the six-month landmark to move beyond the politics of agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/end-the-farm-agitation-now-101621781045727.html
