26-05-2021||Editorials||A message from India’s coastline||A week after Cyclone Tauktae wreaked havoc across the west coast of India, Cyclone Yaas made landfall in Odisha on the east coast on Wednesday. It then moved northwards and lay centred over northern coastal Odisha, but affected parts of Jharkhand and West Bengal. Like Tauktae, Yaas also intensified rapidly. This, meteorologists and climate scientists said, can be linked to the climate crisis. Indian seas have been exceptionally warm, much warmer than usual, this year. Yaas and Tauktae were preceded by high sea surface temperatures reaching 31-32°C, making atmospheric and ocean conditions favourable for the frequent formation of cyclones and their rapid intensification. This phenomenon, which will become a lot more frequent this century due to the climate crisis, will impact rainfall, cause destruction due to floods and gusty winds, and affect the scale and pace of the evacuation process needed to rescue lives.The impact of the climate crisis on India is well-documented in scientific literature, and the spate of extreme weather conditions — heat/cold waves, floods, cyclones — that the country has witnessed in the last few years only confirms these warnings. India was the seventh most-affected by the devastating impact of the climate crisis globally in 2019, according to the Global Climate Risk Index 2021. India must focus on nature-based solutions (for example, restoring mangroves to reduce the impact of waves and storm surge on the shoreline to prevent flooding and preserving wetlands, forests and floodplains) to reduce disaster risk. It must also ensure that both existing and new infrastructure is climate-resilient. This means mainstreaming efforts to strengthen the resilience of urban systems by identifying disaster risks, enhancing structural resilience, and improve regulation and governance processes to manage risks.At the United Nations Climate Action Summit 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a global Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, a multi-stakeholder partnership of governments, UN agencies, multilateral banks, private sector and knowledge institutions that aims to build resilience into infrastructure systems. This is a bold step in building resilience. But now, this has to proceed at a rapid pace. Year after year, month after month, week after week, and with every passing day, the climate crisis, in diverse forms, is extracting ever-increasing human, social and economic costs. As Tautake and Yaas have shown, both the State and citizens have to be prepared at all times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-message-from-india-s-coastline-101622031797232.html
26-05-2021||Editorials||Lakshadweep: Tackle the brewing discontent||Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel has kicked up a political storm with a set of decisions that the government claims will trigger further development in the Union Territory, but critics slam as undermining the political, cultural and economic make-up of the islands.For one, Mr Patel has curtailed the powers of the panchayats, bringing health, education, fisheries and animal husbandry under the administrator. This has reportedly led to many engaged in these sectors on a contract basis being laid off. Two, while the islands had been free of Covid-19 for almost a year, Mr Patel’s decision to lift the stipulation for mandatory quarantine for travellers from Kochi is attributed as a key reason for a surge in cases. The archipelago has now had over 7,000 cases. Three, the islands — which have an overwhelming Muslim majority — also face a draft regulation against cow slaughter, though beef forms part of the daily diet. Four, locals have opposed a draft regulation for the creation of a Lakshadweep Development Authority, fearing this would enable outsiders to purchase land. And five, Mr Patel has also, inexplicably, implemented the Goonda Act in Lakshadweep, which has a very low crime rate.Besides Mr Patel’s actions being undemocratic and unpopular, any unrest in the islands have implica-tions for India’s maritime security and could open the door for external mischief. The Centre should instruct Mr Patel to step back, engage in consultations with communities, elected representatives and stakeholders, and respect local sensitivities, history and aspirations instead of imposing a top-down development and cultural model he may prefer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/lakshadweep-tackle-the-brewing-discontent-101622031133892.html
