28-05-2021||Editorials||HT Editorial: The Olympics dilemma||There is perhaps no safe way of conducting the Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games, slated to begin on July 23. In fact, there is a clear possibility of the Games becoming a “superspreader” event. The International Olympic Committee (IOC) has, however, turned a deaf year to calls for cancelling the Games and gone on the offensive — with its longest serving member, Dick Pound, recently saying that cancelling the event was “essentially off the table”.But the pandemic is not bothered with chest-thumping leadership or sweeping bravado. Do anything without the backing of cold scientific evidence, and you are inviting the Sars-CoV-2 virus to your doorstep. And if that thing involves over 30,000 people (athletes, coaches, contingent staff, broadcast staff, and administrators) from 200 different countries descending in one city, without quarantine rules or bio bubbles, and with varying vaccination status, the risk levels are staggering. No wonder the chorus against the Games being held has grown louder. A poll in Japan found that 70% of people wanted the Games to be cancelled or deferred.Also Read | Tokyo Olympics looking more and more like fan-free eventWhen the Games organisers, who would need an estimated 10,000 medical workers for the event, recently requested for an additional 500 nurses, the Japan Federation of Medical Workers’ Union said it was “infuriated” with the insistence to hold the Games. In May alone, the largest organisation of doctors in Tokyo asked that the Olympics be stopped; a British Medical Journal editorial said that going ahead with the Games would be “ignoring scientific and moral imperatives”; and an article in the New England Journal of Medicine exposed the staggering loopholes in the Covid-19 management system being put in place by the IOC (for example, antigen tests instead of RT-PCR, vaccinations not mandatory).But it is hard to cancel the Olympics. For one, it means ruthlessly ending the dreams of thousands of athletes who have worked for years and years for their moment of glory. The modern Olympics have only been cancelled thrice in its history, all three times because of the two World Wars. The other reason is money. Japan has officially spent $15.4 billion to organise the Olympics, although government audits say it may be much higher. IOC also stands to generate an estimated $2-3 billion from TV rights. And if cancelled, insurers are facing a $2-3 billion loss. It is a toss-up between history and money on one side, and science and safety on the other. Choose wisely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/ht-editorial-the-olympics-dilemma-101622204482310.html
28-05-2021||Editorials||In Chhattisgarh, lessons for the State||Since May 7, residents of Chhattisgarh’s Sukma and Biijapur districts have been protesting against a security camp that was set up at Silger, a “core Maoist area”. The camp was set up without taking the village councils into confidence, even though both districts are Fifth Schedule areas (listed separately in the Constitution in terms of administration on account of the primary population being Scheduled Tribes). On May 17, the police opened fire when over “3,000 tribals” approached the camp and attacked them, according to a police statement; three villagers died. The Sukma district collector ordered a magisterial inquiry on May 23. The next day, protesters filed a formal complaint against the security forces. While the police have declared the deceased to be affiliated with Maoists, their families have denied the charge. No security personnel were injured in the incident.While expanding State presence through security camps appears logical and right, there is a local context which explains the opposition. For one, large tracts of rich forests are cleared to build camps. Two, tribals are wary of harassment (searches, beatings, sexual assaults, fabricated cases, and fake encounters) that comes with an enhanced security presence. When such incidents take place, the response of the State, in most cases, is insensitive. Without any proper investigation, protesters are declared Maoist sympathisers. And this ends up helping the Maoists in their propaganda.The Bhupesh Baghel-led government lost an opportunity to bridge the trust deficit with tribals. But it must ensure an independent investigation and justice if it wants to heal the wounds of Silger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-chhattisgarh-lessons-for-the-state-101622122439254.html
28-05-2021||Editorials||GST regime is in crisis||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council will meet on May 28 after a gap of seven months. That it is meeting after such a long gap itself is unwarranted. Many state governments, which are ruled by parties opposed to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), have demanded a GST waiver on various kinds of medicinal supplies being used for treating Covid-19. Such demands make for good optics. While finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had earlier explained why a GST waiver could not help in bringing down prices of some of these goods, there could still be a compromise on the issue. The underlying spirit should be to reduce the fiscal burden on states. They have done most of the heavy lifting during the pandemic.However, there is a larger point which the GST Council must ponder. Using GST Council meetings to tweak GST rates on various commodities – Gujarati snacks before the 2017 Gujarat assembly elections and Covid-19 supplies now – would have been fine if the larger macroeconomic situation were favourable. That is hardly the case right now. The second wave of Covid-19 infections has forced lockdowns in most parts of the country and derailed the incipient economic recovery. This is bound to generate headwinds for revenue collections. Because GST constitutes a much bigger share of state government revenues than that of the Centre, states are likely to be worse hit. This will only worsen the compensation burden on the Centre.Back in 2017, it took a promise of 14% guaranteed growth in state revenues to get the states to forego their fiscal sovereignty and endorse GST. The Indian economy started losing momentum after GST’s roll-out. In hindsight, the Centre’s promise to the states seems to have erred on the side of overoptimism. The pandemic’s disruption has only made matters worse. The Centre’s convoluted approach to the compensation issue – it first created a distinction between revenue lost to the pandemic and otherwise and then on the question of borrowing to meet the compensation shortfall – has not helped matters. While political compulsions might have forced the government to paint an overoptimistic picture of the economy, the truth is that even the Centre’s revenue collections have been hit. The GST Council needs to understand that the tax regime, with its earlier commitments and the given economic situation, is increasingly becoming unsustainable. Any attempt to save the situation must begin with an honest appraisal of the state of the macroeconomy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/gst-regime-is-in-crisis-101622122079213.html
