05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Hot weather conditions prevail in Haryana, Punjab||Hot weather conditions continued to prevail in Haryana and Punjab on Monday, with Gurgaon sizzling at 41.8 degrees Celsius, and the temperatures expected to further rise in the region during the next two to three days.Gurgaon, which recorded four notches above normal maximum temperature, was the hottest place in Haryana.Among other places in Haryana, Hisar recorded a high of 41.7 degrees, three notches above normal limits, while Narnaul and Bhiwani recorded the maximum temperatures of 41 degrees and 38.9 degrees Celsius, respectively, according to the meteorological department here.Ambala recorded a high of 39.1 degrees, up three notches against normal, while Karnal’s maximum settled at 37.8 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Bathinda recorded a high of 40 degrees Celsius, up three notches against normal.Patiala recorded a maximum temperature of 39.2 degrees Celsius, it said.Amritsar recorded a maximum of 38.4 degrees, while Ludhiana’s high settled at 37.2 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a high of 38.2 degrees Celsius, up three notches against normal.According to the meteorological department, no significant rainfall is likely over Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh during the next two to three days with only possibility of isolated light rain or thunderstorm.“Maximum temperature is likely to rise by about 2 degrees Celsius from prevailing temperatures during this period, leading to development of heatwave conditions in isolated pockets over both states,” said the MeT department.It further said that rainfall activity is likely to again start from July 8 and light to moderate rain at few to many places in the two states is likely during July 8-10.“The moist easterly winds in lower level from Bay of Bengal are likely to establish gradually over parts of eastern India from July 8 onwards. It is likely to spread into northwest India covering Punjab and north Haryana by July 10,” said the MeT department.“Accordingly, the southwest monsoon is likely to advance over remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh, some parts of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi around July 10,” it said.Notably, after hitting parts of Haryana and Punjab on June 13, the southwest monsoon has played truant and a mostly dry spell has prevailed in the two states, including Chandigarh, during the past fortnight. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hot-weather-conditions-prevail-in-haryana-punjab-278649
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder likely to meet Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday||Amid infighting in the Punjab Congress, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh is likely to meet party president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday, sources said.Singh is likely to leave for Delhi on Tuesday morning, they said.Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu has been at loggerheads with the chief minister, attacking him on issues like the alleged delay in the completion of a probe into the 2015 desecration of Sikh texts and the subsequent police firing on protesters.The party high command has been trying to resolve the internal rift in the Punjab unit and there is talk of its revamp, with just months to go before the next assembly polls.There is some speculation that Sidhu may get an important role in the planned revamp.A few days back, Sidhu met Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Delhi.On June 22, Amarinder Singh appeared before a three-member AICC panel headed by leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, set up to resolve the infighting in the Punjab Congress.But he returned to Chandigarh without an audience with party president Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi.The panel had then asked Amarinder to deliver on 18 pending promises, including on the 2015 sacrilege issue and power purchase agreements signed by the previous government.The panel had earlier met other party leaders and has submitted a report to the party high command.Rahul Gandhi has also met several party leaders, including legislators from Punjab, for their views on what is needed to strengthen the party ahead of the 2022 assembly polls.On June 23, AICC general secretary and party’s Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat had said that Congress president Sonia Gandhi would resolve all issues related to the state unit by early July and a united party would fight the next assembly elections.Sidhu had begun criticising Amarinder Singh again after the Punjab and Haryana High Court in April quashed a probe into the 2015 Kotkapura firing case.The CM has called his outbursts “total indiscipline”.Sidhu had resigned as a minister in Punjab after being divested of the Local Bodies portfolio in 2019. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-likely-to-meet-sonia-gandhi-on-tuesday-278631
05-07-2021||Patiala||Farmers hold protest outside PSPCL office in Patiala||Farmers associated with Bhartiya Kisan Union (Krantikari) on Monday started a protest outside the head office of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) in Patiala against electricity cuts in the state.The farmers said they have been affected by recurrent power cuts and demanded restoration of proper supply.“The state government should restore supply of minimum 8-hour electricity for farming and 24-hour electricity supply for residential areas. The power contracts signed with companies during the previous SAD-BJP regime should also be cancelled,” they said.The farmers raised a number of demands stating that the government should keep control over electricity generation and distribution.It should also fulfil assurances of providing electricity at low prices made during election campaigns.“The state government should ensure that metre reading of households is carried out every month,” they said.Baldev Singh Zeera, general secretary of the union, said they held a meeting with officials of the PSPCL.“The officials have accepted our demand that electricity supply for 8 hours for farming will now be restored. The farmers will also be compensated for power cuts that have taken place.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-hold-protest-outside-pspcl-office-in-patiala-278583
05-07-2021||Vijay Mohan||Monsoon continues to play truant in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal; little possibility of rain in next 5 days||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 5The monsoon over the northern region of the country continues to play truant, with little rain being expected in Punjab, Haryana and parts of Himachal Pradesh over the next few days.“Prevailing meteorological conditions, large scale atmospheric features and the forecast wind pattern by dynamical models suggest that no favourable conditions are likely to develop for further advance of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Rajasthan, West Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Punjab during next 4-5 days,” a bulletin issued by IMD today morning said.“Hence, subdued rainfall activity is very likely to continue to prevail over Northwest, Central and Western parts of Peninsular India during next 4-5 days. Isolated/scattered thunderstorm activity accompanied with lightning and rainfall is also likely over these regions during this period,” the bulletin added.Starting with being significantly surplus in the region at the start of the season, the monsoon slipped into the red by the end of June. IMD data shows that from July 1 to July 4, rains have been deficient by 68 per cent in Punjab, 48 per cent in Haryana and 45 per cent in Himachal Pradesh.The Northern Limit of Southwest Monsoon (NLM) continues to lie along the latitude 26 degrees north and the longitude 70 degrees east, passing through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar. This is roughly the same as it was about 10 days ago.Over the past 24 hours, thunderstorms were also observed, among other places across the country, at isolated places over Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, and Jammu and Kashmir, according to IMD.The maximum temperature was above normal by 1.6 to 3 degrees Celsius at most places over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, and at many places over Himachal Pradesh, On the other hand, the minimum temperature was below normal by 1.6 to 3 degrees Celsius at many places over Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and at a few places over Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.The weatherman has predicted that maximum temperatures over Northwest India may rise by 2-3 degrees Celsius during the next 2 days and no significant change is likely thereafter. Also, no heatwave conditions are likely over the region during the next 5 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/monsoon-continues-to-play-truant-in-punjab-haryana-himachal-little-possibility-of-rain-in-next-5-days-278571
05-07-2021||Fazilka||Punjab Diary: National award for Fazilka teacher||Netizens applaud ‘hero’ copMuktsar: Constable Harbans Singh has earned praise from netizens for saving the life of a kid, who was drowning in a water channel on the outskirts of the town a few days ago. After performing his duties, Harbans was returning to his village when he found a man crying for help to save his son. On this, Harbans immediately jumped into the water channel and took out the boy, without caring for his cell phone and purse. The SSP and other senior officers have appreciated the noble work done by him.‘Srijan 2021’ unites artistsAbohar: Manjeet Kaur of Qadian, Pathankot, who now works at the Lalit Kala Academy, New Delhi, was among the 28 artists who participated in the online four-day National Art Workshop ‘Srijan 2021’ that was organised under the aegis of ‘Charak’ a contemporary organisation based at Sriganganagar, in collaboration with the Union Ministry of Cultural Affairs. Manjeet said it was a good initiative when artists had not been able to participate in exhibitions due to the prevailing Covid situation.DGP’s informal chatGurdaspur: Ahead of DGP Dinkar Gupta’s visit to Gurdaspur last week, the city was converted into an impregnable fortress. Old timers recalled that never had the city played a host to the DGP, two ADGSs, three SSPs and several BSF commandants. After holding long confabulations with his officers, the DGP thought it prudent to change into ordinary clothes from his uniform. It was also time for the officer to change the nature of conversation. He became informal and held fort on how Saudi billionaire and arms dealer Adnan Khashoggi sold arms to mercenaries in the 70s and 80s. He also discussed Deigo Maradona’s ‘Hand of God’ in the 1986 world cup. Several officers, now knowing what had hit them, slowly started retreating for they were no match for the knowledge of the DGP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-diary-national-award-for-fazilka-teacher-278358
05-07-2021||Bathinda||Pay commission proposals fraud on staff: Punjab traders||The Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal has criticised the Congress government for causing “colossal damage” to employees, alleging that whatever emoluments it had decided to give to employees as per the sixth pay commission report were actually part of a “big fraud”.Beopar mandal senior vice-president Amarjit Mehta said the state government had been manipulating figures to project that employees had been given their due emoluments. He said the Congress Government had reduced the non-practicing allowance to medical practitioners, house rent allowance and rural allowance apart from denying the payment of DA to them. He said the hike given to employees was also negligible. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pay-commission-proposals-fraud-on-staff-punjab-traders-278346
05-07-2021||Muktsar||Now, Congress ex-MLA Karan Kaur Brar ‘raids’ mining site in Muktsar||After “raids” by SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on sand mining sites to expose “illegal activity” over the past few days, Muktsar former MLA and senior Congress leader Karan Kaur Brar, who is the daughter-in-law of former CM Harcharan Singh Brar, today conducted a surprise check at a mining site at Chak Badhai village here, claiming flouting of norms.Brar said: “I found some heavy machinery being used there, which is illegal. Further, those present introduced themselves as mining contractors and showed a document without any VAT or GST number of their firm.”Sadar police station SHO Vishan Lal said: “Nobody has brought this to my notice as of now.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-congress-ex-mla-karan-kaur-brar-raids-mining-site-in-muktsar-278334
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||570 cases of fake liquor seized in Ludhiana||Continuing their drive under the “Operation Red Rose”, the Excise Department and Police Commissionerate, Ludhiana, have unearthed an illegal and fake liquor racket operating from the premises of Gemco Exports on the GT Road, Jugiana, Ludhiana.During the raid 570 cases of illegal and fake liquor of Cash Whisky, Royal Tiger (without manufacturing unit name) and unlabelled liquor were found stored on the firm’s premises. The entire liquor was without holograms. A few empty cardboard boxes were also found. The premises were allegedly being used for distributing illegal liquor. Owner Harmohan Singh and two more accused smugglers Jagwant Singh, alias Jagga, and Sanju have allegedly been found involved in the racket of illegal liquor smuggling.Investigation is on to detect the source of supply/illegal manufacturing and other persons involved in the distribution of illegal liquor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/570-cases-of-fake-liquor-seized-in-ludhiana-278333
05-07-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda couple ‘dupes’ doc of Rs33L, booked||A couple has been booked for fraud after ex-IMA president, Bathinda, Dr GS Shekhawat complained that he had been duped of Rs 33 lakh.Dr Shekhawat said the couple — Geeta Negi and Rajesh Negi — had not returned Rs 6 lakh he had given to them as loan and did not pay Rs 27 lakh rent of the school they were running from a building in his name.He said he had bought land in 2013. In 2016, his friend Rajesh urged him to build a school on it after his wife Geeta, who was running a school in Bharat Nagar, had to vacate the building there due to a dispute. Dr Shekhawat said Geeta started running a school in December 2016. He said they had opened a common bank account for the school, but in 2018 he realised that Geeta had stopped depositing money in it. He said to grab his land, Geeta was defaming him by pretending to be a witness in a case against him. However, Geeta said the matter was in the court. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-couple-dupes-doc-of-rs33l-booked-278332
05-07-2021||---||Ferozepur-Patti section: 9 yrs on, acquisition for rail link begins||Anirudh GuptaFerozepur, July 4Nine years after the project of construction of a 25.47-km Ferozepur-Patti rail link was given a green signal in the Rail Budget, the state government has finally started the process to acquire the land for it. The rail link has a potential to shorten the distance between northern states, including Punjab, to the trade capitals of Gujrat and Maharashtra to a large extent.When completed, the rail link would reduce the distance between Ferozepur and Amritsar from 118 km to 86 km besides, the distance between Amritsar and Mumbai shall be shortened by 240 km. It will also reduce the distance between J&K and Mumbai by 267 km and connect Malwa and Majha regions of the state.It will also facilitate mass movement of defence forces towards Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh region.As per information, after conducting the Social Impact Assessment, the state government has now sought objections for the acquisition of around 60-acre land falling under the Mallanwala Khas besides another around 975-kanal in Dulla Singh Wala, Kutubdin Wala and Kala Ke Hithar for the new broad gauge line between Ferozepur and Patti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ferozepur-patti-section-9-yrs-on-acquisition-for-rail-link-begins-278331
05-07-2021||---||More trees axed in Sangrur, case filed||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, July 4After the alleged inaction in the axing of trees recently, unidentified persons cut more trees in Dhuri town last night. Angered residents demanded strict action against the culprits.Ajay Parocha, councillor from ward number 8, said when he was crossing from the backside of AP Colony in the morning, he saw four axed trees and another with cuts on the embankment of a small canal. He immediately informed other residents, who reached the spot.“Earlier also trees were axed in the same area, but since the accused have not been arrested so far, they have cut more trees. Four full-grown trees have been axed last night. We have informed the authorities and will also take up the matter with higher officials if the accused are not arrested,” said Parocha.Area residents said the axed trees were around 30 to 35 years old. Dhuri SHO Deepinder Singh Jeji said they had received a complaint. “We will register an FIR and try to arrest the accused at the earliest,” the SHO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/more-trees-axed-in-sangrur-case-filed-278330
05-07-2021||Amritsar||SGPC organises event to marks 1955 attack on Golden Temple complex||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), for the first time, organised an event to mark the 1955 attack at the Golden Temple complex and displayed teargas shells lobbed by the police.The attack was planned by the erstwhile government, headed by the then PM Jawaharlal Nehru, to scuttle the ‘Punjabi Suba Morcha’ attended by Sikh leaders and supporters at Manji Sahib Diwan Hall located in the shrine complex on July 4, 1955.The SGPC commemorated the event in the presence of president Bibi Jagir Kaur, Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Hapreet Singh and others. The SGPC chief said the event would be documented. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-organises-event-to-marks-1955-attack-on-golden-temple-complex-278329
05-07-2021||Sangrur||Sacrilege: Not allowed to address event, Sikh bodies block Sangrur-Patiala highway||The rift between residents of Johlian village, where a sacrilege incident was reported on June 25, and members of various Sikh organisations has caused tension in the area. Angered over the refusal to address the gathering during the bhog of akhand path, members of organisations blocked the Sangrur-Patiala highway on Sunday.Johlian village residents said it was a collective decision to avoid any trouble. “All villagers had decided that we would not allow any flare up through any speech during the bhog of akhand path in our gurdwara. However, members of organisations lost cool when we did not give them time to express their views on the public address system. We want to maintain peace in our village,” said Kulwant singh, former Sarpanch of Johlian village.Members of various Sikh organisations had heated arguments with villagers. They blocked the Sangrur-Bhawanigarh road in protest. “Villagers are playing in the hands of police officers, who want to pass this case also like past cases of sacrilege. They are doing nothing to trace the mastermind of all cases,” said Bachitar Singh from Sikh Sadbhawna Dal.On June 25, the Guru Granth Sahib was set on fire at the village gurdwara and the police arrested the accused quickly.“Earlier we registered the case under Sections 295 A and 435 of the IPC, and arrested a local woman. We added the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and 153-A last evening. Our thorough investigations are going on while our team is also trying to convince members of sikh organisations to lift the protest,” said Sukhraj Singh, DSP, Bhawanigarh. — TNSActivists detainedFaridkot: Three days after the police foiled an attempt by SAD (Amritsar) activists to start a “morcha” at Bargari against the sacrilege incidents, the party members again reached Bargari to start the protest on Sunday. However, soon after they performed an ‘ardas’ at a gurdwara, the police rounded them up. They were later released. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-not-allowed-to-address-event-sikh-bodies-block-sangrur-patiala-highway-278328
05-07-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||Vax centres see heavy turnout||Even as the region was lashed by unpredicted heavy rain and hailstorm, which disrupted power supply in most of the colonies, besides two dozen villages in Abohar, the target to inoculate 5,000 eligible persons was achieved here today.“With this, the health department in Abohar has vaccinated about 46,000 people so far,” Senior Medical Officer Dr Gagandeep Singh said. In the past five days, vaccination stayed suspended as there was no fresh supply of vaccine.Sangria in Hanumangarh recorded 60mm rain, but health workers set a record of vaccinating 31,228 persons at 179 centres. Chief Medical Health Officer Dr Navneet Sharma said just a day earlier 27,330 doses of vaccine were received from the state headquarters. Sriganganagar received fresh supply from Bikaner and 20,000 people were administered vaccine at 84 centres despite rainfall. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vax-centres-see-heavy-turnout-278325
05-07-2021||---||26 nabbed at Tarn Taran resort for flouting Covid norms||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, July 4The local police arrested 26 persons, including four women, for violating the Covid restrictions by attending a cocktail party at a resort in Gohalwar village here last night.Those arrested belonged to well-off families. Akash Sharma, a resident of Chhehtra (Amritsar) and owner of Irish Beach Resort, and business partner Prabhjit Singh, also from Amritsar, were among those held.The police team raided the resort around 10.30 pm and found it operational, in violation of the state government orders to close such establishments by 9 pm. Most of the suspects were found consuming liquor and hookah, while some were swimming in the pool.DSP Sucha Singh Bal, who led the police team, said they recovered 14 hookahs, 37 bottles of whisky and 132 bottles of beer from the scene. Sharma failed to produce a licence to run the bar at the resort, he said.The suspects had been booked under Sections 188 and 269, IPC; 61, 1 and 14, Excise Act; and 51 and 52, Disaster Management Act, said the DSP. The police were investigating their possible involvement in any other anti-social activity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/26-nabbed-at-tarn-taran-resort-for-flouting-covid-norms-278301
05-07-2021||Parvesh Sharma||IELTS takeover by Oz firm sparks monopoly fears||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, July 4Two days after the International Development Programme (IDP), a leading Australian firm, announced acquisition of British Council’s (BC) IELTS business for £130 million in India, the Indian trade mark owner of IELTS, Jagdeep Singh Gill, has written to the University of Cambridge, UK, and Controller General of Patents, Designs & Trade Marks, Government of India, and objected to the decision.IELTS aspirants fear the monopoly of IDP over India which could bring a hike in the fee of the test. “In India, IELTS is my intellectual property which is registered with the Designs & Trade Marks, Government of India, and valid till September 8, 2029. How can BC decide to sell IELTS business to IDP in India without my consent?” said Gill.“Since the university is the testing authority of IELTS and both IDP and BC are conducting test on its behalf, I have written to it. I have got information that IDP will take over from BC in the coming days, but it is not as per law. If the authorities fail to deliver justice, I will move the international court,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ielts-takeover-by-oz-firm-sparks-monopoly-fears-278294
05-07-2021||Moga||Extortion module busted by Moga police; 3 held||As part of the ongoing drive against gangsters and criminals, the Moga police today unearthed an extortion and targeted killing module linked to the Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF), led by Arshdeep Singh, alias Arsh Daala, a foreign-based terrorist and a key accused in the criminal activities involving the Sukha Lamme gang.SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said acting on a tip-off, the police arrested three gangsters — Yadvinder Singh, alias Yadi, a close aide of slain gangster Vicky Gounder; Rachpal Singh; and Talwinder Singh, alias Mintu — near Samalsar village. The three told the police they were planning to extort money from a sweets shop owner at Talwandi Bhai in Ferozepur district.A car, bearing a Delhi registration number, a 0.32 pistol along with live cartridges and 20 gm heroin were recovered from their possession. He said an FIR under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act and 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act had been registered against the three at the Samalsar police station and further investigations were in progress.Preliminary investigations suggested Arshdeep had threatened to eliminate the shop owner if he failed to pay the ransom. The three were earlier accused in various cases of attempt to murder and drugs. A few days ago, the police had busted a targeted killing module run by the Lamme gang with the arrest of three gangsters — Lovepreet Singh, alias Ravi, Ram Singh, alias Sona and Kamaljeet Sharma, alias Kamal. Arshdeep was the key conspirator.“As the NIA has taken over the probe into the targeted killing cases, we have shared these inputs with the agency,” said the SSP, adding the process to extradite Arshdeep and his co-conspirators was under way. “We have thwarted the nefarious designs of Arshdeep,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/extortion-module-busted-by-moga-police-3-held-278290
05-07-2021||---||Sc scholarship: Private colleges refuse to sign Punjab government undertaking||Chandigarh, July 4The volatile issue of pending arrears of students under the SC Post-Matric Scholarship scheme is back to haunt the state government.Days after the Cabinet decided to pay 40 per cent of the Rs 200 crore arrears of private educational institutions against the scholarship scheme for the period 2017-18 to 2019-20 in three equal quarterly installments, the Joint Association of Colleges (JAC), which represents 1,650 private educational institutions, has refused to sign the undertaking sought by the state government to release the funds.Can’t claim 60% dues, institutions toldThough the state agreed to clear 40% of the Rs200-crore arrears, it maintains the remaining 60% has to be released by the Centre, which says the scheme ended in 2016-17The government says if 60% amount is not received from the Centre, the institutions can’t claim it from state governmentThe JAC says: “At the meeting, the officials said they would press upon the Centre to release the remaining 60% funds. The Centre discontinued the scheme in 2017, but the state continued to enroll students. It’s a matter between the state and the Centre.”The government has been maintaining that the remaining 60 per cent of the funds have to be released by the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, a fact contradicted by the Centre that maintains that the scheme had ended in 2016-17.The Social Welfare Department, in a communication to other government departments, has pointed out that the state would release the funds only if private educational institutions don’t seek the remaining 60 per cent amount, neither from the state government nor from the students. “The undertaking was never discussed at the meeting of the committee of Group of Ministers held with the JAC representatives,” said JAC co-chairman Dr Anshu Kataria.“The state government officials had stated in the meeting that they would press upon the Centre to release the remaining 60 per cent of the funds. But we never agreed to give any commitment regarding it. The Centre had discontinued the scheme in 2017, but the state continued to enroll students. It is a matter between the state and the Centre,” the JAC has pointed out.The Post Matric Scholarship scheme for SC students is being implemented through Central assistance but no funds have been released against the demand for the years 2017-18 to 2019-20. Keeping in view the hardships faced by SC students, the state government constituted a committee of group of ministers (GoM) to examine and resolve the issue to secure the future of SC students.The GoM had also recommended that private educational institutions would not withhold the roll numbers, certificates and degrees of SC students, would make no claims nor approach court against the state government for claiming pending fees for the sessions 2017-18 to 2019-20. Further, they will withdraw cases pending in court in this matter, the GoM had suggested.Further, it has said in its report that if 60 per cent amount is not received from the Centre, the educational institutions could not claim their fee from the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-scholarship-private-colleges-refuse-to-sign-punjab-government-undertaking-278288
05-07-2021||---||Sikhs proud of Indian identity, says study||Chandigarh, July 4Sikhs are overwhelmingly proud of their Indian identity, a new study has found. A Pew Research Center report, based on a face-to-face survey of 29,999 Indian adults fielded between late 2019 and early 2020 – before the Covid-19 pandemic – takes a closer look at religious identity, nationalism and tolerance in Indian society.The survey — Religion in India: Tolerance and Segregation — was conducted by local interviewers in 17 languages and covered nearly all of India’s states and Union Territories. The sample included interviews with 22,975 Hindus, 3,336 Muslims, 1,782 Sikhs, 1,011 Christians, 719 Buddhists and 109 Jains.As per the study, a near-universal share of Sikhs says they are very proud to be Indian (95%), and the vast majority (70%) says a person who disrespects India cannot be a Sikh.Like India’s other religious groups, most Sikhs do not see evidence of widespread discrimination against their community — just 14% say Sikhs face a lot of discrimination in India, and 18% say they personally have faced religious discrimination in the last one year.At the same time, Sikhs are more likely than other religious communities to see communal violence as a very big problem in the country. Nearly 8-in-10 Sikhs (78%) rate communal violence as a major issue, compared with 65% of Hindus and Muslims.As per the study, about three-quarters of Sikh men and women in India say they keep their hair long (76%), and two-thirds say it is very important to them that children in their families also keep their hair long (67%).Sikhs are more likely than Indian adults overall to say they attend religious services every day — 40% of Sikhs say they go to the gurdwara daily. By comparison, 14% of Hindus say they go to a Hindu temple every day.Moreover, the vast majority of Sikhs (94%) regards their holy book, Guru Granth Sahib, as the word of God, and many (37%) say they read it, or listen to recitations of it, every day.Sikhs in India also incorporate other religious traditions into their practice. Some Sikhs (9%) say they follow Sufi orders, which are linked to Islam, and about half (52%) say they have a lot in common with Hindus. Roughly one-in-five Indian Sikhs says he has prayed, meditated or performed a ritual at a Hindu temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikhs-proud-of-indian-identity-says-study-278286
05-07-2021||---||Hold powercom accountable for cuts: Partap SinghBajwa||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 4Congress Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa today termed the announcement by CM Capt Amarinder Singh to review the power purchase agreements (PPA) “extremely delayed but absolutely necessary”.“The government has had over four years to focus on this issue. A suitable conclusion must be reached to ensure that the people of Punjab are no longer cheated by these agreements,” he observed, adding said there was no word of white paper, as promised by the government 16 months ago, on the issue.Moreover, the Government of Punjab should ensure 300 units of free power to all households. It is well known that the state provides over Rs 6,000 crore in power subsidy to the agriculture sector and Rs 4,000 crore to other sectors.He also demanded fixing of accountability on the PSPCL for being “chronically unprepared” in supply of uninterrupted power.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hold-powercom-accountable-for-cuts-partap-singhbajwa-278284
05-07-2021||---||Sukhbir Badal to Capt Amarinder: Why pacts not scrapped as yet?||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 4SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to save Punjabis from power cuts and questioned him if the agreements done during the Akalis’ tenure were faulty these could have been terminated.He tweeted: “Regarding your new rant on the SAD govt’s power agreements, 4.5 years is a long time to scrap any agreement. Who stopped/stops you? Do anything but save Punjabis from long unbearable power cuts and bills. But it seems you want to be remembered for ‘bijlee mehangi, bijlee gull’.”In another tweet, he said, “Those who plunged Punjab into darkness are blaming power cuts on those who made the state power-surplus. As Parkash Singh Badal took over in 2007, Punjab was used to 16 hours daily cuts. He took three years to make it power surplus-exactly the time u have taken to push it back into darkness”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-badal-to-capt-amarinder-why-pacts-not-scrapped-as-yet-278283
05-07-2021||Batala||4 of family shot over love affair in Batala village||Panchayat member Sukhjinder Singh allegedly gunned down a man, his two sons and a grandson upon learning of his minor daughter’s affair with the son of his political foe. The incident occurred in the wee hours of Sunday. A case has been registered with the Ghuman police station.Sukhjinder attacked the boy at his tubewell, but the latter fled home.The boy’s father, Sukhwinder Singh, paternal uncle Jasbir Singh and grandfather Mangal Singh rushed to the tubewell to confront Sukhjinder. All three were shot dead. Minutes later, Babaljit Singh, son of Mangal Singh’s youngest son, arrived at the scene. He too was shot.SSP Rachhpal Singh said Sukhjinder and his family tried to mislead the police, claiming it was a case of political enmity. “An FIR has been filed against Sukhwinder, his wife Kulwinder Kaur and relative Jatinder Singh, who have gone underground,” the SSP added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-of-family-shot-over-love-affair-in-batala-village-278282
05-07-2021||Karam Prakash||Engineers to strike work over attacks by ‘farmers’||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 4After a spate of attacks on the employees of the Water Resources Department, junior engineers (JEs) have decided to stage a protest against farmers. The Diploma Engineers’ Association, in an emergency meeting on Sunday, has decided that they won’t do any work until the police book and arrest all the accused of the recent attacks on their colleagues.In a recent attack allegedly by farmers at Kheri Mandla village, two junior engineers and an SDO were injured. A team of the department was on a round of inspection to curb water thefts by farmers when it was attacked. One of the junior engineers, who had received a fracture on his left arm, is still undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Patiala.Balwinder Sharma, adviser to the association, said, “Until the police arrest all the accused, we will continue to protest. One of JEs has received three fractures on his left arm in an attack.”“The farmers are backed by local political leaders,” said an official of the department. A senior official said they had been sending written communications to the police to take action against the incidents of water thefts, but to no avail.Sukhwinder Singh Gill, Station House Officer, Nabha Sadar, said, “No one has been arrested so far. We are conducting raids to nab the accused. Hopefully, they will be arrested soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/engineers-to-strike-work-over-attacks-by-farmers-278281
05-07-2021||---||Over 9-hour supply to Punjab farmers, claims PSPCL||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 4Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is ensuring uninterrupted 8-hour electricity supply to farmers daily for paddy sowing even amid an unprecedented hike in demand across the domestic sector.PSPCL Chief Managing Director (CMD) A Venu Prasad said the top priority for the department is to fulfil the requirements of the agriculture sector in view of the ongoing paddy operations. “Farmers across the state are being provided minimum of eight hours power supply,” he said.The CMD said the average supply hours for the border zone comprising Gurdaspur, Amritsar and Tarn Taran was 12.4 hours, while Kapurthala, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur & Nawanshahar districts of the north zone received an average 10.3 hours of supply on the same day.Similarly, farmers of Patiala, Sangrur, Barnala, Ropar and Mohali districts that form the south zone got on average 9.6 hours of electricity supply during the same period. Areas of Bathinda, Faridkot, Muktsar and Ferozpur got 8.9 hours average supply. The overall state average of power supply hours to the sector on the same day turns out to be 9.8 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-9-hour-supply-to-punjab-farmers-claims-pspcl-278280
05-07-2021||Ruchika M Khanna/ Sukhmeet Bhasin||Talwandi Sabo power plant’s 2nd unit shut, crisis deepens||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh/ Bathinda, July 4Punjab’s power crisis worsened further today as the second unit of Talwandi Sabo power plant developed a snag, causing a shortage of 660 MW. Consequently, the industry in several areas, shut down for two days, will be allowed to operate only partially from Monday.Already, one unit of the plant (660 MW) has remained shut for some time due to a technical glitch. A senior official at the plant said there was a technical glitch in unit No. 1 and it would be fixed soon. The official added work was on to put back the second unit into operation at the earliest.PSPCL issues noticePSPCL has issued a penalty notice to Talwandi Sabo Thermal Power Plant for not ensuring the timely availability of its unit No. 3 in the ongoing paddy season when the demand for electricity is the highest“Due to failure of unit No. 3, PSPCL faced difficulty in providing eight hours of uninterrupted power supply to its agriculture and domestic consumers,” said PSPCL Chairman A Venu PrasadOutput drops to 66o mw from 1,980 MW The largest thermal power plant in North can generate 1,980 MW from 3 unitsTill Saturday, the plant was producing 1,178 MW, which is now down to 660 MWThe largest thermal power plant in North India, set up by Vedanta Limited at Banawala village near Mansa, has the capacity to generate 1,980 MW from its three units of 680 MW each. Till last evening, the plant was supplying around 1,178 MW to the northern grid.Reacting quickly, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) bought additional 1,100 MW from the Power Exchange to meet the demand, which touched 13,200 MW today. With the Government of India (Northern Regional Load Despatch Centre) allowing the state to increase its transmission capacity by an additional 400 MW today (to reach 7,800 MW), the state was able to get additional power from the Grid to meet its increased demand.Unscheduled power cuts on domestic and commercial consumers were again reported from many parts of the state, though the agriculture sector demand was largely met. The reason for unscheduled power cuts, say officials in PSPCL, is a leakage in the boiler tube of a 660 MW plant at Talwandi Sabo, which will be restored by Monday.Though officials in PSPCL insist that they supplied an average of nine hours of power to agriculture pumpset consumers and that there were no cuts on other categories, people in semi-urban and rural areas of Majha and Doaba complained of long unscheduled cuts.The power supply to industrial units in the Central Zone (Ludhiana, Mandi Gobindgarh, Khanna, Amloh and Sirhind) and the North Zone (Jalandhar, Phagwara and Hoshiarpur) was restored today. However, the continuous process industry in these zones will remain closed till Thursday. Industrial units in the Border Zone and Southern Zone will get only 30 per cent of the sanctioned power load, confirmed A Venu Prasad, Chairman, PSPCL.Even the industrial units fed power from mixed feeders will have to wait to begin operations. Units dealing in essential services, including poultry, rice shellers, telecom and call centres, have been exempted from restrictions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/talwandi-sabo-power-plants-2nd-unit-shut-crisis-deepens-278278
05-07-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Navjot Sidhu bats for 300 units of free power, wants PPAs scrapped||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 4A day after Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced legal recourse to counter the power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed with thermal plants by the SAD-BJP government, Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu today demanded that the pacts be scrapped and 300 units of free power be given to all.“Let us first get rid of the faulty power agreements through legislation and fix rates as per the national power exchange, with no fixed charges. We must provide 24-hour power to domestic and industrial consumers at Rs 3-5 per unit instead of Rs 10-12 per unit, besides free power up to 300 units,” he tweeted.Joining the issue, Congress Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa said the CM’s move to review PPAs was “extremely delayed, but absolutely necessary”.While pointing out that the state government had more than four years to sort out the issue, he said a suitable conclusion was still achievable.Power crisis deepens||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-bats-for-300-units-of-free-power-wants-ppas-scrapped-278274
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Man kills 4 family members of daughter’s lover in Punjab’s Gurdaspur||A man allegedly killed four family members of a youth with whom his daughter was in a relationship in Punjab’s Gurdaspur district, police said on Sunday. The accused identified as Sukhjinder Singh, a resident of Balarwal village in Batala, got enraged when he came to know about his daughter’s love affair with one Germanjeet Singh, who lives in the same village, they said.On Sunday morning, the accused allegedly reached the farm belonging to the family of Germanjeet Singh who along with his father Sukhwinder was present there.After a verbal duel, Sukhjinder Singh allegedly fired at them killing Sukhwinder Singh on the spot and injuring Germanjeet Singh, said police.After learning about the incident, Germanjeet Singh’s grandfather Mangal Singh, uncle Jasbir Singh, cousin Babandeep and another relative Jashan reached there, they said.The accused fired at them too resulting in the death of Mangal Singh, Jasbir Singh and Babandeep, they said.Germanjeet Singh and Jashan, who were injured in the incident, are stated to be out of danger, police said, adding Sukhjinder Singh is absconding and efforts are on to nab him.Batala Superintendent of Police Gurpreet Singh said a case has been registered in this regard. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-kills-4-family-members-of-daughters-lover-in-punjabs-gurdaspur-278149
05-07-2021||Ruchika M. Khanna and Sukhmeet Bhasin||Power crisis worsens in Punjab as 2nd unit of Talwandi Sabo thermal plant develops snag||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh/Bathinda, July 4Punjab’s power crisis worsened further on Sunday as the second unit of the Talwandi Sabo power plant developed a snag, causing a shortage of 660 MW of power.This puts a question mark on lifting the restrictions imposed on the industrial sector for use of power. Industrial units located in the central and north zones have remained shut for three days now, and with the power generation situation worsening today, the restrictions could be extended further. A decision to this effect will be taken later today.Across the state, domestic and commercial consumers, too, complained of unscheduled power cuts, ranging from two to four hours. The reason for these cuts, say officials in PSPCL, is a leakage in the boiler tube of a 660 MW plant at Talwandi Sabo and it would take two to three days for the plant to be made operational. One other unit (660 MW) has remained shut for some time because of a snag and is expected to come back into generation only around end of this month.As demand in the agriculture sector continued to soar, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) tried hard to meet the demand. The total power demand Met in the state today is 12280 MW. The state increased buying power from the power exchange, after the transmission capacity of the state has been enhanced further by the Government of India by 400 MW, to 7800 MW.The state’s transmission capacity was 6400 MW last year, and was increased to 7400 MW this year.The Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL) is the largest thermal power plant in North India set up by Vedanta Company at village Banawala, near Mansa, under private partnership, with a total capacity of 1980 MW and three units of 680 MW each.At present, the thermal power plant is supplying about 1178 MW to the North Grid.According to sources, Unit No. 1 of the thermal power plant made a sudden trip at midnight and as soon as the top management got the information, they took immediate steps to rectify it. A senior official at the thermal power plant said there was a technical glitch in unit number one. He said that it was expected to recover soon and generate electricity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/power-crisis-worsens-in-punjab-as-2nd-unit-of-talwandi-sabo-thermal-plant-develops-snag-278122
05-07-2021||GS Paul||Sidhu for cancelling Akalis’ power purchase pact; ‘who stopped you for 4.5 years,’ asks Sukhbir||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 4Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday reiterated the state government stand to streamline the power supply by cancelling the power purchase pact that was executed during the SAD-BJP regime. He wrote: “Let us start with Congress High Command’s Pro-People 18 Point Agenda and get rid of the faulty un-negotiable Badal-signed Power Purchase Agreements through “New Legislation in Punjab Vidhan Sabha” fixing rates as per National Power Exchange with No fixed charges!”He added, “Money spent on giving unreasonable & exuberant profits to Private Thermal Plants should be utilised for welfare of People i.e Giving Power Subsidy for Free Power for Domestic use (Upto 300 Units), 24 hours supply & to invest in Education & Healthcare !”Elaborating the power subsidy, he wrote, “Punjab already provides 9000 Crore Subsidy but we must do more for Domestic & Industrial consumer giving power at Rs 3-5 per unit instead of surcharge inflated Rs 10-12 per unit, along 24-hour supply with No Power-Cuts & Free Power (Upto 300 Units).. It is definitely achievable.” Punjab already provides 9000 Crore Subsidy but we must do more for Domestic & Industrial consumer giving power at Rs 3-5 per unit instead of surcharge inflated Rs 10-12 per unit, along 24-hour supply with No Power-Cuts & Free Power (Upto 300 Units).. It is definitely achievable.  .@capt_amarinder Re your new rant on SAD govt's power agreements, 4.5 yrs is a long time to scrap any agreement. Who stopped/stops ypu? Do anything but save Punjabis frm long unbearable power cuts & bills. But it seems U want to be remembered for "BIJLEE MEHANGI, BIJLEE GULL" 1/2  People also responded to Sidhu. Some tweeted back saying that when he was given the opportunity to work by generating electricity, he refused to take it. Some people asked him to pay his electricity bills first. “How will companies generate and supply electricity if people like you do not pay the bills?” Some people have suggested him to quit the Congress and some people have praised him.On the other hand, Sukhbir Singh Badal, through twitter has asked CM Capt Amarinder Singh to save Punjabis from power cuts and questioned him that if the agreements done during SAD tenure never suited, these could have been terminated.He wrote, “Reg your new rant on SAD govt’s power agreements, 4.5 yrs is a long time to scrap any agreement. Who stopped/stops you? Do anything but save Punjabis frm long unbearable power cuts & bills. But it seems U want to be remembered for “BIJLEE MEHANGI, BIJLEE GULL”.In another tweet, he said, “Those who plunged Punjab into darkness are blaming power cuts on those who made the state power-surplus. As PS Badal took over in 2007, Punjab was used to 16 hrs daily cuts. He took 3 yrs to make it power surplus-exactly the time u have taken to push it back into darkness.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-for-cancelling-akalis-power-purchase-pact-who-stopped-you-for-4-5-years-asks-sukhbir-278114
