07-07-2021||Amritsar||SGPC chief seeks immediate reopening of Kartarpur Corridor||SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur on Wednesday demanded immediate reopening of the Indian side of the Kartarpur corridor, saying the threat of Covid should not be an excuse to keep it closed.She also alleged that it seems that the Union government had opened the corridor only to “trick” Sikh devotees.“If the government had been serious in this regard, it would have taken the initiative to reopen the long-closed corridor,” she told reporters, adding that as religious and other public places have reopened, COVID-19 can’t be used as an excuse to keep the corridor closed.The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president said, “The Government of India should immediately open the Sri Kartarpur Sahib corridor as it is associated with the sentiments of the Sikh community. Letters have been written many times to the Government of India in this regard and another letter will be written soon”.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in 2019 inaugurated the Indian side of the Kartarpur corridor, which links Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan, the final resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev, to Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Punjab’s Gurdaspur district. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-chief-seeks-immediate-reopening-of-kartarpur-corridor-279614
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Hot weather conditions prevail in Haryana, Punjab, Gurugram records 44.5°C||Hot weather conditions continued to prevail in Haryana and Punjab on Wednesday, with Gurugram sizzling at 44.5 degrees Celsius.Gurugram, which recorded a maximum temperature that was seven notches above normal, was the hottest place in Haryana.Among other places in Haryana, Hisar recorded a high of 41.9 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal, while Narnaul and Bhiwani recorded a maximum temperature of 42.3 degrees Celsius and 40.7 degrees Celsius respectively, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Rohtak’s maximum settled at 41.5 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal. Ambala recorded a high of 40.3 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal, while Karnal’s maximum settled at 39.2 degrees Celsius, also five notches above normal.In Punjab, Patiala recorded a maximum temperature of 41.4 degrees Celsius, six notches above normal.Amritsar recorded a maximum temperature of 41.2 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal, while Ludhiana’s high settled at 39.8 degrees Celsius.Bathinda registered a high of 40.5 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a high of 40.2 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hot-weather-conditions-prevail-in-haryana-punjab-gurugram-records-44-5%C2%B0c-279606
07-07-2021||Ludhiana||Rajiv Gandhi’s statue in Ludhiana allegedly set afire||A statue of Rajiv Gandhi at Salem Tabri here was allegedly set on fire by a Nihang on Wednesday.In videos doing the rounds on social media, a Nihang, Ramandeep Singh, can be seen setting the statue on fire and saying that Congress leader Gursimran Mand wants to install more statues of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. He says he won’t tolerate this and would set all such statues on fire.However, the police said the statue was covered with a piece of cloth which accidentally caught fire.Congress leader Gursimran Mand alleged some anti-social elements might have tried to put the statue on fire.Mand had cleaned the statue with his turban. This is the same statue which two years back was blackened by SAD leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rajiv-gandhis-statue-in-ludhiana-allegedly-set-afire-279598
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Agitating farmer unions should contest Punjab assembly polls: Gurnam Singh Chaduni||Outfits involved in farmers' agitation against the new agriculture laws should contest the Punjab assembly elections as it will "present a model on how the system can be changed", Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) president Gurnam Singh Chaduni said on Wednesday   Chaduni, a key leader of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SMK) which is spearheading the farmers' stir, said, “What I want to say is that we should not run 'Mission UP, but Mission Punjab'.  SKM has planned a 'mahapanchayat' in September and other activities in Uttar Pradesh, which goes to the polls next year"."Now, we are moving for Mission UP. A Mahapanchayat will be organised on September 5. Other activities will happen. Then polls will come and we will work to defeat the BJP."“If we assume BJP gets defeated, will the Centre then agree to our demands? Don't take it otherwise,” said Chaduni in a video message, and cited the example of West Bengal, where the farmer bodies campaigned against the BJP.“The BJP was defeated there, but did the Centre then accept our demand,” he asked.Chaduni said that even the opposition has not categorically stated that if they come to power these laws will be scrapped and a law to guarantee MSP will be framed.  In the video message, Chaduni said that “we say that we want to change the system, but don't apply enough thought to what has to be done to realise this."    He said that BJP and the Congress have not been able to change the system, “then from whom should we expect to do this?”“If we have to change the system, then we will have to formulate a plan. And that plan should be 'Mission Punjab',” he said. Notably, Punjab goes to the polls early next year. The farmers' stir against the farm laws began from the state last year before it spread to other parts, with the protesting farmers now sitting at Delhi's borders for over seven months in support of their demands to roll back the farm laws.   “So many bodies from Punjab are playing an active role in this agitation. But if they enter into the poll arena and contest polls in Punjab and capture power and show how things can be changed, this can be presented as a sample, a model to show how a government can be run, which can act as an example for the rest of the country,” said Chaduni. He said the people of Punjab are looking for a change. “Why can't we win polls in Punjab…people of Punjab want a change in the system. Therefore, Mission Punjab is needed so that it can be shown as a model. If there is a government of farmers and labourers in place, we can show it can be done,” he said. Chaduni's statement evoked a sharp reaction from the BJP in Punjab, with senior leader Harjit Singh Grewal saying that it is now clear that the agitating unions were driven by political motives."The fact that their motive is political is no longer hidden," said Grewal. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/agitating-farmer-unions-should-contest-punjab-assembly-polls-gurnam-singh-chaduni-279590
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab BJP gave Centre incorrect feedback on farm laws, unit chief should resign: Ex-minister Anil Joshi||A day after the Punjab BJP issued a show-cause notice to him for his "anti-party" activities, former minister Anil Joshi on Wednesday slammed the state unit alleging that it did not give correct feedback to the Centre on farm laws.He claimed that initially, farmers protesting against the farm laws had a few demands that could have been handled had the BJP's Punjab unit not projected that all was hunky-dory in the state.He also said state BJP president Ashwani Sharma should admit his failure and resign rather than issuing him notices.Speaking to reporters in Amritsar, Joshi alleged, "The state unit (of the BJP) was giving the feedback (to the Centre) that farmers were happy and only a handful were unsatisfied. When central ministers held virtual meetings, they presented fake farmers in those meetings and claimed they were happy with the laws." "The state unit led by Ashwani Sharma lied to the party's senior leadership by telling them that they had made farmers in villages understand the benefits of the farm laws by holding programmes and functions, whereas the truth was that farmers were sitting on toll barriers and railway tracks to protest these laws," he claimed.Joshi said initially, farmers protesting against the farm laws had only a few demands.According to the farm laws, the sub-divisional magistrate's court is the final authority for dispute resolution. The farmers were demanding that they be allowed to approach the higher courts. Besides, they were demanding a guaranteed minimum support price (MSP) for their crops, he said."These demands were not so big that they could not have been handled. Punjab already procures wheat and paddy at MSP while the provision of approaching higher courts in case of dispute could have been agreed to," he added.Joshi said this issue could have been limited to Punjab and resolved in the state itself. It could have been prevented from spreading to Delhi borders and the rest of the country."Protests (against farm laws) have been held not only in the country but elsewhere in the world, affecting the party's image," he said.Scores of farmers have been camping at Delhi borders since November last year demanding that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee MSP for their crops.Joshi said Sharma "should admit his failure and resign rather than issuing notices to me".He claimed he had told Sharma, who was appointed as the Punjab BJP chief in January 2020, to take feedback from the party's sitting and former MLAs on farm laws and other issues but he never called a meeting.Joshi said the BJP's state unit should have stood in support of the agitating farmers. This way, it wouldn't have faced protests from farmers and other sections supporting them in the state as is the case now."More than 500 farmers died in this agitation but not even once they (BJP state unit) say anything," he said."Congress, SAD, AAP all extended their support to the farmers. Why did the BJP's Punjab unit not stand in support of the farmers? We could have said while the Centre may take any decision, we are with the farmers," he added.According to the show-cause notice issued to Joshi on Tuesday, the Punjab BJP asked him to explain within two days as to why disciplinary action should not be taken against him for his "anti-party" activities.Sharma said Joshi has been making statements against the Union government, party's central leadership and policies and they are tantamount to anti-party activities.Joshi had said it would be difficult for BJP leaders to step out of their homes if the farmers' issues are not resolved. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-bjp-gave-centre-incorrect-feedback-on-farm-laws-unit-chief-should-resign-ex-minister-anil-joshi-279549
07-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Picture of Kapil Sharma with Dilip Kumar and wife Saira Banu leaves internet in tears; have a look||Dilip Kumar passed away on Wednesday after battling a long illness. He was 98. As soon as the news broke out, B-town celebs paid tribute to the veteran actor. Comedian-turned-actor Kapil Sharma shared a throwback picture on his Instagram account and mourned the loss of the legendary actor. Kapil—who is a big fan of the actor—shared a picture of himself with Dilip Kumar and his wife Saira Banu.In the snapshot, the 'Mughal-E-Azam' actor was seen sitting with his wife Saira, while Kapil is standing behind the couple. With smiles on their faces, all three of them are looking at the camera. Sharing the picture, Kapil wrote: “#omshanti #ripdilipkumar ji #legend #dilipkumar (sic).”Here's the post:A post shared by Kapil Sharma (@kapilsharma)The veteran actor will be buried at Juhu Qabrastan at 5 pm today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/picture-of-kapil-sharma-with-dilip-kumar-and-wife-saira-banu-leaves-internet-in-tears-have-a-look-279533
07-07-2021||Bathinda||Manpreet Badal meets Rajnath Singh; seeks setting up of two more Sainik Schools in Punjab||Punjab Finance minister Manpreet Badal on Wednesday met Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and sought two more Sainik Schools in Punjab at Gurdaspur and Bathinda.Hon’ble Minister appreciated the role played by Punjabis and Sikhs in the defense of national security and the defense of India’s social and cultural values.  He also sought a NOC the from Defence Ministry for establishing a Bus Terminus at Bathinda. A request for NOC has already been submitted to the Ministry, said Badal.Met Union Defence Minister Hon’ble @rajnathsingh Ji and sought 2 more Sainik Schools in Punjab at Gurdaspur and Bathinda.Also sought NOC from Defence Ministry for establishing a Bus Terminus at Bathinda. Request for NOC has already been submitted to the Ministry. pic.twitter.com/dH0hI71fvl  Badal invited Rajnath Singh to visit the Punjab War Heroes Memorial and Museum at Amritsar, which the Punjab government has established at the cost of 144 crores.Badal said Singh appreciated the role played by Punjabis and Sikhs in the defence of national security and the defence of India’s social and cultural values.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/manpreet-badal-meets-rajnath-singh-seeks-setting-up-of-two-more-sainik-schools-in-punjab-279521
07-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh/Mumbai||Dharmendra breaks down at 'brother' Dilip Kumar's funeral, meets him one last time; says 'Jannat naseeb ho, sahab ko'||Veteran actor Dharmendra took to social media on Wednesday to mourn the demise of Bollywood legend Dilip Kumar, who passed away early in the day at the age of 98.Dharmendra wrote in an Instagram post: "Extremely sad to lose my most affectionate brother in the industry. Jannat naseeb ho, Hamare Dalip Sahab ko (May he rest in heaven)."A post shared by Dharmendra Deol (@aapkadharam)   Earlier in the day, the 85-year-old actor visited Dilip Kumar's residence to pay his last respect to the deceased and offer condolences to his family.Dharmendra was seen folding his hands in a namaste to the paparazzi clicking his pictures as he left.Dharmendra has shared the screen with Dilip Kumar in the Bengali film "Paari" and its Hindi remake "Anokha Milan".A post shared by Viral Bhayani (@viralbhayani)  A post shared by Viral Bhayani (@viralbhayani)  Before Dharmendra, Shabana Azmi also visited Dilip Kumar and Saira Banu's home. She arrived in her car immediately after Saira Banu reached her home with Dilip Kumar's mortal remains.A post shared by Viral Bhayani (@viralbhayani)  Several other B-town celebs are expected to arrive soon.Also read:Earlier in the day, Dharmendra's wife, veteran actress Hema Malini took to social media to remember Dilip Kumar."Veteran actor, exemplary role model for all heroes,my respected co star in Kranti, Dilip Kumar ji, is no more. I recall a couple of visits to his house & the pleasant meetings I had with him & Saira ji. My heart goes out to Saira ji, his life partner of many years, for this loss," Hema Malini had tweeted. Veteran actor, exemplary role model for all heroes,my respected co star in Kranti, Dilip Kumar ji, is no more.I recall a couple of visits to his house & the pleasant meetings I had with him & Saira ji. My heart goes out to Saira ji, his life partner of many years, for this loss pic.twitter.com/rf706RKJpu  Dilip Kumar was hospitalised twice in June after he complained of breathing issues. After being diagnosed with bilateral pleural effusion and getting the proper treatment done, Dilip Kumar was discharged on June 11. — With IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dharmendra-breaks-down-at-brother-dilip-kumars-funeral-meets-him-one-last-time-says-jannat-naseeb-ho-sahab-ko-279512
07-07-2021||In a conversation with The Tribune’s Ravi S Singh||Vested interests launched misinformation campaign, tried to mislead farmers: Anurag Thakur||Q: The country has seen turbulence since CAA, what with long spells of agitation, followed by farmers’ agitation. In a country driven by groups and lobbies with vested interests, how big is the impact of the periodic agitations in the country?A: Vested interest groups launched a misinformation campaign and attempted to mislead farmers. People with malicious intentions will never succeed in disrupting the peace and harmony of India.The Narendra Modi government has worked for the betterment of the agricultural sector as a whole and towards the goal of doubling the farmer’s income. Since the inception of the PM-KISAN scheme, we have disbursed a total of Rs 1,35,000 crores directly into their bank accounts. This amount is higher than any loan waiver amounts that few state governments announce during their election campaigns.We have announced record procurement of Rabi and Kharif crops during the current year. Over 432.48 LMT of Wheat has been procured which is an all-time high figure and 45.06 lakh farmers have already benefitted from the ongoing Rabi Marketing Season procurement operations with MSP value of INR 85,413 crores.It is worth noting that this money has been directly transferred into the bank accounts of the farmers without any leakages or cuts and it is the first time this has happened in Punjab which is a historic achievement in itself.We are also procuring record paddy with purchase of over 805.21 LMT of paddy till now with about 119.42 lakh farmers benefitting from the Kharif Marketing Season procurement operations of INR 1,52,022.37 crores.We have also increased the existing fertiliser subsidy from INR 27,000 crores to INR 42,275 crores in FY 2021-22.Let me add, we have been democratic with the consultation process, prior to bringing the bringing the bills in the House and also by inviting them during the recent agitations. The historic farm laws will benefit every single farmer of this nation and there are few stakeholder groups who are protesting these laws because of their sinister interests.Q: PM’s thrust is on Rural Development with a large number of social welfare intervention schemes like Swachh Bharat-Gramin, Jal Jeevan Mission, Jan Dhan, etc. How will this overall help the economy? Can you name some States which have shown signs of progress in their economy?A: The schemes we have announced have a major thrust on rural development and our goal is the upliftment of people out of poverty. All of our socio-economic schemes are formulated with this vision and target in mind.Whether it is Ujjwala Yojana, PM Jan Dhan Yojana, Swachh Bharat Mission, PM Awas Yojana or the Jal Jeevan Mission, we are always striving to create better livelihood for our citizens and to bridge the gap between the classes. We have expanded job opportunities for the youth. Our cleanliness drive has created more toilets that were missing since the last 70 years. From food security to housing, from job creation to healthcare, from financial inclusion to insurance - we have adopted a holistic approach towards social welfare. Every initiative has a multiplier effect, on the individuals welfare and society as a whole. Further, it has ensured transparency, deliverability and accountability within the system.Q: Government has rationalised the 44 labour laws into four Codes. Will this promote industrial peace as majority of the Central Trade Unions, especially Left-leaning ones says the four Codes were rushed and passed in Parliament?A: The historic consolidation of the 44 labour laws under 4 categories was seen as a much needed and a long-pending reform. These laws were discussed thoroughly in the committee meetings and then in both houses of Parliament.They will lead to Ease of Doing Business as the archaic labour regulations were not fit for an India Inc of the 21st Century. This will help us attract investments and we can promote India as a one- stop destination for investment, manufacturing and exports.Q: Atmanirbahar Bharat is a mantra given by the PM. Can you please quantify and also make qualitative assessment of the implementation of PM’s call?A: AtmaNirbhar Bharat is not just a vision but a strategic goal with a clearly defined roadmap. The reforms announced last year are in that direction, each on of them will have a multiplier effect on various sectors. Our motto of Vocal for Local aims to project Indian enterprises, entrepreneurs at the global level through their products and services.We have begun reaping the benefits of AtmaNirbhar Bharat, even during COVID, India transformed from an importer of PPEs and masks to amongst the worlds largest exporters.Further, we announced the creation of an Agriculture Infrastructure Fund to the tune of INR 1 lakh crore which will fund farm-gate infrastructure and aggregation points. We approved the PLI scheme in 10 key sectors with a total proposed outlay of INR 1.97 lakh crore over the next 5 years. Some of the sectors in which the PLI scheme has been started are Textiles, Electronics Manufacturing, Specialty Steel, Food Processing etc. We rolled out the Faceless Assessment Scheme which will eliminate the human interface between the taxpayer and the income-tax departmentQ: The Opposition says the Government has failed to manage the Covid pandemic, especially the third wave. Is the government exchequer full enough to soak in the possible third wave of the pandemic which is predicted by experts?A: The Opposition has first questioned India’s vaccines, then spread vaccine hesitancy, indulged in rampant wastage and later miserably failed to vaccinate the population in their respective states. Modi government has taken all measures to ensure vaccine accessibility and provided the vaccines to everyone free of cost. The growing momentum of the vaccination program will further bring normalcy and economic revival.Along with RBI’s support, we have ensured that liquidity is not a concern for our businesses, especially MSMEs. Last week, we revised the guidelines for MSMEs with inclusion of retail and wholesale trade as MSMEs which will benefit 2.5 crore retail and wholesale traders.Q: In your assessment, name one model of governance of Modi- dispensation which is markedly different from non-BJP government.A: Our Government’s hallmark is transparency and accountability. Unlike the previous UPA regime, there has been no corruption in this government, projects are delivered on time and there is zero leakage. With the massive digitalisation that is underway, we have ensured various documentations are uploaded online, processed in a time bound manner and approved. The bidding process is also online now with e-tendering. Further, we have taken several steps such as geo-tagging of MGNREGA projects and linking of Jan Dhan accounts with the Aadhaar number which brings transparency to governance.Q: Prime Minister Narendra Modi has set a target to make India a five trillion-dollar economy by 2025. Now, is the target realistic in the backdrop of a dip in the economy due to Covid lockdowns and turbulence?A: We remain committed towards making India a US$ 5 trillion economy despite the challenges posed by the global pandemic. After the first wave hit, we bounced back remarkably and from October to April, we were showing improvement in all sectors. Even as the second wave recedes in terms of case load, we are again seeing green shoots and growth in various metrics. This is a sign of a resilient India and a testament to India’s entrepreneurial spirit and zeal.Q: Is there any silver lining visible with regard to efforts to revive the economy?A: Our macroeconomic indicators remain fundamentally strong and are capable of withholding any exogenous shocks. We are carrying out the universal vaccination program at a remarkable pace which will aid the economic recovery. We recorded 8 consecutive months of INR 1 lakh plus collection in the GST figures, we saw an increase of 66 per cent in the direct tax collection year on year. The demand of power, automobiles, steel all show an uptick and I am confident of India’s recovery to be quick and buoyant.Q: There are upcoming crucial elections, including UP and Punjab.What are BJP’s prospects, and why?A: Our prospects look extremely promising in the upcoming elections. Especially the way in which the Hon’ble CM of Uttar Pradesh, Shri Yogi Adityanath ji has handled the pandemic situation in the second wave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vested-interests-launched-misinformation-campaign-tried-to-mislead-farmers-anurag-thakur-279499
07-07-2021||Amritsar||Shiv Sena leader Sudhir Suri booked in Amritsar for hurting Sikh sentiments||Meanwhile, Gate Hakima police booked Bhupinder Singh of Gurbax Nagar for hurting sentiments of Hindus. Hardeep Sharma in his complaint said he was national president of Youth Taksali Hindu Shiv Sena. The accused posted a video on social media, in which he used objectionable words against Hindu gods and goddess. SHO Gate Hakima police said a case under Sections 295-A, 153-A and 506 of the IPC and Section 67-B of the IT Act was registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shiv-sena-leader-sudhir-suri-booked-in-amritsar-for-hurting-sikh-sentiments-279473
07-07-2021||Gurbaxpuri||Naushehra Pannuan: Marginal farmer’s son makes it to IAF as Flying Officer||Tarn Taran, July 6Son of a marginal farmer from Chaudhariwala village (Naushehra Pannuan) in Tarn Taran district has been commissioned as a Flying Officer in the Indian Air Force.Adesh Parkash Singh Pannu is a student of NDA preparatory academy Nishan-e-Sikhi, Khadoor Sahib, Tarn Taran. He belongs to a marginal farming family. His father Amarbeer Singh Pannu serves in the SGPC and mother is a government schoolteacher. He got his primary education from a private school in the village. The proud father said: “My son is quite mature and had the zeal to serve the nation at a very young age. I have been proud of him and will always be.”Colonel Kulbir Singh Puri, a retired group officer of the academy, said Adesh, apart from clearing his Class XII, was trained at Nishan-e-Sikhi Institute of Science and Training (NDA preparatory wing).The 19-year-old boy was commissioned as a Flying Officer in the Indian Air Force during the combined graduation parade held at the Air Force Academy, Dundigal, on June 19.Adesh cleared the NDA exam in March 2017 for the Air Force and joined the National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, Pune, in May 2017 as course batch 138. The passing-out parade was held on May 30, 2020, after the completion of the three-year training.He joined the Indian Air Force Academy, Dundigal, Hyderabad, Telangana, in June 2020, for further training, where he was commissioned as a Flying Officer. Nishan-e-Sikhi, Khadoor Sahib is being run under International Environmentalist Baba Sewa Singh, head of the Kar Sewa sect.UPSC guidance at Nishan-e-Sikhi soonNishan-e-Sikhi, under the chairmanship of International Environmentalist Baba Sewa Singh, head of Kar Sewa sect, Khadoor Sahib, is going to start a preparatory centre for the civil services at Khadoor Sahib village with an aim to prepare students for the Union Public Service Commission-related exams.Avtar Singh Bajwa, secretary of the institute, said the sect has been working in the field of education since 1970 with several educational institutions. Admissions to the course is going on and final date for the registration is July 11. Nishan-e-Sikhi also runs an NDA wing, from where 19 students were selected in the armed forces as officers. With the new initiative, the civil services aspirants will get the much-needed study material at their doorstep.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/naushehra-pannuan-marginal-farmers-son-makes-it-to-iaf-as-flying-officer-279375
07-07-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Wheelchair-bound education provider seeks pay parity||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 6Karamveer (36), a wheelchair-bound education provider, who teaches in a government school in Shahkot block, earns meager Rs 8,000 per month. He has done postgraduation in history, political science, MSc IT and BEd.Despite being physically challenged, Karamveer goes to Chandigarh to protest against the state government and seek hike in salary. On Tuesday, he led the protest, where he claimed to have suffered an injury during a tussle between the police and education providers.“Asi jo salary vadhaun layi kehne haan, oh ameer hon layi nai kehnde, te na hi car, kothi lain layi kehnde haan, asi sirf eh chahne haan ki saade ghar de kharche chalan (We don’t ask to increase our salaries because we want to become rich, or want to buy cars and bungalows, we want our basic necessities to get fulfilled),” he said.Karamveer’s tale puts light on the sufferings and lives of other education providers, who have been seeking hike in their salaries.Education providers earn Rs 6,000 to Rs 10,000 per month. “I have octogenarian parents and siblings to look after. I am a sole earning member in my family. Can you imagine my ordeal?” he said.Karamveer said because of this paltry salary, no one wants to marry off their daughter to him. “They say that I don’t earn much and already have a big family to feed,” he said.He asked where is democracy? “Edda di zillat di zindagi nalo, maut vadiya hai. (If we protest, they attack us. This is what the government does to its citizens,” Karamveer rued. “Just look at the inflation. Everything is costly. How is someone supposed to survive on Rs8,000 per month,” he said.The education providers’ struggle for regularisation of jobs seems unending as they have been protesting for several years. Kuldeep Singh, president of the union, said they teach students like permanent teachers, but were paid paltry sum when compared to the latter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wheelchair-bound-education-provider-seeks-pay-parity-279369
07-07-2021||---||Power outage: Bizmen suffering Rs 500 cr loss per day||Jalandhar, July 6The decision of the state government to extend the power shutdown for large-scale industries for three more days has come as a rude shock for the industrialists of the region.Members of the Focal Point Extension Association on Tuesday wrote to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and MLA Jalandhar North Bawa Henry apprising him of the huge losses due to power outages in industry.As the power situation continues to remain grim in Punjab, large-scale industries have been asked to shut down operations for another three days till July 10. The orders for extending the power restrictions on large-scale industries, using over 100 KW of load, in Central, North and West zones were issued by Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) late Monday night. The power shutdown in the industry had already been imposed for the past three days.President of the association Narinder Sagoo, said, “Industry and trade of Punjab is going through very tough times from a very long time. This is very crucial time for the survival of the industry. In this crucial time which was to be used for survival, power cuts are creating panic in the Industry.”He added, “Industry needs power to be able to manufacture and give employment to workers and daily wage earners. Also industry has to supply their products as per their contracts and any delay would incur penalties. Even in the absence of power, industry needs to pay all their expenses for manufacturing. But due to power cuts, the Industry overall had to bear loss of more than Rs 500 crores per day. All this would impact the revenue model of Punjab also.”He has further mentioned, “As per the data, power is abundantly available in the neighbouring states. The government needs to urgently consider getting electricity from them to provide electricity to the industry for its survival. Also, small industries have electricity connection of less than or equal to 500 KVA should be allowed to run at every expense for survival in this tough environment.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/power-outage-bizmen-suffering-rs-500-cr-loss-per-day-279374
07-07-2021||---||Congress chief’s decision to be acceptable: Capt Amarinder Singh||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 6In the middle of an ongoing exercise to resolve factional wars in the poll-bound Punjab, state Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday met party president Sonia Gandhi and said whatever she decided on the issue would be acceptable to him.Key role likely for SidhuBittu, Verka meet CMLudhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu and MLA Raj Kumar Verka met the CM at his residence and backed his leadership. Bittu said, “Capt Amarinder is the party’s face for five years and we will fight elections under him.” Verka also backed the CM and said a resolution to the Punjab issue would be found soon.After a nearly 80-minute meeting with Sonia at her 10 Janpath residence, the CM said the party was “geared up for the 2022 Assembly elections.”“Whatever decisions the Congress president takes, we will implement in Punjab. The decisions she takes on anything — the party or the government — will be acceptable to us and we will implement them,” said Amarinder, who has earlier held two meetings with the AICC panel that Sonia had constituted to resolve the issue. Asked if the role of former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu was discussed today, the CM said, “I do not know anything about Mr Sidhu. We only discussed government’s work. Political issues were also discussed.”Sonia had also called AICC Punjab panel chairman Mallikarjun Kharge for the meeting where, sources said, “the roadmap for the future was discussed though ultra-specific formulations do not appear to have come up”.The CM is also said to have informed Sonia of the steps he was taking to implement the 18 poll promises of the party and expand people’s outreach, as earlier advised by the AICC panel.The sources said Sonia heard the CM on the impending reshuffle and would now take a decision after considering all the inputs before her.“The meeting was also meant to give the impression that the leadership was available to the Chief Minister since Rahul and Priyankaji had met Mr Sidhu recently. The idea is to find a way in which principal political factors are duly considered, including caste and community combinations, in the allocation of responsibilities in the party and the government,” said a source.An AICC functionary said the attempt was to bring about a workable arrangement between the CM and Sidhu and balance the aspirations of the traditional Congress. The CM’s stand on “no PCC chief post to Sidhu” was also stated, the sources added.“The CM expressed his views on various issues and was heard. The ball is now in Congress chief’s court,” a source said, adding that Sonia has a very complex balancing act to strike.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-chiefs-decision-to-be-acceptable-capt-amarinder-singh-279348
07-07-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Veteran athlete Mann Kaur racing against time||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 6“Old age is like a plane flying through a storm. Once you’re aboard, there’s nothing you can do,” these words from former Israeli Prime Minister Golda Meir say a lot about the struggles of centenarians when they start living with a deadly disease.No one had ever thought that 105-year-old Mann Kaur, the veteran athlete who holds world record in various events in the 100 plus age category, despite following a healthy lifestyle and strict diet would one day be in the grip of cancer.Mann was diagnosed with gall bladder and liver cancers in February. The centenarian is on liquid diet and has been pulling through the disease with the help of homeopathic medicines, as operation is not an option for the people of her age, said her 82-year-old son Gurdev Singh. Gurdev claimed he had approached Kayakalp Himalayan Institute for Yoga & Naturopathy, Palampur (Himachal Pradesh), and Sanjeevani Kaya Shodhan Sansthan, Gohana (Haryana), for her mother’s treatment “but they refused, probably due to her age”.“Things have been tough. We don’t need any monetary help, but if these centres can help her recover (Mann) through naturopathy, it will be great. As of now, she is doing fine with the homeopathy medicines,” said Gurdev.When contacted, one of the office bearers at Sanjeevani Kaya Shodhan Sansthan said they didn’t take patients over 70 years of age, while the Palampur-based institute has mentioned on their website that they don’t provide treatment to patients suffering from AIDS, cancer, acute cardiac diseases, tuberculosis and infectious diseases.Asked about treating Mann through allopathy, Gurdev said: “Some representatives of a pharmaceutical company visited us. They offered us a machine which works on body cells, it’s like modern chemotherapy. The machine costs around Rs1.5 lakh. However, considering her achievements, they offered us to give it for Rs70,000. I am still in discussion with them.”Pandemic hit her hardMann’s journey||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/veteran-athlete-mann-kaur-racing-against-time-279157
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Pearl Company’s land near Ludhiana's Cycle Valley sold despite Supreme Court order: AAP||AAP MLA and kisan wing state president Kultar Singh Sandhwan today alleged that despite the Supreme Court stay on the sale and purchase of Pearl Company’s properties, land near Cycle Valley in Ludhiana was being sold by political leaders and higher officials.Sandhwan, accompanied by MLAs Jai Kishan Singh Rodi and Amarjit Singh Sandoa, claimed like the Badals, CM Capt Amarinder Singh was defending the management of the company that “looted” crores of rupees from 30 lakh families in Punjab.Sandhwan said company officials allegedly invested people’s hard-earned money in their firm and purchased lands without returning a single penny to them. Neither the Akali regime nor the Congress government took steps to ensure money was returned to the people. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pearl-companys-land-near-ludhianas-cycle-valley-sold-despite-supreme-court-order-aap-279311
07-07-2021||Bathinda||Farmers block access to Bathinda DAC||Members of the BKU Sidhupur today continued their protest for the second consecutive day, with farmers blocking the entry and exit points of the district administration complex (DAC) here.They are seeking implementation of assurances given by the government during their protest at Jaito over a year ago.Union leader Resham Singh Yatri said they had initiated the Jaito protest against penalties imposed on farmers over the burning of stubble and other farming issues. During the protest, a farmer, Jagsir Singh of Kaura Kotra village in Bathinda, had committed suicide.A meeting was held in which Capt Sandeep Sandhu from the Punjab Government assured a government job for a family member, compensation and loan waiver.Yatri said despite the assurance, no job or compensation had been given to the family, prompting the farmers to restart their protest. With the farmers blocking the GT Road outside the DC’s office, commuters have been facing a lot of inconvenience. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-block-access-to-bathinda-dac-279310
07-07-2021||Moga||SAD men booked for halting traffic in Baghapurana||The Moga police have registered an FIR under Sections 283 (causing danger, obstruction or injury to any person in any public way or public line of navigation) and 188 (disobedience to the order promulgated by public servant) of the IPC against SAD district president Tirath Singh Mahla, 22 other local Akali leaders and 150 unknown party workers for staging a protest at Baghapurana town on the allegations of violating the prohibitory orders issued in the wake of Covid and disrupting traffic on the highway.Led by Mahla, SAD workers staged a protest on Saturday evening demanding legal action against local Congress MLA Darshan Singh Brar, his sons Kamaljit Brar and Gurjant Brar for alleged illegal mining. Investigating officer Jagsir Singh said the Akalis disrupted traffic causing disturbance to the commuters due to which the case has been registered against them. Moreover, they also violated the prohibitory orders issued in wake of Covid by the District Magistrate. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-men-booked-for-halting-traffic-in-baghapurana-279309
07-07-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Mansa villages bar leaders’ entry||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, July 6With political parties intensifying activities ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections, farmers in the Malwa region have put up boycott banners outside villages to protest against the leaders.Farmers of Mansa Khurd village in the district have put up boycott banners under the banner of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) at the entry points so that no leader or worker of any political party visits the area. They have also written that no political banner or wall painting will be allowed in the village till the “black” farm laws are not repealed.Ram Singh Bhianibagha, Mansa district president, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), said: “People are angry with the parties as the farm agitation is going on at Delhi borders, but leaders are playing vote bank politics for the 2022 elections due to which we have decided to boycott them.”Meanwhile, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) state secretary Shingara Singh Mann said: “People are angry over the working of all political parties. Our organisation has not issued any specific directions but there is a complete ban on the entry of BJP leaders in the villages.”Earlier, residents of several Bathinda villages had put up boards barring the entry of political leaders until the three laws are repealed.A BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leader said: “In many villages, residents have unanimously decided to rise above the party lines and ban the entry of all political leaders.” They have also decided to bar anyone indulging in the election campaign from entering their village, saying political parties have done little on the ground level to safeguard the interest of farmers.Abohar Farmers gherao BJP leaders’ officesAbohar: BKU activists on Tuesday gheraoed the Circular Road offices of former BJP legislator Dr Ram Kumar Goyal and his son Shivraj Goyal (ex-president of the Municipal Council), who had organised a rally of OBCs at Chuhariwala Dhanna village to sound bugle for the next year elections. Farmers also gheraoed a neighbouring premises after learning that BJP workers were celebrating the birthday of Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, the founder of Jansangh. A heavy police force was deployed to ensure the law and order. The BKU said the BJP wouldn’t be allowed to hold events until the farm laws were scrapped. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mansa-villages-bar-leaders-entry-279308
07-07-2021||---||Now, protesting PWD workers threaten to stop water supply throughout Punjab||Patiala, July 6Workers of five government departments associated with the PWD Field and Workshop Workers’ Union Punjab have threatened to shut water supply throughout the state from July 21 in the face of their pending demands.The workers have been demanding regularisation of jobs of Class 3 and 4 workers of the departments, revised salary scales as per demands, implementation of old pension scheme and recognition of Class 4 employees as technical workers with technical grade pay among others.Union members during a meeting on Tuesday said they had decided to hold protests for an undefined time. Patiala wing general secretary Lakhwinder Singh said the workers would burn effigies of the state government at all offices of the Public Works Department (PWD) throughout the state on Wednesday. “If our demands are not met, we will hold a protest march toward the CM residence on July 13. Later, we will shut water supply from all overhead water tanks in all cities and villages across the state for an undefined time in protest against the government over our pending demands from July 21.”Union state general secretary Anil Kumar said: “Our employees have been working with the department for past 20-30 years. Some employees are on contract, others are outsourced and they are paid meagre amounts. All, nearly 20,000 workers of the five departments, will go on strike over our demands.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-protesting-pwd-workers-threaten-to-stop-water-supply-throughout-punjab-279307
07-07-2021||Bathinda||Staff: Amend pay panel’s report||Opposing the 6th Pay Commission report, members of the Punjab State Ministerial Services Union (PSMSU) staged a protest outside the district administrative complex here today.PSMSU chairman Megh Singh Sidhu addressing the protesters, said the employees across the state would go on a pen-down strike and block roads in the coming days if the government failed to amend the order. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/staff-amend-pay-panels-report-279305
07-07-2021||Mohali||Jobless teachers face lathicharge, water cannon in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Police on Tuesday used tear gas shells and water cannon and resorted to lathicharge to prevent the protesting non-permanent unemployed teachers from heading towards Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s residence. At least 10 protesters, including women, and five cops were injured in the action.Hear them out: SADThe SAD on Tuesday flayed the lathicharge on agitating teachers at Mohali and asked CM Capt Amarinder Singh to listen to their grievances sympatheticallyUnemployed teachers, who had been protesting outside the Punjab School Education Board’s office in Mohali for more than three weeks, were on their way to Chandigarh to gherao the residence of Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh. They succeeded in crossing the barricades near the YPS crossing to enter the UT.The Chandigarh Police took action after the protesters started scaling the barricades set up to prevent their entry into the city. Earlier, on June 29, the non-permanent teachers tried to cross over to Chandigarh to gherao the CM’s residence. A few days ago, the Chandigarh Police failed to stop farmers who had also succeeded in breaking through the barricades.Drive against govtUnemployed members of five different unions under the banner of a joint front of unemployed will start “Expose Punjab Government” campaign in Sangrur villages from Wednesday.Meanwhile, the Mohali administration immediately shifted the injured protesters to the Civil Hospital. They were discharged after treatment. Deputy Commissioner Girish Dyalan said the meeting of teachers with the Education Minister, which was scheduled for today, was postponed till tomorrow due to some unavoidable reasons. Following which, the teachers started their march. “It will be ensured that the meeting takes place tomorrow,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-teachers-face-lathicharge-water-cannon-in-chandigarh-279304
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu: 300 free units of power no good if PPAs stay||As Capt Amarinder Singh met Congress president Sonia Gandhi in Delhi today, former Cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu once again took to Twitter saying the promise of 300 units of free power will have no meaning until the power purchase agreement (PPAs) are annulled.In a series of tweets, Sidhu said the faulty clauses in the PPAs were keeping Punjab bonded as the agreements bound the state to pay fixed charges for 100 percent production, whereas other states paid no more than 80 per cent. If the fixed charges were not paid, the cost of power would come down by Rs 1.20 per unit. Questioning the PPAs, he said the fixed charges in the agreements were based on four months of peak demand of 13,000 to 14,000 MW, whereas the demand for rest of the year was 5,000 to 6,000 MW.“Even more alarming! There is no provision for mandatory supply of power from these private power plants... Private plants keep finding loopholes to file litigation that has cost Punjab Rs 25,000 crore already,” he tweeted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-300-free-units-of-power-no-good-if-ppas-stay-279296
07-07-2021||Vishav Bharti||Anil Joshi defiant as BJP serves notice for ‘anti-party’ activity||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 6Taking a tough stance against those criticising the leadership publicly, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has issued a show-cause notice to former Cabinet minister Anil Joshi.In the notice, issued by party’s state unit general secretary Shubhash Sharma, it has been pointed out that Joshi had been issuing statements against the central as well as state leadership. “These activities are anti-party”, it said.Joshi has been given two days to explain as to why action should not be taken against him. As per a statement issued by the party, the notice had been served on Joshi on the directions of state unit president Ashwani Sharma.Calling it a conspiracy to end his career, the former Cabinet minister said though he would give a detailed reply to the notice, Sharma owed an answer to party workers on why the party had reached such a low point under his leadership.“I have always been a faithful soldier of the party. What wrong did I do? I just asked them to convey to the national leadership the ground reality. The present lot of the state leadership is insecure of my stature. It is a conspiracy to finish my career,” he said.He added Sharma should resign as under his leadership, the “party was on the verge of getting finished off in the state”. Sharma, however, refused to comment on the resignation demand made by Joshi.Last month, the BJP leaders had alleged there was no democracy in the saffron party. He had said workers and leaders were being snubbed in the garb of “negative talk” by the state leadership.All attempts by the BJP leadership to mollify a defiant Joshi have proved futile so far. His statements in public against the state leadership have caused much embarrassment to the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anil-joshi-defiant-as-bjp-serves-notice-for-anti-party-activity-279295
07-07-2021||---||Power crisis in Punjab: Large units told to stay shut till July 10||Chandigarh, July 6As Punjab grapples with rising temperature, delayed monsoon and an unprecedented demand for power, restrictions on power-intensive industry have been extended further.This has sparked a debate in the state with industry and trade questioning the government on “sacrificing industry at the altar of farmer politics”. With operations remaining shut for four days and unscheduled power cuts imposed for two days, industry has incurred huge loss, which is likely to hit the state’s economy hard.As power situation continues to remain grim, large scale industry has been asked to shut operations till July 10. The orders for extending the power restrictions on the large scale industry, using over 100 KW load, in Central, North and West zones were issued by Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) late last night.The continuous supply industry has also been asked to use just 50 per cent of the sanctioned load/contracted load, from July 8-18.These units are so far allowed to use just 30 per cent of the contracted load.“Even as the PSPCL continues to cater to the increase in agriculture load, the industrial economy is clearly going for a six because of power restrictions,” says AK Kohli, a Phagwara-based tools exporter and senior vice-president, Punjab Chamber of Small Exporters.“Though the forced shutdown on industry ended yesterday, the numerous unscheduled power cuts of 30 minutes each are making it difficult to run operations smoothly. Earlier, industry would rue about costly power, now it’s only about power availability,” he adds.Industrialists are worried that they will not be able to complete their orders in time and in this highly competitive environment and economic downturn could end up losing business. “For a unit having 50 workers, the per day loss is estimated at Rs 35,000. For how long can we sustain amid such losses? Should industry be sacrificed at the altar of vote bank politics?” says Badish Jindal, president, Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association.Many small and medium enterprises are actually flouting the restrictions and operating their units by drawing power, saying it is cheaper to give the penalty to PSPCL than to incur losses on account of no production.The state’s power average demand in this paddy season has increased to 14,500 MW, while the supply has remained static at 13,200 MW. As the daily gap hovers between 1,300-1,500 MW, the state power utility has little option but to impose cuts on industry and on domestic and commercial consumers.RS Sachdeva, a prominent industrialist and mentor of PHD Chamber, says: “Units making raw materials are located in different zones. With each zone having restrictions at different points of time, the entire supply chain is disrupted and industry will either lose out its orders or spend money on paying delayed delivery charges.”Industry questions govt move||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/power-crisis-in-punjab-large-units-told-to-stay-shut-till-july-10-279294
07-07-2021||---||Kotkapura police firing: Ex-DGP Sumedh Saini, SSP Charanjit say no to brain mapping, lie detector tests||Faridkot, July 6Former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and ex-SSP Charanjit Singh today refused to undergo polygraph, brain electrical activation profile and narco analysis tests in connection with the Kotkapura police firing incident.However, suspended IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal has agreed to the SIT request, but as per the Supreme Court guidelines.In its application before the court on June 11, the newly formed Special Investigation Team (SIT) had claimed that the suspects were evasive in their reply on the core issues during the investigation, so they needed to undergo the tests for the probe to proceed further.As an individual can’t be forcibly subjected to these tests, the court issued a notice to the three suspects and the trio responded today.In their reply to the SIT application, the counsels for Saini and Charanjit Singh told the court about unwillingness of their clients to undergo the tests.However, Umranangal’s counsel submitted that the tests would be expectedly carried out under complete privacy in comfortable surroundings in a laboratory disclosed to the IGP in advance with an assurance about the drugs to be induced during the narco analysis test to satisfy the IGP for any side effects as he was a patient of hypertension, diabetes and cardiac problems.“There should be no use of banned substances such as scopolamine and sodium amytal and the IGP must be provided a language interpreter during these tests in order to avoid any communication gap,” said his counsel in his application.The case has been adjourned until July 9.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-police-firing-ex-dgp-sumedh-saini-ssp-charanjit-say-no-to-brain-mapping-lie-detector-tests-279184
07-07-2021||Muktsar||With 10K doses, vaccination resumes in Muktsar today||The vaccination drive, which was suspended on Monday after the stocks dried up, is set to resume from Wednesday. A health official said they had sent a vehicle to Chandigarh to bring the stock. “We are expected to get 10,000 doses of vaccine,” he said. Meanwhile, health officials today held meetings to resume the drive tomorrow. CMODr Ranju Singla said camps would be set up at various places tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/with-10k-doses-vaccination-resumes-in-muktsar-today-279185
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Reserve five seats for Sikhs in J&K: SAD||The SAD today urged the Jammu and Kashmir Union Territory Delimitation Commission to reserve five seats for members of the Sikh community in the Union Territory Legislative Assembly.Party senior leader and former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra handed over a letter written by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal to Delimitation Commission Chairman Justice Ranjana Prakash Desai (retd) in Srinagar today. The SAD has urged the commission to consider reserving three seats for the Sikh community in Jammu and two seats in Srinagar. The commission assured to consider the demand sympathetically, a SAD press release said.In the letter, Sukhbir said: “Several times, the Sikhs were promised that they would reserve a definite number of seats for members of the community in the J&K legislature on the pattern of the Anglo-Indian community in Parliament and State Assemblies. Sadly, the then Congress government did not honour any of the promises made to the Sikh community post-Partition”.Meanwhile, Chandumajra while apprising the Commission members about the entire issue said the Sikh community had a rich historical and cultural association with J&K. He said J&K was at one time part of the Sikh empire. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/reserve-five-seats-for-sikhs-in-jk-sad-279186
07-07-2021||Balwant Garg||Kotkapura MC president election deferred for 5th time in four months||Tribune News ServiceKotkapura, July 6Over four-month delay in the election of the Kotkapura Municipal Council (MC) president due to factionalism within the ruling party today witnessed more drama when two of the 29 councillors climbed atop a water tank and threatened to immolate themselves if the president election were held today.The protesting councillors were from one of two rival groups of the Congress in the town. “Our leader is admitted to the PGIMER, Chandigarh, after he met with an accident. We will not allow elections to take place in his absence,” said one of the councillors atop the tank. It was for the fifth time today that the councillors had met to choose the president in the past four-and-a-half months, but due to intense rivalry between two leaders — who are aspiring for the Congress party ticket from Kotkapura for the forthcoming Assembly poll — the election was postponed.The MC has 29 councillors — 21 from the Congress, five Independent and three from SAD. The president’s post is reserved for Backward Class. Kotkapura SDM Mandeep Kaur said: “The decision to postpone the poll was taken as per the suggestion of the Advocate General as the issue is pending in the HC.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-mc-president-election-deferred-for-5th-time-in-four-months-279187
07-07-2021||---||Key suspect among 3 held for Batala murders||Batala, July 6The police have arrested three persons, including the main accused, for killing four members of a youth’s family at Balarwal village of Batala.A team led by Tejbir Singh Hundal, SP (Investigation), arrested prime accused Sukhjinder Singh, his wife Kulwinder Kaur and relative Jatinder Singh. The revolver used in the crime has also been recovered.SSP Rachpal Singh said Sukhjinder was arrested from a secluded place on the banks of the Beas. “He neither used a mobile phone nor a vehicle. He had six live cartridges and wanted to gun down more members of Harmandeep’s family. To dodge the cops, he made an isolated spot on the banks of the Beas as his hideout. But he was spotted by some Gujjars who informed us,” the SSP added.The police, however, said the accused family alleged that all four deceased had political enmity with them, a claim refuted by the SSP.“The fact is that Harmandeep sexually molested a 15-year-old girl, a Class X student, at a tubewell on the village outskirts. At the break of dawn, he let go of the girl and when she reached home her mother confronted her. When the girl told her about the incident, her father Sukhjinder got enraged and rushed to the tubewell with his licensed revolver. Seeing him, Harmandeep fled the scene,” the SSP added.Later, the youth’s father, Sukhwinder Singh, paternal uncle Jasbir Singh and grandfather Mangal Singh and Babaljit Singh, son of Mangal Singh’s youngest son, were shot dead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/key-suspect-among-3-held-for-batala-murders-279188
07-07-2021||---||High Court no to Kotkapura MC chief election||Chandigarh, July 6Just four days after a meeting was convened for today by the Kotkapura convener-cum-Sub Divisional Magistrate for administering oath to remaining elected members and holding elections for the Municipal Council president’s post, the Punjab and Haryana High Court limited the meeting to administration of oath.“It is directed that the conduct of business in the meeting called for today, pursuant to notification dated July 2, would be confined only with regard to administering oath of allegiance to the remaining elected members,” the Bench of Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice Vivek Puri ruled.The Bench was hearing a petition filed against the State of Punjab and other respondents by Savtantar Rai and other respondents through senior counsel Amit Jhanji with advocate Shashank Shekhar Sharma. At the very outset, Jhanji clarified that the challenge to the impugned notification was only with regard to the elections for the president’s post.The Bench was told that eight elected members attended a meeting on June 18. Senior vice-president and vice-president were elected, but president could not be elected as it was reserved for the Backward Class. No such candidate was present in the meeting. It was added that power was conferred upon the DC or any other person appointed by him to convene the council’s “first” and not any subsequent meeting. “The respondent does not have any jurisdiction to call for a subsequent meeting under Rule 3 of the Punjab Municipal Election Rules, 1994,” the Bench said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-no-to-kotkapura-mc-chief-election-279189
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab starts vaccination drive for protesting farmers at Tikri||The state health department today started a vaccination drive for farmers protesting at the Delhi borders for the past over seven months.A team of the department, including Mohali Civil Hospital Senior Medical Officer Dr Harminderjit Singh Cheema and community health officer Dr Manpreet Singh, was formed following the orders of the DC and the civil surgeon. The first dose was administered to Avtar Singh Sursing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-starts-vaccination-drive-for-protesting-farmers-at-tikri-279190
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Book Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu: Akalis to Punjab State SC commission||The SAD today urged the Punjab State Scheduled Caste Commission to order registration of a case against Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu for hurting the sentiments of the SC community with his recent “pious” seat remark.SAD leaders, led by ex-chief parliamentary secretary Pawan Kumar Tinu, met commission members and later said they were surprised that it had failed to do its duty by refusing to order Bittu’s arrest under the SC Prevention of Atrocities Act. They said the commission was the only hope for the oppressed, but it had become a tool of the Congress. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/book-ludhiana-mp-ravneet-singh-bittu-akalis-to-punjab-state-sc-commission-279191
07-07-2021||Ludhiana||4 with KLF links held for ‘planning’ targeted killings||The Khanna police claimed to have busted a module involved in targeting killings with the arrest of four of its members. The module was being operated by a Germany-based handler of the Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF).Arms and ammunition have also been recovered from the suspects. The four had planned to kill some prominent figures in Punjab, claimed the police.Those arrested included Jaswinder Singh and Jaspreet Singh Noopi, both of Kiratpur Sahib; Gaurav Jain Minku of Sirsa; and Prashant Silelan, alias Kabir, of Chandigarh.Khanna SSP Gursharandeep Singh Grewal said on July 4, a police team had signalled an Etios car to stop at a checkpoint near Pristine mall. The occupants allegedly opened fired at the police and tried to flee but Jaswinder and Gaurav were nabbed. Yesterday, Jaspreet and Parshant were arrested. Three pistols and two cartridges were recovered. The suspects confessed to having snatched the car from the Airport Road in Zirakpur on June 25 to commit the targeted killings.The SSP said Jaspreet was facing seven cases of murder, attempt to murder, robbery, etc. In 2017, he was lodged in the Patiala jail in a murder case, but fled along with two others in April this year.“A few months ago, Jaspreet came in contact with the KLF handler living in Germany. He instructed Jaspreet and his aides to disturb peace in Punjab by targeted killings. He also transferred funds to Jaspreet through Paytm and Western Union. Weapons were made available to him to kill some prominent persons of Punjab,” he claimed.Further probe in the case had been shifted to the Intelligence Wing of Punjab, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-with-klf-links-held-for-planning-targeted-killings-279192
07-07-2021||---||Punjab Police nabs 2 Army men for leaking info to ISI||Jalandhar, July 6The Punjab Police today busted a major cross-border espionage network with the arrest of two Army personnel on charges of spying and providing classified documents to the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) of Pakistan.Those arrested have been identified as Sepoy Harpreet Singh (23) from Cheecha village in Amritsar and Sepoy Gurbhej Singh (23), a native of Punian village in Tarn Taran.Harpreet, who was posted in Anantnag, joined the Army in 2017 and belonged to 19 Rashtriya Rifles, while Gurbhej belonged to 18 Sikh Light Infantry and was working as a clerk in Kargil. He had joined the Army in 2015.DGP Dinkar Gupta said the Jalandhar (Rural) police led by SSP Naveen Singla, while investigating an NDPS case, recovered confidential documents related to the functioning and deployment of the Army from cross-border drug smuggler Ranvir Singh, who was arrested with 70 gm heroin on May 24.He said during interrogation, Ranvir disclosed that he got the documents from Sepoy Harpreet Singh, a friend, as they both belonged to the same village. “Ranvir lured Harpreet with financial benefits for sharing defence documents, following which the latter induced his friend Gurbhej into spying activities,” he said, adding since Gurbhej was working as a clerk in 121 Infantry Brigade Headquarters in Kargil, he could get easy access to the classified documents containing both strategic and tactical information relating to the Army.He said the two had already shared photos of over 900 classified documents — pertaining to defence and national security — to Ranvir over a period of four months between February and May. Ranvir had further passed those on to Pakistan intelligence officers.The DGP said Ranvir used to send classified documents to either Pakistan ISI operatives directly or through Gopi, the main drug smuggler from Dauke village in Amritsar having links with Pakistan-based drug-smuggling syndicates and ISI officials.Following Ranvir’s disclosures, the police have arrested Gopi, who has confessed to having transferred classified documents to Pakistan drug smuggler, identified as Kothar and an alleged Pak ISI operative, Sikander, in lieu of supply of heroin and financial benefits, said the DGP.SSP Naveen Singla said the Army authorities had handed over both Army men to the Jalandhar (Rural) police.The drug connection||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-police-nabs-2-army-men-for-leaking-info-to-isi-279193
07-07-2021||New Delhi||Arms smuggler of Ferozepur arrested from UP's Meerut||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) today said it had arrested an arms trafficker, Gagandeep Singh of Ferozepur, from Meerut in Uttar Pradesh in connection with a case related to the extortion racket involving Khalistan terrorists in Moga district.NIA officials said probe revealed absconding accused Arshdeep Singh “is a close associate of Hardeep Singh Nijjar (a designated terrorist and chief of Khalistan Tiger Force)”. It was later found that Gagandeep was a “close associate” of Arshdeep, they added.“Gangandeep was involved in weapon smuggling and on Arshdeep’s directions had supplied arms, including 9 mm and country-made pistols, to the other arrested accused. The arms were further used in killing and extorting money from businessmen in Punjab,” a senior NIA official said.Gagandeep was later produced in a special NIA court in Mohali and sent him to eight-day custody.The case was originally registered by the Punjab Police in Moga after receiving information that Arshdeep, Charanjit Singh, alias Rinku, and Ramandeep Singh alias Jajj, all currently abroad, had formed a gang and were threatening and extorting money from people. Later, the NIA took over the probe in the case on June 10. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arms-smuggler-of-ferozepur-arrested-from-ups-meerut-279194
07-07-2021||New Delhi||Hizbul-Mujahideen narco-terror case: Drug trafficker lands in NIA net||The NIA today said it had arrested alleged drug trafficker Gurjant Singh, alias Ashish Gattu, from Amritsar in connection with the Hizbul-Mujahideen narco-terror case.Officials said he was arrested on Monday. During the course of investigation, the NIA team found that Gurjant “is a drug trafficker and was a close associate of the chargesheeted accused persons in the case”. “He used to purchase illegally smuggled heroin from other accused Bikramjit Singh and Sarwan Singh and sell it locally. The proceeds from the sale were sent to Kashmir and Pakistan through hawala,” said a senior agency official.Gurjant has been sent to four-day NIA custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hizbul-mujahideen-narco-terror-case-drug-trafficker-lands-in-nia-net-279195
07-07-2021||Bathinda||Six booked for illegal mining||A day after AAP leader Navdeep Singh Jeeda raised the illegal mining issue at Maiserkhana on social media, the police have booked six persons — Gurjant Singh, Jagmeet Singh, Sukhdev Singh, Baljit Singh, Gurjit Singh and Jagjit Singh.In a raid, Jagmeet has been arrested, while the rest fled the spot. The police have seized a poker line machine, which the farmer unions later got released. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/six-booked-for-illegal-mining-279196
07-07-2021||Saurabh Malik||Accused sitting abroad can’t seek fair probe: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 6The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that an accused sitting abroad can’t ask for a “fair and impartial probe” through remote control. Justice HS Madaan of the High Court also made it clear that joining of the probe was a precondition.Justice Madaan was hearing a petition filed by an accused facing the cheating and rape charges. Hailing from a Patiala village but residing in Canada, the petitioner had moved the court, seeking directions to the police authorities to conduct fair and impartial probe on the basis of a legal representation submitted through his counsel.The Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that the 28-year-old petitioner was an accused in an FIR registered in November 2019 under Sections 420 and 376, IPC, at Sohana police station.Justice Madaan asserted the petition, on the face of it, was totally misconceived and unwarranted. The petitioner, accused of serious offences of cheating and rape, had not joined the probe as admitted by his counsel. As such, the petitioner wanted the court to issue direction to the official respondents with regard to the carrying out of the probe without joining it.Justice Madaan added nothing on record was there to show that the investigation in the case was not being conducted in a fair or an impartial manner. “The petitioner is using novel method of himself remaining abroad while the FIR has been registered against him in India and sending a representation to the police authorities through his counsel making various allegations calling for conducting investigation in light thereof.”Justice Madaan added the proper course for the petitioner-accused was to join the probe and then apprise the investigating officer (IO) of his version. “He can’t remain abroad, not join the probe and submit a representation through his counsel.” “The petitioner can certainly not file such a petition finding faults with the probe in this manner. The petition is bound to fail and is dismissed accordingly,” he concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/accused-sitting-abroad-cant-seek-fair-probe-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-279197
07-07-2021||Amritsar||‘Saroop’ of Guru Granth Sahib forcibly taken away, SGPC files complaint against Satkar Committee members||A month after the ‘saroop’ of Guru Granth Sahib was forcibly taken away from a house for allegedly not following the ‘maryada’, the family along with the SGPC on Tuesday lodged a police complaint against the Satkar Committee members and an SHO, accused of patronising them.SGPC member Bibi Kiranjot Kaur that said on June 2, around 15-20 satkar panel members forcibly entered the house of a Sikh family and took away the ‘saroop’. It was neither delivered to the Akal Takht nor Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib. A probe conducted on the complaint received by the SGPC later revealed the Gursikh family was taking care of the ‘saroop’ as per the ‘maryada’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/saroop-of-guru-granth-sahib-forcibly-taken-away-sgpc-files-complaint-against-satkar-committee-members-279198
07-07-2021||---||Punjab police arrest 2 soldiers for ‘spying, leaking information’ to Pak’s ISI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh/Jalandhar, July 6The Punjab Police on Tuesday busted a major cross-border espionage network with the arrest of two Army personnel on charges of allegedly spying and providing classified documents to the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) of Pakistan.Those arrested have been identified as Sepoy Harpreet Singh (23), who hails from Cheecha village in Amritsar and was posted in Anantnag. He joined the Indian Army in 2017 and belongs to 19 Rashtriya Rifles. Sepoy Gurbhej Singh (23), a native of village Punian in Tarn Taran, belongs to 18 Sikh Light Infantry and was working as a clerk in Kargil. He had joined the Indian Army in 2015.Sharing details, Punjab Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said Jalandhar Rural Police led by SSP Naveen Singla, while investigating an NDPS case, recovered confidential and secret documents related to the functioning and deployment of the Indian Army from cross-border drug smuggler Ranvir Singh, who was arrested with 70-gm heroin on May 24, 2021.He said, during interrogation, Ranvir disclosed that he got these documents from Sepoy Harpreet Singh, who was his friend, as they both belong to the same village.“Ranvir motivated and lured Sepoy Harpreet Singh with financial benefits for sharing defence related classified documents, following which the latter induced his friend Sepoy Gurbhej into such anti-national spying activities,” said DGP Dinkar Gupta, while adding that since Gurbhej was working as a clerk in 121 Infantry Brigade Headquarters in Kargil, he could get easy access to these classified documents containing both strategic and tactical information relating to the Indian Army.He said both the accused Army personnel had already shared photos of over 900 classified documents— pertaining to defence of the country and national security to Ranvir Singh over a period of 4 months between February and May 2021 who had further passed them on to Pakistani Intelligence Officers.The DGP revealed that Ranvir further used to send these classified documents to either the Pakistan ISI operatives directly or via Gopi, who has been identified as the main drug smuggler from village Dauke in Amritsar having links with Pakistan based drug-smuggling syndicates and ISI officials, who invariably work in tandem with each other.Following Ranvir’s disclosures, the Police have also arrested Gopi, who has confessed to having transferred classified documents to Pakistan-based drug smuggler, one of whom has been identified as Kothar and an alleged Pak ISI operative identified as Sikander in lieu of supply of heroin and financial benefits, DGP Dinkar Gupta said adding that all these photographs were transmitted over encrypted Apps.According to preliminary investigations, DGP Dinkar Gupta said that Harpreet Singh and Gurbhej Singh got monetary inducements for sharing confidential information. He said that Ranvir Singh gave money to Harpreet Singh, who further used to transfer it to Gurbhej’s account.SSP Naveen Singla said that the Army authorities had handed over both the accused Army personnel to Jalandhar Rural Police and further investigations were being carried out to ascertain the involvement of any other accused persons.Meanwhile, sections 124-A and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 3, 5 and 9 of the Official Secrets Act have been added after nominating the names of both the Army personnel and Gopi in the FIR no. 73 dated May 24, 2021, which was initially registered against Ranvir under sections 21(B)/61/85 of the NDPS act at Police Station Mehatpur in Jalandhar Rural.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-police-arrest-2-soldiers-for-spying-leaking-information-to-paks-isi-279098
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab tells large industries to shut operations till July 10 to overcome power shortage||As the power situation continues to remain grim in Punjab, largescale industries have been asked to shut down operations for another three days, till July 10.The orders for extending the power restrictions on largescale industries, using over 100 KW of load, in Central, North and West zones were issued by Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) late Monday night. The continuous supply industry has also been asked to use just 50 per cent of the sanctioned load / contracted load, from July 8 to July 18. These units are so far allowed to use just 30 per cent of the contracted load.Read also: Hollow promise of free power has no meaning until PPAs annulled: Navjot SidhuEven as the PSPCL continues to cater to the increase in agriculture load - thanks to the delayed monsoon- the industrial economy in the state is going for a six, because of the restrictions. Industrialists across the state are ruing about the huge losses they have to incur and are questioning the government rationale behind imposing cuts.“For a unit having 50 workers, the per day loss is estimated at Rs 35,000. For how long can we sustain amid such losses. Is economy to be sacrificed at the altar of vote bank politics?,” questions Badish Jindal, president, Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association.The state’s power average demand in this paddy season has increased to an average of 14500 MW, while the supply has remained static at 13200 MW. As the daily gap hovers between 1300-1500 MW, the state power utility has little option but to impose cuts. Unscheduled power cuts on domestic and commercial consumers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-tells-large-industries-to-shut-operations-till-july-10-to-overcome-power-shortage-279036
07-07-2021||---||Punjab factionalism: Amarinder puts ball in Sonia’s court after over hour-long meeting||New Delhi/Chandigarh, July 5“Whatever Sonia Gandhi decides about the party in Punjab will be acceptable to us and we will implement her will,” Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh said after meeting the Congress president at her residence in Delhi on Tuesday.“I do not know anything about Navjot Singh Sidhu. We discussed government and political issues,” Amarinder Singh said as he came out of the meeting that lasted nearly an-hour-and-a-half.The Punjab CM said he discussed government’s developmental agenda with Sonia Gandhi and political issues related to Punjab. “I told the party president that whatever she wants on the development front was being implemented.”Amarinder’s silence on truce formulation after the meeting puts the ball in Sonia Gandhi’s court saying her decision will be acceptable.It remains to be seen now as to what formulation Sonia Gandhi finalises for Punjab to end the Capt-Sidhu friction.The Punjab Chief Minister meeting with Sonia Gandhi on the resolution of Punjab factionalism came days after former Cabinet Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu met with party leaders Priyanka Vadra Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi.Mallikarjun Kharge, chairman of the AICC panel on Punjab, was called in by Sonia Gandhi to the meeting.The panel input was to be taken into consideration before finalising the PCC and Cabinet reshuffle.The high command was expected to discuss the progress made regarding the 18-point agenda handed over to Captain a few days ago as well as the caste matrix to recast the Pradesh Congress.It may be mentioned that Punjab affairs in-charge and AICC general secretary Harish Rawat had said Sidhu would be given a crucial role to ensure the party retained power in the state. Sources did not rule out discussions on the CM face for the crucial 2022 Assembly elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-factionalism-amarinder-puts-ball-in-sonias-court-after-over-hour-long-meeting-278725
