08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Hot weather conditions persist in Punjab, Haryana||There was no let-up in hot weather conditions in Punjab and Haryana where the maximum temperatures were several degrees above the normal on Thursday.Gurgaon in Haryana sizzled at 43.7 degrees Celsius, six notches above than what is normal for this time of the year, according to the meteorological department here.Among other places, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal recorded their maximum temperatures at 40.8 degrees Celsius, 42.8 degrees Celsius and 39.4 degrees Celsius respectively, up to five degrees above the normal.Narnaul and Rohtak witnessed their respective maximum temperatures at 43.3 degrees Celsius and 41.8 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, the maximum temperatures of Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala settled at 40 degrees Celsius, 39.3 degrees Celsius and 41.4 degrees Celsius, up to six notches above normal. Bathinda recorded high of 40.4 degrees Celsius, three degrees above normal.In Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, the maximum temperature was 40.5 degrees Celsius, six notches above the normal. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hot-weather-conditions-persist-in-punjab-haryana-280117
08-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Dharmendra's reaction to Saira Banu's 'sahab ne palak Jhapak li' comment at Dilip Kumar's last rites is heartbreaking||Veteran actor Dharmendra broke down near legendary actor Dilip Kumar's mortal remains. The veteran actor visited his close friend's Mumbai residence to pay his last respects on Wednesday.Pictures of Dharmendra consoling Dilip's wife Saira Banu have taken the internet by storm.Now, Dharmendra has revealed what Saira said to him during the last rites, which broke his heart.Also read:Taking to microblogging website, Dharmendra wrote: "Saira ne jab kaha. “ Dharam , dekho Sahab ne paplak jhapki hai “ Dosto , jaan nikal gai meri. Maalik mere pyaare bhai ko jannat naseeb kare"Saira ne jab kaha. “ Dharam , dekho Sahab ne paplak jhapki hai “ Dosto , jaan nikal gai meri. Maalik mere pyaare bhai ko jannat naseeb kare🙏 pic.twitter.com/yrPP6rYJqX  He added that: "Dosto , mujhe dikhwa nahin aata lekin main apne jazbaat par qaaboo bhi nahin paata . Apne samajh ke kah jaata hoon ..."Dosto , mujhe dikhwa nahin aata lekin main apne jazbaat par qaaboo bhi nahin paata . Apne samajh ke kah jaata hoon ...  Earlier, on Wednesday, Dharmendra wrote in an Instagram post: "Extremely sad to lose my most affectionate brother in the industry. Jannat naseeb ho, Hamare Dalip Sahab ko (May he rest in heaven)."A post shared by Dharmendra Deol (@aapkadharam)  A post shared by Viral Bhayani (@viralbhayani)  Dharmendra has shared the screen with Dilip Kumar in the Bengali film "Paari" and its Hindi remake "Anokha Milan".Earlier in the day, Dharmendra's wife, veteran actress Hema Malini took to social media to remember Dilip Kumar."Veteran actor, exemplary role model for all heroes,my respected co star in Kranti, Dilip Kumar ji, is no more. I recall a couple of visits to his house & the pleasant meetings I had with him & Saira ji. My heart goes out to Saira ji, his life partner of many years, for this loss," Hema Malini had tweeted.Veteran actor, exemplary role model for all heroes,my respected co star in Kranti, Dilip Kumar ji, is no more.I recall a couple of visits to his house & the pleasant meetings I had with him & Saira ji. My heart goes out to Saira ji, his life partner of many years, for this loss pic.twitter.com/rf706RKJpu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dharmendras-reaction-to-saira-banus-sahab-ne-palak-jhapak-li-comment-at-dilip-kumars-last-rites-is-heartbreaking-280097
08-07-2021|| Chandigarh||Punjab’s power crisis worsens as two units at power plants develop snags||Punjab plunged deeper into a power crisis with two units of state-owned thermal power plants being shut down on Thursday because of a technical snag. Even as the state continued to witness an unprecedented demand for power, a 210 MW unit of Guru Gobind Singh Super Thermal Power Plant at Ropar and another 210 MW unit of Guru Hargobind Thermal Plant at Lehra Mohabat, developed snags, forcing them to be shut down. Also read: Amid Punjab’s power crisis, PSPCL purchases 400 MW power at Rs 12.40 per unit from open marketThis 420 MW shortfall in the generation (besides the shortfall in generation from Talwandi Sabo Power Plant) saw unscheduled power cuts being imposed on domestic urban and rural consumers, agriculture consumers and commercial consumers. For the third day, people protested at various places in the state against the erratic power supply. It may be mentioned that the power supply to all industrial units has been shut till July 11. Sources in the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) said that while they expect the Lehra Mohabat plant to become operational by late evening, it could take two more days for the Ropar plant to come back in a generation. Because of delayed monsoon, Punjab’s demand for power has shot up to 15000 MW, though its availability, including additional buying from the power exchange, is limited to about 12800 MW.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-power-crisis-worsens-as%C2%A0two-units-at-power-plants-develop-snags-280054
08-07-2021||Patiala July 8 ||Amid Punjab’s power crisis, PSPCL purchases 400 MW power at Rs 12.40 per unit from open market||Punjab is witnessing an all-time high power demand due to the ongoing paddy season amid a  delayed monsoon, said Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) Chairman and Managing Director (CMD) A.Venu Prasad on Thursday. Prasad said that power availability was low this season due to reduced water levels in dams resulting in a hydropower deficit of about 600 MW.Also read: Punjab’s power crisis worsens as two units at power plants develop snags"One unit of Talwandi Sabo Power Ltd. (TSPL) has been on forced outage due to a turbine breakdown, while another unit has developed a technical snag and the third one was operating at half capacity due to some technical issue. This has resulted in a shortage of nearly 2,200 MW,"  he said.Prasad said PSPCL purchased extra power of 400 MW from the open market at Rs 12.40 per unit on Thursday. A total of 1,400 MW power was purchased at an exchange rate of Rs 5.46 per unit.He said that at the request of the Punjab Government, National Load Despatch Centre (NLDC) has agreed to enhance the  Available Transfer Capability/Total transfer capability (ATC/TTC) limit to 8,000/8,600 MW from 6 pm to 9 am due to the outage at the TSPL unit.PSPCL was utilizing this limit by importing power to improve the supply position. Last year, the same import limit was only 6,500 MW.Prasad said that the installed capacity of PSPCL from all sources was 13,845 MW, out of which about 9,000 MW was being generated. The major reason was due to the failure of TSPL and reduced power generation by the BBMB (Bhakra Beas Management Board). "PSPCL had been forced to impose power regulatory measures on South and Border Zones to make up for the shortage. PSPCL was making efforts to continue supplying 8-hour uninterrupted power to the AP consumers," he said. Industrialists have been up in arms against the government for forced weekly offs and restricted industry activities till July 11 due to the power shortage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-punjabs-power-crisis-pspcl-purchases-400-mw-power-at-rs-12-40-per-unit-from-open-market-280048
08-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Diljit Dosanjh shares BTS pictures from 'Moon Child Era' album; fans can't keep calm||Punjabi-singer actor Diljit Dosanjh has treated his Instagram family with behind-the-scenes pictures from his latest album, 'Moon Child Era'. The pictures have taken the internet by storm. In the pictures, Diljit was seen chilling on a yacht with his co-star Elwa. Elwa also worked with Diljit in his last album 'G.O.A.T'. Check the pictures out: A post shared by DILJIT DOSANJH (@diljitdosanjh)  Recently, Diljit topped the music charts with his latest single, ‘Umbrella’. It's a peppy dance number. Diljit has a number of movies coming up. He will be seen in ‘Jodi’ with Nimrat Khaira and in ‘Honsla Rakh’ with Shinda Grewal, Sonam Bajwa, and Shehnaaz Grewal. He also has ‘Ranna Ch Dhanna’ in his kitty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/diljit-dosanjh-shares-bts-pictures-from-moon-child-era-album-fans-cant-keep-calm-280041
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers in Punjab, Haryana protest against fuel, cooking gas price rise||Farmers in Punjab and Haryana on Thursday held protests at several places against the hike in fuel and cooking gas prices.The call for the protest from 10 am till noon was given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading an agitation against the Centre's three farm laws.Protesters parked their tractors and other vehicles on the roadside and shouted slogans against the Union government over the rising prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas.Some of them also brought empty LPG cylinders to the protesting sites as a mark of protest.Agitating farmers also honked their vehicles for a few minutes, saying it was done to “wake up” the government from “slumber”.The farmers slammed the government for “not being able to control the prices of essential commodities”.Police personnel were deployed in strength near the protest sites to maintain law and order, officials said.Protests were held at many places in Mohali, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Moga, Rupnagar in Punjab and Sonipat, Sirsa and Gohana in Haryana.Farmer leader Harmeet Singh Kadiyan, who led the protest in Ludhiana, slammed the BJP-led government at the Centre over the increasing prices of fuel and cooking gas.Every day, prices of fuel are going up which is adversely affecting every section of society, he said.In Moga, a protester said rising prices of diesel would increase the farmers' input cost.In Haryana's Sirsa, a protesting farmer brought a camel to pull a four-wheeler as a mark of protest against the rising fuel prices.Agitating farmers said their demonstrations were peaceful. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-in-punjab-haryana-protest-against-fuel-cooking-gas-price-rise-280036
08-07-2021||Ludhiana||Delayed monsoon to hit Punjab on July 10: MeT||The southwest monsoon, which has been delayed by almost a month, was likely to advance over remaining parts of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh, and Rajasthan during July 10 to 12, the Indian Meteorological Department has said.Except Ludhiana and Kapurthala, which recorded normal rainfall so far, the delay in monsoon has led to deficient rainfall up to 99 per cent in rest 20 districts in the state, the IMD has confirmed.In a status report on monsoon and rainfall forecast for Punjab submitted to Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, the Director General of Meteorology Dr Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said the southwest monsoon has covered some parts of north Punjab (Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Ropar and Mohali) and Haryana on June 13 and thereafter no further advance has taken place over both these states till July 7.“Due to the impact of stronger middle latitude dry continental westerly winds, monsoon has been weak causing the subdued rainfall, especially during June 25 to July 6. First half of June experienced above normal rainfall, which reduced thereafter. However, scattered rainfall occurred on a few occasions during this period,” he disclosed.Submitting the weather forecast for the next 10 days, the DG, IMD, said according to latest numerical weather prediction model guidance, the moist easterly winds in lower level from the Bay of Bengal are likely to spread into northwest India covering Punjab and north Haryana by July 10.“Accordingly, the southwest monsoon is likely to advance over remaining parts of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan during July 10 to 12,” he revealed.Dr Mohapatra stated that the subdued rainfall activity is very likely to continue to prevail over Punjab till July 9. However, isolated thunderstorm activity can also be expected over Punjab till July 9.“The monsoon activity would revive commencing from July 9 night with rainfall at many places in the state. It is likely to increase further during July 11 to 12 with moderate rainfall at many places over the state and isolated heavy rainfall. During the period from July 11 to 16, all the districts of Punjab are expected to receive cumulative rainfall of about 50 to 70 mm,” the IMD DG added.The report was submitted after the Chief Secretary had held a conversation with the Secretary to the Union Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) regarding the current status of monsoon and its forecast for Punjab.Tthe continuing dry spell has led to a major power crisis in the agrarian state with the demand touching a record peak and the consumers reeling under frequent outages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delayed-monsoon-to-hit-punjab-on-july-10-met-279844
08-07-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Revamp talk, Punjab ministers worried||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 7Talk of a possible Cabinet reshuffle following Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s meeting with CM Capt Amarinder Singh on the Punjab Pradesh Congress crisis has had several ministers worried.There are 18 Cabinet berths in all. The slot vacated by Amristar MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu is still vacant. A Cabinet rejig could see a Dalit or OBC face being inducted and a minister from Malwa or Majha being dropped.The reshuffle is expected only after the party high command spells out Sidhu’s role in the party or the government. “At all depends on whether Sidhu is made PPCC president or chairman of the poll campaign committee. In each case, a different strategy will have to be devised. If an OBC leader is appointed PPCC chief, then Dalit and Hindu leaders could be appointed working presidents,” observed a senior Congress leader.Sources said the CM was keen on a prominent Dalit face in his Cabinet but the party high command could seek more changes while giving Sidhu an important role.Kishor calls on CMAhead of the high command’s decision on PCC chief and Cabinet reshuffle, the CM met his principal adviser Prashant Kishor who is said to be helping the party in finding a solution to the PCC crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/revamp-talk-punjab-ministers-worried-279727
08-07-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda gangster Kulbir Naruana, cousin shot dead by former guard||A gangster-turned-social worker, Kulbir Naruana (39), was on Wednesday morning shot dead allegedly by his former personal gunman Mandeep Singh Manna at his house in Naruana village here. Naruana’s cousin Chamkaur Singh too died after being shot at and run over by a car while another person was injured.Old rivalry behind gangster Kulbir Naruana’s murderA notorious criminal, Manna was a part of the Naruana gang for the last 20 years.Sources said Manna came to meet Naruana at his house in the morning and told him to sit in his SUV as he wanted to talk about compromise with him. After he entered the car, Manna fired four shots on Naruana.As Manna tried to flee, Chamkaur rushed to stop him. Manna opened fire on him and also ran over him with his SUV. Both Naruana and Chamkaur died on the spot. Naruana aide Gurpreet Singh also sustained a bullet injury and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. His condition is serious.The bodies of Naruana and Chamkaur were taken to the Civil Hospital. Later, the bodies were handed over to the families after the post-mortem examination.Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjeet Singh Virk said, “Kulbir Naruana was an ‘A’ category gangster in police records and he was out on bail. He had some dispute with his associate Manna who came to meet him regarding a compromise, but he fired shots on Naruana and his cousin”.He said, “After killing Naruana, Manna, who was intoxicated, fled towards the Badal road, but he was not able to drive as he had suffered a bullet injury when Naruana’s associates retaliated. He was found lying on a road near Ghudda village and arrested.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-gangster-kulbir-naruana-cousin-shot-dead-by-former-guard-279752
08-07-2021||Bathinda||Old rivalry behind gangster Kulbir Naruana’s murder||Gangster-turned-social worker Kulbir Naruana’s political aspirations helped him get sober, but his rivalry with other groups in the criminal world didn’t allow him to stay away.He was currently involved in conducting mass marriages of poor girls and holding blood donation camps in his village.In 2019, the Bathinda Sadar police had registered a case against seven persons, including Naruana, for allegedly blackening the face of a person on suspicion of selling drugs.Later, they uploaded his video on social media.Feared attackNaruana had started his political innings in 2014 by joining the Shiromani Akali Dal when former MLA from Talwandi Sabo Jeetmohinder Singh Sidhu joined SAD after leaving the Congress. Then Revenue Minister Bikram Singh Majithia had even honoured him with a ‘siropa’ during a public meeting and his photos had gone viral on the social media.Naruana was also seen on stage during a rally of Lakha Sidhana, accused in the Red Fort violence case, at Mehraj village in March this year.Booked in 15 criminal cases, including attempt to murder, Naruana was acquitted in one. In 2015, he, along with his gang members, had opened fire at a police constable at the Cantonment police station in Bathinda.Accused of freeing Gurwinder Bindu from the police custody by attacking the police personnel inside the Civil Hospital, he had also been arrested for possessing a pistol without licence.During his stay at the Central Jail in 2015, Naruana remained in controversy after uploading a photo on Facebook from inside the jail using a smartphone. He was also part of the gang war inside the jail premises with the members of the Gurpreet Sekhon group.Naruana reportedly used to fear that a rival gang was planning to kill him inside the jail. So he contacted his cousin Antarpreet to secure a weapon, which he used to fire at Gurdeep.On the night of June 21, unidentified persons had opened fire at Naruana on a ring road in the city, but he survived as his car was bulletproof. However, later, Bhalla Sekhu and one other person took responsibility for the attack.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/old-rivalry-behind-gangster-kulbir-naruanas-murder-279623
08-07-2021||Patiala||Rs 1,200 cr power stolen every year in Punjab, villages account for 66% theft||Amid acute shortage of power, Punjab is spending Rs 12 crore daily to buy 1,140 MW to meet the rising demand. However, power thefts continue unabated in villages.Despite getting free power for paddy fields, the villages account for the theft worth over Rs 800 crore per annum. Domestic and commercial urban consumers steal power worth Rs 300 crore, while the industry Rs 100 crore per annum.Power minister has no authority: Navjot SidhuA day after MP Ravneet Bittu reminded Navjot Singh Sidhu that he could have done a lot regarding the power purchase agreements when he was offered the portfolio in 2019, the latter in a tweet said as the Minister of Power, nothing could be done. “All decision-making powers are with the PSERC that directly reports to the CM,” he said.Information gathered by The Tribune reveals that residents are stealing power worth Rs 3 crore per day from the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) supply lines, with rural Punjab leading with 66.66 per cent distribution losses due to power theft using capacitors, illegal ‘kundis’ and even tampering meters. Power theft in parts of Punjab roughly causes distribution loss to PSPCL to the tune of around 14 per cent.“This theft of power continues round the year. Even as Punjab suffers power shortage and is buying Rs 12 crore worth power every day, the villagers continue to steal it,” experts say, adding: “Power cost can be brought down by Re 1 per unit if theft is controlled.”Against the average 10 per cent loss in distribution network, the losses are over 20-50 per cent in urban areas and over 50-79 per cent in rural supply lines.“We were shocked to find that every second house in rural areas has devices fitted smartly to stop power meters from functioning or even uses permanent ‘kundis’ to steal power,” said a PSPCL field official.“We are under pressure as these thieves are well-knit with political lobby and raids are often discarded following intervention of MLAs and local politicians,” he said.“Losses in almost all villages are high as compared to the cities. In many villages, the house owners are not paying more than Rs 500 per month bill despite using three air conditioners throughout the day,” said a PSPCL enforcement wing official.PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad confirmed that majority of the distribution losses are recorded on village feeders in the entire state, claiming that the industry is almost under check with only handful of defaulters. “Special campaigns and smart meters are the new norm to check power theft and strict action is initiated once such cases come to the fore. Already fines worth Rs 100 crore and above have been slapped against defaulters,” he said. Sources in the PSPCL confirm that defaulting villagers are backed by farmer unions and even local politicians.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-1-200-cr-power-stolen-every-year-in-punjab-villages-account-for-66-theft-279647
08-07-2021||Fazilka||Fazilka: Canals run dry, farmers protest at Chughewala head||Activists of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) staged a protest at the Chughewala head against the scarcity of water in Jalalabad.Union’s Fazilka district vice-president Gurwinder Singh Mannewal alleged the government had promised to supply requisite water during the paddy season, which had begun a month ago, but farmers were still facing shortage.He alleged the Nizamwah distributary, which originates from the Chugewala head and its minor canals Barkatwah, Faizwah and Nidhana, was not carrying enough water as a result of which the farmers had been left high and dry.SDO (Canals) Sunil Kumar said due to the scarcity of water at the upstream, the water was being released only 20 cusecs instead of 350 cusecs in the Nizamwah distributary. Now, the water flow has further been increased. He clarified that the water outlets which were tampered with by some persons had been altered and water would reach to the tail-end villages soon. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fazilka-canals-run-dry-farmers-protest-at-chughewala-head-279648
08-07-2021||Jalandhar||People’s Pulse - Doaba: Oppn senses real opportunity as Punjab Cong fights dissent||Doaba proved to be a Congress stronghold in 2017 as the party pocketed 15 of the 23 Assembly seats in the region, a far better showing than 2012, when it could win only six. As Punjab goes to polls early next year, the ruling party, which resonated with confidence in Doaba and elsewhere in the state till some months ago, is confronted with an unexpected challenge from within as voices of dissent get louder, and the Opposition suddenly senses a real opportunity.Farmers may hold keyDalit voters constitute a sizable 43 per cent of the total electorate in Doaba, but the divisions are stark, as are the affiliations. This ensures the voting patterns change only marginally, if at all. Poll pundits, therefore, feel the farming community, which accounts for 25 per cent of the population in the region, could hold the key in 2022. Parties gearing up for electoral fightFarmers sitting on the borders of Delhi for the past more than seven months have not opened their political cards, and since they are getting open support from various sections of the society, including traders, arhtiyas and Ravidassias, no one party can lay claim to be their prime backer.While acknowledging that the farmer unrest could prove to be a major election plank, senior BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia feels it’s a pan-Punjab issue and Doaba is no exception. “We still have sufficient time though. There could a successful round of talks soon.”The Congress, meanwhile, is busy recovering lost ground owing to differences within the party, though its problems of dissidence are far from over. As rebel MLA Pargat Singh, who has taken on Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for “not fulfilling promises to voters” says, “The Congress can still get an upper hand and win the polls provided the state leadership changes hands.”Former Congress minister Avtar Henry feels the “existing situation could be a cause of concern” in the region. “Doaba, which had six ministers from the region in the previous Congress regime in 2002-07, has just one representation this time in the Cabinet. Sunder Sham Arora and Rana Gurjit Singh got the berth but the latter lost it far too quickly (after the sand mining contract controversy).” Post the alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party, the Akalis look upbeat in certain areas. Shiromani Akali Dal MLA from Adampur Pawan Tinu, who incidentally is a former BSP leader, however, feels the new alliance partner’s core members may not be fully on board with BSP supremo Mayawati’s decision to ink a pact with the SAD, contesting 23 of the 117 seats. BSP state president Jasvir Singh Garhi though discounts the concerns. “There were some initial reservations within the rank and file regarding seat sharing but since the party supremo has already reiterated that the pact is final, everyone has begun to fall in line.”Underlining the importance of the Dalit card, senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP SS Dullo was seen supporting the SC students against his own party on the Post Matric Scholarship issue, recently. This had led to SC Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot choosing to skip visits to Doaba.While the BJP has already announced that its CM candidate will be a Dalit, even SAD president Sukhbir Badal has said that if the party wins, a Dalit leader will get the Deputy CM’s post. Of the total Dalit population in Doaba, 23 per cent are Ravidassias, and 12 per cent Valmikis and 2-3 per cent Mazhabi Sikhs. Deras such as Sachkhand Ballan, Nurmahal-based Divya Jyoti Jagriti Sansthan, Dera Baba Jaure and Dera Kahnan Dhesian are also important nerve centres for Dalit voting choices. The Christian deras of Dalits, too, could influence the voting trends, feels Dalit writer Des Raj Kali. The 2015 sacrilege issue interestingly does not figure high on the mind of voters in Doaba, unlike in certain other parts of Punjab. Banga SAD MLA Dr Sukhwinder Sukhi feels even education and employment do not count for much as election issues. “Majority of those who can afford it have gone abroad for education and jobs,” he says. The Aam Aadmi Party, which won two seats in 2017, has not been able to build upon its base after Sukhpal Khaira quit. Though Jalandhar ex-DCP Balkar Singh joined the party recently, the ground appears weak. “Our party has already started working at the booth level and soon there will be mass joining of workers and leaders to add to the strength of the party,” claims Jai Krishan Rori, Garhshankar MLA.Phagwara was the only seat from Doaba that the BJP won in 2017 when the party had an alliance with the SAD. But then MLA Som Parkash went to the Centre. Also, former Union MoS Vijay Sampla from Hoshiarpur heads the National Commission for Scheduled Castes. To add to faces, the party has roped in former leader of All India Sikh Students’ Federation Harinder Singh Kahlon as a prominent Sikh face but he is yet to show his presence publicly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/peoples-pulse-doaba-oppn-senses-real-opportunity-as-punjab-cong-fights-dissent-279649
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab's power crisis deepens, industry told to shut operations till July 11||As Punjab's power crisis deepened further today, restrictions were again imposed on the industry, asking it to draw bare minimal of the sanctioned load.As people across the state took to the streets to protest against the long and unscheduled power cuts, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), in a late night development, imposed restrictions on the use of power by industrial units till July 11. The industry has been asked to use only restricted load, ranging from 2.5-10 per cent of their contracted load.Finding alternative solutions: PSPCLPSPCL Chairman A Venu Prasad said the power situation worsened because of a snag in the Talwandi Sabo plant. “We are trying to make alternative arrangements to meet the growing demand. As regards the shortage of equipment and transformers, it could be a local problem. There is enough equipment for replacing damaged transformers,” he said.Violators have been cautioned that defying the order would invite penalty of Rs 500 per KVA/day on the maximum load used on the day, up from Rs 100-Rs 200 per KVA. The industry has been granted exemption from paying fixed charges for these days. “This is the worst situation we are facing. Even in the days when Punjab was not power surplus, never was the industry forced to shut for five days,” said Badish Jindal, an industrialist from Ludhiana.Numerous incidents were reported from different parts of the state, where angry residents laid siege to the power sub-stations and offices of subdivisional officers of the Power Department. The residents complained of long cuts imposed on them, as well as the inability of the state government to replace transformers or converters that were damaged because of overloading as the equipment was in short supply.The state’s power generation capacity was badly affected today as the only functional unit in the Talwandi Sabo Thermal Power Plant (TSPL) developed a snag and was forced to reduce its generation by 315 MW. Pushed to the edge, Punjab bought more power on the power exchange (1,100 MW) to meet the demand, even as the gap in demand and supply remained at an astounding 2,000 MW today, with the demand shooting up to 15,000 MW.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-power-crisis-deepens-industry-told-to-shut-operations-till-july-11-279650
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab BJP ex-general secretary Malwinder Singh Kang joins AAP||BJP former state general secretary and former core committee member Malwinder Singh Kang on Wednesday joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) along with hundreds of his associates.Kang has held several senior positions in the Punjab unit of the BJP and also served as the spokesperson of the state unit. He was also the national executive member of the BJP Yuva Morcha and served as the in-charge of the Haryana Yuva Morcha. Kang remained a member of the Punjab University senate and became the first person in the history of Panjab University, Chandigarh to be its president for two consecutive terms. He had resigned from the BJP in protest against the three agricultural laws introduced by the Narendra Modi-led central government.AAP MLA from Delhi and Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh, Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Punjab Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema, MLA and Youth Wing state president Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer and party’s state general secretary Harchand Singh Barsat formally inducted Kang at the party headquarters here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-bjp-ex-general-secretary-malwinder-singh-kang-joins-aap-279651
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Polls approaching, Punjab BJP a divided house||Though claiming to contest all 117 Assembly seats in the upcoming Assembly elections, the BJP is a divided house in Punjab. The groupism has come to the fore in the present times, with at least five-known factions within the party, which sometimes take contrary stand on the same issues.Fissures to the foreIn the recent past several grassroot as well as local-level leaders were seen leaving the party. Like Dalit leader Keemti Bhagat, who also headed the Gau Seva Commission, joined the SAD last year. Similarly, BJP general secretary Malwinder Singh Kang who resigned from the party last year following farmers’ agitation today joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Similarly, in Barnala several local level leaders joined the SAD.The crisis that hit the party after the farmers’ agitation has further deepened the fissures in the leadership. The most recent is the example of former Cabinet Ministers Anil Joshi and Master Mohan Lal, who have openly spoken against the state leadership. Joshi has been served a show-cause notice to which he remains defiant. Though the party is being led by Ashwani Sharma, party’s national general secertary Tarun Chugh has his own clout. He often issues statements on the state affairs, which sometimes are not in tune with positions being taken by state unit.Apart from that, a big faction of the party is being led by former MP Avinash Rai Khanna and Vijay Sampla. They also enjoy the support of Harjit Grewal. These leaders also do not go along Ashwani Sharma. Sources in the BJP say the group was getting support from Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Another group comprises Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik, which fell out of favour after senior leader Arun Jaitley’s death. All attempts to contact BJP’s state president Ashwani Sharma remained futile.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/polls-approaching-punjab-bjp-a-divided-house-279652
08-07-2021||Mansa||Not paid assured wages, labourers take out rally||Scores of labourers under the banner of the Mazdoor Mukti Morcha carried out a protest rally at Pharwahi village in Mansa district after zamindars (landowners) allegedly refused to pay them ‘mutually agreed upon’ wages for paddy sowing on Wednesday.As per the labourers, a rate of Rs 4,000 for sowing paddy in one acre was agreed upon but after the work was done, the landowners allegedly backtracked and refused to pay the money and instead offered to pay Rs 3,500.Later, a meeting was held but it remained inconclusive. Sarpanch Chiranji Singh said, “The same rate of Rs 4,000 per acre basis was paid during the previous season. But a few migrant workers agreed to work for Rs 3,700. I tried to convince zamindars to pay the rate this time but they refused.”Bhagwant Samao, morcha state president, said, “We have formed a panel to ensure labourers get fair wages.”DC Mohinder Pal said, “We have not received any formal complaint so far.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-paid-assured-wages-labourers-take-out-rally-279653
08-07-2021||Jalandhar||7 hospitals fail to install Oxygen plants in Jalandhar, get notice||The district administration today issued show-cause notices to seven hospitals for failure to install pressure swing adsorption oxygen plants despite repeated directions.These include Sharanjit, Kidney, Sikka, Oxford, Ghai, Neuronova, and Caremax hospitals. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori recommended the Health Department to cancel their licence as Covid care facilities in case they fail to adhere to the guidelines issued by the administration. Further, these hospitals would be held accountable for any death due to oxygen shortage in the event of a possible third Covid wave, he said.“During the peak of the second wave, these hospitals kept asking for oxygen. The demand at some hospitals reached 200 cylinders per day. With cases reducing, this was the best time to install PSA plants. Despite meetings with civil officers, these hospitals failed to follow directions.” There are 60 private hospitals offering Covid care facilities in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-hospitals-fail-to-install-oxygen-plants-in-jalandhar-get-notice-279654
08-07-2021||Muktsar||Covid cases down to 55 in Muktsar||As the Covid cases have come down, just 55 persons are now infected with the virus in the district. Of these, four were found positive for Covid in the past 24 hours.As of now, 520 persons have died of Covid in the district. However, no death occurred here due to Covid in the past 24 hours. MK Aravind Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, Muktsar, today congratulated all those involved in the vaccination drive. He said the fresh stock of vaccine had arrived in the district and maximum people should avail the benefit.He hoped that the district would now demand 50,000 doses of anti-Covid vaccine for the next mega camps. The DC also appealed to the public to follow the Covid guidelines. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-cases-down-to-55-in-muktsar-279655
08-07-2021||Patiala||University teachers to strike work in Punjab||Teachers of universities and colleges in the state have decided to suspend all examination evaluation work over their pending demand of implementation of UGC pay scales notified in 2017. They claimed the state had also not honoured its promise of implementing the same with the pay scales of the 6th Pay Commission.Led by Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (PFUCTO), teachers of Panjab University, Chandigarh; Punjabi University, Patiala; GNDU, Amritsar; and GADVASU, Ludhiana; along with over 1,500 teachers of 48 government colleges of the state have taken the collective decision. The Government Colleges Teachers’ Association also held a meeting with the Principal Secretary, Higher Education, and DRI Colleges over their demands today.Association’s Patiala chief Barjinder Tohra said they had been forced to take this decision. “We have been raising our demands for long. The government had assured us that these will be met along with implementation of the 6th Pay Commission’s proposals, but nothing happened,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/university-teachers-to-strike-work-in-punjab-279656
08-07-2021||Faridkot||Faridkot village bans entry of politicians||Residents in Chandbajha village of Faridkot have ‘banned’ the entry of political leaders till the three agricultural laws are withdrawn.“After the village panchayat passed a unanimous resolution, we have put up banners at the entrance of villages proclaiming that the entry of political leaders is not allowed in the village,” said sarpanch Lakhwinder Singh.Gurpreet Singh Chandbajha, a social activist, said, “Residents have banned the entry of political leaders in the village. If they visit us, they will face opposition. We cannot permit them to play with our sentiments.”Sources said many other villages in the area are planning to put up such banners at the entrance of villages in the coming days to oppose political leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faridkot-village-bans-entry-of-politicians-279657
08-07-2021||Ropar||In Ropar, black badges mark protest against lathicharge||On a call given by the Government Teachers’ Union, teachers at several government schools in the district today wore black badges and protested the lathicharge on their colleagues at Chandigarh yesterday.The Chandigarh Police on Tuesday used tear gas shells and water cannon and resorted to lathicharge to prevent the protesting non-permanent unemployed teachers from heading towards Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s residence. At least 10 protesters, including women, and five cops were injured in the action.Union leaders Gurbinder Singh Saskaur, Dharminder Singh Bangu and Gurcharan Singh Ahlowal said such brutal action against the teachers was murder of democracy. They claimed the Chief Minister during the run up to the Assembly elections in 2017 had promised to regularise them. The union leaders said they firmly stood by the protesting teachers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-ropar-black-badges-mark-protest-against-lathicharge-279658
08-07-2021||Amritsar||Held on frivolous charges by Delhi, Haryana police: Punjab farmers||The Punjab Vidhan Sabha Committee, constituted to look into the atrocities on farmers during the agitation against three farm laws, today met the “victims” in Amritsar.Congress MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid, who heads the panel, said the farmers who faced brutality or were allegedly tortured and booked by the Delhi and Haryana police during the agitation recorded their statements.Sandeep Singh from Tarn Taran said he had accompanied a farmers’ jatha on January 20 to participate in the tractor rally. “But we had no inkling as to what shape will it take. Following the violence, I was arrested on January 29 and put behind bars. We were beaten up for no reason. My bail was arranged by DSGMC chief Manjinder Sirsa on March 3. I believe the panel will bring justice.”Another farmer Harjinder Singh said he had gone to the rally but could not participate in it. “Despite that we were picked up and lodged in Tihar Jail. We were booked on frivolous charges,” he said. The panel will submit its report by July 31. Vaid said the committee would propose that besides legal aid, the victims should be assisted economically. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/held-on-frivolous-charges-by-delhi-haryana-police-punjab-farmers-279659
08-07-2021||Moga||Moga farmer dies at Tikri||A 71-year-old farmer from Rode village in Baghapurana subdivision of Moga district, who had been camping at Singhu since November 26 last, died today.An activist of the Kirti Kisan Union, Darshan Singh developed breathing issues and fell unconscious. He was taken to a Delhi hospital, where doctors declared him as brought dead. In another incident, a labourer from Kokri Kalan village, who had been camping at Tikri for the past four months, died during kidney treatment at his native place.He was an activist of the BKU (Ekta). He had returned home a few days ago for the treatment of kidney infection. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-farmer-dies-at-tikri-279660
08-07-2021||Bathinda||Demands not met, Punjab nambardars plan agitation||Citing non-fulfillment of their ‘long-pending’ demands, the Punjab Nambardars Union have decided to launch a state-level agitation soon. In a meeting held in Bathinda, the union leaders said their ‘genuine demands, including ‘jaddi pushti’ (transfer of position on inheritance basis) and hike in honorarium amount among other half a dozen demands, had been pending for years now.Union president Gurpal Singh Samra said, “We have been demanding that the government must allow ‘jaddi pushti’ for nambardars in the state and honorarium amount must be increased from Rs 1,500 to Rs 3,000 as promised by Revenue Minister Gurpreet Kangar. The government must provide nambardars with health insurance and mobile allowance.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/demands-not-met-punjab-nambardars-plan-agitation-279661
08-07-2021||Ludhiana||Book MLA Simarjit Singh Bains for rape, orders Ludhiana court||The Court of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Harsimranjit Singh has ordered the police to book Lok Insaaf Party chief Simarjit Singh Bains, MLA from the Atam Nagar constituency, for rape on the complaint of a 44-year-old woman.Was ‘trapped’The court said: “Extreme circumstances call for extreme measures. The victim was unabashedly exploited by the so-called saviour and his coterie. With the first responder, police agency having turned a blind eye to her hideous abuse, she knocked at the door of the court.”It added: “The real cause for concern is whether a victim of sexual exploitation be expected to get justice by lodging the private complaint and collecting evidence from a place alien to her and against the perpetrators who are might, powerful and resourceful. In case the directions to register a case are not followed, it would tantamount to failure of justice.” On November 16, 2020, the woman had submitted an application to the Ludhiana Commissioner of Police for registration of an FIR against Bains and several others. But when no FIR was registered, she moved the court. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/book-mla-simarjit-singh-bains-for-rape-orders-ludhiana-court-279662
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Exempt transporters from road tax: SAD||The SAD transport wing will hold a ‘dharna’ in front of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s residence at Patiala on July 12 to highlight the plight of the transport sector and demand transporters be exempted from road tax for one year besides calling for a 50 per cent reduction of the state VAT on petroleum products.Addressing a press conference, SAD leader Prem Singh Chandumajra said representatives of this sector would hold a symbolic two-hour dharna in front of the CM’s residence in Patiala on July 12. He said in case the government did not take corrective action, a state-wide protest rally would be held in August to press for its demands. He said the transport wing would support the protest call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha against rise in fuel prices tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/exempt-transporters-from-road-tax-sad-279663
08-07-2021||Hoshiarpur||6 more of international drug smuggling gang arrested||Following the arrest of four Afghan nationals with 17 kg of heroin, the Hoshiarpur police have nabbed six more drug smugglers from Delhi, UP and Jandiala Guru with 3.2 kg of heroin. Addressing a press conference here today, SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said the accused were part of an international drug smuggling gang recently exposed by the Hoshiarpur police.The accused have been identified as Krishan Lal, Abhay Partap Singh, Imtiaz Ahmed, Imran, Jasveer Singh and Balwinder Singh.Mahal said two teams were formed and sent to Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. Drug money worth Rs 40.12 lakh was seized from their possession.Two days ago, the Hoshiarpur police had arrested four Afghan nationals from a manufacturing unit in Delhi with 17 kg of heroin. The six accused have been arrested on the basis of the information obtained during the interrogation of the Afghan nationals.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-more-of-international-drug-smuggling-gang-arrested-279664
08-07-2021||Bathinda||FM Manpreet Badal meets Rajnath Singh, seeks two Sainik Schools for Punjab||Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal today met Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in New Delhi and urged him to approve two Sainik Schools for Punjab. He also sought an NOC from the Defence Ministry for establishing a bus terminus at Bathinda.‘Provide NOC for bus terminus’The Finance Minister requested the Defence Ministry to approve the proposal for a modern bus station and terminus for Bathinda city. Since the proposed location is adjacent to the Bathinda military cantonment, it requires a no objection certificate (NOC) from the ministry. Manpreet said all military norms had been adhered to. “The required papers for the NOC have been submitted to the Defence Headquarters, and an early approval will help expedite the project,” he said.Manpreet said Punjab was the most decorated Indian state in terms of military honours and gallantry awards. However, it has only one Sainik School in Kapurthala. The state is now seeking two more Sainik Schools — one in Gurdaspur and the other in Bathinda. He said other states like Haryana, Bihar, and Maharashtra had two Sainik Schools each.The Union Defence Minister assured him of due and adequate action, stating he appreciated the role played by Sikhs and Punjabis in national security.Manpreet also presented a letter by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to the Union Defence Minister, stating the state government had allocated 40 acres of land at Dalla Gorian in Gurdaspur for a Sainik School. “However, Punjab must have another Sainik School in Bathinda. This way, all three regions of the state will have one school each,” said the state minister.The Finance Minister also invited the Defence Minister to visit the Punjab War Heroes Memorial and Museum at Amritsar, which the Punjab Government has established at a cost of Rs 144 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fm-manpreet-badal-meets-rajnath-singh-seeks-two-sainik-schools-for-punjab-279665
08-07-2021||Gurdaspur||Three held for BRO employee’s murder||The police on Wednesday arrested three persons, including prime accused Gurjeet Singh Saini, for the murder of Border Roads Organisation (BRO) employee Deepak Kumar. They were nabbed from an undisclosed destination.On Thursday, Deepak was returning from Arunachal Pradesh, where he was working with the BRO. He was to proceed to his native village Lahri Shamo in Pathankot district. However, by mistake he got down near Baba Kuliwale Gurdwara on the Tibri road. With no bus service available to Pathankot, he decided to spend the night there.On Friday morning, when he was about to leave the gurdwara, he was accosted by some employees, who claimed he had stolen some important articles.A group of people, led by Gurjit Saini, thrashed him to death.SSP Nanak Singh himself led the investigations. An FIR under Section 302 of the IPC was registered at the City police station.Yesterday, several Hindu organisations had laid siege to the Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) office alleging that the police were not acting against the culprits as they had political connections.The SSP, however, said his team had already nabbed prime accused Gurjeet Saini. “We are also questioning Saini’s wife Harjit Kaur and son Harkirat Singh, who are also involved in the crime,”He said six teams were formed to nab the accused.An official said Gurjeet Saini had taken away the belongings of Deepak Kumar after killing him. “We are in the process of recovering the belongings,” said the SSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-held-for-bro-employees-murder-279666
08-07-2021||Amritsar||Shiv Sena leader Sudhir Suri arrested for hurting religious feelings||Shiv Sena leader Sudhir Suri has been arrested on charges of using offensive language against a particular community and provoking religious sentiments.Suri had posted a video in which he and some of his associates were seen using objectionable words against the community.SGPC member Bhai Manjit Singh and Damdami Taksal leaders lodged a complaint with the police yesterday against Suri after which he was booked under Sections 295A, 153A and 506 of the IPC and Section 67B of the IT Act.Activist heldActivist Bhupinder Singh has been arrested for using objectionable language against a particular community. He was arrested from Tarn Taran district and produced in an Amritsar court before being sent to the Gurdaspur jail.President of the SGPC Bibi Jagir Kaur said, “The government should keep such people under check.”It is reported that the Shiv Sena leader has been sent to the Ropar jail. Ranjit Singh of Damdami Taksal demanded that Suri’s accomplices, including Arun Kumar Bhopa and others, be arrested soon.Meanwhile, activist Bhupinder Singh has also been arrested for using objectionable language against a particular community. Bhupinder Singh was sent to the Gurdaspur jail. He was arrested from Tarn Taran district, produced in a court in Amritsar and sent to jail. He alleged he was not allowed to meet his family.Also read:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shiv-sena-leader-sudhir-suri-arrested-for-hurting-religious-feelings-279692
08-07-2021||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||Punjab ex-DGP Mohammad Izhar Alam laid to rest at Roza Sharif||Former state DGP Mohammad Izhar Alam was today buried at the historical Roza Sharif with full state honours. He died of cardiac arrest at a private hospital in Mohali yesterday.DGP Dinkar Gupta along with leaders of political parties and police officials attended the last rites. He lauded the services of the former DGP during militancy and termed him a good officer.CM condoles deathChief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh condoled the demise of former DGP Mohammad Izhar Alam. In his message, the CM said, “I am saddened to learn about the death of Mohd Izhar Alam, who also served as the Chairman, Punjab Wakf Board.” TNSKhalifa Mohammad Sadiq Raza of Roza Sharif said it was the wish of former DGP Izhar Alam that he be buried on the holy land of Roza Sharif. MLA, Bassi Pathana, Gurpreet Singh GP, former DGPs Sarabjit Singh Virk, Suresh Arora, Rajinder Singh, Jaswinder Singh, Special DGP (PAP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, ADGP Ram Singh, ADGP AS Roy, ADGP MF Farooqi, ADGP Praveen Sinha, IGs Gautam Cheema, GS Sandhu, SK Kalia and Gurpreet Singh Toor, DC Surbhi Malik and SSP, Fatehgarh Sahib, Amneet Kondal laid wreaths as a mark of respect.Meanwhile, SAD (A) workers lodged a protest and described the former DGP as the “killer of innocent Sikh youths in fake police encounters during militancy”. The police took them into custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-ex-dgp-mohammad-izhar-alam-laid-to-rest-at-roza-sharif-279705
08-07-2021||Sangrur||Sanitation workers on strike, waste burnt||The smoke emanating from burning of waste in various parts of Sangrur city has become a daily problem for residents. Heaps of waste have collected in many areas due to the strike of sanitation staff in Sangrur, Sunam and Dhuri.In Sunam, Congress leaders, along with councillors of the Nagar Council, led by halqa in charge Daman Thind Bajwa and her husband Harman Bajwa, have been regularly cleaning the waste in city. In Dhuri, local Congress MLA Dalvir Singh Goldy, has been removing garbage from streets, earning wrath of the sanitation staff. “Burning of waste has made things worst for us. The Punjab Government is not taking any action. It will cost dearly to the Congress government in the forthcoming assembly elections,” said Rachna Gupta, a homemaker. Sangrur DC Ramvir said they were trying to convince sanitation staff to end the strike. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sanitation-workers-on-strike-waste-burnt-279714
08-07-2021||Barnala||App to provide info on welfare schemes||Barnala Deputy Commissioner (DC) Tej Partap Singh Phoolka has launched the Yojna app, with added features, developed for people of Barnala.The DC said the app would provide information about various government schemes. ADC (G) Aaditya Dachalwal coordinated with the departments to seek the information for the app. “To make it accessible to each segment of the society, the app has been launched in bilingual format, including Punjabi and English,” said Phoolka. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/app-to-provide-info-on-welfare-schemes-279715
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Nawanshahr DLSA comes to child beggars’ aid||Nawanshahr District Legal Services Authority has extended a helping hand to the little hands that begged. It has not only rescued about 40 poverty-stricken and deprived children lined around the streets to beg, but also initiated steps for their rehabilitation.The children with pleading eyes approaching the passers-by with outstretched hands were an inherent part of the cityscape, until the legal services authority under the chairmanship of Nawanshahr District and Sessions Judge Kanwaljit Singh Bajwa stepped in.Travelling beyond its perceived function of providing legal aid to the needy, the authority initiated an anti-begging drive with the assistance of a non-government organisation. The efforts that ensued saw the rescued children being admitted to educational institutes.Available information suggests the children are undertaking education as a part of their rehabilitation process. Efforts are on to take the number to about 100 for bringing such children into the mainstream. Sessions Judge Bajwa said child friendly schemes were also part of the DLSA’s responsibility. “The Constitutional assurance of the right to development and protection was vesting in each child. Unfortunately some innocent souls were driven by destitution into begging for survival,” he said. The DLSA, otherwise, is involved in the process of providing free and competent legal aid in the nature of counselling and legal advice, as well as free legal services, in the conduct of cases before the Courts and tribunals. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nawanshahr-dlsa-comes-to-child-beggars-aid-279717
08-07-2021||Ludhiana||Fake Call Centre: Accused had access to robotic call software, revelas probe||The ongoing questioning of the accused in the fake call centre case has led to startling revelations about their modus operandi and the use of advance technology to target nationals of the UK, Canada and the USA.Sources said the accused had bought an access to bulk robotic call software to call thousands of people at once.“The accused used to make 30,000 calls at once. The receiver is made to listen to a recorded voice message, which gives information about tax penalty. The voice message gives an option to press button to reach out to government executives to pay the penalty. If the receiver opts for further interaction, the accused sitting at the fake call centres in Ludhiana and Mohali guide them about the process of filing penalty,” said a senior police official.The accused, posing as tax/insurance authorities, used to call unsuspecting citizens of the UK, US and Canada and commit financial frauds. The victims were asked to transfer money to local bank accounts, which was then further repatriated to India through Hawala channels or using cryptocurrency like BitcoinsThe police have procured the records of lakhs of such calls, which were being scanned to reach out to the complainants.When contacted, Additional DCP (Investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti said the accused received penalty not only through cash, but also via Bitcoins and Altcoins. The police have recovered Rs 39 lakh deposited in 18 bank accounts of the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fake-call-centre-accused-had-access-to-robotic-call-software-revelas-probe-279718
08-07-2021||Moga||10-yr-old with heart disease gets new lease of life||A 10-year-old son of a migrant labourer, hailing from Bihar, got a new lease of life in Punjab after the health department authorities in Moga initiated efforts for his heart surgery, free of cost, at the Fortis Hospital, Mohali, under the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram, a healthcare scheme launched by the Union Government for schoolgoing children up to 18 years.Bikram Singh, son of Vindeshwar Singh, belongs to a poor family, who migrated from Bihar to Punjab to earn livelihood. His father has been working as a daily wage labourer, here, for the past couple of years.Vindeshwar Singh said his son started having breathing problems at the age of two, even while walking at a slow pace. He said someone told him about the availability of good healthcare facilities in Punjab, so he made up his mind to come there, he said. Hoping for his son’s treatment, he moved to Bughipura village on the outskirts of Moga city and started working as a labourer. He enrolled his son in the village government school.Early, this year, a team of the health department visited the school at Bhughipura village and found out Bikram was suffering from a congenital heart disease. After bringing the matter into the notice of the higher authorities in the health department, the surgery was successfully performed free of cost at Fortis Hospital, Mohali, said his father. Now, Bikram has fully recovered from post-surgery conditions.Dr Neelam Bhatia,Senior Medical Officer of Civil Hospital, Dhudike, said under the Rashtriya Bal Swasth Karyakaram, children up to the age of 18 years were screened in anganwaris and schools for providing free treatment for 30 deadly diseases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-yr-old-with-heart-disease-gets-new-lease-of-life-279719
08-07-2021||Rajneesh LakhanpalLegal CorrespondentLudhiana||Court orders registration of FIR against MLA Simarjit Singh Bains on rape charges||The Court of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Harsimranjit Singh has ordered the local police to register an FIR against Lok Insaaf Party chief Simrajit Singh Bains, MLA from Atam Nagar constituency, on the complaint of a 44-year-old woman.“Extreme circumstances call for extreme measures. Extreme indeed, are the circumstances in this case at hand. The unsuspecting victim is a hapless woman stricken by adversity who was unabashedly exploited by the so-called saviour and his coterie. With the first responder, police agency having turned a blind eye to her hideous abuse, she knocked the door of the court.“The real cause of concern of this court is whether a miserable and poor victim of sexual exploitation be expected to get justice by lodging the private complaint and collecting evidence from a place alien to her and against the perpetrators who are might, powerful and resourceful. In case the directions for registering of case is not made, the entire case of complainant would crumble and it would tantamount to failure of justice,” added court while pronouncing the order.On November 16, 2020, the woman had moved an handwritten application to the Commissioner of Police Ludhiana for registration of an FIR against MLA Bains, Kamaljit Singh, Baljinder Kaur, Jasbir Kaur alias Bhabhi, Sukhchain Singh, Paramjit Singh alias Pamma, Gogi Sharma of Ludhiana. She continuously sat on dharna for a long period outside Commissioner of Police office seeking justice.But when no FIR was registered, the woman moved to a local court seeking directions for registration of FIR.But the Court of Judicial Magistrate Palwinder Singh did not agree with the contentions of woman and ordered her to lead evidence in the court.Against that order, the woman had filed the revision petition before the Court of Additional Sessions Judge Raj Kumar Garg, who had set aside the order of the lower court with the directions to reconsider and pass fresh orders.Now convinced with arguments of lawyers Harish Rai Dhanda and Paraminder Singh Laddi, the court today passed orders for lodging of FIR and investigate.In its complaint, the woman has alleged that she came into contact with the MLA in a property dispute but she was trapped.She claimed to have received repeated phone calls and numerous WhatsApp messages soliciting physical relationship with her and raped repeatedly.The woman has alleged that taking advantage of her social and economic vulnerability, Bains raped her repeatedly on the pretext of helping her.She also alleged that the MLA’s brother also started making repeated calls and numerous WhatsApp messages soliciting physical relationship with her.According to the petitioner, her brother and father were being constantly threatened on the phone and also approached personally by the MLA’s close aides.Alleging that no action has been taken on her complaint, the petitioner submitted that the Punjab government and police are providing patronage to the MLA due to his political clout.An application under Section 166-A (public servant intentionally disobeying law) of IPC moved by the woman seeking FIR against Commissioner of Police, Joint Commissioner Ashwani Gotyal and SHO for not acting as per law is also pending in the same court for July 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/court-orders-registration-of-fir-against-mla-simarjit-singh-bains-on-rape-charges-279607
08-07-2021||---||Gangster-turned-social worker Kulbir Naruana shot dead by his personal gunman at his house in Bathinda||Bathinda, July 7A gangster-turned-social worker, Kulbir Naruana (39), was on Wednesday morning shot dead allegedly by his personal gunman Mandeep Singh Manna at his house in Naruana village here. Another person died after being hit by a car while two others were injured.Also read: Notorious criminal Kulbir Naruana turns into good SamaritanThe gunman had come to meet Naruana at his residence in the morning and told him to sit in his car as he wanted to speak with him.After Naruana entered his car, Manna opened fire and shot him dead.  After shooting Naruana, Manna tried to flee from the spot, but was stopped by people around. Manna then opened fire at Gurpreet Singh, who is undergoing treatment at a private hospital and his condition is stated to be critical, and rammed his car into Chamkaur Singh, who died at the spot.The bodies of Naruana and Chamkaur have been taken to the Civil Hospital for post-mortem.SP (City) Jaspal Singh also reached the hospital and said he would comment only after the post-mortem report.  Police have arrested accused gunman Mandeep Manna. He has been taken to civil hospital as he also received bullet injuries in gunfight with Naruana’s associates.Mandeep Singh, Naruana’s cousin, said they were going to their fields in the morning when they heard the sound of fire shots, after which they rushed to the house and found Naruana dead.He said he had increased the security of Naruana after a recent attack on him, but was shocked to know that his personal gunman had killed him.It is pertinent to mention that a few days back, Naruana was attacked while he was travelling in his car on Malout road in Bathinda, but escaped as his vehicle was bulletproof.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gangster-turned-social-worker-kulbir-naruana-shot-dead-by-his-personal-gunman-at-his-house-in-bathinda-279464
08-07-2021||Ruchika M. Khanna||Punjab power crisis worsens as Talwandi Sabo plant further reduces generation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 7Punjab’s power crisis deepened further today with the state’s power generation being badly affected as the only functional unit in Talwandi Sabo Thermal Power Plant (TSPL) developing a snag and forced to reduce its generation by 185 MW.This pushed the state on the edge as unscheduled power cuts were reported from across the Malwa region. Across the state, people took to the streets, gheraoed the power stations and offices of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), demanding that power supply be restored.Already one unit (660 MW) of TSPL has remained non functional since March 8, while a second unit (660 MW) developed a snag on Sunday and has not yet been operationalised. Sources said that this plant developed a fault in its turbine, while it was being started yesterday, after being repaired for boiler leakage. “It may take quite some time to repair the plant,” said a senior officer in PSPCL.Across the state, harried people have been protesting against the erratic power supply as the delayed monsoon has led to an unprecedented power demand of an average of 14500 MW. In Maur, people gheraoed the office of SDO from noon yesterday till post midnight, demanding that the defunct 10 KVA transformers be replaced. Since the PSPCL is facing a shortage of material, the officers pleaded with the protestors to give them time. It was only after 10 other officers reached the protest venue and settled the matter with the villagers that the protest was called off.Similar incidents have also been reported from Karamgarh and Aspal Kalan villages of Barnala, where hundreds of angry people laid seige to power substations demanding restoration of power supply on rural domestic consumers. In another village, Rajia, announcements were made from the village gurudwara to gather and gherao the power department office after there was no power supply for eight hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-power-crisis-worsens-as-talwandi-sabo-plant-further-reduces-generation-279452
