11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer from Punjab dies of electrocution near protest site at Singhu border||A farmer from Punjab died of electrocution on Sunday near the Singhu border of the national capital where protests against the contentious agriculture laws have been going on for over seven months now, police said.The body of Sohan Singh, 42, was found near an electric transformer close to Singhu border in Kundli area of Haryana's Sonipat district."He died of electrocution. We have sent the body for post-mortem," an official of the Kundli police station said.Singh had come to the protest site to join the stir last month.Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting in huge numbers at Delhi's borders since November 2020, demanding the repeal of the three farm laws.Enacted in September, the three legislations have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.The protesting farmers, on the other hand, have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the APMC markets, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-from-punjab-dies-of-electrocution-near-protest-site-at-singhu-border-281663
11-07-2021||New Delhi||PSCMPF employees not entitled to pay scale equal to that of Punjab Government employees||The Punjab State Cooperative Milk Producers Federation (PSCMPF) employees are not entitled to benefits of pay scale equal to those of Punjab Government employees, the Supreme Court has ruled.Allowing the federation’s appeal against a Punjab and Haryana High Court’s verdict, a Bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said: “The grant of benefits of the higher pay scale to the Central/State Government employees stand on a different footing than the grant of pay scale by an instrumentality of the State”.The federation’s employees Balbir Kumar Walia and others had moved the Supreme Court in 2011 challenging the high court’s March 19, 2009 order that ruled the federation was a “State” within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution. The high court had said the employees of the federation were entitled to pay scale equivalent to their counterparts in the State of Punjab from January 1, 1986, though the revised pay scale was allowed by the federation with effect from January 1, 1994.However, the Supreme Court distinguished between the government and federation, saying: “The Central or State Government is empowered to levy taxes to meet the expenses of the state. It is always a conscious decision of the government as to how much taxes have to be levied so as to not cause excessive burden on the citizens. But the Boards and Corporations have to depend on either their own resources or seek grants from the Central/ State Government, as the case may be, for their expenditures”.Rejecting the employees’ claim for equal pay, it said: “We do not find any merit in the argument claiming equal pay for the alleged equal work”.In its July 9 verdict, the top court said: “The income generated by the Federation is not to be expanded only on payment of salary but is also required for upgradation of technology, renovation and expansion of plants etc. Therefore, the entire profit is not to be appropriated towards the wages of the employees alone”.It said the profits had to be shared by the members of the Co-operative Society, but the employees of the Federation were not its members.”We find that the decision that the Federation was in financial difficulties is based upon relevant material before the Federation. The process to arrive at such a decision can be said to be flawed only on the permissible grounds of illegality, irrationality and procedural impropriety…neither the decision-making process, nor the decision itself suffers from any such vice.“We find that the order of the High Court is unjustified and in excess of the power of judicial review conferred on the High Court,” the SC further said, allowing the federation’s appeal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pscmpf-employees-not-entitled-to-pay-scale-equal-to-that-of-punjab-government-employees-281660
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sultry weather conditions prevail in Haryana, Punjab||Sultry weather conditions prevailed in Haryana and Punjab on Sunday, with maximum temperatures hovering above the normal limits at most places.Hisar in Haryana recorded a high of 40.8 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal limits while Bhiwani recorded a high of 40.7 degrees Celsius, according to the Meteorological Department here.Narnaul, Rohtak, Gurgaon and Ambala also recorded above normal maximums of 39.8 degrees Celsius, 38.8 degrees Celsius, 39.7 degrees Celsius and 37.6 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a high of 37.5 degrees Celsius, up three degrees against normal limits.In Punjab too, the temperatures hovered above normal at most places.Patiala recorded a high of 38.2 degrees Celsius, up two degrees while Ludhiana’s maximum settled at 36.1 deg C, up two notches.Faridkot registered a high of 37 degrees Celsius.However, Amritsar and Gurdaspur, which received rains, recorded respective below normal maximums of 34 degrees Celsius and 30.8 degrees Celsius, respectively. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sultry-weather-conditions-prevail-in-haryana-punjab-281654
11-07-2021||Bathinda||Decision to expel Joshi taken in haste, Punjab BJP leadership ignored facts: Mohit Gupta||Punjab BJP executive member Mohit Gupta on Sunday condemned the suspension of former minister Anil Joshi from the party for six years.Also read: BJP expels Joshi for 6 yrsGupta said the decision to expel Joshi had been taken "in a haste".He said Joshi was a senior party worker, who had "a great contribution to strengthening the party in the state, but the state leadership, for their vested interest, had taken this decision in a haste and while taking this decision many facts have been ignored."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/decision-to-expel-joshi-taken-in-haste-punjab-bjp-leadership-ignored-facts-mohit-gupta-281605
11-07-2021||New Delhi||IMD's faulty monsoon forecast for North India: Wrong signals by models, difficulty in predicting wind patterns||Wrong signals by models, difficulty in predicting the outcomes of the interactions between the easterly and westerly winds were some of the major reasons behind the India Meteorological Department's monsoon forecast for parts of north India going haywire, experts pointed out as any relief from the oppressive heat eludes the region.The Southwest Monsoon has reached almost all parts of the country but has stayed away from parts of north India. It is yet to reach Delhi, Haryana, parts of west Uttar Pradesh and west Rajasthan. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted that monsoon is expected to cover these parts by June -- a little less than a month back, but its predictions are yet to come true. In its forecast on June 13, the IMD had predicted that the Southwest Monsoon will reach Delhi by June 15. However, a day later it said conditions are not favourable for its further advancement in this region.Then began a long 'break-spell' during which the Southwest Monsoon was weak over several parts of the country.On July 1, the IMD said conditions could be favourable for further advancement of the monsoon by July 7. The moist easterly winds in the lower level from the Bay of Bengal are likely to establish gradually over parts of eastern India from July 8, it had said. On July 5, the IMD again said the monsoon is likely to spread into northwest India covering Punjab and north Haryana by July 10. However, there were no signs of any relief even on July 10. On forecasting the onset of Southwest Monsoon over Kerala, the IMD said it would hit the southern state by May 31. Till May 30, the IMD, in its daily bulletin, said the onset of the monsoon over Kerala was expected to be around May 31. However, by the afternoon of that day, it revised it saying the onset is expected to be by June 3.“We could have told (the delayed onset) in the morning itself. However, we are monitoring all the defined parameters/ criteria for the onset of monsoon over Kerala. At present the criteria are not fully satisfied,” IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra had said on May 30.Mohapatra said the country's forecasting agency did issue a forecast that the monsoon will cover parts of north India including Delhi by June 15 as indicated by the models.“But we changed it the next day (June 14) when we realised that conditions are not favourable for its advancement.”  He said the forecast models did not show consistency in the interactions of the easterlies and the westerlies -- the two dominant wind patterns.Mohapatra added that the accuracy of the models is reasonably good when it comes to forecasts for up to two weeks but not as good for forecasts for four weeks. M Rajeevan, Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences, who has spent over 35 years studying the Southwest Monsoon, said the forecast models gave wrong signals. “The models have picked up very well some of the broader events like a break in the monsoon and its revival a week ago. But when it comes to local forecasts like its advancement over Kerala or rain over parts of north, there is an issue,” Rajeevan said.“With regards to the forecast of advancement of monsoon over parts of north India, including Delhi, it was too early. The IMD should not have issued the forecast. They could have waited for some more time,” he said. The IMD is an institute under the Ministry of Earth Sciences.  Tracking the interactions of the westerlies and the easterlies is the most difficult part of monsoon forecast, Mohapatra's predecessor K J Ramesh said.In a normal scenario, the Southwest Monsoon covers West Bengal and many parts of central India by June 15, just 14 days after it makes an onset over Kerala, making the official commencement of the four-month rainfall season over the country. It, however, takes nearly three weeks to cover parts of north India, Ramesh said. This is also because of the interactions of easterlies and westerlies. Between the westerlies and the easterlies, the former is a “big brother”, he said. The easterlies only gain strength when there is a low-pressure area that can help them advance further. This usually creates a “sea-saw” like situation. This is also one of the reasons when north India sees a break in the monsoon, he explained.“They (the IMD) must have seen some strength of monsoon capable of moving westwards (towards) north India which is why they issued the forecast (of monsoon covering the remaining parts of north India, including Delhi). The anticipation of the see-saw effect, the judgement, did not come true,” Ramesh said. Ajit Tyagi, former IMD Director-General, said the forecasting agency had predicted that in the first surge the Southwest Monsoon could cover the country by June 15-16. But then it weakened and there were clear signs that it would not revive before July 10. That was indicated. If one looks at the Medium Range Forecast of 10-15 days, it was right, Taygi said.“Initial forecasts were not realised but the IMD did make course corrections,” he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/imds-faulty-monsoon-forecast-for-north-india-wrong-signals-by-models-difficulty-in-predicting-wind-patterns-281585
11-07-2021||---||BJP expels Joshi for 6 yrs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 10The BJP today expelled former Cabinet minister Anil Joshi from the party for six years over “anti-party” activities. Joshi had gone public against the state top brass, saying they should have supported the farmers and conveyed the ground reality to the central leadership.Questioned leadershipJoshi’s reply was found unsatisfactory. He instead questioned the state leadership’s working. - Subhash Sharma, BJP State SecyProud of decisionI’m proud of the decision. I was part of the BJP for 35 years. I’ve not yet decided on joining any political outfit. - Anil Joshi, Former Cabinet MinisterFollowing his remarks, the party had served a show-cause notice to Joshi for “anti-party activities” and had asked him to give a reply within two days.Also read: Decision to expel Joshi taken in haste, Punjab BJP leadership ignored facts: Mohit GuptaIn a press release, party’s state secretary Subhash Sharma said Joshi’s reply was examined by the disciplinary committee and it was found unsatisfactory. “So he was expelled from the party on the directions of state president Ashwani Sharma,” he said.Instead of giving a reply to the show-cause notice, Joshi questioned the state leadership’s working, said Sharma. Reacting to the expulsion, Joshi said he was proud of the decision as he had to pay the price for standing by the Punjab’s farmers and traders. “I was part of the BJP for 35 years and will keep raising my voice for the cause of farmers,” he said.Joshi served as the Local Bodies Minister in the SAD-BJP government, but lost the 2017 elections by 15,000 votes from the Amritsar North constituency. Speaking about his future course of action, he said he would keep on taking up the issues of the people. He said he had not yet decided about joining any other political outfit.Following opposition by farm unions in the recent past, there were some voices from within the party that had questioned the party’s leadership role.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-expels-joshi-for-6-yrs-281294
11-07-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Akalis bank on BSP’s 2019 show||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 10With a fresh alliance in place, the SAD hopes for a repeat performance by the BSP in the last parliamentary elections to see it through in the 2022 Assembly polls. However, the BSP’s performance in the 2017 Assembly polls suggests the alliance seems to be a gamble.Enjoys support in DoabaThe alliance will gain because of BSP’s support in the Doaba and east Malwa belts. In 2019, the BSP got over two lakh votes in the Jalandhar parliamentary constituency. In Hoshiarpur, it secured 1.3 lakh votes, while in Anandpur Sahib it polled 1.5 lakh. - Daljeet Singh Cheema, SAD SpokespersonThe BSP had once become a formidable force in the Punjab politics under the leadership of Kanshi Ram. Its first alliance with the Akalis way back in 1996 for the parliamentary elections yielded rich dividends. The alliance won 11 out of the 13 seats. The BSP bagged three with a vote share of 16 per cent.However, the BSP contested alone in the subsequent 1997 Assembly elections. While it had a respectable vote share of 13.9 per cent, 45 of its 67 candidates lost the security deposit. The party won the lone seat of Garhshankar (Doaba).The downslide continued thereafter with the party managing 6.61 per cent vote share in the 2002 polls, which fell to 4.17 per cent in 2007. In the 2012 Assembly elections, the vote share rose slightly to 4.3 per cent, but it slid to 1.59 per cent in 2017.In the parliamentary elections, BSP’s vote share stood at 3.52 per cent and 1.9 per cent in 2019 and 2014, respectively. While the vote share is a powerful factor in analysis, it may mislead at times. In the 2017 Assembly elections, the SAD on its own got a higher vote share than the AAP, but bagged fewer seats.The SAD got 25.2 per cent vote share and 14 seats, against AAP’s 23.7 per cent and 20 seats. The vote share of the SAD-BJP alliance was much higher at 30.6 per cent, but they won only 17 seats.“The 2017 polls were an aberration as the AAP cut into the vote bank of all parties, mainly the BSP. In 2019, the politics underwent a course correction as the AAP bubble had burst,”said Daljeet Singh Cheema, SAD spokesperson.“The alliance will gain because of BSP’s support in the Doaba and east Malwa belts. The BSP got over two lakh votes in the Jalandhar parliamentary constituency. In Hoshiarpur, it secured 1.3 lakh votes, while in Anandpur Sahib it polled 1.5 lakh votes.”As per the Akali Dal analysis, the partnership will benefit the most in the Doaba (area between rivers Beas and Sutlej) region. In 2019, the BSP improved significantly in at least 20 out of the 27 seats under three parliamentary seats of Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and Anandpur Sahib. In Doaba, the SAD-BJP won six seats in 2017. The Akalis are hoping to at least double the figure in 2022.SAD adviser Harcharan Bains called the alliance with the BSP historic. “Both share same ethos. The alliance has already set a record in 1996.”Soon after hitting a high in the 1996 elections, the bond broke with the Akalis supporting the BJP to form the government at the Centre under Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The BSP, which opposed the BJP, termed it a betrayal by the Akalis. “The BSP left the Akalis immediately over the betrayal. Trust has to develop at the ground level. The vote bank of the BSP has shrunk over the years. They don’t cast vote en bloc. The big question is whether the BSP will fill the gap left by the BJP for the Akalis,” says a political commentator.Already, there is a revolt within the BSP. Former state president Rachhpal Singh Raju and serving president of Jalandhar Ram Singh Saroye among others have termed the alliance unequal. “Out of the 20 seats the BSP has got in the alliance, its candidates polled more than 10,000 votes only in Nawanshahr. In most other seats, our candidates could not even get 1,000 votes.” They want seat-sharing renegotiated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akalis-bank-on-bsps-2019-show-281307
11-07-2021||---||Dhuri MLA’s wife faces protesters||Sangrur, July 10Farmers gheraoed Simrat Kaur Khangura, wife of Dhuri MLA Dalvir Singh Goldy, in Ladda village here for around three hours on Saturday. Kaur neither called the police nor left the village. She said she had come to meet her relatives and not to seek votes.Within minutes, she also got the support of Ladda panchayat members and other residents, who said they did not have any problem with Kaur and her husband MLA Goldy as they had ensured development in their village.“Today I have come to meet my relatives, but some persons, who are working at the instance of our political opponents, gheraoed me and used insulting language. My family and our government are supporting the agitation of farmers against the central laws but some persons want to spoil the peace in villages. We will not allow it at any cost,” Simrat Kaur said.But BKU (Ugrahan) leader Harbans Singh Ladda said they would not allow any politician enter their villages.“Farmer organisations have banned the entry of politicians in villages and we will not allow them till the repeal of the black laws,” said Ladda.High drama was witnessed in the village when protesters raised slogans against the Punjab Government but panchayat members led by Sarpanch Mithu Ladda raised slogans in the favour of MLA Goldy and the government. Dhuri DSP Parmjit Singh Sandhu said after the intervention of the MLA and cops, the protest was ended. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dhuri-mlas-wife-faces-protesters-281310
11-07-2021||---||Talwandi Sabo plant to resume ops by month-end||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, July 10The power crisis in the state may take longer to be resolved as the Talwandi Sabo Power Plant (TSPL), which closed yesterday, may not be fully operational until the month-end.Engineers from Korea on jobOne of the major reasons for the frequent breakdown of the plant is the high dependence on domestic coal, which has high ash content, and the restrictions on coal import. Despite PSPCL’s support to get the supply of imported coal, the plant hasn’t been able to get the adequate low ash coal.A team of Korean engineers and experts from BHEL, GE, and TSPL are working day in and out to identify and rectify the problem. One unit is likely to be restored shortly. The second one which stopped yesterday has minor technical snag and shall be restored within 48 hours.Terming the current breakdown of two of their units unfortunate, TSPL officials said restoration of one of these was expected within 48 hours, while the other might take a little longer. “We are targeting all three units of TSPL to be operational and functional to the full capacity by the end of the month,” they stressed.The first unit, which broke down in March, had an unprecedented failure. Such technical breakdown takes about a year’s time for resolve. However, TSPL has ensured the imported components are delivered within four months’ time. Vedanta’s Talwandi Sabo Power Limited is a supercritical 1980 MW world-class thermal power plant in Banawala, Mansa, and supplies 100% of electricity it generates to PSPCL.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/talwandi-sabo-plant-to-resume-ops-by-month-end-281311
11-07-2021||Jalandhar||Congress, SAD workers booked for assault||As many as 27 persons, including Congress and Akali workers, have been booked after a Durgapur former sarpanch was seriously injured in an attack.The party workers clashed at the village in Sultanpur Lodhi on Wednesday night after sarpanch’s husband Kuldeep Singh along with associates allegedly attacked former sarpanch Gurmail Singh Chahal in his fields.As many as 17 have been identified by name in the FIR. While Chahal belonged to the Congress, Kuldeep was an Akali Dal leader. The police insisted it was a personal dispute and not linked to the parties.Sutanpur Lodhi DSP Sarwan Singh Bal said: “A case of embezzlement of Rs 6 lakh was being investigated against Kuldeep, also a former sarpanch. Anger over the case triggered the attack. It is a case of personal dispute. Chahal has been referred to the PGI, Chandigarh, as he has head injuries and fracture in both legs. As many as 27 persons have been booked at the Fattu Dhinga police station. All of them are absconding.” MLA Cheema said: “Kuldeep was sour over the embezzlement case. This is not a case of party rivalry.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-sad-workers-booked-for-assault-281313
11-07-2021||Bathinda||Scattered rain, no relief||Mild to moderate rain in the city brought much-needed respite from sultry weather conditions on Saturday. But the rain remained restricted to only city area, and farmers, who are facing difficulty in paddy sowing due to power cuts, were left disheartened. There was barely any rain in villages of Talwandi Sabo, Rama, Sangat and Goniana blocks.The city witnessed 12 mm rain on Saturday. Meanwhile, ill-preparedness of the Municipal Corporation of Bathinda came to fore yet again as many low-lying areas saw waterlogging due the to the rain that lasted 20 minutes.Owing to frequent power cuts, paddy sowing in many villages has been affected these days. Many farmers have opted to draw water by using diesel-run water pumps, rising their input costs. As per the meteorological department officials, mild to moderate rain is expected in the Malwa region. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/scattered-rain-no-relief-281315
11-07-2021||Neeraj Bagga||After lockdown, power crisis hits labourers hard||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 10Power crisis in the state has once again rendered thousands of migrant labourers without work, besides shutting down large-scale units.Without work for week as industry shutThe unit has been closed for the past one week. I am being paid a monthly salary of Rs12,000 for 12-hour daily shift. The factory owner is not likely to pay me anything without work. Malu Rai, a weaverMalu Rai, a weaver at an industrial unit here, who returned along with his wife and two sons from his native place in Bihar to resume his job on July 5, was in for a rude shock. “A day after working at the unit, it has been closed for the past one week. I am being paid a monthly salary of Rs 12,000 for 12-hour daily shift. I have been idle for a week and the factory owner is not likely to pay me anything without work”. He claims to shell out Rs 2,500 as room rent and average Rs 600 towards power tariff, besides fees of two school-going kids and monthly ration. He wondered how he will manage all these expenses.Pardeep Kumar, who works at an embroidery unit, feels himself a little lucky that he did not bring his family along from Bihar. He returned here at the beginning of this month. “After working for a couple of days, my daily wages again stopped, reminding me of those tough days of the lockdown.” He is staying with two more co-workers in a 10x10 room at a monthly rent of Rs 1,800. “Learning from the past, we did not bring families and rented a single room to curb expenditure”. Their common fear is that industrialists might not give them wages during the power shutdown period as they had during the lockdown period.Meanwhile, large-scale industrialists, having power load above 100 kw, are annoyed with PSPCL for extending their power outage from 8 am on July 8 to 8 am on July 11. They claim that they were not timely informed about the power shutdown. Industrialists asserted that clamping of power shutdown on the industry was not a solution. PSPCL should purchase electricity to overcome the shortage.They lamented the industry had already suffered a lot in the wake of two lockdowns. A majority of factories are being run at partial capacity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-lockdown-power-crisis-hits-labourers-hard-281318
11-07-2021||Archit Watts||Badal division sees 558 transformer thefts in 10 yrs||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, July 10In the past 10 years, as many as 558 electricity transformers have been stolen in the Badal division. However, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has failed to recover even a single transformer to date. Thieves usually dismantle a transformer and sell its copper and oil in the open market.As per the information gathered under the RTI Act, 479 transformers were stolen from the area coming in Muktsar district and 79 from Bathinda. A transformer of 10kv costs about Rs 40,000. It means in the past one decade, transformers worth about Rs 2 crore have been stolen in the area.Sanjay Singla, Additional Superintending Engineer, PSPCL, Badal division, said the FIR was registered for every single theft.Notably, farmers in the past have lodged protests against the unabated transformer thefts. “The thefts increase in winters during foggy nights. Most of the transformers are installed in the fields and thieves take an advantage of it as nobody is there at night,” said some farmers.A senior police officer said that they had told the scrap dealers to inform them if someone came to sell the shell of transformer or any part of it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/badal-division-sees-558-transformer-thefts-in-10-yrs-281319
11-07-2021||---||Perk row: Punjab government doctors to go on 3-day strike tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 10The Joint Government Doctors’ Coordination Committee (JGDCC) today announced shutdown of health and veterinary services from Monday to Wednesday. The committee decided that OPD services would remain shut but in public interest, emergency, Covid, postmortem and medico/vetro-legal services would continue.Revenue officials reject pay panel reportJGDCC convener Dr Inderveer Gill said due to the government’s silence on the issue of NPA, they were forced to give a call for a strike again.The Health Minister had recently assured the joint committee of resolving the issue of NPA within a week but no action has been taken by the government in this regard. However, when contacted, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the group of ministers had received a report from officials’ committee and was going to meet next week. He said the government was positively considering the demand of the doctors.Dr Gill said the NPA agitation was to the save the public healthcare system. “We will oppose any move of the government that is directed to destroy it. Doctors of the state did not want to close down health and veterinary services but the government is pursuing a policy of evasion instead of resolving the issue,” he claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/perk-row-punjab-government-doctors-to-go-on-3-day-strike-tomorrow-281322
11-07-2021||---||Seeking regular jobs, workers block highway||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, July 10Traffic on the Delhi Amritsar National Highway remained suspended from 10 am to 4 pm today as employees from various departments working on contract and daily wages blocked the GT Road here.Commuters were inconvenienced as the contractual employees protested on the highway demanding regularisation of their services. The police diverted the traffic through link roads, causing a massive traffic jam. By evening, heavy traffic remained parked on the roadside and long queues of trucks and other vehicles blocked all the link roads.Officials and the police negotiated with the striking leaders to find a breakthrough. As the dharna by the contractual employees was organised near the Bhakra main canal, the district administration arranged divers to avert any eventuality.Addressing the protesters, contractual employees leader Balihar Singh said the workers working on contracts had been constantly demanding regularisation, but the government seemed indifferent to their, so they had to block the national highway. He said the honorarium being given to the contractual and daily wage employees was too low to make both ends meet. He said they were not given any additional allowance nor any other facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/seeking-regular-jobs-workers-block-highway-281324
11-07-2021||---||Arms supplier from MP nabbed||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 10In a major inter-state operation, the Punjab Police today busted another Madhya Pradesh-based illicit arms network with the arrest of its main supplier, Baljit Singh, alias Sweety Singh, of Barwani district in MP.Lured clients via social mediaSweety Singh, a resident of Umarti village, had been found indulging in manufacture and supply of high-quality illicit weapons to Punjab and other northern states, said DGP Dinkar Gupta here.The Kapurthala police also recovered three .32 pistols, along with three magazines from his possession, he added. This is the third such MP-based illegal weapon manufacturing and supply module busted by the Punjab Police within the past eight months.The DGP said the arrest came 10 days after the Kapurthala police, in the follow-up operations led by SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, arrested four suspected robbers with 10 pistols and a rifle along with ammunition.He said the suspects revealed they were sourcing the weapons from MP-based smuggler Sweety and were hatching a conspiracy to carry out robberies and dacoities at petrol pumps as well as targeting farmers.DGP Gupta said following the inputs, the Kapurthala police procured arrest warrants for Sweety and a special team was dispatched to Barwani district to arrest him in coordinationwith the MP Police.On June 30, an FIR was registered under Sections 399 and 402 of the Indian Penal Code and 25 of the Arms Act at the Fattudhinga police station in Kapurthala.“Our team, while working closely with MP Police, arrested Sweety, who unsuccessfully attempted to evade arrest by crossing the Narmada to enter the Maharashtra border,” the DGP said.SSP Khakh said Sweety had disclosed that he and his elder brother, Sumer Singh, were into the illegal manufacture and sale of arms for several years and used to upload videos of arms on social media platforms to lure customers. The arrested robbers had established contact with them after seeing the videos.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arms-supplier-from-mp-nabbed-281326
11-07-2021||Bathinda||Unable to repay loan, Bathinda farmer ends life||A debt-ridden farmer from Nehianwala village here allegedly ended his life by consuming some poisonous substance. Harbans Singh, 45, had taken Rs 10 loan from bank and commission agents. As per his family members, he was under stress as he couldn’t repay his loan.Harbans Singh had participated in the farmers’ agitation against three farm laws at Delhi borders and returned from there 15 days ago.He is survived by his wife and a son. BKU (Sidhpur) Goniana block leaders have demanded the debt waiver, compensation and a government job for the next of kin of the deceased farmer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unable-to-repay-loan-bathinda-farmer-ends-life-281328
11-07-2021||Bathinda||Farmers made to buy costly urea, says AAP||Condemning the state government’s order to buy expensive fertilisers only from Markfed, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA and Kisan Wing state president Kultar Singh Sandhwan alleged the government was hell-bent on destroying the rural cooperative societies for the benefit of corporate houses.He said, “Rural cooperative societies were formed with the financial support of farmers and public. Now, the government wants to loot them through Markfed. These societies independently procure urea and DAP from IFFCO and Markfed and distribute it to the farmers. But now, the government has issued an order to end the independence of these cooperative societies.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-made-to-buy-costly-urea-says-aap-281330
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||SAD slams AAP plea in SC over thermal plants’ closure||The SAD today condemned AAP convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for filing a petition in the Supreme Court seeking the closure of thermal plants in the state, saying it was against the interest of Punjab.Terming such politics as reprehensible, SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia claimed had the petition succeeded it would have wiped out the state industry, besides making trade unviable. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-slams-aap-plea-in-sc-over-thermal-plants-closure-281332
11-07-2021||Saurabh Malik||Minor girl can’t stay with live-in partner, rules HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 10The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear a minor girl in a live-in relationship, prima facie, could not be allowed to stay with her partner. She was required to be sent to a child care institution.Must be sent to child care homeThe direction came in a case of a live-in couple seeking appropriate directions for protection of their life and liberty. Taking up the matter, Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi asked the police authorities to take over 15-year-old girl’s custody from the 19-year-old boy before entrusting it to the in-charge, Ashiana, Sector 15, Chandigarh.Justice Tyagi also referred to observations made by the Supreme Court in the case of “Independent Thought versus the Union of India and another” and the High Court judgment in the case of “Parminder Singh versus State of Haryana and others” before observing prima facie the boy was not entitled to the girl’s custody and she was to be kept in a child care institution for ensuring protection of her life and liberty.Justice Tyagi made clear the court’s intent to travel beyond just the issue of protection to the runaway couples and look at the issue from a social angle as well. Justice Tyagi appointed two senior advocates, Amit Jhanji and Gursharn Kaur Mann, as amicus curiae or the friend of the court to assist the Bench in its endeavour. Justice Tyagi also put senior police officers on notice.Justice Tyagi added: “The case involves questions as to whether a minor girl, who has not attained marriageable age of 18, is entitled to reside with a person of her choice in live-in relationship in the nature of marriage; whether such a minor girl can consent to her removal from lawful guardianship and also to live-in relationship in the nature of marriage with consummation thereof by such person; and whether such person, not being husband, can purport to act as guardian of the minor girl and claim her custody without seeking order from guardian judge/family court…”Justice Tyagi added another question involved was whether the fundamental right to protection of life and liberty could be extended to the protection of the minor girl for residing with such a person in live-in relationship. Justice Tyagi added the questions required threadbare adjudication with reference to all relevant judicial precedents in this regard. Before parting with the case, Justice Tyagi made Haryana and Chandigarh a party, along with Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minor-girl-cant-stay-with-live-in-partner-rules-hc-281334
11-07-2021||Amritsar||Bodies of newborn girls found at GMC||In a shocking incident, two bodies of newly born girls were found at a parking lot opposite Bebe Nanki Mother and Child Care Centre at Government Medical College (GMC) here on Saturday. The incident came to light when a passer-by noticed stray dogs at the site.The passer-by then talked to a shopkeeper who informed the security personnel of the hospital. Later, the police arrived at the site and the body was shifted to the mortuary.A few minutes after the police left, people found another body in a pit dug nearby for construction purpose. The hospital authorities said they had verified their records and none of the children born or admitted with them was missing.“The security personnel conducted an inquiry and found that the bodies were dumped elsewhere and were brought to the hospital premises by dogs,” said hospital’s medical superintendent Dr KD Singh. He said the police were investigating the matter.Officials at the police station said a case had been registered and footage from CCTV cameras was being procured to look out for any suspicious vehicles or persons. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bodies-of-newborn-girls-found-at-gmc-281336
11-07-2021||Ferozepur||11 mobiles seized from Ferozepur jail||In a major seizure, 11 mobile phones have been recovered from the Central Jail here.As per information, seven keypad phones, two smart phones, four headphones and 14 packets of tobacco were found abandoned in the garden area on the rear side of the jail hospital. The officials said the items were found in a plastic bag wrapped with a tape.The police have registered a case against unidentified persons on a complaint submitted by the jail officials.In another seizure, two mobile phones, a mobile battery, data cable and tobacco packets were recovered from an undertrial, Rajbir Singh, a resident of Harike in Tarn Taran district. A case under Section 52A of the Prisons Act has been registered against the undertrial. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/11-mobiles-seized-from-ferozepur-jail-281341
11-07-2021||Balwant Garg||MBBS students ‘fleeced’,  panel lists new norms||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, July 10Days after some private medical colleges in Punjab collected Rs 1.5 crore from 40 final-year MBBS students in the name of ‘providing them with NOC’ and allowing them to do a one-year-internship from other medical colleges, the National Medical Commission (NMC) has come up with Draft Regulations for Compulsory Rotating Internship.The guidelines mandate that every MBBS student shall complete the entire period of compulsory rotating internship in the institution where they have pursued and completed MBBS. Opposing the collection of funds from students to allow them internships from other medical colleges, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) had approached the NMC.In its fresh guidelines for the rotating internship, the NMC has stated that foreign medical graduates who require completing a period of internship shall do so only in medical colleges which are approved for providing internship to Indian medical students. For this reason, the medical colleges may admit up to 7.5 per cent of their permitted annual intake of MBBS seats applicable to that batch of interns to accommodate internships by foreign medical graduates. In a letter to the NMC, the BFUHS had termed the collection of the fee, up to Rs 3 lakh per student by some medical institutions in the state, as “fleecing” of students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mbbs-students-fleeced-panel-lists-new-norms-281347
11-07-2021||Ferozepur||Wife among 4 held for labourer’s murder||227 cases disposed of at e-lok adalatChandigarh: Over Rs 6 crore was awarded and 227 cases disposed of during the e-National Lok Adalat held today. In all, 10 Benches, presided over by High Court judges, were held. The HC made it clear the e-lok adalat concept might continue in the post-pandemic period. TNSShivling damaged, case registeredSangrur: Unidentified persons allegedly damaged a Shivling and Nandi’s idol at a temple on the outskirts of Saraud village last night. Malerkotla SP Amandeep Singh Brar said they had registered a case. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wife-among-4-held-for-labourers-murder-281348
11-07-2021||---||2 Jalandhar youths among four  held with record Rs 2,500 cr heroin||New Delhi, July 10The Delhi Police today said the Special Cell had arrested four persons, including two from Punjab, one from Anantnag in J&K and an Afghan national, following the seizure of a record 354 kg of heroin worth over Rs 2,500 crore in the international market.Officials identified them as Rizwan Kashmiri of Anantnag in J&K, Gurpreet Singh and Gurjot Singh of Jalandhar and Hazrat Ali of Kandahar in Afghanistan. Police sources said it had come to light that Rizwan was involved in drug peddling in Delhi and other states, including Punjab, MP and Haryana.DCP (Special Cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah said: “On Monday, the police received information that Rizwan was on his way to deliver contraband in South Delhi. A trap was laid and the accused arrested with 1kg of heroin.”He revealed that he worked under an Afghan national named Isha Khan, who had recently left India for Afghanistan. Khan directed him to contact Gurpreet and Gurjot, currently operating a drug racket from Faridabad in Haryana, the DCP said.Based on his disclosure, Gurpreet and Gurjot were arrested too. The police seized 166 kg and 115 kg of heroin from two cars on the duo’s information. Later, 70 kg heroin was found at their rented accommodation. Gurpreet and Gurjot revealed they were operating on the instructions of Navpreet Singh based in Portugal, the police said.“Gurpreet met Navpreet in Punjab’s Kapurthala Jail while they were in judicial custody in different cases,” the police officer said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-jalandhar-youths-among-four-held-with-record-rs-2-500-cr-heroin-281301
11-07-2021||New Delhi||Vedanta’s 1980-MW Talwandi Sabo plant to be fully operational by month-end||Vedanta’s Talwandi Sabo Power Ltd (TSPL) on Saturday said all three units of its 1,980 MW coal-fired thermal power plant in Mansa district of Punjab would be operational by the end of this month.In a statement, it stated that the TSPL engineers are on war footing to rectify a technical snag.“The components have already arrived from China and shall reach the plant within a day. Thanks to CMD, PSPCL to get it cleared early from the customs. It is expected that within next week two units shall be functional and by the end of this month, all the three units will be operational,” it added.It stated that the first unit of 660 MW (at the plant) which broke down in March had an unprecedented failure.“This was communicated to PSPCL (Punjab State Power Corporation Limited) and they have been supportive in early restoration. Usually, such technical breakdown takes about a year’s time for restoration, however TSPL has spent manifolds amounts to ensure that the components are delivered within 3-4 months’ time,” it said.“In an unprecedented chain of events, the current breakdown of two of our units is unfortunate; restoration of one of these is expected within 48 hours, while the other one might take a little longer. We are targeting all the three units of TSPL to be operational by the end of the month and functional to the full capacity.”Punjab is reeling under an unprecedented power shortage leading to unscheduled load shedding in urban and rural areas, amid scorching heat.As part of the measures to deal with the power shortage, the PSPCL has already cut down power supply to the industry including rolling mills and induction furnaces till July 11.Besides, the state government has already directed government offices to function from 8 am till 2 pm till July 10 with a ban on use of air conditioners.TSPL said it fully acknowledges the current power crisis in Punjab and is working hard to rectify the issue at the earliest to help the government and people of Punjab towards mitigating the crisis.While the state is reeling under a tremendous crisis, at TSPL, a team of highly qualified engineers from Korea, BHEL, GE & Siemens are diligently working day and night along with TSPL engineers to identify and rectify the technical snag and towards early restoration of the unit, it said.“One of the major reasons for such frequent breakdown is owing to import coal restrictions and to the challenge in getting import substitute coal from Indian coal mines. This has led to dependence on usage of domestic coal which has high ash content. Despite PSPCL’s support to get supply of import substitute coal, we have not been able to get adequate low ash coal, and high ash content coal results in frequent unit breakdowns,” it stated.Vedanta’s Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL) is a supercritical 1,980 MW world-class thermal power plant at Banawala in Mansa district of Punjab and supplies 100 per cent of the electricity to Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vedantas-1980-mw-talwandi-sabo-plant-to-be-fully-operational-by-month-end-281122
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab BJP expels dissenter Anil Joshi for 'anti-party activities'||Punjab’s Bharatiya Janata Party unit expelled rebel leader Anil Joshi for antiparty activities on Saturday, two days after he was asked to explain his recent statements against the policies of the central government.The action against Joshi came after he gave his reply to a show-cause notice issued by the BJP's state unit for his “anti-party” activities.  According to the notice, Joshi had been making statements against the Union government, party's central leadership and policies. Joshi was expelled on the directions of state unit chief Ashwani Sharma, according to a party statement.Joshi did not give up his stubborn attitude of going against the party whereupon state BJP chief Ashwani Sharma on the recommendations of a disciplinary committee expelled him from the primary membership of the party for six years, the statement said.  Earlier, in a two-page reply to the show-cause notice, Joshi said he never spoke against the Centre's farm laws and asked the state party chief if it is indiscipline to talk about farmers. Former Amritsar North MLA asserted that he always spoke about the party's interests. “I neither spoke against the Centre's farm laws nor against central leaders,” Joshi replied.Joshi rather asked Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma whether it was indiscipline to talk about farmers. “Is it indiscipline to talk about 'arhtiyas', industrialists, small traders and labourers,” he asked.He further said workers are leaving the party and asked the Punjab BJP chief whether giving a suggestion to save the party was indiscipline.Joshi also pointed out that initially, farmers protesting against the farm laws in the state had a few demands that could have been handled had the BJP's Punjab unit made some efforts.Joshi has been blaming the party's state leadership for not giving  correct feedback to the Centre on the farm laws. He had also stated that it had become difficult for party workers to come out of their homes. — With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-bjp-expels-dissenter-anil-joshi-for-anti-party-activities-281091
11-07-2021||New Delhi||Monsoon expected to cover parts of north India, including Punjab, Haryana, in a day, says IMD||The easterly winds have made conditions favourable for the advancement of the southwest monsoon, and it is likely to cover parts of north India, including Delhi, Haryana and Punjab, in a day, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday.The IMD said lower-level easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal have extended northwestwards, reaching up to Delhi, Haryana and east Rajasthan as on Saturday.Low level relative humidity has also increased over the region.Also read:"Hence, the conditions continue to remain favourable for further advancement of southwest monsoon over Delhi, remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh and some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan during the next 24 hours," the IMD added.Conditions are also becoming favourable for further advancement of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of the country during the subsequent 48 hours. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/monsoon-expected-to-cover-parts-of-north-india-including-punjab-haryana-in-a-day-says-imd-281088
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting cut in NPA, Punjab govt doctors to boycott health, veterinary services, including OPDs, from July 12-14, indefinite stir from July 19||An emergency meeting of the Joint Government Doctors Coordination Committee (JGDCC) held on Saturday decided to shut health and veterinary services, including OPDs, across Punjab from July 12-14. However, services related to emergency, Covid, post-mortem and medico/vetro-legal will continue as usual.The doctors have been protesting the alleged government silence and failure to come up with a meaningful solution to their demand for non-practising allowance (NPA).Also read:PCMSA president Dr Gagandeep Singh, senior vice-president Dr Gagandeep Singh Shergill, Veterinary Officers Association president Dr Sarabjit Singh Randhawa, Dental Association president Dr Pawanpreet Kaur, Ayurvedic Association president Dr Sanjeev Pathak, Homoeopathic Association president Dr Balwinder Singh and Rural Medical Officers Association president Dr Deepinder Singh said due to the government's "silence" on the NPA issue, the JGDCC had been forced to give the call for strike again. Keeping in view the convenience of the general public, the committee decided that all doctors in the state would boycott government OPDs from July 15 to 17 but hold parallel OPDs on the lawns of hospitals so that the needy persons were not deprived of health or veterinary services. They announced that during the boycott of health services, all the doctors of the state would also donate blood and area-wise blood donation camps would be organised in Malwa (July 15), Majha (July 16) and Doaba (July 17) regions. The Punjab Health Minister had recently assured the joint committee of resolving their issues within a week, but no action had been taken so far, they claimed.In a statement, JGDCC convener Dr Inderveer Gill said the NPA agitation was aimed at saving the public healthcare system. "We will oppose any move by the government that is directed to destroy it. Doctors of the state did not want to close down the health and veterinary services, but the government is pursuing a policy of evasion instead of resolving the issue," said Dr Sarabdeep Singh, JGDCC media incharge.He said the NPA paid to the government doctors by the Sixth Pay Commission had been reduced from 25 per cent to 20 per cent, and it had been de-linked from the basic pay, resulting which there was a huge outcry among government doctors.The committee also said if the government failed to resolve their issues by July 18, all health and veterinary doctors across the state would go on indefinite strike from July 19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesting-cut-in-npa-punjab-govt-doctors-to-boycott-health-veterinary-services-including-opds-from-july-12-14-indefinite-stir-from-july-19-281062
