12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Five more deaths in Punjab, 119 new cases||Punjab on Monday registered 119 fresh Covid-19 cases, which pushed the tally to 5,97,714, while five more fatalities took the toll to 16,193, according to a medical bulletin.Five deaths each were reported from Amritsar, Barnala, Kapurthala, Mansa and Tarn Taran.The death toll also includes two fatalities which were not reported earlier, according to the bulletin.The number of active cases stand at 1,494, it said.Ludhiana reported 24 infections, followed by 15 in Jalandhar and 13 in Bathinda, according to the bulletin.With 198 people recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,80,027 in the state, it said.The bulletin said that 1,14,03,143 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state.Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, reported nine cases.The infection tally stood at 61,841, according to the bulletin. The count also includes one case which was not reported earlier.With no deaths being reported, the toll stood at 809 for the Union Territory.The number of active cases is 93, the bulletin said.With 13 patients being discharged after recovery from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 60,939, it said.The bulletin said that 5,86,332 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 5,23,219 tested negative while reports of nine samples are awaited, according to the bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-five-more-deaths-in-punjab-119-new-cases-282112
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Cong MLA Raja Warring opens front against Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal||Accusing Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal of distributing funds to the Akalis, Congress legislator Amarinder Singh Raja Warring on Monday urged party leader Rahul Gandhi to take disciplinary action against him.This comes amid efforts by the party leadership to end factionalism in the party unit in the poll-bound state.“Punjab’s finance minister is busy distributing people’s money to the Akalis who ruined Punjab. This plan to weaken Congress and strengthen Akali Dal by @MSBADAL has been running for months. It is a request to @Rahul Gandhi that his resignation should be taken immediately after taking disciplinary action,” said Warring in a tweet.Earlier on his Facebook post, he said he was saddened to know Badal had been handing over cheques for Rs 15 lakh to the Akalis.He even shared pictures of persons whom money was given and said they were members of the same Akali Dal whom Badal had left and then joined the Congress.“The Congress party gave you everything then why are you stabbing the party in the back,” he alleged.He reminded Badal that supporting the Akali Dal while being in the Congress will “destroy” his political life and the people of Punjab would never forget this.He further alleged that his working as a finance minister in the last four years “forced” every section of Punjab to protest against the Congress government.Punjab minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, while tagging Warring’s tweet, said, “The Congress can never have any understanding with Akali Dal which has destroyed Punjab from roots. Still, if there is any perception, it should broken.”Warring had been raising questions over the functioning of Badal in the matter of release of funds. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-mla-raja-warring-opens-front-against-punjab-finance-minister-manpreet-badal-282111
12-07-2021||Hoshiarpur||1 dead, 14 injured as bus hits scooter, rams tree in Hoshiarpur village||A 30-year-old man died and 14 people were injured when a bus hit a two-wheeler and rammed a roadside tree near a village on Monday evening, police said.Sukhjinder Singh was on his scooter when the private passenger vehicle hit him near Rampur village, around 28 km from here, on the Hoshiarpur-Tanda road, they said.The man succumbed to injuries at a government hospital, the police said.The bus was going to Tanda from Hoshiarpur, they said, adding that injured passengers of the vehicle were sent to a private hospital. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1-dead-14-injured-as-bus-hits-scooter-rams-tree-in-hoshiarpur-village-282104
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||BJP leaders 'detained' by protesting farmers in Patiala released after HC order||Around a dozen BJP leaders "detained" for nearly 12 hours by protesting farmers at a house in Patiala's Rajpura were released early Monday following a Punjab and Haryana High Court order, officials said.Scores of protesting farmers had Sunday laid siege to a BJP worker's house where several party leaders including Punjab unit general secretary Subhash Sharma and Patiala in charge Bhupesh Aggarwal were also present.The BJP leaders petitioned the Punjab and Haryana High Court through their lawyer, saying they were illegally detained by a mob at a house in Rajpura.The court Sunday night directed the Punjab police to ensure the petitioners are provided with a safe exit with adequate security and no harm is caused to them. The court had also asked for a report to be submitted at 2 pm on Monday.Patiala Deputy Superintendent of Police (Rajpura Rural) Jaswinder Singh said the BJP leaders were taken out of the house around 4 am Monday. Police used mild cane-charge to disperse the protesters.Earlier, the protesting farmers allegedly disrupted a district-level BJP meeting at Rajpura on Sunday following which the party leaders and workers had gathered at the residence of a party worker.Punjab BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma who was present among others in the house said the protesters had even disconnected the power supply.Sharma alleged the protesters damaged the vehicles of some BJP leaders, besides the windscreen of a police van.He also alleged the protesters hurled bricks at them when they were being taken out of the house by the police.Sharma said they would be lodging an FIR in this matter.On their part, the farmers alleged the BJP workers used inappropriate language against the protesters and security personnel of BJP leader Bhupesh Aggarwal allegedly brandished a pistol at them. They were demanding an apology from the BJP for the same. Earlier, on Sunday, a group of farmers, protesting against the Centre's new agri-marketing laws, had chased away local BJP leader Shanti Sapra and allegedly manhandled him as they held a protest against the party's district-level meeting at Rajpura.Later, the BJP's general secretary Subhash Sharma had rushed to Patiala to enquire about leaders and other workers who faced the wrath of protesters.A large number of farmers then had reached the house where Sharma and others were present and laid siege. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-leaders-detained-by-protesting-farmers-in-patiala-released-after-hc-order-282061
12-07-2021||---||Medical, dental teachers undertake symbolic blocking of national highways to protest against NPA cut||Patiala, July 12Medical and dental teachers and resident PCMS doctors of Government Medical and Dental Colleges in Patiala and Amritsar and Guru Gobind Singh Medical College in Faridkot on Monday observed a one-day protest against the Sixth Punjab Pay Commission report relating to the state government doctors which has led to “a drastic cut” in their salaries.According to Dr DS Bhullar, state general secretary of Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers Association (PSMDTA), OPD and operation theatre services along with classroom teaching of the students were kept completely suspended for the entire day in medical and dental colleges and attached hospitals in Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot as a mark of protest.However, emergency, indoor patient and Covid services along with emergency medico-legal and post-mortem work was running smoothly.Medical and dental teachers, along with resident PCMS doctors from different departments, organised a rally at Government Medical College and blocked the Patiala-Sangrur highway as a symbolic protest, appealing to the Chief Minister to accept their NPA demand as early as possible so that patient care and teaching of the students did not suffer.PSMDTA has also condemned the “threatening attitude” of Research and Medical Education Minister OP Soni during his meeting with the PSMDTA leaders on Saturday at Chandigarh.Though the minister assured the association to accept the genuine demands of the medical and dental teachers, he demanded one-month time to resolve the issue, which was turned down by the association as it has already declared July 20 as the deadline to sort out the issue of NPA after which they will go on indefinite strike along with all other associations of the state.Besides, government doctors said they might even stop attending Covid duties for which the state government would be held responsible.Government doctors have been protesting for the past more than three weeks and demanding restoration of their NPA to its original form and linking it with their basic pay along with restoration of all other allowances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/medical-dental-teachers-undertake-symbolic-blocking-of-national-highways-to-protest-against-npa-cut-282040
12-07-2021||Amritsar||Protesting farmer from Amritsar village dies after returning from Singhu border||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesting-farmer-from-amritsar-village-dies-after-returning-from-singhu-border-282017
12-07-2021||New Delhi||Conditions favourable for advance of monsoon over Punjab, Haryana||Light rain is likely in Delhi on Monday with the weather department saying conditions are favourable for advance of the monsoon over the national capital.The long-delayed monsoon missed yet another date with Delhi on Sunday.The city woke up to a humid morning with the minimum temperature settling at 27 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature is expected to settle around 37 degrees Celsius, it said."Conditions were favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon over Delhi, remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan on Monday,” the India Meteorological Department said.The relative humidity was recorded at 74 per cent at 8.30 am.The arrival of the monsoon will be announced in Monday's midday bulletin based on observations at 8.30 am on July 12, IMD scientist Sunitha Devi had said on Sunday.According to the standard operating procedure, the monsoon onset is declared based on the rainfall reported during the past 24 hours ending at 8.30 am, she explained. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/conditions-favourable-for-advance-of-monsoon-over-punjab-haryana-282016
12-07-2021||---||Tracing journey of Guru Teg Bahadur||Ferozepur: A coffee table book depicting the spiritual journey of Guru Teg Bahadur from his birth till martyrdom was presented to the Army and the BSF personnel at the Hussainiwala border by the author, Harpreet Sandhu, an advocate. Sandhu said the work would be a source of inspiration for the jawans and the community. It would help people imbibe the values of sacrifice and uprightness, which Guru Teg Bahadur upheld, he said. The book carries words from the desks of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and eminent intellectuals, including scholars, jurists, ambassadors, chancellors, vice-chancellors and former Army heads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tracing-journey-of-guru-teg-bahadur-282014
12-07-2021||---||100 farmers volunteer to take part in dharna outside Parliament||Amritsar, July 11The farmers’ associations have started preparations for the protest outside Parliament from July 22 as announced by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha and prepared a list of 100 volunteers, who would be participating in the dharna. A meeting of farmers’ unions was held at Baba Sohan Singh Bhakna Bhawan on Sunday.Sulakhan Singh advocate who presided over the meeting said a list of 100 volunteers has been prepared. He said farmers are upbeat after the SKM announced about the dharna outside Parliament.Lakhbir Singh Nizampura, vice-president, All-Indian Kisan Sabha, said: “We have decided that five members would be sent for the dharna daily. If the government decides to arrest the agitators, it has been decided that we would not apply for bails and continue sending five members daily till the farm laws are repealed.”Sources in the farmers’ unions said the SKM has decided not to allow more than 500 farmers at the dharna site on a single day. “It has been done to keep a check on anti-social or suspicious persons attending the protest under the garb of being farmers. The local units will send committed and dedicated farmers only,” the source said.It has been learnt that the first batch of volunteers from the district would participate in the protest outside the Parliament on July 26. The 40 farmers unions from across the country would be spearheading and managing the dharna, Nizampura said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/100-farmers-volunteer-to-take-part-in-dharna-outside-parliament-281874
12-07-2021||Infocus Agriculture||INFOCUS Agriculture: Enable, incentivise farmers to save every drop||The total availability of water in Punjab from all sources is 53.06 BCM (billion cubic metres) against the total demand of 66.12 BCM for various sectors, of which agriculture accounts for 62.58 BCM. So, there is a gap of 13.06 BCM, which is met through exploitation of groundwater resources over and above the recharge. According to the Central Ground Water Board, within the next 25 years, groundwater in Punjab will fall to levels beyond extraction if the exploitation continues at the current rate.The irrigation requirement of the rice-wheat cropping system is 200 cm, whereas for maize-wheat and cotton-wheat it is 77.5 and 87.4 cm, respectively. Despite high water requirement, the area under rice in Punjab has shown unrelenting increase even in the post-Green Revolution period (from 20.12 lakh hectares in 1990-91 to 31.42 lakh hectares in 2019-20). The concomitant increase in the number of tubewells from 8 lakh to 14.76 lakh was accompanied by the conversion of centrifugal to submersible pumps which extract water from deeper aquifers. In recent years, rice has penetrated into the traditional cotton belt districts of Fazilka, Bathinda, Mansa and Sri Muktsar Sahib, covering 62% acreage in the kharif season of 2020.In Punjab, canal and tubewell irrigation cover 27% and 73% area, respectively. In view of the convenience of tubewell irrigation in the central and north-eastern districts, the canal network shrunk due to lack of use and maintenance. On the other hand, farmers in areas with poor-quality groundwater (south-western districts) tended to capitalise more on the canal network even at the risk of waterlogging and salt accumulation on the soil surface. In these districts, an area of 9.13 lakh hectares is irrigated through canals compared to 2.31 and 0.32 lakh hectares in central and north-eastern districts, respectively.According to an isotopic study conducted by the National Institute of Hydrology, Roorkee, the recharge by the Sutlej river is almost nil whereas the Beas river recharges groundwater to a low extent. The erratic monsoon has accentuated these poor recharge conditions. The average annual monsoon rainfall had been below the long-term average (492 mm) in 17 out of 20 years since 2000.During 2019, the peak season demand for electricity was 13,633 MW, which came down to 13,150 MW during 2020 due to the Covid lockdown. This year, the peak demand has shot up to over 14,000 MW. This high demand stems from greater dependence on groundwater due to the weakening of the monsoon currents resulting in a drier last week of June (60% less rainfall than normal in 2021).In earlier decades, PAU developed a number of technologies for water-saving — mulching in maize and sugarcane (1977 and 1979), alternate wetting and drying in rice (1981), standing water for two weeks only after transplanting (1989), bed planting of wheat (2002), bed planting of cotton and first irrigation after six weeks (2005), tensiometer (2006), laser leveller (2007), ridge/bed transplanting of rice (2007) and direct seeded rice (2010). Even the simplest technology of alternate wetting and drying in rice, capable of saving 20% irrigation water without any productivity loss, has not found wide adoption due to lack of value attached to water and power. Laser land levelling technology having the potential to save 15% water, however, gained acceptance, more due to benefits of increase in the field area due to fewer bundhs and ease of flood irrigation.After 2010, the following three water-saving technologies have shown promise in the fields and need to be promoted further.Short-duration rice cultivarsShort-duration parmal rice varieties developed by PAU such as PR 121 (2013), PR 126 (2016) and PR 128 (2020) mature 3-5 weeks earlier and help to save 10-15% water compared to long-duration varieties such as Pusa 44. The area under short-duration varieties in the state has increased from 37% in 2013 to 71% in 2020, which goes to the credit of our farmers. These varieties can be grown without significant yield penalty with June 20 as the transplanting date, with some of them (PR 126) performing best with July transplanting. The delay in the transplanting date helps in the avoidance of the high evaporative demand period.Direct seeded rice technologyTar wattar refers to an innovative technology of direct seeding of rice (DSR) under full moisture (tar wattar) using a specially designed drill (Lucky Seed Drill) having a pre-sowing weedicide spraying attachment. This technology, recommended ahead of the 2020 rice crop season, offers up to 20% water-saving (due to bypassing of puddling and reduced frequency of irrigation), besides greater recharge possibilities and better yield of the succeeding crop due to the removal of hardpan. The refined DSR technology was adopted by farmers on 5.19 lakh hectares (20% of the parmal rice area) showing a sharp increase over the 65,000 hectares in 2019, with Covid- induced labour shortage serving as a catalyst. This year, the Punjab Government aims to cover 10 lakh hectares under this technology as a major water conservation measure.Drip irrigationPAU recommends surface and subsurface drip irrigation in various crops. The drip irrigation system is a cost-intensive but high water-saving package which can be operated with solar energy and will increase the irrigation acreage per unit of available water through water storage structures. The high cost of the system is compensated to an extent by the yield advantages but needs extensive capital support to take it to a larger scale. Horticultural and wide-row field crops (sugarcane, cotton, maize, sunflower, potato etc.) can provide a good starting point.There is a wide gap between the availability and adoption of water-saving technologies in agriculture. The situation calls for innovative strategies and incentivisation. One such strategy has been piloted in Punjab since 2018 with the World Bank and J-PAL-supported Pani Bachao Paise Kamao scheme. In the first phase, the scheme was piloted on six electricity feeders in the districts of Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and Fatehgarh Sahib; in the second phase, the scheme is to be extended to 250 electricity feeders. Under this scheme, the adoption of water-saving technologies gets incentivised as an amount equal to the units of electricity saved in operating a tubewell sparingly (compared to previous years) is paid to the farmer through a DBT mechanism. Thus, while the electricity subsidy expenditure of the government remains constant, the saving of electricity used for operating tubewells translates into saving of groundwater. For this scheme to be effective, water-saving technologies have to be promoted and implemented. PAU has been able to get farmers under the pilot project to adopt alternate wetting and drying and short-duration varieties in rice, laser land levelling, paddy straw management and wheat sowing with Happy Seeder in three selected feeders.The groundwater situation in Punjab is dire. Measures are needed at multiple levels, including power policy, cropping pattern and technology. These elements need to be organised into a cycle. Otherwise, it will be too late and future generations will not forgive the current one for doing nothing despite knowing everything.The author is Principal Agronomist & Incharge, Centre for Water Technology & Management, Dept of Agronomy, Punjab Agricultural University||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/infocus-agriculture-enable-incentivise-farmers-to-save-every-drop-281940
12-07-2021||Ravneet Singh||Compilation of Mahan Kosh - encyclopedia of Sikh literature: Punjabi University looking for scholars||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 11For the compilation of its latest and corrected versions of the Mahan Kosh – encyclopedia of Sikh literature, Punjabi University here is looking for scholars in the collective fields of English, Punjabi and Gurbani.Even as the work on encyclopedia remains pending, the university claimed that two of the three scholars associated with it for the work had died.Golden wordsMahan Kosh is a Punjabi language encyclopedia which is considered as the greatest work of Sikh literature. It was first compiled by Sikh scholar and writer Bhai Kahan Singh Nabha. It took 14 years to compile the first edition which got published in 1927. It comprises entries covering religious and historical terms in alphabetical order, where each entry records the etymology and different meanings of the term according to its usage, alongside textual quotations.“We are in the process of setting up teams for all versions. The difficulty is in finding people who know English, Punjabi and Gurbani very well. Such people are very difficult to find today,” said Punjabi University Vice-Chancellor Arvind.The work of producing the corrected versions of the Mahan Kosh, also knownas Gurshabad Ratnakar Mahankosh, has been hanging in the balance forover two years. The copies produced earlier were scrapped in March 2019 over glaring mistakes.The matter related to “mistakes” in the university’s copies had been probed by the SGPC before it reached the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which had enforced a ban on its sale. Later, the university had decided to scrap it altogether.Highlighting the scarcity of scholars in the related fields, the VC said in fact, Prof Teja Singh – a known English scholar – in 1934, in the foreword written for the original version of the encyclopedia had stated that scholarship required for the compilation of such works was disappearing.“In the 21st century, it seems to have completely disappeared,” he said.The VC said the university had also procured the original version of Mahankosh that had been corrected by Bhai Kahan Singh Nabha, after it was printed for the first time by the Languages Department. It will be used for producing the latest version, he said.“For Punjabi version, we do have an authenticated version by Kahan Singh Nabha. We are facing difficulty with the English version over translations and interpretations. Once we have identified the scholars, we will decide the timeline for the completion of the work,” the VC added.Prof Arvind said he had held a few internal meetings over the issue and decision in this regard would be taken soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/compilation-of-mahan-kosh-encyclopedia-of-sikh-literature-punjabi-university-looking-for-scholars-281906
12-07-2021||Vishav Bharti||Punjab Covid positivity rate lowest in months||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 11After staying over 10 per cent in May, Punjab’s weekly Covid test positivity rate has now fallen to under 0.5 per cent.In the past one week, 2.91 lakh samples were collected, of which only 1,233 turned out positive for Covid-19, taking last week’s positivity rate to 0.42 per cent.The rate remained between 1 and 2 per cent during January and February, but started increasing thereafter. In the second week of May, it peaked, hitting 22 per cent on May 10. Since then, there has been a gradual decline. On Saturday, the state reported just 0.30 per cent positivity rate.During the second wave, the rate consistently remained over 10 per cent. In May, the state’s overall rate regularly touched 15 per cent.The situation was especially worrying in SAS Nagar, Ferozepur, Bathinda, Fazilka, Mansa and Muktsar districts, where the rate was over 15 per cent. According to experts, positivity rate was an important indicator as it helped understand the quantum of infection spread in the society.The daily confirmed cases averaged 175 last week and the daily average of samples stood at 42,000. Besides, the number of daily deaths has come down significantly, with just 50 casualties being reported in the past one week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-covid-positivity-rate-lowest-in-months-281682
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi hopeful of good show by Punjab athletes in Tokyo||Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi today backed state’s athletes to bag laurels for the country at the Tokyo Olympics. Punjab is sending second largest contingent of athletes to the Games.Extending warm wishes to the Olympics-bound players, Sodhi said: “India is sending 117-member contingent to the Olympics, out of which 14 per cent players belong to Punjab. As we are sending second largest contingent after Haryana, the players from Punjab will be able to win at least three or four Olympic medals.”The minister also assured all the support to the athletes. “We will take care of their financial and logistics,” he said.Punjab’s contingent includes Harmanpreet Singh, Rupinderpal Singh, Hardik Singh, Manpreet Singh, Shamsher Singh, Dilpreet Singh, Gurjant Singh, Mandeep Singh and Gurjit Kaur (all hockey players), Anjum Maudgill and Angad Veer Singh (shooting), Simranjit Kaur (boxing), Kamalpreet Kaur, Tajinderpal Singh Toor and Gurpreet Singh (athletics).“It’s a proud moment for the Punjab as it got captaincy in the Olympics after 21 years. Manpreet Singh, DSP, Punjab Police, will lead Indian hockey team as captain in the Tokyo Olympics. He will also be a flag bearer of the Indian contingent,” said the minister.With a bottom-up approach, Sodhi highlighted that efforts were being made to create a sporting culture in Punjab through national programs like Khelo India and Fit India movement, besides injecting measures for grass-roots level motivation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sports-minister-rana-gurmit-singh-sodhi-hopeful-of-good-show-by-punjab-athletes-in-tokyo-281817
12-07-2021||---||Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari for strict action against real estate mafia in Mohali, Kharar, New Chandigarh||Mohali, July 11Anandpur Sahib MP and Congress National spokesman Manish Tewari today urged Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to take strict action against the real estate mafia in Mohali, Kharar and New Chandigarh areas for failing to fulfil their obligations to people to whom they have sold plots.Tewari made an appeal to the Chief Minister after listening to the aggrieved residents of Sectors 116 and 117, Mohali, who were complaining about the lack of basic infrastructure by errant builders. The meeting was organised by the Resident Welfare Association, Sector 117, TDI City.Tewari assured a group of residents, who met him here today, that he would also personally take up the matter with Capt Amarinder Singh for an early and effective solution to their problems.He also advised people to move the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) and the Debts Recovery Tribunal (DRT) under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) against the defaulter builders/companies. He also assured them of legal and other assistance required in the matter.The MP urged the Chief Minister, who is also the chairman of GMADA, to personally review all housing projects in these three areas and order strict civil and criminal action against those real estate developers who failed to fulfil their obligations to people when they sold plots and flats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anandpur-sahib-mp-manish-tewari-for-strict-action-against-real-estate-mafia-in-mohali-kharar-new-chandigarh-281816
12-07-2021||---||Outdoor ad policy amended to plug loopholes, generate income||Chandigarh, July 11To plug loopholes and increase revenue from leasing out outdoor advertising contracts, the Local Government Department has amended the ‘Punjab Municipal Outdoor Advertising Policy, 2018’.In the amendments introduced after clearance from Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra, the department has restricted the time limit of a tender to seven years instead of 10 years. The respective civic bodies have also been allowed to reduce the time limit to five years from seven years.Framed during the tenure of former Local Government Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, factors such as prolonged litigation over advertising contracts, pilferage of revenue and guidelines on bifurcation of civic bodies into zones necessitated amendments in the policy, said a government functionary.Instead of a single tender in a civic body, the department has allowed maximum of two tenders, especially in big cities such as Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Patiala. The civic bodies have been allowed to formulate the zones for tendering to ensure there was no revenue loss.However, in another clause to allow re-arrangement of clusters, the department has not clarified the actual site plan with feasibility clearance which is uploaded at the time of opening tenders. “Now, the bidders with connivance with department officials declare low demand sites as non-feasible after tenders are allotted so that the lease money is charged on pro rata basis. Giving a site plan with feasibility would have checked such type of evasions,” said sources in the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/outdoor-ad-policy-amended-to-plug-loopholes-generate-income-281676
12-07-2021||---||Differently abled, elderly await dues||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, July 11It has been nearly four-and-a-half years of the Congress government in the state, but it is yet to disburse the pension of seven months from May to November 2017, among the elderly, widows, destitute children and the differently abled.The state had ordered a reverification of the beneficiaries in 2017 and stopped the pension for these seven months.Later, the pension amount was increased from Rs 500 to 750 per month with effect from July 2017. Further, in February 2018, the enhanced pension amount was released for December 2017 without clearing the pending bills of the past seven months from May to November 2017.If the pending pension amount is released now, each beneficiary will get Rs 4,750. “The beneficiaries are yet to get Rs 1,000 for May and June (Rs 500 per month) and Rs 3,750 for July, August, September, October and November 2017 (Rs 750 per month). The pension of these months is still pending due to poor financial condition of the state government,” said sources.Charanjit Singh Maan, joint director, Department of Social Security and Women & Child Development, said, “We submit the bills of these months every year to the Finance Department for clearance, but they are still pending. Once the bills are cleared, the pension will be disbursed immediately.”Some beneficiaries said the state government had increased the pension amount to Rs 1,500 from July this year, but it should disburse the pending amount. “Every time we ask about the status of the pending pension, the officials fail to give us a satisfactory reply,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/differently-abled-elderly-await-dues-281677
12-07-2021||---||Revive old pension scheme: Punjab Govt employees||Bathinda, July 11Demanding the revival of the old pension scheme, employees from various government departments under the banner of Old Pension Bahali Sanghrash Committee today staged a protest at ITI Chowk here.Scores of protesters gathered at the venue and blocked the highway, raising slogans against the state government. The committee representatives said if the Congress government failed to revive the scheme, it would cost the party dear in the upcoming Assembly elections.Jasvir Singh, state convener, said: “Finance Minister Manpreet Badal had promised that the old pension scheme would be revived once the Congress formed the government. Even after four-and-a-half years in power, the party had not fulfilled the promise. If government dilly-dally continues, it will become difficult for its legislators and ministers to seek votes ahead of the elections.”Jarnail Singh, general secretary, said: “The condition of the elderly, who retired under the NPS scheme, is pitiable. It has become difficult for them to bear the cost of medicines with their meagre pension. They have given precious years of their life to the service of different government departments, and are now left to fend for themselves.”There was no mention of old pension scheme in the 6th Pay Commission report implemented by the government recently. If the scheme was not revived soon, they would be left with no other option but to intensify their struggle, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/revive-old-pension-scheme-punjab-govt-employees-281678
12-07-2021||Faridkot||Two held for Faridkot firing, pistol seized||In connection with the June 22 firing incident in Kotkapura town, in which a sharp shooter Krishan, alias Kondar, from Haryana was killed, the police have arrested two suspects in Faridkot.The police claimed to have arrested Manpreet Singh Chahal of Rampura Phul and Mayank Yadav of Bathinda and recovered a Turkey-made pistol and 15 cartridges on Sunday. Manpreet is said to be a member of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang.It is alleged that members of the Bishnoi group had attacked Harvel Singh of Wara ka Daraka village of Faridkot on June 22. Harvel is also a history-sheeter and a member of a rival group. He is said to be allegedly involved in the killing of Gurlal Singh Brar of Bishnoi group, in a revenge of which he was attacked. While Harvel escaped unhurt in the incident, one of the attackers, Krishna, alias Kondar, was shot at accidentally by one of his gang members during cross firing.Recently, the Delhi Police had arrested Nitish, alias Pradhan, an associate of the deceased. Both Manpreet and Manyak are facing criminal cases in Bathinda. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-held-for-faridkot-firing-pistol-seized-281679
12-07-2021||Mukesh Ranjan||Another arms smuggler in Moga extortion case held||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 11The NIA today said it had undertaken a search operation in Meerut and arrested 32-year-old Mohd Asif Ali, an arms smuggler, in connection with a case related to extortion by Khalistani terrorists in Punjab’s Moga district. Officials said during the search, two country-made pistols of 0.315 bore, 10 live rounds, a mobile phone, two SIM cards and a memory card were seized.The agency also searched the premises of another arms trafficker, Paramjit Singh alias Mangal, a resident of Hastinapur in Meerut district. Cash amounting to Rs 9 lakh, mobile phones and incriminating documents were seized.The case was registered by the Punjab Police in Moga on May 22 following information that Arshdeep Singh alias Arsh, Charanjit Singh alias Rinku and Ramandeep Singh alias Jajj, all living abroad, had formed a gang and were threatening and extorting money from businessmen in Punjab. The NIA was handed over the case on June 10.“Investigations revealed that the accused would purchase arms and ammunition from Ali and further supply these to another accused Kamaljeet Sharma alias Kamal and his accomplices. These arms were used for targeted killings and for extorting money from businessmen of Punjab,” a senior NIA official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/another-arms-smuggler-in-moga-extortion-case-held-281680
12-07-2021||---||Tubewell spews out polluted water in Sangrur village, activists file plaint||Sangrur, July 11After a video of polluted water being released from a tubewell in Aloarkh village of the district went viral, Youth SAD leaders today submitted an application to the SHO, Bhawanigarh, for registering an FIR against the owners of the industry, which was closed 15 years back.Residents alleged the industry had polluted the groundwater before closure, while the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) were contesting a case in a local court to recover Rs 2-crore penalty from the owners of the closed industry.“The government has failed to even recover the penalty from the owners. It should look into the matter urgently,” said Simar Partap Singh Barnala, Sangrur Youth Akali Dal chief, after submitting the complaint to the SHO, along with farmers of the area.Senior officers of the Agriculture Department, Sangrur, said polluted water was being released from four tubewells of Aloarkh village, of which one belonged to Kulwinder Singh, two to Amritpal Singh and another one was in the panchayat land.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tubewell-spews-out-polluted-water-in-sangrur-village-activists-file-plaint-281681
12-07-2021||Karam Prakash||Construction workers in Punjab yet to get Covid financial aid||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 11Thousands of construction workers in the state are being denied financial assistance announced by the Chief Minister to mitigate the effect of losing their livelihood to Covid restrictions.As per the field staff of the Labour Department, the reason behind the denial is non-clearance of their application of updating their credentials to get the benefits. Sources revealed those applications, which had bypassed the middlemen, had been kept in waiting. The CM had announced a subsistence allowance of Rs 3,000 in May which was to be paid in two instalments of Rs 1,500 each. The first one was to be handed out immediately and another by June 15. However, thousands of workers are yet to receive their dues.Due to delay in registration and accreditation of construction workers, the Labour Department had written a letter to their staff in this regard on Saturday. The Building and Other Construction Workers’ (BOCW) Welfare Board additional secretary had also directed the field staff to clear entire pendency by July 10 or strict action would be taken against the erring officials.Meanwhile, it has been learnt that the department, in some cases, was also yet to pay two instalments of Rs 3,000 each to the workers which were announced last year.Labour activist Vijay Walia said: “It is shameful that poor workers are not being provided with financial aid in time. The CM, who is the chairman of the welfare board, should have looked into the matter.”Labour Department Principal Secretary VK Janjua said: “We have already transferred the first instalment to the bank accounts of around 3 lakh workers of the total 3.5 lakh registered workers. Due to a technical issue that emerged because of merger of some banks, around 75,000 beneficiaries did not receive the second instalment which will be given as soon the issue is resolved. Besides, pendency due to non-clearance of applications will also be resolved soon and financial help will be transferred immediately.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/construction-workers-in-punjab-yet-to-get-covid-financial-aid-281683
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Restore perks of doctors: AAP MP Bhagwant Mann||The Congress government is responsible for the strike by government doctors because it snatched many of their financial benefits in the name of pay commission. This was alleged by AAP state president and MP Bhagwant Mann today, who said the demands of doctors should be fulfilled and their allowances restored immediately.In a statement, Mann and party’s doctor wing state president Dr Ravjot said the Captain government had played a joke with all government employees of Punjab in the name of pay commission as the decision was causing huge financial loss to the employees instead of providing any benefits. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/restore-perks-of-doctors-aap-mp-bhagwant-mann-281684
12-07-2021||Faridkot||5,336 appear for health officer test||For recruitment on 320 posts of community health officers under the National Health Mission in the state, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) on Sunday conducted a written test in which 5,336 candidates appeared.  “Total 5,780 candidates had applied for 320 posts but 444 candidates remained absent in the test. We are hopeful of declaring the result of the test in the next 12 hours,” said Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice Chancellor of the medical university. The written test was of 100 marks and a common merit list shall be prepared of the candidates based upon marks obtained in the written test. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-336-appear-for-health-officer-test-281685
12-07-2021||Mansa||Man dies in CNG kit blast at Mansa||A man was killed and four others injured after a blast occurred in the CNG kit of a car at a petrol station in the city bus stand area of Mansa district late this evening. The deceased was identified as Vikram, a resident of Mansa, who worked at the petrol station. The injured included a customer who was getting the CNG refilled in his car and occupants of another car. As per information, several vehicles were lined up for a refill when the blast occurred. While one person died on the spot, several others were severely injured. A number of vehicles and the machines installed at the filling station also suffered damage. The owner of the fuel station soon reached the spot and shifted the injured to the hospital. The police later sealed the area and started an investigation. The exact cause of the blast could not be ascertained. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-dies-in-cng-kit-blast-at-mansa-281686
12-07-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Doctor nabbed in Sirhind under PNDT Act||A Haryana Health Department team from Ambala city today raided a Sirhind nursing home and caught a woman doctor conducting a sex-determination test on a decoy customer. The team sealed a machine and recovered marked currency handed over by the customer to the facility.Addressing mediapersons, Dr Vijay Verma, Additional SMO, Civil Hospital, Ambala city, said they had got a tip-off that touts were taking pregnant women to nursing homes outside of Haryana for sex-determination test by charging hefty fee, thereby violating the Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PNDT) Act. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doctor-nabbed-in-sirhind-under-pndt-act-281687
12-07-2021||Abohar||Youth kills father over land dispute||A youth allegedly shot his father over a land dispute at Katehra village near the Abohar-Fazilka stretch of the NH-10 here.Suspect Pravesh Jyani, son of Amar Singh Jyani (62) from Katehra village, ran a petrol pump in Ellenabad, Haryana. Pravesh was reportedly having a land dispute with his father. On the statement of Saroj Devi, wife of the deceased, a case has been registered under Sections 302, 427, 506 and 120B of the IPC, and 25 and 27 of the Arms Act. Pravesh, his wife Ritu Bala and five others have been booked. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-kills-father-over-land-dispute-281688
12-07-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda farmers worried as pink bollworm attacks cotton crop||Pink bollworm attack on cotton crop has been reported in some areas in Bathinda district. Farmers are claiming damage on the cotton sown earlier.The pink bollworm attack has been reported in Talwandi Sabo, Sangat and Rama blocks along with few villages adjoining Bathinda city.After learning about the attack, the farmers are quite worried about the safety of their crops. They alleged they informed Agricultural Department officials about the attack but they did not pay attention to their complaint. Later, they brought the matter to the notice of Punjab Agriculture University (PAU) officials, after which a team of five experts visited the affected villages in the district on Tuesday.Farmer Balwant Singh of Gurusar Sainiwala village said pink bollworm had started destroying cotton crops in Mehta, Jassi Baghwali, Rama Mandi, Sangat and Talwandi Sabo blocks in the district. He said as large numbers of farmers were busy in paddy cultivation, many were still unaware about the attack. PAU agriculture expert Dr Pathania said the area under attack was quite less. It had been found the attack had been reported in the fields where farmers did not take precautions like destroying crop residue.Dr Bahadur Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer, Bathinda, said, “We are conducting a survey. We have instructed farmers to start spraying insecticides to prevent further spread of pink bollworm in the region.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-farmers-worried-as-pink-bollworm-attacks-cotton-crop-281689
12-07-2021||---||Punjab BJP leaders ‘roughed up’ by Rajpura protesters||Rajpura, July 11A BJP spokesperson, Bhupesh Aggarwal, today claimed he, along with other party leaders and workers, was allegedly “chased, roughed up and held hostage” for over three hours after a meeting in Rajpura.The leaders reportedly had to take shelter in a nearby house to save themselves from the unruly mob, though the police denied they were physically attacked. A police team, including two DSPs, was present with the BJP leaders, even as the Patiala DIG and SSP rushed to the town to escort them to safety.Videos from Rajpura that went viral on social media purportedly showed angry farmer union members waving black flags and attacking a BJP supporter as the police tried to escort them to safety. According to Aggarwal, he had reached Rajpura to hold a meeting of party workers from Ghanaur, Rajpura and Sanaur constituencies. “I had apprised senior police officers about the meeting in advance. However, when we reached the venue, only a handful of cops were present there,” he said.“I was told to finish the meeting within 30 minutes as farm union members had assembled outside the venue. As I came out, I was asked by the police to use a nearby lane to reach my vehicle. On the way, I along with our local president Vikas Sharma was attacked by farm union members with sticks. My personal gunman intervened to keep protesters at bay. We took shelter in a house to save ourselves,” claimed Aggarwal. “From there I called up senior officers, following which I was rescued after over 50 minutes of chaos,” he said.“When we reached the house of another BJP leader for a separate meeting, the same mob reached there. They raised slogans and threatened us,” he claimed.DIG Vikramjeet Duggal and SSP Sandeep Garg reached the spot and rescued the leaders before taking them to Patiala.Meanwhile, farm union members, including women, claimed BJP leaders were only chased after their gunman pointed a weapon at them. “Despite our warnings, they continue to hold meetings and then blame us,” they said, claiming no one was beaten up.Ghanaur DSP Jaswinder Tiwana said they were examining the claims of the BJP leader if he was thrashed, as there was ample security at the scene. “We escorted him out and asked him to leave after the first meeting. However, he insisted on holding another meeting, where farmers gathered and there was a standoff. We will take action after ascertaining the facts. As for now, there is no proof of any leader being roughed up,” Tiwana added.Democracy throttled in name of farmers, says BJPChandigarh: The BJP on Sunday condemned the attack on party workers in Rajpura, calling it “daylight murder” of democracy. BJP state president Ashwani Sharma and national general secretary Tarun Chugh, in separate statements, said BJP’s political rivals had been throttling the voice of the party under the garb of farmers. Slamming the state government for allowing such elements have a free run, Sharma asked CM Capt Amarinder Singh to give strict directions to the police to throw such elements behind the bars.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-bjp-leaders-roughed-up-by-rajpura-protesters-281690
12-07-2021||---||Expelled BJP leader Anil Joshi to join farmers at Singhu||Amritsar, July 11A day after being expelled by the BJP, former Cabinet minister Anil Joshi today announced his decision to participate in the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws at the Singhu border in Delhi.Yuva Morcha leader Mohit Gupta bats for former BJP minister Anil JoshiTalking to mediapersons here, he ruled out visiting the central leadership in Delhi. “My stand against the party and subsequent expulsion were a tribute to the ‘annadata’ of Punjab whose grains I have consumed my entire life. Being a Punjabi, I know we have always been tricked by central leaders.”“Braving the vagaries of nature, farmers have been agitating for the past seven months. However, they are unmoved. The same leadership did not value my contribution to the party for nearly 35 years. My father was killed by terrorists during militancy. I thereafter served the party in different capacities. My vehicle was attacked and brother was manhandled. Despite all this, I was chucked out of the party in a matter of days.”He said the two demands of farmers, including power to court instead of SDM to decide over any disagreement and guaranteed MSP, could have easily been accepted. However, the central leadership chose to look the other way.Joshi batted for Hindu-Sikh unity, saying the two communities had lived in harmony even during the turbulent days of militancy. He stressed the need for secular Hindu and Sikh leaders to serve Punjabi community.On his future plans, he said no political party held importance for him. “I have not yet thought of contesting elections, which are due in seven months,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/expelled-bjp-leader-anil-joshi-to-join-farmers-at-singhu-281691
12-07-2021||Bathinda||Yuva Morcha leader Mohit Gupta bats for former BJP minister Anil Joshi||The Punjab BJP decision to expel two-term MLA Anil Joshi seems to have created fissures within the party with state BJP executive member and former Yuva Morcha state president Mohit Gupta condemning the move.Expelled BJP leader Anil Joshi to join farmers at SinghuHe said the decision was taken in a hurry and that many facts had been ignored. “Joshi was a dedicated party worker and had been instrumental in strengthening the party base. The decision has been taken by the state leadership in a hurry due to its personal interests,” he said.Gupta further said the decision to expel a committed worker would not only discourage others. Rather, it could be counter-productive for the party as it might benefit the Opposition.He urged the BJP high command to reconsider the decision and send a strong signal among workers to ensure party’s good show in the Assembly elections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/yuva-morcha-leader-mohit-gupta-bats-for-former-bjp-minister-anil-joshi-281692
12-07-2021||Bathinda||Groups of farmers leave for Delhi||With the paddy sowing season almost over now and the second wave of the pandemic subsiding, the farm unions have started mobilising support for the ongoing agitation against the three agricultural laws at Delhi borders.Groups of farmers have started leaving for the protest venues at Delhi borders now. In a state-level meeting held in Bathinda on Sunday, Kirti Kisan Union (KKU) leaders said they had started mobilising support for the agitation and exhorting farmers in villages to visit the protest sites.Addressing the gathering, KKU president Nirbhay Singh said: “Now that farmers are getting free from sowing, the participation at Delhi borders has started increasing again. Hordes of farmers are leaving for the protest venues these days. Farm union leaders at the block, village and district levels have been conducting regular meetings to mobilise support and chart out strategies to further strengthen the stir.“Groups of farmers from different unions have been leaving for the protest venues from Bathinda and Mansa districts on a daily basis these days.”“Our struggle will continue until the farm laws are repealed. It is high time that we stay united and protest the central policies aimed at favouring corporates. The farm laws will not only affect farmers, but almost every other sector equally,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/groups-of-farmers-leave-for-delhi-281693
12-07-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Fuel rates up, private bus operators in Punjab curtail routes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 11The rising prices of diesel and falling numbers of passengers have spelt doom for private bus operators in the state, hitherto considered the “privileged” ones who had “monopolised” the transportation sector. As a result, they have been forced to cut down their operations.Prices of diesel have gone up by Rs 30 per litre in the past one year. However, the transporters have not been allowed to increase the bus fares in consonance with the rising prices by the state government.The last nail in their coffin seems to be the big announcement made in the Budget 2021, which made travel in government-owned buses free for women.In the past one year, almost all private bus operators in the state have been forced to withdraw from many rural routes, thus impacting connectivity to villages. They have also been forced to cut down on the number of trips they were making on the more profitable bus routes, as people now prefer PRTC and Punjab Roadways buses where travelling for women is free.“In the times of the Covid pandemic, when travel restrictions are imposed every now and then, these sops have completely ruined the transport sector,” Rajinder Singh Bajwa, secretary of the Punjab Motor Union, said.Khattra Travels, which has a fleet of 100 buses, is now operating on just 50 per cent of the routes for which it has the licence. Harman Khattra, managing director of a private bus service, said, “At a time when people prefer putting off travel, we expected the government to do some handholding. But neither is the government revising the bus fares nor it is willing to cut down the motor vehicle tax of Rs 2.69 per km. We are supposed to pay the tax for each bus which has the licence to operate, even if it is not plying.”Other bus operators said they had to pay ‘adda’ fee and toll tax, while the public buses were exempted from these charges.Not allowed to hike fares||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fuel-rates-up-private-bus-operators-in-punjab-curtail-routes-281694
12-07-2021||Aman Sood||Power demand unmet as dry spell continues in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 11The maximum power demand in the state has touched over 15,500 MW this year while Punjab has been able to supply only around 13,000 MW. The central power ministry now claims it has “ample power but Punjab does not have the kind of infrastructure to draw more”.While Punjab has its own generation of about 5,500 MW from various sources, including solar, it can import a maximum of 7,300 MW from the northern grid, with some temporary relief to draw more.“Under the present circumstances, the state can supply around 12,800 to 13,000 MW. However, despite ample funds available from the Centre to improve transmission infrastructure to draw more power from the central grid, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) could do little,” said All-India Power Engineers’ Federation spokesperson VK Gupta.“What is affecting Punjab more is the fact that there is power available for us and at cheaper rate too, but the management has done little to think on those lines and use central funds to improve transmission, which comes with a condition that the power corporation should not be in losses to avail those funds,” Gupta added.Speaking to the media, the central power ministry has said Punjab did not approach them for more power but only for enhancement of capacity, which was allowed. “It is our Power Secretary who is constantly asking Punjab and willing to help, but for one state, the whole northern grid cannot be compromised. They need to improve their drawing capacity,” Union Power Minister RK Singh told a news channel.A former chief engineer with the PSPCL said: “It is a colossal administrative and planning failure when it was known in advance that one unit of Talwamdi Sabo is down for more than five months.”Punjab is witnessing all-time high power demand due to a prolonged dry spell, increase in demand of power from the agricultural sector, reduced availability due to low reservoir levels/reduced generation from hydro power stations and outage of units of the Talwandi Sabo Power Limited, Mansa. “Power is not an issue. Corridor is the problem. We approached them for enhancement of available transfer capability limits. We are using the full corridor and buying power from exchange at very competitive rates. Northern Regional Load Despatch Centre increased our limits,” said PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad.The state increased buying power from the power exchange after the transmission capacity was temporarily enhanced by the Government of India by 400 MW, to 7,800 MW. The state’s transmission capacity was 6,400 MW last year, and was increased to 7,400 MW this year.“On Saturday, the PSPCL relaxed power regulatory measures on general category consumers having sanctioned contract demand up to 1,000 KVA. Industrial consumers have now been allowed to operate up to 100 KVA of load, while the earlier exemption limit was only up to 50 KVA. This shall increase the load on the PSPCL system by about 600 MW,” said Venu Prasad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/power-demand-unmet-as-dry-spell-continues-in-punjab-281695
12-07-2021||Sangrur||To beat heat, Punjab farmers build sheds at stir sites||Farmers have resumed protests against the three agricultural laws after completing paddy transplantation. Cemented sheds have come at many places to accommodate the rising number of protesters.“We plan to build sheds at various protest sites across Punjab. The temperature is rising and tents are not as helpful as sheds. The Union Government is unwilling to repeal the farm laws. We will not end our protest until our demands are met,” said Jagtar Kalajhar, Punjab secretary of BKU (Ugrahan).Leaders of BKU (Ugrahan) and other organisations have been protesting at various places, including Sangrur, Ladda and Kalajhar toll plaza, Sunam, Lehra and Kheri.Farmers have formed committees for collecting ration, milk, water and other essential commodities to serve tea and food at each protest site.“It is our fight and we know nobody will come to help us. The number of farmers had gone down for some days, but after finishing paddy transplant, they are returning to the protests sites,” said Jagjeet singh, a farmer in Sangrur.There are many families, who are sending their members, including youth, minors and the elderly to join the protests. “My minor son and I have been regularly coming here, while my father-in-law is part of the protest in New Delhi,” said Shindar Kaur, a protester in Sangrur.Dharminder Pashore, Lehra block president of BKU (Ugrahan), said the number of protesters was expected to rise in the coming days. “Many farmers, who are still busy in the fields will also join us soon,” said Pashore. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-beat-heat-punjab-farmers-build-sheds-at-stir-sites-281698
12-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Patrol in Abohar to prevent Gang canal water theft||Abohar, July 11Teams of the Water Resources Department and the Sriganganagar police will carry out patrolling in Abohar and other parts of the district from Monday to prevent theft of Gang canal water. They will seek help from the Punjab Police also.Kisan Sangharsh Samiti district president Amar Singh Bishnoi said farmers' unions deferred the stir after meeting District Collector Zakir Hussain, Superintendent of Police Rajan Dushyant and Superintending Engineer of Water Resources Department Dhiraj Chawla. The officials assured to take an action against the theft of about 400 cusecs of water from the Gang canal.Rural Mazdoor Kisan Samiti (GKS) convener Ranjit Singh Raju, former MLA Het Ram Beniwal, Kisan Andolan leader Raman Randhawa and All India Kisan Sabha national executive member Sheopat Ram Meghwal were also present during the meeting.The SP said patrolling would be intensified between Khakha to Shivpur headworks on the Rajasthan border. In this connection, a meeting would be held with district officials, Fazilka, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patrol-in-abohar-to-prevent-gang-canal-water-theft-281700
12-07-2021||Gurdaspur||Friends recall Navjot Sidhu’s ‘resilience’||Camp to cut litigation costAbohar: To scale down litigation expenses, the Punjab Police in the district are trying to settle the disputes with mutual consent. At a special camp held on Sunday, SP (D) Avneet Kaur Sidhu and DSP Rahul Bhardwaj heard cases lying pending with different police stations and courts. They were able to settle about 315 cases with the consent of both parties. Most of the cases were related to domestic disputes. More such camps were organised in Jalalabad and Fazilka. About 150 cases were settled in Fazilka and 280 in Jalalabad. Such camps would be organised in future also to resolve minor disputes, the officials said.Gift for ashram inmatesAbohar: On the 59th birthday of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, Harbinder Singh Harry, district president, Youth Akali Dal, and other activists visited the Matra Chhaya Anath Ashram and gifted two computers to facilitate online education for the inmates. Meanwhile, despite Sukhbir’s directive, most of the Akali leaders in Abohar and Balluana segments, which were part of Ferozepur Lok Sabha constituency that Sukhbir represents, preferred to glorify themselves by putting their pictures alongside a small photograph of the SAD chief in the publicity material released on his birthday. They should have distributed food packets in slum areas, a party worker said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/friends-recall-navjot-sidhus-resilience-281706
12-07-2021||---||Day after protest, Dhuri MLA Dalvir Singh Goldy's wife visits same village||Sangrur, July 11A day after she faced opposition from members of “farmer organisations” in Ladda village, Simrat Kaur Khangura, wife of Dhuri MLA Dalvir Singh Goldy, on Sunday visited various houses in the village as locals and panchayat members supported her.“None is opposing us, as all know that we are working hard for the village’s development. Today I visited various houses and met many villagers who are like our family members,” said Kaur.On Saturday, farmers from surrounding villages had opposed Simrat Kaur in Ladda village. But she neither called the police nor left the village, saying she had come to meet her relatives and not to seek votes.“Some of our political opponents under the garb of farmers are creating problems. I request all other villagers not to allow such persons to spoil the peace of their area,” said Simrat Kaur while meeting locals.Village Sarpanch Mithu Ladda said: “Simrat Kaur and her MLA husband have been regularly visiting all villages to check whether the developmental grant has been utilised properly. On Sunday, she came and none from our village opposed her.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-after-protest-dhuri-mla-dalvir-singh-goldys-wife-visits-same-village-281709
12-07-2021||Anirudh Gupta||Ferozepur AAP leaders in poster war over ticket||Ferozepur, July 11From the social media space to public place, AAP leaders aspiring to secure nomination for the Assembly polls next year are seemingly locked in a poster war to drum up support. Most of the main roundabouts to the walls and buildings in every nook and corner of the town are dotted with the posters of AAP leaders, most of whom are new to the political arena. They are leaving no stone unturned to make their presence felt in the public domain. Though the party is yet to make up its mind on anyone yet, many have even started door-to-door contact programme, highlighting the Kejriwal government’s achievements.Prominent among them include Narinder Singh Sandha, who had contested as AAP candidate from Ferozepur (Urban) in last polls, besides youth leader Ranbir Singh Bhullar, businessman and activist Vinod Soi and a few others. Even in the neighbouring Ferozepur Rural constituency, huge billboards of AAP ticket aspirants can be seen at major locations.“I have already held more than 45 public meetings in a short period of time. I am going door to door to meet people,” Soi said. Another ticket aspirant, Ranbir Bhullar, who also remained district president of the party, said: “ I have been with AAP since its inception and have an ear-to-the-ground approach”.In 2017, Sandha lost the polls to Congress candidate Parminder Singh Pinki. He said he was ready to contest again if the party deemed him fit for it. “I am well aware about the socio-economic fabric of this area. I indeed deserve another chance to contest”, said Sandha.Downplaying any internal strife and the poster war, former Zira MLA and district convener Naresh Kataria said it was indicative of the huge mass support the party was getting. “The people have lost faith in the Congress, SAD and other parties. They are eager to join hands with AAP. Everyone has the right to express themselves but only the party high command will decide the candidate”, said Kataria, who is himself vying to contest from his home-turf Zira.In poll mode||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ferozepur-aap-leaders-in-poster-war-over-ticket-281710
12-07-2021||New Delhi||Heavy to very heavy rain expected in several parts of north India by Monday morning: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday said heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places is expected over several parts of north India, including Delhi, by Monday morning, but there was little relief from the unforgiving heat throughout the day as the Southwest Monsoon has not still reached the remaining parts of the region.The IMD had said the Southwest Monsoon would hit parts of north India, including Delhi, on July 10, but it had not occurred till Sunday evening.IMD Director General Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said the conditions are ripe for the advancement of the Southwest Monsoon over Delhi as humidity has also increased due to easterlies. He said the formation of a low-pressure area will also boost its advancement.“We are expecting light rainfall on Sunday and a good spell on Monday,” he said.Read alsoThe IMD said, “Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely at isolated places over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, the Gujarat region, Madhya Maharashtra, coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam, Telangana, coastal and south interior Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe and Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal.”It has also issued alerts for several north Indian states and a red warning for coastal Maharashtra.The bulletin also indicated that heavy rainfall is expected at isolated places over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, west Uttar Pradesh, east Rajasthan, west Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim, Odisha, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Saurashtra and Kutch, Marathwada, Rayalaseema, north interior Karnataka and Lakshadweep.It said thunderstorms accompanied by lightning and gusty winds (with a speed of 30-40 km per hour) are very likely at isolated places over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Telangana.Lightning at isolated places is also expected over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Vidarbha, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Sikkim, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, central Maharashtra, Marathwada, coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam, Rayalaseema and Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal by Monday morning, the IMD added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heavy-to-very-heavy-rain-expected-in-several-parts-of-north-india-by-monday-morning-imd-281665
12-07-2021||Lt Col Dilbag Singh Dabas (Retd)||Brig Sant Singh, MVC and Bar, displayed outstanding gallantry in 1965, 1971 wars||During the 14-day lightning campaign (it actually was 15 and a half on ground on all three fronts) between India and Pakistan in December 1971, among 513 bravehearts who went beyond the call of duty and earned the gallantry decoration, 11 were Brigadier-rank officers — seven fighting on the eastern, two on the western and two on the northern front. Two earned Bar to the Maha Vir Chakra (MVC), the award won the second time. Brigadier Sant Singh earned the first MVC during the 1965 India-Pakistan war. He dared again during Operation ‘Cactus Lily’ in 1971 and earned the Bar to his MVC.Brig Sant Singh is affectionately known as ‘Sant Sipahi’, the ‘Saint Soldier’. Son of AS Gill, Sant was born on July 12, 1921. He belonged to a marginal Jat Sikh farming family in Panjgrain Kalan in the princely state of Faridkot. After Intermediate from RSD College, Faridkot, Sant was enlisted in July 1941 as a clerk in Faridkot State Forces Engineer Field Company when World War II was on.Noticing his aptitude as a leader, Sant was recommended by his British Commanding Officer for an Officer’s Commission. After six years in the ranks, on February 16, 1947, Sant was commissioned into 1st Battalion of the 14th Punjab Regiment as Emergency Commissioned Officer. During Partition, the regiment was allotted to Pakistan and Second Lieutenant Sant Singh was transferred to 2nd Sikh Light Infantry Battalion.During the Junagarh operation in November 1947, Second Lieutenant Sant Singh, as Intelligence Officer of the battalion, at personal risk, provided vital information about the moves of the Junagarh forces that resulted in an almost bloodless takeover, and smooth amalgamation of Junagarh into the Indian dominion.Sant Singh, now Lieutenant Colonel, went on to command the 5th Sikh Light Infantry from 1964-68. It was during his command that in 1965, against all possible odds, the battalion captured the most formidable, all-defying and heavily defended Chuh-i-Nar feature on Balnoi Ridge in the morning hours of November 3, 1965.Chuh-i-Nar, the most dominating feature, is located south-west of the Mendaha-Balnoi road in the Poonch sector. It was used as a border post by the Indian troops till 1956. Thereafter, it remained unoccupied. On August 10, 1965, it was discovered that the Pakistanis had not only occupied but also developed it into a strongly-defended area. An attempt was made to get the post vacated through the good offices of the UN observers as the ceasefire was in force since September 22.The feature dominated the LoC between Bhimber Gali, Mendhar and Balnoi and its occupation by the Pakistan army would result in total isolation of Balnoi from Mendhar and Krishna Ghati. Therefore, Chuh-i-Nar had to be captured at any cost. Since this would be a major ceasefire violation, there was the risk of restarting the war. But seeing the importance of the feature, the recourse to war was considered acceptable.Attempts by earlier two battalions of Poonch-based 93 Brigade to dislodge the enemy from Chuh-i-Nar had not succeeded. The attacks and counter-attacks, partial successes and failures commenced in early October 1965 and continued for over a month, with the casualties mounting and no end result. Finally, in the first week of November, the seemingly impossible task of capturing Chuh-i-Nar was handed down to 5th Sikh Light Infantry.On November 2, on receiving the 10th Guru’s holy verse “Nischay Kar Apni Jeet Karoon” from Lieutenant General Harbaksh Singh, the Army Commander, the battalion commenced advance to the Forming Up Place (FUP) with its Commanding Officer, Lt Col Sant Singh, in the lead.And under the dynamic leadership of their CO, famous for leading the battalion always from the front during attacks, the Panjvin (5th) did what the Sikh Light Infantry is known for: ‘fateh’ at any cost. The Indian post on the Balnoi Ridge, occupied by Pakistanis and named Chuh-i-Nar, was recaptured by 5 Sikh Light Infantry and the post (feature) named ‘OP Hill’.For the outstanding gallantry of its officers and men, 5 Sikh Light Infantry earned two Maha Vir Chakras (including Sant Singh, the CO), one Vir Chakra and four Sena Medals.The battle account of the conspicuous gallantry of Lt Col Sant Singh reads:“On the night of the 2/3 November 1965, Lieutenant Colonel Sant Singh, Commanding Officer of 5th Sikh Light Infantry, was given the task of clearing an objective which, notwithstanding the ceasefire, had been encroached upon by the Pakistani forces. This was a difficult feature and strongly defended by the enemy. Despite enemy mines, machine gun fire and intense artillery shelling, Lieutenant Colonel Sant Singh pressed home the assault.When the attacking platoon was just about 200 yards short of the objective, Lieutenant Colonel Singh received a machine-gun burst on his thigh and fell. His radio operator said, ‘Sahibji tuhada zakham tan khatarnak lagdai. Tusin aithe hi pai jao. Main hunne hi Jeetant (Adjutant) Sahab nu dass dinna. Medical wale aa ke tuhanu FUP de pichhe lai jange’. [Sir, your injury seems quite serious. You lie down here. I will inform the Adjutant. The medical team will take you behind the FUP]. And the reply by the Commanding Officer was classic. ‘Bachchu! Rehan de te nahin dasna kise nu kujh vi. Kaka, oh FUP ni, oh tan Baba Deep Singh Ji de khande nal khichi lakeer ai. Uston pichhe fateh hasil keete bina ni jayeeda… Hun je paina hai tan Chuh-i-Nar de top te hi ja ke pawanga. Tu fikar na kar.’ [Son, there’s no need to tell anyone. This is not just an FUP but a line that has been drawn by the sword of Baba Deep Singhji. One doesn’t back down from there without victory. I will rest only after reaching the top of Chuh-i-Nar now. You just don’t worry.]Lieutenant Colonel Sant Singh removed his patka from under his pugree, tied it tightly on the wound, got up with the help of his radio operator and with manageable quick paces forward joined the assault. And after half an hour of close quarter battle, including hand-to-hand fighting, the enemy withdrew, leaving behind its dead and wounded.Taking advantage of the captured position, and also to exploit the success, Lieutenant Colonel Sant Singh quickly organised a Company strength of his men and led an assault onto the adjacent objective which also had been encroached upon by the Pakistani forces. Despite continuing automatic fire and artillery shelling, the men dashed forward, dragged the enemy out from bunker-to-bunker and cleared the subsidiary objective as well.Throughout, Lieutenant Colonel Sant Singh displayed conspicuous gallantry and leadership of a very high order.”After its recapture, OP Hill has been strongly held by a Company of an Infantry battalion deployed on Mendhar-Balnoi ridge with a mountain artillery battery deployed permanently 3,500 yards south-east of it. The writer was the Battery Commander of the above gun battery from 1988 to 1991.Six years later, during Operation ‘Cactus Lily’, Sant Singh, MVC, now a Brigadier, dared again and earned the Bar (award won the second time) to his MVC.On the outbreak of the 1971 India-Pakistan war, Brigadier Sant Singh, MVC, commanding the newly created F-J Sector in the eastern theatre, was tasked to advance towards Mymensingh on Haluaghat-Phulpur road. With a meagre fighting force (just one infantry battalion, an Engineer platoon and an artillery battery in direct support), the force led by Brigadier Sant Singh, MVC, fought with grit and determination and captured some strongly held localities during the advance to Dhaka. After giving a bitter fight, the force led by Brigadier Sant Singh, MVC, reached just short of the outskirts of Dhaka by December 13, thereby further tightening the siege on to Dhaka.Brigadier Sant Singh, MVC, for his inspiring leadership and personal gallantry, was awarded the Bar to the Maha Vir Chakra he earned during the 1965 war. The citation on the Bar to his Maha Vir Chakra reads:“During the 1971 India-Pakistan war, Brigadier Sant Singh, MVC, while commanding a sector on the eastern front, achieved spectacular results with a mixed force, having one regular battalion, advancing 38 miles almost on foot, to secure Mymensingh and Madhopur in eight days. During the advance, in spite of very stiff opposition from the enemy, he cleared heavily defended positions at several places. Throughout these actions, Brigadier Sant Singh, MVC, personally led and directed the troops, often exposing himself to enemy MMG fire and artillery shelling. His personal gallantry, leadership, skillful handling of meager resources, audacity, improvisation and maximum use of local resources were responsible for the successful and rapid advance against the much stronger enemy in well prepared defensive positions.Throughout, Brigadier Sant Singh, MVC, displayed conspicuous gallantry and inspiring leadership in keeping with the highest traditions of the Army.”Sant Sipahi Brigadier Sant Singh, twice Maha Vir Chakra awardee, retired from the Army in 1973 after a glorious military career spanning more than three decades. The highly decorated Brigadier remained associated with the War Decorated of India Trust till he breathed his last on December 9, 2015.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/brig-sant-singh-mvc-and-bar-displayed-outstanding-gallantry-in-1965-1971-wars-281548
