13-07-2021||Chandigarh||115 more test Covid-19 positive in Punjab||Punjab on Tuesday logged 115 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the infection tally to 5,97,821, while five more fatalities raised the toll to 16,199, according to a medical bulletin.Two deaths were reported from Sangrur and one each from Bathinda, Faridkot and Fatehgarh Sahib.The death toll also includes one fatality which was not reported earlier, the bulletin said.The number of active Covid-19 cases stands at 1,427 in Punjab.Of the new cases, Jalandhar reported 22, followed by 16 in Ludhiana and 10 in Amritsar, according to the bulletin.The recovery count rose to 5,80,195 with 168 more people recovering from the infection in the state, it said.A total of 1,14,44,310 samples have been collected for Covid-19 testing so far in the state, according to the bulletin.  — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/115-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-punjab-282618
13-07-2021||---||Amritsar tourist killed in Dharamsala after a fall into gorge||Dharamsala, July 13Manmeet Singh, a tourist from Amritsar in Punjab, died after falling into gorge in the Kareri lake area of Dharamsala.He had come to Kareri area along with his friends. Yesterday, while coming back from Kareri lake, Manmeet reportedly fell into a gorge.Kewal Singh Pathania, HPCC general secretary and Congress leader from Shahpur, said locals were trying to retrieve the body of Manmeet Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-tourist-killed-in-dharamsala-after-a-fall-into-gorge-282590
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||No political funds taken from private companies, says Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh hit out at AAP and SAD on Tuesday accusing them of “lying blatantly” over political funding from private power companies, a development that comes after both parties accused his party of receiving funds from three thermal power companies.“Political donations by certain power companies were made not to Punjab Congress but to AICC, back in 2009 and 2014, with no connection whatsoever to the incumbent government in the state,” said the Chief Minister, and accused both Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for “spreading lies”.Navjot Sidhu’s tweet on AAP acknowledging his vision for Punjab leaves Congress baffled“The PPAs in question were signed by the erstwhile SAD-BJP government, and were legally binding so that his (Captain Amarinder’s) government could not rescind the same without heavy penalties on the cash-strapped state,” he claimed, and said that his government was exploring legal recourse to neutralise ill effects of the PPAs without further burdening the state’s exchequer.“In fact,” he added, “as per media reports, the Akalis led by the Badals had taken more than Rs 100 crore in political funds and declared a measly Rs 13 crore, putting the rest in their personal pockets,” a press note quoted him as saying.About AAP, he claimed that donations taken by Arvind Kejriwal’s party AAP during the 2014 elections were already under the scanner of the Enforcement Directorate.The Chief Minister dared both his rival parties to declare all their political funding of the last 10 years.  “Let the truth come out, and let the people decide who is or has cheating them with false allegations and accusations,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-political-funds-taken-from-private-companies-says-amarinder-282587
13-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh/New Delhi||How Dilip Kumar helped 'gutsy' Punjab batsman Yashpal Sharma's cricket career||Indian cricket lost one of its gutsiest soldiers to a massive cardiac arrest on Tuesday.Yashpal Sharma's entry into the national reckoning as a gutsy Punjab batsman happened in the mid-'70s when late Dilip Kumar dropped in at the Mohan Meakin ground (Mohan Nagar, Ghaziabad) to watch Punjab take on Uttar Pradesh.Dilip Kumar passed away on 7 July, 2021. He was 98.After Dilip saab's demise, Yashpal recalled how the veteran actor came up to him and told him that he will speak to someone in Mumbai so that his talent was recognised.Much later did he come to know that the thespian had mentioned his talent to his friend Raj Singh Dungarpur, one of the towering men of Indian cricket.Yashpal, while speaking to Deccan Chronicle, travelled back in time to recall how late actor Dilip Kumar played a major role in his career.“In fact, Yusuf Bhai (Dilip Kumar’s real name was Yusuf Khan) changed my life by uplifting my career. In the 1974-75 domestic season, he had come to the Mohan Nagar Ground in Delhi to watch the Punjab v UP Ranji knockout match. I had scored a hundred in both innings for Punjab and during our second innings, I noticed that some prominent personality had come in a car and was watching the match from a special seating area. I thought he must have been some top politician."“Later, Yusuf Bhai invited me for a chat and congratulated me for my century. ‘You have played an excellent game, I will recommend your name to someone,’ were his words. The next day, my photograph appeared alongside Yusuf Bhai in the newspapers, and I was stunned. Only later did I get to know that Yusuf Bhai went on to recommend me to the late Raj Singh Dungarpur, who was a prominent cricket administrator. Yusuf Bhai told Raj Singhji that I deserved to play for the country and my life was transformed thereafter,” remembered Sharma. — With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/how-dilip-kumar-helped-gutsy-punjab-batsman-yashpal-sharmas-cricket-career-282536
13-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Read why Neha Kakkar is 'behad khush'; Rohanpreet says, 'Waheguru ji, aapko hameshan Khush rakhein'||Punjabi singer Neha Kakkar touched another milestone. The singer's Instagram family has crossed 60 million. The singer shared an emotional post, thanking her fans for "60 million pyar". "60 Million Pyar! ♥️Main Khush Nahin Behad Khush Hoon.. The amount of love you all give Your Nehu can’t be compared with anything! 🥺Aap ho toh Neha Kakkar Hai! Thank You.. Each One of You and Specially My Most Special People, My #NeHeartsLove You all!!!!😍🤗 Thank You @rohanpreetsingh for always being there and making all my wishes come true since the time you came in my life!!🤴🏻♥️🙌🏼Also.. I must thank and mention these two sweethearts too coz they actually put a lot of efforts to surprise me yesterday. God bless you both @roshni0819 & @shrxya_goxl 😘🥰 I #NehaKakkar can proudly say that I’m The #MostFollowedIndianMusician 💪🏼🙏🏼 #NehuDiaries", read Neha Kakkar's post. A post shared by Neha Kakkar (Mrs. Singh) (@nehakakkar)  Her husband and singer Rohanpreet Singh also shared a post congratulating his "queen". "60 Million Followers!!?? Wowwww.. Nothing is impossible for My Queen @nehakakkar You have Proved it my love!!! 💪🏻🙌🏻 Really Really Proud of you.. More Power to you.. You Deserve Everything!!!! Waheguru ji Mata Rani ji Aapko Hameshan Khush Rakhein! I love You Zindgi NehaKakkar#MostFollowedIndianMusician", read Rohanpreet's post.A post shared by Rohanpreet Singh (@rohanpreetsingh)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/read-why-neha-kakkar-is-behad-khush-rohanpreet-says-waheguru-ji-aapko-hameshan-khush-rakhein-282519
13-07-2021||New Delhi||NGT directs Punjab Forest dept to conduct probe into death of 400 parrots at Faridkot||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Punjab Forest Department to conduct an investigation into the death of around 400 parrots in Faridkot and ascertain the reason of their fatality.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel asked Chief WildLife Warden, Punjab in coordination with the environment department to take remedial action in the matter."From the material filed, it is difficult to give a clear finding as to why death of parrots is taking place. However, the reason for death of such large number of birds may need to be looked into."Accordingly, we direct Chief Wildlife Warden, Punjab in coordination with Environment Department or any other Expert, to look into the matter and take remedial action in the matter," the bench said.The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by advocate H C Arora seeking a direction to prevent the death of parrots in the compound of the office of Deputy Commissioner, Faridkot which appeared to be on account of the spray of some chemicals.According to the applicant, such deaths are taking place since 2017 every year which is duly published in the media but no remedial action is taken.Arora contended that 400 parrots died on June 11 under various Jamun trees in Faridkot, allegedly due to some chemical spray having being sprinkled on Jamun trees.Arora has also sought directions to the state authorities against permitting the spray of chemicals on Jamun trees on the government land at Faridkot. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ngt-directs-punjab-forest-dept-to-conduct-probe-into-death-of-400-parrots-at-faridkot-282514
13-07-2021||Vibha Sharma||Lightning is killing more people in India than cyclones; 331 per cent rise in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 13With the shift in climate, meteorologists are warning of more lightning casualties in years to come. The trend is expected to increase with the rise in global temperature, they warned.According to the Earth Networks India Lightning Report of 2019, every year about 2,000 persons die due to lightning strikes, which is more than floods and cyclones. As per the IMD’s Annual Lightning Report 2020-2021, there has been a 34 per cent rise in lightning strikes in the country.“There has been a 34 per cent rise in lightning strikes in the country. It has advanced from 1,38, 00,000 strikes in 2019-2020 to 1,85,44,367 strikes in 2020-2021, an increase of 46,83,989 strikes.”“There are states with a very high rise in lightning strikes up to 331 per cent rise in Punjab. Bihar 168 per cent per cent Haryana 164 per cent Puducherry 117 per cent, Himachal Pradesh 105 per cent, and West Bengal 100 per cent are leading states. States like Arunachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha need to take cognisance of it,” the IMD report adds.Now, the reason why India has such a huge lightning problem, according to the Earth Networks report, is because it is “located in a prime place for lightning”. “India’s geography near the equator and the Indian Ocean provide it with a lot of heat and moisture that generate thunderstorms. Lack of weather safety awareness and lightning warning tools that allow people to respond in time, especially those working outdoors,” it says.Meanwhile, Mahesh Palawat of Skymet Weather who suggests a “direct correlation between lightning cases and climate change,” adds: “Global warming has added more moisture to land, which in turn is the cause for lightning and thunderstorms. Because of climate change, extreme weather events are rising. Normally lighting and thundershowers occur in pre-monsoon months. Lightening’ strikes in this part of the year are rare”.With the monsoon trough shifting towards Central India, this year the monsoon has been delayed way past the accepted range in the plains of the Northwest. In 2002, the monsoon was delayed till July 19 while 2021 is expected to record the second-most delayed seasonal rains, till date, says Palawat.   Meanwhile, another reason for more deadly strikes appear to be a lack of tree cover.The majority of lightning deaths occur while standing under a tree. However, when there is dense tree cover, lightning strikes the tree and dissipates in the ground. If the number of trees is less, people are more exposed, say experts.Apparently, lightning also interferes with the electromagnetic field of mobile phones, which is also said to be another reason for more lightning deaths. Incidentally during pre-monsoon, fatalities are more as farmers are working in the agricultural fields. In the later parts, they are mostly those standing under tall trees or inside their huts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lightning-is-killing-more-people-in-india-than-cyclones-331-per-cent-rise-in-punjab-282478
13-07-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib: Doctors abstain from work, hold march||On a call of the Joint Government Doctors Coordination Committee (JGDCC), doctors in the district, who were members of the PCMSA, Punjab State Veterinary Officers Association, Rural Medical Officers Association, Punjab Dental Medical Officers Association and Punjab Ayurveda Officers Association went on three-day strike starting from today.They abstained from work and held a protest march in support of their demands today. The OPD and other medical services were worst affected whereas emergency and Covid services were running normal.Dr Gagandeep Singh, president, PCMSA, and Dr Pawanpreet Kaur, president, Dental Association, said, “Doctors working in government hospitals have been protesting against the recommendation of Sixth Pay Commission de-linking non-practicing allowance from basic pay and its reduction from 25 per cent to 20 per cent.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fatehgarh-sahib-doctors-abstain-from-work-hold-march-282281
13-07-2021||---||Rajpura standoff: BJP leaders meet Punjab CM, seek action||Chandigarh, July 12A day after BJP leaders and workers were allegedly assaulted and held hostage at Rajpura, Patiala, the saffron party today protested across the state, demanding immediate action against the attackers and police for “misconduct”.Led by the state party president Ashwani Sharma, BJP leaders, including Iqbal Singh lalpura, Madan Mohan Mittal, Manoranjan Kalia, Subhash Sharma, Jeevan Gupta, Tikshan Sood, Rajesh Bagga, Harjit Singh Grewal and others, staged a dharna in front of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s residence in Chandigarh.BJP leaders met the Chief Minister and apprised him of harassment and intimidation of party leaders and workers for the past one year by “miscreants” who, they alleged, had the political patronage.They alleged the police were playing a mute spectator repeatedly despite the fact that district SSPs had been apprised of the situation.The state BJP chief claimed the Chief Minister assured the BJP leaders of personally looking into the matter. He said the politics of hate and blood had no place in our ideology.In Ropar too, district BJP leaders staged a protest against yesterday’s assault on party workers.District party president Jatinder Singh Athwal, state secretary Dr Parminder Sharma, block presidents Rajesh Chaudhary, Satvir Singh and Harminder Pal Walia, and other party leaders reached in front of the mini-secretariat and raised slogans against the state government.Later, they submitted a memorandum for the Director General of Police to Ropar SSP Akhil Chadhary. They said the assault on BJP workers at Rajpura was against the spirit of democracy. “Everybody has the right to organise peaceful protests. All those responsible for the incident must be brought to justice,” BJP leaders demanded.Meanwhile, farmers under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) today protested in Dhanaula, Sangrur, which is the native town of BJP leader Harjeet Singh Grewal.They announced to intensify their agitation against Grewal in future. “Since Grewal has repeatedly been giving defamatory statements against farmers, today we protested in his native town at Dhanaula. We will intensify our agitation against Grewal in coming days,” said Darshan Singh, a morcha leader.(With inputs from Ropar & Sangrur)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rajpura-standoff-bjp-leaders-meet-punjab-cm-seek-action-282209
13-07-2021||Fazilka||In Fazilka, sit-in outside SSP’s office||A large number of BJP activists today held a dharna outside the Fazilka SSP’s office against the alleged assault on party spokesperson Bhupesh Aggarwal in Rajpura yesterday.The sit-in was attended by Abohar BJP MLA Arun Narang, who was also attacked in Malout on March 27. Some persons allegedly tried to remove the barricades put up by the police in an attempt to reach the protest site.“Farmers had come to stage a protest and tried to remove the barricades, but they were not allowed to move ahead,” said Ajay Raj Singh, SP (Investigation), Fazilka. Narang alleged there was a total collapse of law and order in the state and goons of the ruling party were trying to throttle democracy and gag the Opposition, which would be opposed tooth and nail. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-fazilka-sit-in-outside-ssps-office-282210
13-07-2021||---||Power curbs on Punjab industry go||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 12Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday ordered immediate withdrawal of all power regulatory restrictions that were imposed on industries across the state to meet the crisis.Exporters seek diesel tax waiverState industry representatives, comprising mostly exporters, have met Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Som Parkash and requested him to waive taxes on diesel under the ARO (advance authorisation) scheme against export orders.The crisis was triggered by delay in monsoon and an unprecedented surge in demand from both agricultural and domestic sectors.Reviewing the power situation in the state after the resumption of generation at one of the three non-functional units at Talwandi Sabo Thermal plant, the Chief Minister directed Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to ease off all regulatory restrictions on industrial consumers with immediate effect. The Chief Minister was informed that the plant at Talwandi Sabo had resumed 660 MW production, improving the power situation in the state.The decision on the complete withdrawal of the restrictions was taken by the Chief Minister soon after PSPCL announced a similar but partial withdrawal in districts falling in central and border zones. The PSPCL had allowed all industries, except those using continuous power, to operate at full capacity from today.However, after the Chief Minister’s intervention, all industries across the state, including those using power round the clock (textile, chemicals and spinning mills, etc), can now operate to full capacity. The continuous process industries, which are in central and border zones, were earlier asked to operate at 50 per cent of continuous process load. Nearly 60 per cent of the total industry in the state is in central (Ludhiana, Jagraon, Mandi Gobingarh, etc) and border zones (Amritsar and Pathankot).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/power-curbs-on-punjab-industry-go-282214
13-07-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Another faceoff averted in Sirhind as saffron party calls off march to DC office||BJP leaders on Monday gathered in a school here for a meeting and to protest the Sunday Rajpura incident. However, famers came to know about the meeting and they thronged the DC office, where the BJP leaders had planned to visit to submit a memorandum.The DC acted swiftly and directed the ADC (G) to rush to Sirhind and receive the memorandum from the BJP leaders and persuade them not to take out a protest march to the DC office.The BJP leaders, however, persisted on going to the district headquarters but cops and district officials pacified and convinced them. So, the leaders took out a symbolical march to some distance and handed over the memorandum to the administrative officers in the name of the Governor, demanding the implementation of the President’s rule in Punjab.Earlier addressing the party workers at a school, BJP district president Pradeep Garg said the way the Congress goons in the guise of farmers in Rajpura mistreated our leaders, thrashed them and held them captive was highly condemnable. “Even the police failed to provide security to the party leaders and workers under a planned conspiracy.”Meanwhile, farm leaders reiterated that wherever the BJP would hold any programme they would oppose it till the three contentious laws were repealed. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/another-faceoff-averted-in-sirhind-as-saffron-party-calls-off-march-to-dc-office-282215
13-07-2021||---||Farmers oppose delegation of BJP workers in Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, July 12A delegation of BJP workers, headed by district president Vinod Binta, on Monday faced protest from farmers while they were on their way to present a memorandum to the Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) over the Rajpura incident here.As the party leaders entered the district administration complex (DAC), farmers blocked the gates. Due to security reasons, the police locked the gates, causing inconvenience to public and officials.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) leader Mothu Singh Kotra said: “We have already given our charter of demands to legislators, Members of Parliament, Governor and other prominent decison-makers. Our demands should be addressed first.”The union leaders said farmers were sitting at the Delhi border seeking repeal of the three contentious agricultural laws enacted by the central government, and nearly 500 farmers had lost their lives during the agitation.They alleged BJP leaders were trying to hold public meetings despite the fact the Samyukt Kisan Morcha had already decided to protest such meetings across the state. “Farmers were holding peaceful protests, but certain BJP leaders, including Harjit Grewal, were trying to instigate them through their statements,” they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-oppose-delegation-of-bjp-workers-in-bathinda-282216
13-07-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||Sriganganagar: BJP women activists allege molestation, morcha leaders refute claim||Two BJP women activists today alleged molestation after party leaders were prevented by farm union members from attending a meeting near Sriganganagar.Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders rubbished the claim as an attempt to malign the farm protest.The police said a case had been registered under Section 354 (intent to outrage modesty) and Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sriganganagar-bjp-women-activists-allege-molestation-morcha-leaders-refute-claim-282217
13-07-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab fails to enhance transmission capacity||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 12When Union Power Minister Raj Kumar Singh attacked the Punjab Government yesterday, saying the state had not enhanced its transmission capacity for many years, he was not off the mark. As the enhancement of transmission capacity takes several years, Punjab has not been able to keep pace with the rising demand in the peak season.Rain eases burdenScattered rain in the state led to the power demand falling by 8,000 MW on Monday. In the evening, it had fallen to 7,856 MW against 14,000 MW on Sunday. Though this meant relief for power utilities, the state couldn’t use 4,000 MW purchased for the dayInfra works onA 400 KV substation is being installed at Ropar and an ICT is coming up in Moga. By the next paddy season, the transmission capacity will be increased to 8,000 MW and it 10,000 MW in two years,” an official said.Though many in the power sector blame successive governments of deliberately going slow on the enhancement of transmission capacity in order to keep under control the free power given to farmers and other socio-economically vulnerable sections, the cash crunch with the state power utilities is also a major factor responsible for this “slow transmission capacity enhancement”.Punjab has a transmission capacity of 6,400 MW for quite a few years now. The state’s capacity in 2011-12 was 4,700 MW, which means it has gone up by 1,700 MW in the past 10 years. On the other hand, as Punjab’s peak demand went up to over 15,000 MW this year, the power availability in the state, including its own generation and through short-term and long-term agreements, could not exceed 13,300 MW, resulting in a gap of 1,700 MW.The state government has been claiming it has increased the transmission capacity to 8,000 MW. However, the Centre yesterday said the capacity had not been enhanced but only the power drawn from the Northern Grid had gone up as three units of the Talwandi Sabo Thermal Power Plant (TSPL) were shut. “The available transfer capability/total transfer capability is 7,900/7,300 MW with the outage of TSPL. When the plant is in generation at its optimum capacity, it is 7,400/6,800 MW,” a senior official in the state power utilities said.Data available with The Tribune shows the state government has approved the upgrade of interconnecting transformers at six places, which will help the state increase its capacity, but paucity of funds is holding up the project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-fails-to-enhance-transmission-capacity-282219
13-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Farmers must contest polls, form govt, reiterates Gurnam Singh Charuni||Fatehgarh Sahib, July 12Haryana’s Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader Gurnam Singh Charuni today reiterated his ‘Mission Punjab’ statement asking farmers to contest the upcoming Assembly elections and form a government in the state as people were fed up of traditional parties. Morcha leaders from Punjab have already rejected the idea.Charuni, while talking to mediapersons at Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib, said like ‘Mission Bengal’, people could defeat the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, but it would not serve any purpose as again the government would be formed by traditional parties and none of the Opposition leaders had assured that they would repeal the farm laws and guarantee MSP if voted to power.The farmers had the chance to present before the nation their own model of governance, reiterated Charuni, adding these were his personal views and should not be attributed to the morcha.A group of farmers, that had left Dera Baba Nanak for Delhi yesterday and halted here overnight, proceeded to join the protest this morning.He said groups of farmers from all over the country were heading to Delhi and their demonstration would not stop until the Centre repealed the farm laws.He said during the upcoming monsoon session from July 22 to August 13, farmers in batches would visit Parliament daily to lodge their protest. A meeting would be held on August 14 to give a final shape to their protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-must-contest-polls-form-govt-reiterates-gurnam-singh-charuni-282221
13-07-2021||---||Mayawati asks BSP cadre to work in tandem with SAD||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 12BSP supremo Mayawati has suggested the ally SAD to keep in focus the alleged mishandling of the Covid pandemic by the state government during a run up to the state Assembly elections.The BSP has entered into electoral knot with the SAD for the Assembly elections in February-March, next year.Sources said Mayawati put across her suggestion to SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal last week. Other suggestions, including joint campaigns on public issues by both the parties, have also been exchanged between the two leaders.Mayawati has also directed the BSP cadres in Punjab to work for the expansion of the party’s social base. The BSP leadership has made an exception with regard to Punjab for an electoral alliance for the Assembly elections.The BSP sees good prospects in Punjab as party founder Kanshi Ram was from the state. The state has an estimated Scheduled Castes population of about 35 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mayawati-asks-bsp-cadre-to-work-in-tandem-with-sad-282222
13-07-2021||---||Healthcare paralysed as doctors take to streets in Punjab||Chandigarh, July 12On the first day of government doctors’ three-day strike, healthcare and animal husbandry services remained paralysed in the state today.Fulfil demand or face more protestsIf the state government does not address the issue of NPA immediately, the entire medical fraternity of Punjab will be forced to go on an indefinite strike. Dr Manohar Singh, gen secy, punjab civil medical services’ associationHowever, members of the Joint Government Doctors’ Coordination Committee (JGDCC) were calledby Principal Secretary (Health) Hussan Lal for a meeting but any assurances to persuade the doctors failed as the latter said the government had failed to fulfil the promises made to them two weeks back.Medical, veterinary, ayurvedic, rural medical officers and dental doctors have announced the shutdown of services from Monday to Wednesday. Dr Manohar Singh, general secretary of the Punjab Civil Medical Services’ Association, said as per the decision, OPD services remained suspended but in public interest, emergency, Covid, postmortem and medico/vetro-legalservices would continue.The doctors are protesting against the Sixth Pay Commission’s recommendation of de-linking non-practicing allowance (NPA) from basic pay and other suggestions, which they claim would lead to reduction in their salaries. Dr Singh warned if the government did not address the NPA issue immediately, the entire medical fraternity Punjab would be forced to go on an indefinite strike.Meanwhile, on a call given by the JGDCC, doctors observed a strike in Bathinda and Mansa districts on Monday and suspended OPD services throughout the day.Sukhchain Singh, a resident of Maur who travelled to the Civil Hospital, Bathinda, said, “My wife was complaining of severe tooth ache since yesterday night after getting a home remedy. We reached the Civil Hospital but after coming here, we came to know that doctors are on strike today and OPD services have been suspended. It is disheartening as there is no one to attend us. We have no option but to visit a private hospital now.”Another patient Harnek Singh from Nathana said, “Strikes at government hospitals have become a routine affair. My mother is in her eighties and has age-related complications. Travelling long distances frequentlyis difficult for her.”In Amritsar, the day-long protest by doctors resulted in trouble for patients as they had to return without getting consultation. In Faridkot, doctors of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital also staged a protest against the state government. During the protest, the doctors only attended emergency and indoor patients, leaving thousands of persons seeking OPD services in the lurch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/healthcare-paralysed-as-doctors-take-to-streets-in-punjab-282224
13-07-2021||---||Reduce probation period: Patwaris||Tribune News ServiceMansa, July 12The Revenue Patwar Union and Kanungo Association today staged a protest in front of Deputy Commissioner’s office in Mansa district demanding filling of vacant posts so that burden on existing staff could be reduced. The protesters raised slogans against the state government and district administration.Harpreet Singh, president of the union, said, “Our dharna outside the DC office entered its third day today. The DC, in a letter issued recently, had sought a list of patwaris who are on probation so that action can be initiated against them. The move is nothing but an attempt to pressurise us and sabotage our stir but we will not tolerate such pressure tactics of the administration and if our demands are not met, we will intensify ourstir in the coming days.”Mansa Deputy Commissioner Mohinder Pal said, “It is sheer indiscipline on part of the Revenue Department staff on probation to hold such agitations. If they are doing it now, what can be expected from them later? I have sought a list of staff on probation and necessary action will be initiated against them as per law.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/reduce-probation-period-patwaris-282225
13-07-2021||Chandigarh/Ludhiana||Punjab and Haryana High Court notice to state as Simarjeet Bains booked for rape||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today put the state on notice on a plea filed by Lok Insaaf Party president and MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains challenging a lower court order directing the registration of a rape case against him.A notice was also issued by Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul to the complainant in the case. It will now come up for further hearing on July 15.This came on a day the Ludhiana police booked Bains, his personal assistant Gogi Sharma, brother Karamjit Singh, sister-in-law Jasbir Kaur and three others for alleged rape, assault, making sexual advances, criminal intimidation and conspiracy. In his petition filed through counsel Gautam Dutt, Bains sought directions to the state for quashing the order dated July 7 passed by the Ludhiana Additional Chief Justice Magistrate directing the SHO of Division No. 6 police station to register a criminal case against him. It was passed without application of judicial mind and was contrary to the settled principles of criminal jurisprudence, he stated in the plea.Bains claimed he always opposed wrong policies of the ruling party. He was being targeted in the present case with an objective to ruin his political career. The Bench was told that the complainant-woman had filed a complaint against him to Ludhiana Commissioner of Police on November 16, 2020. It was entrusted to Kanwardeep Kaur, JCP, Ludhiana (rural), for probe. In her complaint, the exact date and time of alleged occurrence was not mentioned by the complainant, as she alleged the offence was committed 10-12 times over a period of time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-notice-to-state-as-simarjeet-bains-booked-for-rape-282226
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Badals must be grilled in sacrilege cases: Navjot Singh Sidhu||In an indication of the party high command’s efforts to bring CM Capt Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu on the same page, the former Cabinet minister today took on the Badals on the issue of sacrilege.Sidhu wondered why no proper inquiry was conducted by the Badal government into the theft of a ‘bir’ at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village on June 1, 2015. In a series of tweets, Sidhu said no action was taken by the Badal government in the sacrilege cases during the two years preceding the 2017 elections.He said over the past few months, he had asked every relevant question on the issue to those who should be held accountable. “Questions must be asked to the real culprits, the Badals,” Sidhu tweeted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/badals-must-be-grilled-in-sacrilege-cases-navjot-singh-sidhu-282228
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Building norms: One-time settlement for violations on cards||With an eye on urban voters, the Punjab Local Government has once again started an exercise to fine-tune the provisions of the one-time settlement (OTS) policy for non-compoundable violations in the state.Affecting near 30 lakh violations, the aim is to bring uniformity in the relaxations being offered in civic bodies for the purpose of charging regularisation fee, relaxing parking norms, besides concessions in floor area ration norms and other issues.Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra said the department was in the final stage of drafting the amended OTS policy.Apart from taking inputs from different civic bodies, comments from the ministers and MLAs representing the urban areas have been taken into account. The previous OTS policy, notified in 2019, when Navjot Singh Sidhu was the Local Government Minister, was withheld as it did not find favour with the intended beneficiaries. The department had received just 1,200 applications. Based on it, the department had invited suggestions from the public and stakeholders. Covid restrictions and subsequent transfer of two secretaries in the department further delayed the finalisation of the policy. A senior officer said in the previous policy, the categorisation of urban local bodies for the purpose of charging the regularisation fee was not practical. The civic bodies needed to be divided into zones for the purpose of charging the regularisation fee, he said. The department plans to earn a revenue of Rs 1,000 crore by regularising the buildings. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/building-norms-one-time-settlement-for-violations-on-cards-282229
13-07-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Curbs eased, tourists throng Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 12After the lifting of lockdown and night curfew from Monday, tourists, especially from the National Capital Region (NCR), have started thronging holy city Amritsar.Vehicles with registration numbers of Delhi and surrounding areas could be spotted in the parking bays and on roads around the Golden Temple complex.Tejinder Singh, a tourist from Delhi, said: “My family used to visit the Golden Temple frequently. But travel restrictions were imposed following the second wave of Covid. They were waiting for the curbs to be relaxed to travel to Amritsar.”Hospitality experts are of the view that earlier, travellers of the golden triangle tourist circuit used to spend at least two nights in the city, while due to Covid, it had now reduced to a destination of day trippers. A hotelier, Surinder Singh, said national tourist sites such as Jallianwala Bagh and the Attari-Wagah joint checkpost should be re-opened at the earliest. Both sites have been closed for the past over a year.As the tourism season has begun and people are flocking to Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, the tourism sector here will get a boost for being on the way to these hill states. This will infuse liquidity in the tour and travel segments which was severely battered during the past one year.Apart from NCR, a large number of people from Mumbai, Kolkata, Gujarat and southern states are visiting the town. A good number of non-resident Indians (NRIs) and international tourists, mainly from the UK, Australia, Canada and the US, who also visit here, are presently unable to come due to foreign travel restrictions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/curbs-eased-tourists-throng-amritsar-282234
13-07-2021||Our Correspondent||4 cousins die in mishap on Amritsar–Khemkaran highway; SUV driver booked||Tarn Taran, July 12Four youths died on the spot in an accident on the Amritsar–Khemkaran highway late last night near Chhichhrewal village. The deceased, who were cousins, were between the age of 17 to 24.They were riding a bike when a speedy car hit them from the front. The impact was so dreadful that one of the bodies was found on Monday morning from fields far away.DSP Sucha Singh Bal reached the spot and sent the bodies to the Civil Hospital.The DSP said the deceased had been identified as Tasveer Singh Sonu (24), his brother Malkit Singh Keetu (22) of Thathgarh village, Ramandeep Singh (17) of Gohalwar and Lovepreet Singh (16) of Swaragapuri (Chabal).A case under Sections 279, 304A and 427 of the IPC had been registered by the Chabal police against the car driver who fled the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-cousins-die-in-mishap-on-amritsar%E2%80%93khemkaran-highway-suv-driver-booked-282235
13-07-2021||Saurabh Malik||Recruitment to police: Follow norms on height measurement, Punjab told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 12In a judgment that will change the way recruitment to the police is made, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it mandatory for the state to follow the guidelines issued by it in one of its orders on height measurement.Discrepancies in police recruitmentThe direction came as Justice Arun Monga asserted unnecessary litigation regarding height measurement could have been avoided had the state government followed the methodology suggested by the HC.Justice Monga was hearing 209 petitions filed by unsuccessful candidates challenging selection/recruitment of Punjab Police constables.Justice Monga made it clear that the guidelines in the case of “Sonu Singh versus the State of Haryana and others” would be followed for recruitment to other departments as well, where height was one of the criteria for selection.The HC in Sonu Singh’s case had made it clear that chest and height measurement through scientific instruments was required to be carried out publicly. The stamped copy of dimensions was also required to be handed over to the candidates seeking recruitment. The Bench had added a man’s height was a “pure question of fact”, provided it was measured scientifically by a stadiometer used for measuring human height with reliable results.Justice Monga added petitioners’ grievance regarding height measurement would be mitigated by the stateby carrying out one-time remeasurement in terms of Sonu Singh’s case.All petitioners would be notified of the date, time and venue for remeasurement of height through email, text message and the department website. For remeasurement and resultant changes, Justice Monga also set a month’s deadline.Before parting with the case, Justice Monga asserted dispensing with the interviews for the posts of constable was in tune with the guidelines issued by the Centre. “The policy decision of the state government dispensing with the interview is also upheld,” Justice Monga concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/recruitment-to-police-follow-norms-on-height-measurement-punjab-told-282236
13-07-2021||Ropar||Ropar: Ex-district programme officer booked for Rs50L fund misuse||The Vigilance Bureau has booked a retired district programme officer allegedly for misusing funds worth lakhs received by her during 2019-20, when she was posted at Ropar.Vigilance Bureau DSP Satpal Singh said a probe had been started after booking ex-district programme officer Amrita Singh under Sections 409 and 420, IPC, and Prevention of Corruption Act.As per information, Ashu Mittal of Sangrur and Rajinder Pal Mittal from Patiala lodged a complaint with Social Security and Woman and Child Development Department Director Vipul Ujjwal that over Rs 50 lakh have been spent by Amrita, flouting the rules and regulations.According to the complaint, Amrita, who got retired in October last year, receivedRs 50 lakh in 2019-20 from the Union Ministry of Woman and Child Development. It was alleged that she didn’t follow the guidelines while spending the amount.They alleged a majority of purchases were made without inviting quotations and no proper bills were submitted. “Also, 51 bicycles were bought by paying Rs 1.46 lakh to the dealer in advance even when no such proposal was made when funds were sought under the “Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao” scheme. Similarly, 11 laptops worth Rs 2.2. lakh and 52,000 packs of sanitary napkins were purchased despite no such provision to use the money on these items.”Meanwhile, Vipul said prima facie Amrita was found misusing the funds afterwhich the bureau was asked to probe the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-ex-district-programme-officer-booked-for-rs50l-fund-misuse-282237
13-07-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||10 days later, murder case solved; 3 held||Within ten days of finding a beheaded body, the Sriganganagar police claimed to have solved the murder case and arrested three persons.Last week, a beheaded body was found near the animal cremation ground in Chak 13H village. The deceased was identified as Avtar Singh (30), a resident of JJ Colony, Sirsa.DSP Surinder Singh Rathore said probe by a team that examined the CCTV footage and cellphone locations of the accused led to the arrest of Kulwinder Kaur (26) of Chak 13H village, her husband Satpal Singh (27) and Sandeep Meghwal (29) of Killianwali, Muktsar.The probe indicated that Avtar had illicit relations with Kulwinder. When Satpal came to know about it, he and Sandeep forced Kulwinder to call Avtar to the village. Early this month when Avtar arrived, Satpal and Sandeep took him near the animal cremation ground and killed him, chopped his body parts and disposed it in a canal, the police said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-days-later-murder-case-solved-3-held-282238
13-07-2021||Muktsar||Act against Punjab FM Manpreet Badal, MLA Warring urges Rahul Gandhi||Gidderbaha MLA Amarinder Singh Raja Warring today, through a tweet, urged former AICC chief Rahul Gandhi to take disciplinary action against Finance Minister Manpreet Badal and ask him to resign.Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu and Zira MLA Kulbir Singh Zira retweeted his post. In his tweet, Warring wrote: “The FM is busy distributing public money among Akalis, who destroyed Punjab. Manpreet is working on a plan to weaken the Congress and strengthen the Akali Dal for the past few months. I request Rahul Gandhi to take disciplinary action and get his resignation.”Manpreet’s brother-in-law Jaijeet Singh Johal said: “The FM had given the cheque for Rs 10 lakh to a welfare association of Phase-4 in Bathinda. Those receiving the money are office-bearers of the association. The man whom Warring is labelling as an Akali actually supported us in the MC elections. Warring is making a controversy unnecessarily.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/act-against-punjab-fm-manpreet-badal-mla-warring-urges-rahul-gandhi-282239
13-07-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||To escape prolonged outages, Pathankot elite camp in hotels||Tribune News ServicePathankot, July 12Prolonged power outages have forced the city’s elite to spend nights in swanky hotels apparently to escape the sweltering heat.Occupancy rate upThe occupancy rate of hotels had taken a sharp dip, but power cuts have come in as a big relief. People are flocking to hotels like never before. The occupancy rate has improved. -  Nitin Laddi Mahajan, Hotel body headSo much so, scores of businessmen have converted hotel rooms into “camp offices”. They operate from these places during the daytime and then spend the nights in these very hotels with their families.Confirming the development, Nitin Laddi Mahajan, president, Pathankot Hotel and Restaurants Association, said: “Two waves of Covid had killed the hotel business. The occupancy rate of hotels had taken a sharp dip, but power cuts have come in as a big relief. People are flocking to hotels like never before. As a consequence, the occupancy rates has considerably improved,” said Laddi.Manwal resident Neha Jenny, an English lecturer, said her locality had been without power for the past many days. “I know of several business families of Manwal who have shifted to nearby hotels lock, stock and barrel,” she said.“The rate for a room is anything between Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,500,” Laddi said, adding he knew of so many people who have shifted to hotels.Notwithstanding the rains which have brought in some respite, businessmen, who have shifted to hotels, said they would stay put till the power supply stabilised on a permanent basis. Subhash Gupta, a hotelier, claimed people who had checked in were not willing to leave till PSPCL gave them assurance that there would be no further outages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-escape-prolonged-outages-pathankot-elite-camp-in-hotels-282241
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||PPSC member Hardyal Singh Mann takes oath||Governor VP Singh Badnore on Monday administered the oath of office, allegiance and secrecy to Hardyal Singh Mann as member of the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) through a virtual ceremony held from the Punjab Raj Bhavan. CM Capt Amarinder Singh and Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan attended the virtual ceremony. tnsAboharOpium, poppy husk seizedThe police held Gurjant Singh, Varinder Singh, Harshdeep Singh and Prem Singh of Tarn Taran with 3-kg opium. Around 2 kg of opium was seized from Jagdish Chander of Phalodi. Also, 3,000 intoxicating tablets were seized from bikers Lovdeep Mehra and Raj Kumar Meghwal while poppy husk was recovered from Bohar Singh of Ferozepur. ocWoman thrashed, 3 heldA 45-year-old woman, Anita Rani, was allegedly tharashed by her husband, Ram Kumar, and two sons. All three have been nabbed. A video of the incident that went viral showed Anita’s husband dragged her on a road and beat her mercilessly on Saturday. She was living alone due to alleged harassment by Ram for the past four years. ocMan killed over land disputeThe Hanumangarh police arrested a man for killing his father over a property dispute. Rameshwer Lal had faked an attack on his father, Ram Pratap Kasnia (58) by unidentified miscreants while reporting the crime to the police. SP Preeti Jain said Rameshwer attacked his parents, while they were asleep, with a sharp weapon. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ppsc-member-hardyal-singh-mann-takes-oath-282242
13-07-2021||Chandigarh/Patiala||Cops rescue BJP leaders in Rajpura after midnight High Court order||The Punjab and Haryana High Court convened at midnight on Sunday to ask the DGP and Patiala SSP to personally ensure the safe exit of BJP leaders and workers, allegedly detained in a house in Rajpura by farm union activists.Berjeshwar Jaswal and 14 other petitioners through advocate Anil Mehta pleaded for immediate directions to ensure their safety. Keeping in view the urgency of the situation, Justice Suvir Sehgal ordered telephonic service of notice to the police administration and other respondents through the Advocate-General and Additional Solicitor-General of India. The case was again taken up on Monday afternoon with a DSP submitting a status report, saying all BJP leaders and workers had been rescued.Meanwhile, the Rajpura police have registered an FIR against unidentified protesters for attacking cops as they escorted the BJP leaders to safety. Scores of farmers had on Sunday laid siege to a BJP worker’s house in Guru Arjan Dev Colony, Rajpura, where party leaders, including Punjab unit general secretary Subhash Sharma and Patiala in-charge Bhupesh Aggarwal, were present. “Despite senior officers at the spot, the protesters hurled bricks at us when we were being escorted out of the house,” Aggarwal said.The farmers claimed the BJP workers used offensive language and Aggarwal’s gunman brandished a pistol at them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cops-rescue-bjp-leaders-in-rajpura-after-midnight-high-court-order-282180
13-07-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Conversion row: Mum is the word at Sikh locality in Srinagar||Tribune News ServiceSrinagar, July 12A huge black iron gate at the entry of every lane in the Rainawari cluster of 30-odd houses of Sikhs keeps the goings-on within the colony shut to the outside world. Step inside and all queries are met with silence, even surprise.It is here that an 18-year-old girl grew up before being allegedly abducted and forcibly converted to Islam by a man of different religion, sparking protests. Days after she was returned to her family, she left her house one last time on June 29 to get married to a local Sikh man at the Pulwama gurdwara after which the bride, the groom and their families left for Delhi.A fortnight later, mum is the word in the cluster. Everybody knows the house where the girl lived but nobody has anything to say about her marriage. “They don’t live here anymore. We don’t know where they went,” says a neighbour. Another explains, “I was out for a week and I am clueless about the marriage.”Tension easingSince the girl married a Sikh man, the tension between the two communities has eased.The man, who married and “forced her to accept Islam”, is out of jail and says he will bring her back.APSCC chief Jagmohan Singh Raina says such sensitive issues should be left to local leadersHer paternal aunt living on the ground floor of the two-storey house where they lived in a joint family is reluctant to give out her name. Peeping out from her window, she quips, “They used to live upstairs. Since the marriage, we haven’t seen them or heard from them. Their phones either keep ringing or are switched off. My in-laws live with me and they too have no clue if the family will ever return.” Before shutting the window, she adds they were a family of four and the victim’s brother used to study in Punjab.Climb up the flight of steps that lead to the girl’s house and a lock greets the visitors. That the family left in a rush is evident from the fact that two pairas of slippers, a single-seater sofa and some flower pots lie just inside the iron door.Outside the colony, in the gurdwara behind her house, a devotee who has come to offer prayers, says, “Despite allegations of forced conversion, once the girl was handed over to the family and married to a Sikh boy, the tension between the two communities has eased. Nobody wants to disturb the brotherhood between Sikhs and Muslims. They have lived together for decades. It is behind us now. We need to move forward.”All Party Sikh Coordination Committee (APSCC) president Jagmohan Singh Raina maintains that such sensitive issues should be left to the local leaders. “We don’t want any outside interference in our internal matters. We can resolve our issues through dialogue with the community leaders of the other faith. Those coming from outside don’t know about the Valley’s sensitive situation,” he asserts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/conversion-row-mum-is-the-word-at-sikh-locality-in-srinagar-282243
13-07-2021||---||Punjab restores power to Industry after partial resumption at Talwandi Sabo plant||Chandigarh, July 12In a major relief to the Industry in the state, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday evening ordered immediate withdrawal of all power regulatory restrictions that were imposed to meet the power crisis.The crisis was triggered by a delayed monsoon and an unprecedented surge in demand from both agricultural and domestic sectors. Reviewing the power situation in the state after the resumption of generation at one of the three non-functional units at Talwandi Sabo Thermal plant, the chief minister directed the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to ease off all power regulatory restrictions on industrial consumers across the state with immediate effect. The chief minister was informed that the plant at Talwandi Sabo had resumed 660 MW production, improving the power situation in the state.The decision on the complete withdrawal of the restrictions was taken by the Chief Minister soon after PSPCL announced a similar but partial withdrawal in districts falling in central and border zones. The PSPCL had allowed all industries, except those using continuous power, to operate at full capacity from today.However, after the Chief Minister’s intervention, all industries across the state, including those using continuous power round the clock (Textile, Chemicals, and Spinning Mills etc), can now operate to full capacity.  It may be recalled that owing to unprecedented rise in demand of power, the PSPCL had, as a temporary measure, ordered restrictions on Industrial consumers of the State in order to provide continuous power supply to Domestic consumers and 8 hours power supply to the Agriculture sector for paddy operations. Continuous process industries were allowed to operate at 50% of their load, a spokesperson from the Chief Minister’s office said.The PSPCL, however, had not imposed any restrictions on small and medium supply industrial consumers, rice shellers, cattle feed units, call centres, mushroom farms, food processing units and other essential Industries/services from the beginning, the spokesperson further revealed.The spokesperson said that despite the failure of TSPL Plant, PSPCL had successfully met highest ever energy demand of 3066 lakh units on July 1. The day’s demand had surpassed the earlier record of 3018 lakh units of power supply in a single day in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-restores-power-to-industry-after-partial-resumption-at-talwandi-sabo-plant-282094
13-07-2021||---||Navjot Sidhu takes on the Badals on sacrilege issue||Chandigarh, July 12In an indication of the party high command’s efforts to bring Capt Amarinder Singh and Navjot Sidhu on the same page, the latter on Monday took on the Badals on the issue of sacrilege.Sidhu wondered why no proper inquiry was conducted by the Badal government into the theft of “Bir of Guru Granth Sahib” at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village on June 1, 2015, which led to sacrilege, followed by protests and firing in October 2015.In a series of tweets, Sidhu said no action was taken by the Badal government during two years in sacrilege cases before the 2017 elections.“Why no action against fabrication of evidence in Behbal Kalan firing incident? How escort gypsy of SSP Charanjit Sharma was taken to workshop of Pankaj Bansal & with gun of Sohail Brar bullet marks planted on jeep - to show police fired in self defence? Who ordered this?” Sidhu said.He said he had asked every relevant question over the past few months on ‘be-adabi’ issue to everyone, who should be held accountable in the last six years. “Questions must be asked to the real Culprits, the Badals,” Sidhu tweeted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-takes-on-the-badals-on-sacrilege-issue-282068
13-07-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||LIP chief Simarjit Bains, PA and 5 others booked under rape and other sections||Ludhiana, July 12The City Police have booked Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief and Atam Nagar MLA Simarjit Singh Bains, his personal assistant (PA) Gogi Sharma and five others under various sections.They have been booked under Sections 376, 354, 354-A, 506 and 120-B of the IPC for alleged rape, assault, making sexual advances, criminal intimidation and criminal conspiracy.The other accused are Kulwant Singh; Sukhchain Singh; Paramjit Singh; Jasbir Kaur, sister-in-law of Bains; and Baljinder Kaur.The police action came on the orders of Harsimranjit Singh, Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Ludhiana, on a petition filed by a resident of Ishar Nagar.The case had assumed a political colour with opposition parties, mainly the SAD, starting an agitation for the registration of a case against the MLA while accusing the ruling Congress of supporting Bains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lip-chief-simarjit-bains-pa-and-5-others-booked-under-rape-and-other-sections-282066
13-07-2021||New Delhi||Actor-activist Deep Sidhu appears before court in R-Day violence case||Actor-activist Deep Sidhu, who is accused of being the key conspirator of the violence that ensued at the Red Fort on Republic Day, appeared before a Delhi court on Monday.Sidhu and several other accused appeared before Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gajender Singh Nagar through video-conferencing.One Mohinder Singh Khalsa moved an exemption application on medical grounds, which was allowed by the court.The chief metropolitan magistrate directed the police to supply chargesheet to all the accused and listed the matter for July 22.Last month, the court had taken cognizance of the chargesheet in the case and summoned all the accused to appear before it on July 12.On January 26, protesting farmers had clashed with police during the tractor rally against the Centre's three farm laws and stormed into the Red Fort, hoisting religious flags on its domes and injuring scores of policemen.According to Delhi Police, they have electronic evidence to show that Sidhu entered the Red Fort with supporters carrying lathis and flags and provoked the violence. He was in jail for over two months and was released on bail on April 17. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/actor-activist-deep-sidhu-appears-before-court-in-r-day-violence-case-282035
