15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting Punjab doctors examine patients at hospital lawns, bear treatment expenses||Punjab’s government doctors, who are protesting over the issue of non-practicing allowance (NPA), on Thursday examined patients at their own cost in the lawns of hospitals even as they boycotted the government outpatient departments (OPDs).Doctors at government hospitals have been protesting against the recommendations of the state’s sixth pay commission, delinking the non-practicing allowance from the basic pay.They are also agitated by the pay commission’s recommendation of reduction in the NPA from 25 per cent to 20 per cent.Doctors had announced to boycott government OPDs from July 15 to July 17 but had also said that parallel OPDs would be run during this period in the lawn of hospitals so that the needy persons are not deprived basic health services.This decision was taken by the the Joint Government Doctors Coordination Committee (JGDCC), which has members from the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association and is supported by the Punjab State Veterinary Officers Association, Rural Medical Officers Association, Punjab Dental Medical Officers Association and Punjab Ayurveda Officers Association.Medical and veterinary doctors from all over Punjab ran parallel OPDs in hospital premises and expressed their displeasure over the government’s evasive policy on the issue of NPA.The parallel OPDs were run free of cost and the cost of medicines used for the treatment was borne by the doctors, so as to save people from unnecessary hassle and also help them financially, the protesting doctors said.Doctors also apprised the people about the adamant attitude of the government, they added.A group of doctors, including PCMS president Gagandeep Singh, on Thursday held a meeting with cabinet minister Brahm Mohindra, who is chairman of the cabinet sub-committee.During the meeting, the minister assured that the demand of the doctors regarding NPA would be met soon, according to a statement issued by the JGDCC.The protesting doctors slammed the “lax” attitude of the government towards doctors and warned that if the government did not resolve the issue of NPA immediately then all the medical and veterinary doctors of Punjab would go on an indefinite strike from Monday. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesting-punjab-doctors-examine-patients-at-hospital-lawns-bear-treatment-expenses-283712
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Temperatures hover below normal in Haryana and Punjab||The maximum temperatures hovered below normal limits at most places in Haryana and Punjab on Thursday.After receiving rains in the past two days, mainly dry weather prevailed in most parts of the two states on Thursday, the Meteorological Department said.However, heavy rains lashed Karnal in Haryana during the day.According to the Meteorological Department here, Karnal received 49 mm rainfall.Notably, during the past two days, Karnal has received over 300 mm of rain. Karnal's maximum temperature on Thursday dropped by six notches below normal to settle at 28 degrees Celsius.Ambala recorded a maximum temperature of 29.6 degrees Celsius, down five notches while Hisar registered a high of 34 degrees Celsius, three degrees below normal.The maximum temperature in Rohtak, which received light rain, settled at 32.3 degrees Celsius, down three notches, it said.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a maximum temperature of 33.2 degrees Celsius, one degree below normal limits.In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a maximum of 35.4 degrees Celsius.Ludhiana recorded a high of 33.7 degrees Celsius, while Patiala's maximum settled at 30.8 degrees Celsius, three below normal.According to the MeT Department forecast, rain or thundershowers are likely at a few to many places in Haryana and Punjab over the next two days. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/temperatures-hover-below-normal-in-haryana-and-punjab-283689
15-07-2021||New Delhi||There is no rule of law in Punjab: BJP on attacks on its workers||The Punjab BJP feels that anger among the farmers in the state against the three new farm laws, and its leadership is at the behest of the ruling Congress party.Recently, over a dozen BJP leaders were taken hostage in Rajpura in Patiala by protesting farmers. Punjab Bharatiya Janata Party chief Ashwani Sharma told IANS that there is no rule of law in the state and Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh is patronizing attacks on their party leaders and workers.The saffron camp believes that all the incidents of violence and attacks on BJP leaders are politically motivated and carried out by a handful of anti-social elements."Most of the people in Punjab are peace loving, and they are against any type of violence. Those involved in acts of violence against our workers or leaders are misled by the ruling party and have the blessings of the chief minister," Sharma said.The BJP alleged that all acts of violence are being done with an eye on next year's assembly polls."Captain Amarinder Singh is not taking action, believing that it will demoralise BJP workers and benefit the Congress party in next year's assembly polls. But the chief minister and Congress party must understand that such acts of promoting violence will backfire and cost them heavily in the Punjab assembly polls. BJP workers continue to work for the people without fear," Sharma said.The BJP also questioned the failure of the administration to act against those involved in acts of violence and alleged that the state government is turning a blind eye towards people disturbing law and order in the state."All the acts of violence or intimidation of BJP workers have been carried out in the presence of senior officials of the administration and the law enforcing agencies. On the direction of the chief minister and the government, officials have failed to take action and remain mute spectators. There is complete constitutional breakdown in the state," the Punjab BJP chief said.The Punjab BJP once again emphasised that political parties are misleading farmers over the new farm laws."Everyone understands that the Narendra Modi government brought the new farm laws for the benefit of farmers, but opposition parties are misleading people by creating doubts in their minds," Sharma said.The BJP workers and leaders were also attacked during the Punjab local bodies polls held earlier this year. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/there-is-no-rule-of-law-in-punjab-bjp-on-attacks-on-its-workers-283678
15-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||'Abhi hum sadme se ubhre nahi', says emotional Dharmendra on Indian Idol 12 Dilip Kumar tribute episode; watch||Veteran actor Dharmendra will be gracing the sets of Sony TV's Indian Idol 2 with his former co-star Anita Raaj.Anit Raaj is currently seen playing a negative role on 'Choti Sarrdaarni'.Promo videos, shared by Sony TV, show Dharmendra showering praise on later actor Dilip Kumar. He talked about how he flourished as an actor under his guidance.Dilip Kumar passed away on July 7. He was 98.This week, Indian Idol 12 will be paying a tribute to the legendary actor.Speaking about the 'Mughal-e-Azam' star, Dharmendra said: 'Abhi hum sadme se ubhre nahi hain...meri jaan the woh. Maine apni zindagi ki pehli film inhi ki dekhi thi. Aur inko dekh ke itna pyaar aya, mujhe laga mujhe bhi isi tarah industry mein pyaar mile...Dilip Sahab jitne azeem fankaar the usse bhi azeez insaan the (We are still not over the shock of losing Dilip Kumar...he was very dear to me. The first film that I saw was of him. I felt so much love towards him watching him on screen and hoped to receive similar love and affection when I join the film industry. Dilip Sahab was a great actor but he was a greater human being)."A post shared by Sony Entertainment Television (@sonytvofficial)  Sony TV shared a promo featuring Dharmendra and Anita Raaj. "#IndianIdol2020 #Dharmendra ji ne legendary abhineta #DilipKumarJi ko bheegi aankhon se kiya yaad! Dekhiye #DharmendraAndAnitaRajSpecial #IndianIdol2020 iss weekend raat 9:30 baje, sirf Sony par (sic)," read the caption.In the promo, the Top 6 contestants of Indian Idol 12 will be seen singing 'Sukh Ke Sab Saathi' from Dilip Kumar's 1970 film Gopi, which also starred his wife Saira Banu in the lead role.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abhi-hum-sadme-se-ubhre-nahi-says-emotional-dharmendra-on-indian-idol-12-dilip-kumar-tribute-episode-watch-283625
15-07-2021||Hoshiarpur||4 killed as car collides with truck in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur||Four people were killed when the car they were travelling in was involved in an accident with a truck near Chandigarh bypass road here, police said on Thursday.Those who died were aged between 25 and 30, police said, adding that the accident occurred at Shergarh village on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday.Three of the car occupants died on the spot, while another succumbed to injuries at a hospital in Ludhiana, said ASI Sukhdev Singh, who is in charge of Purhiran Chowki. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-killed-as-car-collides-with-truck-in-punjabs-hoshiarpur-283608
15-07-2021||---||Fans, family mourn untimely demise of Sufi singer Manmeet Singh||A pall of gloom and despair descended over the family and friends of Sufi singer Manmeet Singh, who died in the cloudburst incident in Dharamsala. Heart-rending scenes were witnessed as his body was cremated on Wednesday evening at his native village. Amid the outpour of condolences, the family members of Manmeet grappled with his unfortunate death.A resident of Chheharta, Manmeet 31, was a Sufi singer who sang with his younger brother Kiranpal Singh, also known as KP. The duo, famous as Sain brothers, had gone to Dharamsala along with six others over the weekend. Now, as the tragedy befell, Manmeet is survived by his wife Manpreet Kaur and two children — Ranbir and Amijot.Manmeet and Kiranpal began their musical journey at a young age, singing in school festivals and later in college youth festivals. Learning music from Manmohan Kaur, a senior faculty from Khalsa College and a radio artiste, the two brothers started their professional music career four years ago by performing at deras and folk festivals. Sain brothers had released their first commercial song ‘Duniyadari’ in 2020 which got them global recognition. Their inspiration was the legendary Wadali brothers and they had met Padma Shri Puran Chand Wadali on several occasions.The family members, including Manmeet’s father Shankar Sukhdev Singh, mother Kuljit Kaur, sister Navjit Kaur were in a state of mourning and refused to talk to mediapersons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fans-family-mourn-untimely-demise-of-sufi-singer-manmeet-singh-283441
15-07-2021||Amritsar||Farmers’ warning letter to MP Gurjit Singh Aujla||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-warning-letter-to-mp-gurjit-singh-aujla-283448
15-07-2021||Ropar||Driver missing as car falls into Bhakra canal in Ropar||One person went missing after the Innova car that he was driving fell into the Bhakra canal here today. While the vehicle was traced by divers and pulled out of the canal, there was no clue to Subhash Garg, who was reportedly driving the car at the time of the incident. Garg, a resident of Swarghat in Himachal Pradesh, was reportedly going towards Ropar when his car fell into the canal near Ahmedpur village. Eyewitnesses said the car suddenly turned towards the canal and plunged into it. The police have started investigation into the incident and efforts are on to locate the victim. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/driver-missing-as-car-falls-into-bhakra-canal-in-ropar-283474
15-07-2021||Nangal||Nangal: Two boys feared drowned in Sutlej||Two teenage boys were feared drowned in the Sutlej, while another one was rescued by passers-by here yesterday. The deceased were identified as Kartik Thapa (13) and Sahib Kumar (14), both residents of ward number 1.According to the police, Kartik, Sahib and Jassi had gone to take bath in the river near Barmala village. They were, however, swept away in the strong water current. While Jassi was rescued by passers-by, the other two were not so lucky. The Nangal SHO said efforts were on to trace the victims with help of divers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nangal-two-boys-feared-drowned-in-sutlej-283469
15-07-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda to get free legal aid clinic||Bathinda is set to be the first district in Punjab, where the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) will have a legal aid clinic to provide free services to the needy, round the clock. This was stated by District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman, District Legal Services Authority, Kanwaljit Lamba today during the quarterly meeting with the district administration.Presiding over the meeting, he told the civil and police administration officials to lend support for the National Lok Adalat to be held on September 11, so that the needy could avail free legal services.Lamba told the Additional Deputy Commissioner to decide a suitable place for the legal aid clinic to be set up in the district.He directed the officials of the Police Department to not keep any complaint pending for more than seven days. He said if the police wanted to take remand in a case, then they should ensure the accused was represented by a lawyer. In case, an accused did not have a lawyer, he should be provided one through the free legal aid clinic.Lamba told the district administration to sensitise people to the provision of free legal services. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-to-get-free-legal-aid-clinic-283437
15-07-2021||Archit Watts||In Lambi, 2 die of drug abuse in one week||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, July 14In the past one week, two persons, including a 14-year-old boy, have allegedly died due to drug overdose in Lambi Assembly segment here. For the past few months, residents of Lambi area have been requesting the authorities concerned to curb the drug menace.Young deathsOn July 7, a 14-year-old boy, student of Class VIII, died of drug overdose at Tappakhera village here, which triggered a panic among the area residents. His family members said the boy had fallen in bad company, about a year ago and claimed some people in the village had been running drug business. After this incident, a number of politicians visited the victim’s house and assured all possible help. A Congress leader promised to bear the expenses of the two other children in the family. Later, the police arrested two persons from the village with some drugs.In another incident, 26-year-old Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Panniwala Fatta village here, allegedly died of drugs on July 10. The deceased is survived by a son and a daughter. Bant Ram, father of the deceased, who is a daily wager, appealed to the Chief Minister to curb the drug menace in the state. He also reminded the CM of the oath taken before the Assembly elections to curb drug addiction.D Sudarvizhi, SSP, Muktsar, in a seminar held on drugs on Tuesday, said the police had increased patrolling in villages. She also appealed to the gathering to inform the police about people involved in selling drugs. She told the village panchayats representatives to counsel the drug addicts and motivate them to take treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-lambi-2-die-of-drug-abuse-in-one-week-283435
15-07-2021||---||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder announces debt waiver for farmhands||Chandigarh, July 14Fulfilling the second item on the 18-point agenda given by the Congress high command for immediate implementation, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today announced Rs 590 crore loan waiver for landless farmers and labourers.The government will pay off loans worth Rs 590 crore of 2,85,325 members of Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies (PACS), ensuring a relief of Rs 20,000 per member, said the Chief Minister. He directed the finance and cooperation departments to initiate the process for effective implementation.To cost Rs590 crThe farm loan waiver was one of the main demands of Congress MLAs and party’s Dalit leaders. The cheques would be distributed at a state-level function on August 20, said an official spokesperson after a high-level meeting held here. The government has formulated a debt relief scheme for farm labourers and landless farming members of the PACS, which will cover only consumption loans of the members advanced by the district central cooperative banks through the societies.Earlier, under the CM’s flagship debt waiver scheme, loans worth Rs 4,624 crore of 5.64 lakh farmers were waived. The move was part of the party’s 2017 poll manifesto.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-announces-debt-waiver-for-farmhands-283331
15-07-2021||Vishav Bharti||Private labs at Punjab district hospitals; poor will be hit, warn docs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 14Punjab has allowed a chain of private laboratories to operate from the premises of government district hospitals. These labs will be permitted to charge more than the government labs at these hospitals. A chain of labs based in Mumbai has invited applications for hiring radiologists, pathologists, nurses, lab technicians and marketing executives.Sources claimed the government was to create diagnostic hubs at the district hospitals, but it shelved its plan to benefit private players. When contacted, Principal Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) Hussan Lal said while the government labs closed in the afternoon, private labs would function round the clock. “There were multiple players but the one which quoted the maximum discount was awarded the contract,” he explained. According to information gathered by The Tribune, the company which has been awarded the contract will offer a 48% discount to those covered under the CGHS.Government doctors see it as another move to dismantle the public healthcare system. “This is a sinister design to deprive the poor of healthcare services. The government will eventually close down all government labs,” cautioned Dr Gagandeep Shergill, senior vice-president, Punjab Civil Medical Services Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/private-labs-at-punjab-district-hospitals-poor-will-be-hit-warn-docs-283333
15-07-2021||Sonepat||Samyukt Kisan Morcha suspends Gurnam Singh Charuni for 1 week||Taking a serious note over the statements of launching of ‘Mission Punjab’, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Wednesday suspended Gurnam Singh Charuni, a prominent face of the farmers’ movement in Haryana and prominent member of nine members committee of the SKM, for seven days.The SKM also banned him for sharing any stage and for making any statement during his suspension period.Issued ‘peoples’ whip’ for MPs to raise farmers’ demand during parliament monsoon session: SKMCharuni firmed up on his statement of ‘Mission Punjab’ and said the decision of suspending him was wrong.Notably, the farmer leader, national president of BKU (Charuni), had made the statements to launch the ‘Mission Punjab’ instead of ‘Mission UP’ and also asked the Punjab’s farmer leaders to take a political plunge and contest the assembly elections in the state due early next year and to present a new model of governance before the country.The SKM had cornered itself from the statements of Charuni and also condemned his statements, but he regularly made such statements again and again.Taking a serious note over it, the SKM in its general house meeting held on Wednesday in Kisan Andolan office in Kundli, decided to suspend him for seven days.Farmer leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Ruldu Singh Mansa, Bhog Singh Mansa, Yudhvir Singh along with others on Sunday said that farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni has been suspended for one week.“He can’t share any stage and even he can’t make any statements during his suspension,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal.Firm on his statement, Gurnam Singh Charuni said, “Either they (SKM) expel me for seven days or permanently, I will stand by my statement.”Charuni further said the decision of SKM to suspend him was a wrong decision as it is his ideology and no one could be expelled for their ideology.What will happen only by defeating the BJP, the farmers were not happy before June 5, 2020, Charuni questioned and said we have to use the power of our vote to bring a change in the system.   Charuni said he was still firm on his statement of ‘Mission Punjab’ and for the sake of the country it is necessary to change the system and to present a model of good governance.“I am not in the habit of going on stage usually but this decision will have no effect on me and still I stand by my ideology,” Charuni maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/samyukt-kisan-morcha-suspends-gurnam-singh-charuni-for-1-week-283093
15-07-2021||---||Oxygen plant inaugurated in Ropar||Ropar, July 14Punjab Speaker Rana KP Singh along with local MP Manish Tiwari inaugurated an oxygen generation plant at the civil hospital here today. The plant set up by ACT Bangalore and Labh Group under the Social Corporate Responsibility has a capacity of 500 litre per minute (LPM).Rana KP Singh said the nation had witnessed tough times during the second wave of Covid and the government had already geared up to face any such situation in future. Besides, five more such plants would be set up at Anandpur Sahib, Nangal and Morinda, he said.Meanwhile, local doctors, who are up in arms over NPA cut, also presented a memorandum of demands to the MP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/oxygen-plant-inaugurated-in-ropar-283433
15-07-2021||Fazilka||Power consumers rue hike in fixed charges||Even as parties are busy playing politics over electricity, some even going to the extent of promising free units if voted to power, increased power bills for the month of June have came as a shock to domestic consumers.According to a circular issued by the PSPCL on June 1, the fixed charges of the consumers having electricity connection above 7 kW and up to 50 kW have been increased to Rs 95 kW a month from Rs 75. Energy charges have also been enhanced from Rs 0.15 to Rs 0.20 per unit depending upon the consumption.Similarly, those who have connection of more than 50 kW have to shell out Rs 15 extra per kw a month as fixed charges, besides an extra Rs 0.10 a unit. Shashi Kant, president, NGO Social Welfare Society said the government should immediately roll back the move. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/power-consumers-rue-hike-in-fixed-charges-283432
15-07-2021||The police on Wednesday cane-charged Elementary Teacher Training-Teacher Eligibility Test (ETT-TET) qualified unemployed teachers in Patiala who tried to march towards the CM’s residence||Unemployed teachers cane-charged on way to Punjab CM’s residence||The teachers had gathered near Leela Bhawan market in the city from where they marched towards the CM’s residence. Following this, a clash broke out between them and the police in which both parties were injuredThey said they were told that all their demands would be met in the Cabinet meeting scheduled for July 14. However, no meeting took place on Wednesday, the protesting teachers claimed. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unemployed-teachers-cane-charged-on-way-to-punjab-cms-residence-283430
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||10 arrested by Punjab Vigilance Bureau on corruption charge||The Punjab Vigilance Bureau, during its ongoing crusade against corruption, has nabbed nine government officials and one private individual red-handed while accepting bribe in eight separate cases in June. Those arrested include three police personnel and two revenue officials.Chief Director-cum-DGP, Vigilance Bureau, BK Uppal said the bureau submitted challans in connection with 12 cases in different courts last month. Six vigilance inquiries were also registered to thoroughly probe the cases. Four new cases were also registered on the basis of vigilance inquiries, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-arrested-by-punjab-vigilance-bureau-on-corruption-charge-283427
15-07-2021||---||MP-based illicit weapon module busted, 2 arrested||Amritsar, July 14The police claim to have busted another interstate module involved in manufacturing and supply of illegal weapons across the state with the arrest of its two members from MP.DGP Dinkar Gupta said: “In an interstate operation, a team of the State Counter Intelligence, Amritsar, have arrested Jeevan (19) of Jamli Gaytri Dham village in MP and Vijay Thakur (25) of Umrypani in MP, from the area of Sendhwan village in Barwani MP and recovered 39 pistols (.32 bore) along with magazines from their possession.The DGP said the Intelligence had arrested two persons identified as Hira Singh and Harmandeep Singh, both of Tarn Taran, after recovering three country-made pistols and ammunition from their possession on June 12 and during interrogation they revealed that they procured these weapons from Madhya Pradesh.Gupta said following these inputs, a special team led by Inspector Inderdeep Singh was sent to MP to bust the entire module. He said preliminary investigations revealed that these weapons were meant to be supplied to various criminal gangs and other anti-national elements in Punjab.Meanwhile, a case had been registered under Section 25 of the Arms Act.The development came just four days after the Kapurthala police busted an illicit weapon supply network with the arrest of its main supplier from Barwani in MP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mp-based-illicit-weapon-module-busted-2-arrested-283426
15-07-2021||Our Correspondent||13K litre combustible material seized||Abohar, July 14Officials of the Food Supply Department, Weights and Measures Department and the Punjab Police jointly raided a godown-cum-factory that was reportedly doing business under the banner of Kumar Enterprises at the Industrial Focal Point, near Alamgarh Chowk here, and seized about 13,000 litres of inflammable material.Factory owner sold spurious ‘diesel’The officials said godown owner Harish Dhingra of Nanak Nagari was not present on the spot, while his servant Raju, a resident of Jammu Basti, was taken into custody by the police.According to the information received, when the officers of the three departments asked Raju to produce the licence and other documents required to sell inflammable material, he expressed his inability. The officials said there were two tanks, which were used at the petrol/diesel station, two nozzle machines used for pouring oil and 13,000 litres of suspected petrol/diesel in different containers. Fire extinguishing safety arrangements were not made on the premises.Preliminary investigations reportedly indicated the factory owner was allegedly making profit illegally by manufacturing spurious diesel or petrol, and selling it at exorbitant prices to gullible people. In the criminal report filed after the raid, it was stated five machines with seals of Essar and Hindustan Petroleum were found, along with the recovered nozzles. One of the machines was not in a working condition.Food Supply Department officials Baldev Singh, Vikas Batra, Mahindra Kumar and Jagdeep Singh, and Dharminder Kumar of the Weights Measurement Department, lodged a complaint with the City-2 Police Station. The police team was headed by Sub-Inspector Bhupinder Singh.On the basis of the complaint, the police have registered a case under Sections 420, 336 and 265 of the IPC, naming Harish Dhingra and Raju. Further investigation will be done by Station House Officer Baljit Singh. Dhingra allegedly holds a leading position among the fair price shops licensees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/13k-litre-combustible-material-seized-283424
15-07-2021||Kharar||Congress stands shoulder to shoulder with farmers: Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari||Congress MP from Anandpur Sahib and former Union Minister Manish Tewari today said his party had been standing shoulder to shoulder with farmers against the farm laws.Addressing various public meetings in Kurali, Kharar and Naya Gaon, Tewari expressed his support to the farmers.The “Congress has stood shoulder to shoulder with farmers against these black laws. The Congress has supported farmers at all levels since the enactment of these laws,” he said.Tewari said he would continue to raise his voice in support of farmers in the Lok Sabha during the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament.Speaking on the occasion, former Minister Jagmohan Singh Kang said the development of the constituency was his priority and in collaboration with Tewari he had been working on a number of projects in the region. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-stands-shoulder-to-shoulder-with-farmers-anandpur-sahib-mp-manish-tewari-283301
15-07-2021||---||2 jail inmates run fake ‘Government of India’ website, booked||Patiala, July 14The police have booked two accused, facing trial in the infamous high-security Nabha jailbreak, for allegedly running a fake Government of India website from the high-security prison during May and June.Jailbreak accusedThe two inmates — Aman, alias Arman, of Kurukshetra and Sunil Kalra of Ludhiana — have several cases of fraud registered against them. Aman is an under trial, whereas Sunil is serving life term in a murder case.Both had hatched a conspiracy from inside the jail to cheat people by creating a fake website — ‘sdrfindia.org’ — claiming to be under the aegis of the Ministry of Home Affairs. “The two wanted to cheat people by offering to recruit them as officers and volunteers in the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF),” says the FIR registered against them.The police said while the two were arrested, their third associate was evading arrest. “They wanted to charge money from the youth against recruitment made through the website. How they got a mobile phone and managed to create a website from inside the jail is being investigated. A Hoshiarpur-based woman had helped them with the website, but she was told that they were officers with the Central Government,” said the police.“Both of them had lured the woman from inside the jail to create the website, for which she got help from her brother, a professional website creator. Himanshu Makkar, Sunil’s nephew, is evading the arrest for paying the duo for their services,” said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-jail-inmates-run-fake-government-of-india-website-booked-283422
15-07-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||100 state-of-the-art libraries in Bathinda soon||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, July 14The Bathinda district administration has planned to open 100 state-of-the-art libraries for the youth in the district at a cost of Rs 15 crore. Under this project, the first digital library has already been set up in Bathinda city at Rs 90 lakh, which is getting a good response from students.The hi-tech air-conditioned library is a multipurpose facility equipped with all facilities concerning the users of the modern era.The library has quality study and reference material, and competitive books as well to help students prepare for competitive exams.Apart from books, the library has a lab with 20 computers, a recreation area, a pool table and a music room with a hi-tech piano. This is the model, on which other libraries in 100 villages would be set up in the district.Bathinda Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Paramvir Singh, who is the brainchild of this project, said: “The district administration library at the Zila Parishad office is lying defunct, so I decided to open a modern library to provide youth with a platform to get quality knowledge.”The ADC said, “The project is aimed at rediscovering how public and academic libraries move forward and adapt to the new technologies and users’ needs.”He said they had fixed the membership fee at Rs 500 per month to make it a self-sustainable project. At present, the library had a seating capacity of 70 as they had targeted 100 members initially, he said. “We are seeing a good response as membership number has reached 160 so far, and we have started extending the facility. A library will come up at the ground floor as well to increase its capacity,” he said. The second library at the third floor of the Zila Parishad office would have a capacity of around 200, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/100-state-of-the-art-libraries-in-bathinda-soon-283419
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Congress helping Gurmeet Ram Rahim due to poll: SAD||The SAD today claimed the Congress government was deliberately not holding Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh responsible for hatching the conspiracy to commit sacrilege at Bargari, in exchange for support from the dera in the Assembly elections.SAD spokesperson Virsa Singh Valtoha said the relief given to the dera head was part of an understanding Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and the Gandhi family had struck with the dera head to secure his support for the Congress.The SAD spokesperson said the Congress government had not proceeded against Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh even in the 2017 Maur bomb blast case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-helping-gurmeet-ram-rahim-due-to-poll-sad-283417
15-07-2021||---||No clean chit to dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim, says SIT chief||Chandigarh, July 14Asserting that the investigations into the sacrilege cases were moving fast in the right direction, special investigation team (SIT) chief SPS Parmar has denied giving clean chit to Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh or anyone else.Reacting to comments by various groups/individuals in sections of the media, the SIT chief said nobody was above law and if evidence was found against anyone during the ongoing investigations, due action would be initiated against such persons.SPS Parmar, SIT chiefNobody above lawNobody is above law and if evidence is found against anyone during the ongoing probe, due action will be initiated against such persons.Investigations into the three cases pertaining to Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala were still open, Parmar said. Cautioning against the spread of false and irresponsible information regarding the emotive issue, he urged the media and citizens to exercise due restraint before publishing any unconfirmed report or making any unwarranted allegations against anyone.Dera Sacha Sauda head was named accused in FIR No. 63 of 2015, Parmar said, adding that in this case too, investigation was underway by the same SIT and nobody had been given a clean chit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-clean-chit-to-dera-head-gurmeet-ram-rahim-says-sit-chief-283416
15-07-2021||Amritsar||Akal Takht flays govt for not including name of Gurmeet Ram Rahim in challan||Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has slammed the Congress government for not incorporating the name of Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in the challan recently presented by the newly formed SIT in sacrilege cases.Addressing mediapersons here on Wednesday, he said: “Is it not an attempt to politicise the matter that is sensitive to the community?”He called upon panthic organisations to hold protests against the move, which was aimed at appeasing a section with an eye on the Assembly polls, and announced that a meeting in this regard would be held at Takht Damdama Sahib on July 16.He demanded justice in the desecration cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akal-takht-flays-govt-for-not-including-name-of-gurmeet-ram-rahim-in-challan-283414
15-07-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib/Bathinda||Doctors to start parallel OPD from today||For the third consecutive day on Wednesday, doctors in the district abstained from work and held a protest march, affecting the OPD and other medical services. Keeping in mind the problems faced by patients, doctors have decided to starting a parallel OPD from Thursday.On behalf of PCMS Association, Dr Satnam Banga said doctors fully understood the problems faced by the patients due to the closure of OPD. He said the union has decided that all doctors would not work in the OPD of the hospital, but start their own, so that patients did not suffer due to the strike. He said all doctors would examine the patients in the annex made near the OPD parallel to the government OPD and no fee would be charged from them and medicines would be given to them as required.He said the parallel OPD would run for the next three days. If the government still did not accept their demands, they would decide on the next course of action. He said they had been forced to go on strike as NPA was their right. Assistant Civil Surgeon Dr Swapandeep Kaur and other prominent doctors were present on the occasion.At the Civil Hospital, Bathinda, representatives of the Joint Punjab Government Doctors Coordination Committee said the strike would continue till the state government increased the NPA and linked it with the basic pay.Dr Jagroop Singh, acting president of the PCMSA, said, “We will hold parallel OPDs on Thursday so that patients visiting various government hospitals do not face inconvenience.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doctors-to-start-parallel-opd-from-today-283412
15-07-2021||Faridkot||Faridkot: Medical students of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College join doctor's strike||Lending their support to protesting doctors and medical faculty, over 500 medical students of MBBS, MD and MS courses at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital here joined their hands with the protesting doctors to oppose the cut in NPA.They staged a protest against the state government at the entrance of the medical college and hospital on Wednesday.“Amid the pandemic, we almost lost a year of our post-graduation courses to enter the main workforce and serve the patients. However, instead of appreciating the doctors, the government punished them with a slap on the face by announcing a cut in the NPA,” said medical students. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faridkot-medical-students-of-guru-gobind-singh-medical-college-join-doctors-strike-283411
15-07-2021||Mansa||Guest faculty professors to join farm stir||The Guest Faculty Assistant Professors’ Association has announced that its members working at various government colleges would leave for Delhi border to take part in the ongoing agitation against the three agricultural laws on July 16.“Three farm laws would have an adverse impact on the current and future generations. If these laws are not opposed jointly, people from every walk of life would have to suffer,” said Prof Ravinder Singh, president of the association.“Farmers have been protesting for the past seven months, but the government has ignored their demands. It’s time we realise our moral responsibility to support the farm stir,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/guest-faculty-professors-to-join-farm-stir-283409
15-07-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Be our voice in Parliament or face stir, farmer unions tell MPs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 14“We elected you our leaders to represent our cause in Parliament. If you do not raise your voice in favour of our demand for the repeal of farm laws, we will oppose you and your party.” This is the message the farmers are sending to all MPs ahead of the monsoon session.As farmer unions, protesting for over seven months, prepare to send “jathas” of 200 farmers each outside Parliament on all days of the session, they have also decided to involve parliamentarians in their fight against the three laws.Calling it “voters’ whip”, the farm unions are asking parliamentarians to demand the repeal of farm laws, or face opposition from their side. The message will be sent to all MPs via email before the monsoon session.Talking to The Tribune, Balbir Singh Rajewal, a prominent leader of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha and president of the BKU (Rajewal), said they wanted to know why the MPs had failed to raise their issue in Parliament even as it had been debated in parliaments of Australia, New Zealand, Canada and the UK.Keeping in mind the January 26 violence, farm unions are now verifying antecedents of all volunteers who will march towards Parliament between July 22 and August 13.Krantikari Kisan Union’s Dr Darshan Pal said every union had been asked to send five delegates daily to head for Parliament. “If a jatha of farmers is stopped and arrested, the next jatha will march the next day. We will continue this till the end of session. On July 26 and August 9, the jathas will comprise only women,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/be-our-voice-in-parliament-or-face-stir-farmer-unions-tell-mps-283408
15-07-2021||---||Day after suicide bid, SAD ex-leader Anwar Masih stable||Amritsar, July 14Former Subordinate Staff Selection Board member and SAD leader Anwar Masih, who had attempted suicide outside the Special Task Force office here yesterday, is stated to be out of danger now as his condition is stable.Dr HP Singh, medical superintendent of the private hospital where he is admitted, said Masih had been shifted out of the intensive care unit.Masih was protesting against the alleged harassment by a former AIG and three DSP-rank officials of the STF. He was demanding quashing of a case against him in connection with the seizure of 194 kg heroin and other chemicals from a residential building at Akash Avenue in Sultanwind village on January 31, 2020.He managed to get interim bail around eight months ago on the basis of health grounds. On Monday, the court of Additional Sessions Judge had rejected his interim bail and asked him to report to the Amritsar Central Jail in a week.Before consuming the poison, he said: “I have announced that I will die by suicide if STF harasses me or registers a case against me. In the past three decades, I was serving my community whole heartedly and not even a single DDR was registered against me. But I cannot bear this humiliation.” He alleged that the AIG and the three DSPs demanded Rs 20 lakh and an SUV from him.As the building from where the heroin was seized belonged to Masih, the STF booked him under Section 25 of the NDPS Act (owner of the place where drug trade is being carried out is responsible for the premises). The STF had arrested around 20 persons in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-after-suicide-bid-sad-ex-leader-anwar-masih-stable-283334
15-07-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||To retain seats, Gurdaspur leaders get going||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, July 14Gurdaspur-based ministers and MLAs have started fortifying their citadels with almost all of them slugging it out in their respective Assembly seats in an attempt to ensure they are not trapped on a sticky wicket when it comes to the crunch.Fears of their political foes gaining ground are not unfounded. Hence these leaders are leaving no stone unturned to retain their respective vote banks in the Assembly polls due early next year.In Pathankot, legislator Amit Vij and his brother Ashish Vij are busy overseeing civic projects. Almost every other day the siblings can be seen firing instructions to Municipal Corporation employees to complete sewerage and other projects on time. “We have to cover the drains before the polls. Then we have to commence laying of new roads. Our focus is also on widening of existing roads,” says Ashish.Pathankot is predominantly an urban seat and hence their focus is on civic works lying unattended within the city limits.“Leaders normally hit the road once the election code is announced, which is just a month or so before the elections. In any case, development projects are getting an upgrade,” said a BJP councillor.In Dera Baba Nanak, Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and his son Udayveer Singh have hit the ground running. The father and son visit villages on alternative days. Right now, they are busy enticing SAD sarpanches to their fold. “Yesterday, my father took stock of development works in Rasoolpur, Narhawali and Bhikhariwal villages. Today, it is my turn to go out. In this way, my father can focus on both his ministry and his seat,” says Udayveer.In Qadian, after doing their bit during the second phase of Covid, MLA Fatehjang Bajwa and his sons, Arjun Partap and Kanwar Partap, are busy meeting party workers.In Dinanagar, Ashok Chowdhury, husband of Cabinet minister Aruna Chowdhury, is holding fort. With his wife managing the affairs of her ministry, Ashok has put himself in the driver’s seat in her Assembly seat.In Batala, three-time ex-MLA Ashwani Sekhri is busy meeting administration officials to make sure development initiatives do not suffer. Cabinet minister and Fatehgarh Churian legislator Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and his son Ravi Nandan Bajwa, too, are busy meeting people who matter in both Batala and Fatehgarh Churian. “The reason for their political interests spreading over two seats is that Tript may contest from Batala, but if denied the ticket, he may well return to his own seat,” said a minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-retain-seats-gurdaspur-leaders-get-going-283335
15-07-2021||Bathinda||CPM rules out pact with SAD||Sukhwinder Singh Sekhon, state secretary, CPM, ruled out the possibility of a pre-poll alliance with the SAD, while addressing a press conference in Bathinda on Wednesday.Sekhon said, “We refute the claims by SAD that their alliance with communist parties is in the final stages. We want to clarify our stand that there will not be any pre-poll alliance with the SAD until the party clarifies its stance regarding Sikh hardliner and Khalistani forces. Then only, we can ponder over an alliance with the party.”Lashing out at the Centre over increased prices of petrol, Sekhon said, “Owing to its anti-people policies, the common man is suffering during the pandemic and the economy has hit its lowest ebb.” On the 6th Pay Commission report and power cuts, he said, “The employees are entitled to NPA and it must not be snatched or reduced,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cpm-rules-out-pact-with-sad-283336
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Akalis: Industry Minister Sham Sunder Arora lying over ‘cheap’ power to traders||The Shiromani Akali Dal today hit out at state Industry Minister Sham Sunder Arora for spreading lies about providing power at cheap rates to the industry and asked him to tell people why industrialists from the state were forced to meet UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.In a statement today, SAD trade and industry wing president NK Sharma said it was shameful to see that instead of accepting failures of the Congress government on providing cheap and non-disruptive power to state industries, the minister was making tall claims of achievements. He asked him if he was not aware of forced power lockdown imposed on industry. He said the fact of the matter was that industrialists were a harried lot and were searching alternative sites to re-establish their units outside Punjab to save their business. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akalis-industry-minister-sham-sunder-arora-lying-over-cheap-power-to-traders-283337
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Waive property tax for last 2 years: AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) senior leader and Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Punjab Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema has accused the state government of harassing urban families by asking them to pay property tax despite facing unemployment due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Keeping in view the poor financial condition of the people, property tax for the last two years should be waived, he said. In a statement today, he said the people had been suffering due to Covid for over two years now. With a large number of people losing their jobs, it had become very difficult for middle class people to support their families, he said.Taking a dig at the CM, he said at a time when the people were facing a severe financial crisis due to Covid, the Congress government had added to their woes by imposing heavy taxes on them. The CM should announce exemption from property tax with immediate effect, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/waive-property-tax-for-last-2-years-aap-leader-harpal-singh-cheema-283338
15-07-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Navjot Singh Sidhu may be next Punjab Congress chief||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 14The Congress high command is likely to appoint Navjot Singh Sidhu as the next PPCC chief even as efforts are on for truce between Capt Amarinder Singh and the dissident ministers and MLAs, who scaled up the issue of unfulfilled poll promises.“Announcing Sidhu as the PPCC president makes him frontrunner for the post of the CM in the Assembly polls due next year. Given the CM’s opposition to Sidhu’s candidature as the state unit chief, the party has to be prepared for a different working formula to bring both the leaders on the same page. Appointing two-three working presidents — a Dalit and a Hindu face — under the PPCC chief is also being discussed,” said a senior leader privy to the discussions.The top leadership wants everything settled down before it announces the “peace formula” to end the crisis in the state unit. The dissidence in the state unit over the last two months saw the working Congress president Sonia Gandhi setting up three-member Mallikarjun Kharge panel to listen to grievances of Punjab leaders, before Rahul Gandhi met them.“In the event of Sidhu becoming the PPCC president, the Chief Minister’s camp would want truce with the annoyed ministers and MLAs. The need is both ways,” pointed out a senior party leader.Amid the escalated differences, ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Sukhbinder Sarkaria and Charanjit Channi had even boycotted a Cabinet meeting chaired by the Chief Minister. The leaders have been raising the issue of speedy justice in sacrilege and police firing cases, cancellation of power purchase agreements (PPAs) and action against transport and drug mafia. Sources said other Cabinet ministers had intervened to end the stalemate between the CM and the dissident ministers.Randhawa said he had no differences with the Chief Minister. “I had attended a meeting chaired by the Chief Minister on debt waiver yesterday. My fight is issue-based, not person-based. The party is supreme. Whoever is appointed the party president, others will work with him for the benefit of the party, which will form the government next year. When Partap Singh Bajwa was chosen as the party president, we worked with him too,” he added.‘Alternative plan must’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-may-be-next-punjab-congress-chief-283339
15-07-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib Cong MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra faces protest at MC meeting over ‘bias, graft’||All three women councillors of AAP from ward numbers 3, 9 and 13 of the Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib Municipal Council raised slogans against Fatehgarh Sahib Congress MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra, when he was about to leave after attending a meeting of municipal councillors held here today.Councillors Harvinder Kaur, Asha Rani and Devendra Kaur said a meeting of councillors was called and they could not reach in time. When they reached the office, the MLA came out and was about to sit in his car. They said they told him that the council officials were discriminating against their wards and no safai sewak was allotted to them.Devendra said she told the MLA that a ‘safai sewak’ had misbehaved with her at the behest of a Congress worker deputed by him in her ward.Asha said she told the MLA about rampant corruption in the tendering process. They said instead of redressing their grievances, the MLA sat in his car, forcing them to raise slogans against him.The MLA said the councillors raised slogans to hog the limelight. Denying allegations of discrimination, he said those wards were getting more funds instead. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fatehgarh-sahib-cong-mla-kuljit-singh-nagra-faces-protest-at-mc-meeting-over-bias-graft-283340
15-07-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Sacrilege issue weighs on voters’ mind, likely to impact poll outcome||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 14Six years and several investigations later, the last word on the sacrilege and police firing cases is yet to be heard.While the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), under whose tenure the incidents took place, rues that it’s a victim of propaganda on the issue and suffered much in the 2017 Assembly elections, the incumbent Congress has failed to solve the vexed issue and ensure justice.Why dera chief not quizzed so far?The first SIT under IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap had summoned Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh. It sought permission of the Haryana Government to question him in the jail. The permission was denied. He is currently hospitalised.A cross-section of voters The Tribune spoke to feel the issue is still hot and can affect the electorate’s mind in the 2022 Assembly elections.Septuagenarian Harwinder Singh of Tarn Taran, a Panthic region, says: “No result will ever come out of the sacrilege probes. First Akalis were blamed for the incidents and now the Congress for inaction. The Congress CM had taken an oath on a gutka to clear the truth. At the village level, the incidents of sacrilege can weigh much on voters’ mind.”Tejinderpal Singh, 40, of Rasulpur village in Tarn Taran, however, thinks the issue does not matter much. “People have a short memory. The sacrilege incidents are long forgotten. If it wasn’t the case, Akalis leaders, especially Sukhbir Singh Badal and Harsmirat Kaur Badal, would not have won the General Election in 2019 after the 2017 Assembly poll debacle.In Amritsar, Satinder Singh, a jeweller, says the sacrilege issue is definitely alive. “It is a sensitive matter. The Congress government needs to provide justice and bring out the truth before the elections. Otherwise, it will suffer like the previous regime.”In Jalandhar city, Rajbir Singh, an advocate, says: “People across the state are hurt by the sacrilege issue. Neither Akalis nor the present Congress government has ensured justice. The parties just want to keep the issue alive for their political gains.” Echoing the same sentiments, Surjit Singh, a Jalandhar resident, says the issue will have a huge impact on the fortunes of both parties in the coming Assembly elections.Sarbjit Singh, a farmer in Sangrur, also feels the sacrilege incidents and the unresolved issues of the farmers will cost some political parties dear. Dr Manjit Singh and advocate Ratesh Bhatija of Faridkot stress the sacrilege issue remains a highly emotive one in the Malwa belt as justice is not met.Six years on, several sits, commissions, but no justice (With inputs from Balwant Garg, Parvesh Sharma, Deepkamal Kaur, Neeraj Bagga and Gurbax Puri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-issue-weighs-on-voters-mind-likely-to-impact-poll-outcome-283341
15-07-2021||Mumbai||Amrita Sher-Gil's painting sets world record for the artist, sells for Rs 37.8 cr||Amrita Sher-Gil's 1938 painting titled 'In the Ladies Enclosure' sold for Rs 37.8 crore (US$ 5.14 million) at a Tuesday auction by Mumbai-based auction house Saffronart, setting a world record for the highest value achieved by the artist in auction.It is also the second-most expensive work of Indian art sold globally after V S Gaitonde's Untitled, 1961 which sold for Rs 39.98 crore in March this year, said the auction house in a statement.Sher-Gil (1913-1941) was a Hungarian-Indian painter and has been called one of the greatest avant-garde women artists of the early 20th century. The National Gallery of Modern Art in New Delhi also houses a large collection of her works of art.The artwork went under the hammer Saffronart's Summer Live Auction.According to Saffronart CEO and Co-Founder Dinesh Vazirani, "The record-breaking sale of Amrita Sher-Gil's seminal painting from 1938 titled 'In the Ladies Enclosure' is a clear indication of her artistic merit and is a testament to her skill and talent."The work highlights her growth and development as an artist and is a culmination of years of coming into her own as an artist of repute. It is, additionally, a rare work of the artist from that particular period to emerge in the art market and we are honoured to have played a part in creating a new benchmark with this auction," Vazirani said in a statement.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amrita-sher-gils-painting-sets-world-record-for-the-artist-sells-for-rs-37-8-cr-283050
15-07-2021||---||Punjab CM announces waiver of Rs 590 crore worth loans of 2.85 lakh farm labourers and landless farmers||Chandigarh, July 14Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has announced waiver of Rs 590 crore worth of loans under the farm debt waiver scheme for labourers and the landless farming community.The cheques would be issued at a state-level function on August 20, said an official spokesperson after a high-level meeting held on Tuesday.The Punjab Government will pay off loans of Rs 520 crore of 2,85,325 members of the Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies (PACS), thus ensuring a relief of Rs 20,000 per member, said the Chief Minister. He directed the Finance and Cooperation departments to kick off the process for effective implementation of the decision on the ground.The Punjab Government has formulated a Debt Relief Scheme for Farm Labourers and Landless Farming Members of PACS-2019, which will cover only Consumption Loan to the members of the Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies advanced by District Central Cooperative Banks in the state of Punjab through Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies.The Chief Minister’s announcements follow the waiver of the loans of farmers under the Chief Minister’s flagship ‘Debt Waiver Scheme.’ So far, loans worth Rs 4,624 crore have been waived of 5.64 lakh farmers under the scheme, which was announced as part of the 2017 poll promises by the Punjab Congress.In addition, loans of the SC and BC categories have been written off up to the amount of Rs 50,000 each, including waiver upto Rs. 58.39 crore of 6,405 beneficiaries by the SC Corporation and Rs 20.71 crore of 1,225 beneficiaries by the BC Corporation.Among others present at the meeting were Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Additional Chief Secretary (Agriculture) Anirudh Tewari and Financial Cooperation K Siva Prasad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-announces-waiver-of-rs-590-crore-worth-loans-of-2-85-lakh-farm-labourers-and-landless-farmers-283042
15-07-2021||Panaji||Feel encouraged that even opposition is praising AAP, Kejriwal reacts to Sidhu's tweets||Aam Aadmi Party national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said he felt "encouraged" as even opposition leaders are talking about his party, a day after Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu tweeted that the AAP had always recognised his vision and work for Punjab.“Navjot Singh Sidhu? He is in Punjab. I am happy that AAP is doing such a good job that even opposition leaders are praising us. So, one feels encouraged about it,” the Delhi Chief Minister told reporters when asked about Sidhu's tweets.Kejriwal is on a two-day visit to Goa."Our opposition AAP has always recognised my vision & work for Punjab. Be it Before 2017- Beadbi, Drugs, Farmers Issues, Corruption & Power Crisis faced by People of Punjab raised by me or today as I present "Punjab Model", It is clear they know - who is really fighting for Punjab," Sidhu said in a series of tweets.Sidhu's tweets came amid attempts by the Congress high command to resolve infighting in the party's Punjab unit and speculation that he might be appointed as the state unit president. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/feel-encouraged-that-even-opposition-is-praising-aap-kejriwal-reacts-to-sidhus-tweets-283016
