16-07-2021||Jalandhar||My govt did not withdraw blasphemy case against dera chief: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Badal on Friday said that his government did not withdraw the 2007 blasphemy case against Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh.Sukhbir Badal was here for an event where the members of Democratic Party of India offered support to SAD-BSP alliance. Asked if he now regretted having taken back the blasphemy case at that time, he replied, “Apna record check kar lo. Asin koi case wapis nhi laye. Tusin date check karo. Case udon wapis hoya jadon code lag gya si. Votan nu do din reh gye si. (Please check your record. We did take back the case. You must check the date. The case was withdrawn when the election code had been imposed. There were just two days left for voting)”.The Akali president repeated his statement, “Let me clarify that no case against the Sirsa dera chief was taken back during our tenure. Actually, Congress government was expected to come back to power at that time. There seems to be a wrong perception created on the matter.”Meanwhile, Democratic Party of India president Parshottam Lal Chaddha offered unconditional support to the SAD-BSP alliance.Chaddha said the SAD had always stood for the poor, labourers and backward sections of society.“I appeal to the Dalit and backward communities to collect under one umbrella to strengthen the pro-Punjab and pro-poor forces. Such an opportunity to form a government which guarantees safeguarding the interest of the poor and backward sections will not come again. We should not lose it at any cost”.Sukhbir Singh Badal added, “Our aim is to collect all sections of society including farmers, poor, labourers and traders under one platform.”BSP leader Dr Nachattar Pal was also present on the occasion.On the Congress, Sukhbir said the ruling party was busy with resolving infighting leaving the people of the state to their fate.He said this had been proven by Navjot Sidhu that he had all along been working to topple Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and had done nothing for the welfare of Punjabis.“Show me one achievement of Sidhu as a minister,” he asked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/my-govt-did-not-withdraw-blasphemy-case-against-dera-chief-sukhbir-badal-284170
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||AAP’s criticism of debt waiver for farm and landless labourers exposes Kejriwal’s anti-farmer stance, says Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday slammed the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) over its criticism of his government’s decision on debt waiver for farm labourers and landless farmers, saying it exposed Arvind Kejriwal’s party’s anti-farmer stance.The AAP reaction was on expected lines, considering that the party had never shown any interest in doing anything for the farming community, said the chief minister, pointing out that the Kejriwal government in Delhi was among the first to notify one of the controversial and draconian farm laws of the Central government.The fact is that AAP does not care for the welfare of the agricultural community and is opposed to any decision that is in favour of the farmers, said Capt Amarinder.Unlike AAP, whose pre-poll promises are nothing but mere theatrics to woo the voters, the Congress government believes in implementing its promises, said the chief minister, reminding AAP that the debt waiver for farm labourers and landless farmers was not an announcement made on the eve of the 2022 Assembly polls but a promise contained in the Punjab Congress manifesto.Despite the severe financial constraints faced by the government and compounded by the Covid pandemic, he was committed to the implementation of each of the 2017 election promises, he asserted.Ridiculing Kejriwal’s promise of free power units in every state he is visiting to kick off party’s poll campaign, the chief minister dubbed the AAP leader as a master of manipulation.Even in Delhi, where AAP government claims to be giving free power, an analysis of the data shows that what the citizens of the national capital are getting in terms of relief in power costs was actually less than in Punjab, apart from the fact that the farmers of Delhi had got not a paisa worth of support or relief from the Kejriwal government, he added.It was evident, said the chief minister, that AAP had manipulated the figures to spread misinformation – an art they have mastered.Capt Amarinder noted that even after 6 years of AAP in power, the people of Delhi were deprived of even basic amenities like water and healthcare facilities.The much-touted Delhi model of governance had proved to be a total failure, he said, adding that neither Punjab nor any other stated wanted a slice of it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aaps-criticism-of-debt-waiver-for-farm-and-landless-labourers-exposes-kejriwals-anti-farmer-stance-says-punjab-cm-284160
16-07-2021||New Delhi||Why not a 'Majhabi CM',  BJP asks Punjab Congress||Aiming to further push into the corner an already-troubled Punjab Congress, the BJP today questioned why there cannot be a ‘Majhbi’ Sikh from a rural background as chief minister of Punjab. “Let’s see who will give Punjab CM from Schedule Caste community,” BJP spokesperson RP Singh said, reacting to Congress leader Manish Tiwari’s post on demographic details of the state’s dominant communities where he was seen urging his party leadership to keep the non-Jat Sikh class in mind when effecting a change in an election yearAmid the very open tug-of-war for supremacy between two Jat leaders, Captain Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu, party’s Anandpur Saheb Manish Tewari MP said: “Punjab is both progressive and secular”.Amid row over Sidhu's appointment, Manish Tewari tweets a reminder: ‘Punjab is secular’Singh countered him saying that perhaps it was time for a Dalit CM in Punjab.Notably while the Shiromani Akali Dal promised to pick a person from the community as deputy CM if voted to power, the BJP went a step ahead when it pitched for a Dalit CM for Punjab. However, after national general secretary Tarun Chugh said that state party leaders claimed that no such decision has been formalised on the issue.“The BJP is the only party which could give respect to Dalits. The decision to make a Dalit CM has not yet been taken,” they said, apparently after apprehensions were raised that such an announcement could backfire with the core voter base, upper-caste Hindus, drifting away. However, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pitch for Dalit and OBC leaders in his rebooted council of ministers has again brought into focus the BJP’s efforts towards a shift from its “upper caste” image.   However, it remains to be seen whether the BJP will field a Dalit face as its CM candidate. While according to Tiwari there are 31.94 percent Dalits, both Hindus and Sikh, BJP leaders add that along with other backward classes, the two communities can form a formidable contrast to Jat Sikhs and upper-caste Hindus/Sikhs in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/why-not-a-majhabi-cm-bjp-asks-punjab-congress-284148
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Resolve farmers’ stir, Amarinder tells PM; says cross-border threat growing ahead of Punjab polls||Citing the heightened cross-border threat and increased drone and other terrorist activities by "ISI-backed groups", including plans by Khalistani outfits to target certain Kisan leaders, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to immediately resume dialogue with the agitating farmers and make concerted efforts to resolve their issues.A press release from the state government said that the Chief Minister has proposed to lead an all-party delegation from Punjab for discussion with the Prime Minister to find a “durable and amicable solution” to the prolonged farmer agitation, “which is threatening the social fabric of the state and impacting the economic activities as well”.In a letter to the Prime Minister, Captain Amarinder warned that the powers across the border “may try to play upon the charged emotions of our proud, sincere, and hard-working farmers” of Punjab, which has a long and live international border, the press release said.“The situation is presently under control but I fear that provocative statements and conduct of some political parties and the emotional backlash might create law and order problems and also lead to irreversible damage to the hard-earned peace in the State,” said the Chief Minister, underscoring the need for the Government of India to address the genuine concerns of the farmers.In his letter, the Chief Minister pointed out that the farmers have been agitating for the past seven months on Delhi-Haryana borders, and also in the State, demanding repeal of these laws and their protests have been more or less peaceful so far.“It is a little unfortunate that the multiple rounds of engagement between the Union Ministers and representatives of farmers' groups have not proved successful,” he said.Besides the threat to the state’s socio-economic fabric due to the unrest caused by the Farm Laws,  the day-to-day political activities in line with people's democratic rights are also adversely affected due to the agitation, though the State Government has tried its best to maintain law and order, said the chief minister.The letter comes less than a year before Punjab’s assembly elections. Punjab’s elections are due in the first half of next year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/resolve-farmers-stir-amarinder-tells-pm-says-cross-border-threat-growing-ahead-of-punjab-polls-284138
16-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Can you spot Kapil Sharma in throwback photo from his college days?||Comedian-turned-actor Kapil Sharma took a trip down memory lane, and shared a picture with his Instagram family back from his college days.'The Kapil Sharma Show' host shared a throwback picture from the time when he did theatre in college.The picture was taken during his college play rehearsals.Sharing the picture, he wrote: "After finishing the rehearsals of our play, musical session with my team, find me in the picture ? N write in comments below #old #memories #college #theatre."Kapil's co-star from the popular comedy show 'The Kapil Sharma Show', Rajiv Thakur commented on the comedian's post, saying "Aur main hamesha dukaan pe chala jata tha , jab masti karne ka time aata tha (I would always go to the shop when these fun moments began) @kapilsharma Always missed these sessions."Taking a wild guess, Archana Puran Singh was also seen commenting on Kapil's post."Found you @kapilsharma !! Right hand side pe... kaale dupatte mein, hai na (the one with black dupatta, right)?", Archana wrote.Have a look:A post shared by Kapil Sharma (@kapilsharma)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/can-you-spot-kapil-sharma-in-throwback-photo-from-his-college-days-284099
16-07-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Kala Chashma fame Amrik Singh Shera now comes up with his book of songs||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 15Kala Chashma fame Amrik Singh Shera (47), a head constable, is all set to release his book ‘Virsa Punjab Da’, in which he has penned 150 songs on various issues affecting society. He plans to release the book at the earliest. Shera, a native of Talwandi Chaudhrian village in Kapurthala, made headlines with his song ‘Kala Chashma’, which he penned way back in the year 1990, while he was just a teenager. It was later adopted for Sidharth Malhotra-Katrina Kaif starrer “Baar Baar Dekho.”He said he started writing at the age of 14. “Since then, I have written several songs defining the culture of the state, highlighting environmental problems, water shortage, etc, which are completely different from the songs that get released in the present days,” he said.Amrik thanked his seniors in the Punjab Police for motivating him and encouraging him for this move. “Whenever I see anything wrong prevailing in the society, I write about it and will keep on doing it in the future as well, whether these songs get released or not. That is why I have now decided to release this book containing my work,” he said.Three years ago, he got a permission letter from the Director General of Police (DGP) office to pen songs, have his music cassettes released and give interviews to the TV channels.His most famous song, ‘Kala Chashma’ was first rendered by Punjabi singer Amar Arshi during a performance in England. A music company there released the song, which became an instant hit and that proved to be a turning point in Shera’s life.He has also penned a song on the Punjab Police, “Sari duniya to disdi alag bai, khaki vardi nal banni lal pagg bai’ (Standing out from the rest is the khaki uniform and the red turban). The humble cop wants to make his village famous too. “I mentioned my village’s name in ‘Kala Chashma’ and will continue to do so in other songs too,” he said.Apart from this, he said his two songs are also set to be released in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kala-chashma-fame-amrik-singh-shera-now-comes-up-with-his-book-of-songs-283995
16-07-2021||---||Live-in partner killed Amritsar duo in Feb, say police||Amritsar, July 15Worsts fear of Ramandeep Kaur’s family have come true after the police have found in their investigation that she along with her 2-month-old daughter were strangled to death by her live-in partner. Cops said later their bodies were disposed of in a canal.Ramandeep (45) and her daughter had been missing from February. Family members of the victim had filed a complaint with the police on May 13 while a case of kidnapping was registered on July 12 following a preliminary probe.Now, the police have added sections of murder and disappearance of evidence against Ramandeep’s live-in partner Sandeep Singh (28), who was arrested by the police from Guru Ki Wadali.Mohkampura police station SHO Sukhdev Singh said Sandeep along with his father Mukhtar Singh had killed the duo. He said raids were on to nab Mukhtar.Complainant Sukhwinder Kaur, a resident of Nangali village, had told the police that the victim got separated from her husband Ranjit Singh, a resident of Ghanupur Kale village, after 17 years of marriage from which the couple had three children. Four years ago, Ranjit constructed his house in Guru Ki Wadali and shifted with his family. She said Ramandeep came in contact with Sandeep. In 2019, the accused made illicit relations with her and both of them started living in Faizpura.She said she along with her relative met Ramandeep and tried convincing her to return to her, but she refused. She said during this time, she gave a birth to a baby girl and shifted to Jaura Fatak area.The complainant said Ramandeep called her aunt and informed her about this, but this did not go down well with Sandeep, who deleted all her contacts from her mobile and since then, she was not in touch with anyone.The SHO said the accused killed the duo in February. Ramandeep had given birth to a baby girl in December 2020. She was insisting the accused to marry her and legalised their relationship, however, Sandeep was not ready for this and decided to kill them, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/live-in-partner-killed-amritsar-duo-in-feb-say-police-284055
16-07-2021||---||Watch out for Amritsar-based players at Tokyo Olympics!||Amritsar, July 15Residents of Butala village are in a celebratory mood as the news of Dilpreet Singh and Shamsher Singh being part of the Indian men hockey team that will compete in Tokyo Olympics was announced. The two young hockey players from Amritsar are currently in Bangalore and will leave for Tokyo in a day’s time.They have been a part of the Indian men hockey team in several international tournaments. Dilpreet was a part of the U-18 Asia Cup team that won gold in 2016 and also played at the Commonwealth Games in 2018. Dilpreet’s father Balwinder Singh, who is a hockey coach and runs a hockey club in Butala, said it was an extremely ideal time for Dilpreet to make his mark as the medal hopes are high this time from the men’s hockey team. “It’s a proud moment for us as a family and as a community that Dilpreet’s hard work has paid off. We have high hopes from him and from team India as they have a good chance of winning a medal,” he said. Dilpreet started playing hockey at the age of 5 and initially trained with Balwinder before he got into the training academy at the age of 11.“He has always been passionate about hockey and committed himself to the game completely. We really hope he makes the country proud,” he said. Both Dilpreet and Shamsher are alumni of Spring Dales School and their alma mater too shared their excitement over their Tokyo participation. Rajiv Kumar Sharma, principal, Springdales School, said the two were a part of a number of batches of the budding hockey players, who brought laurels to the school in the CBSE National Junior and Senior championships and other various tournaments at the national and international level.In a joint initiative by Spring Dales Senior School and Maharaja Ranjit Singh Hockey Academy, Amritsar, the school had facilitated sports training to the potential hockey players without compromising on their academics. The school took the responsibility of providing education, books, stationary and sports kits to these budding sportsmen coming from different border belt villages, including Dilpreet and Shamsher.Maharaja Ranjit Singh Hockey Academy is run by Olympian Balwinder Singh Shammi and the motive of the association was to identify and nurture the talented sportspersons in the border belt side by side promoting the national game. Spring Dales Educational Society’s Director, Dr Kirat Sandhu Cheema said the two like- minded associations have produced many ace hockey players in the recent past, including Olympian Ramandeep Singh, who represented India in Rio Olympics 2016 and was the highest priced player in Indian Hockey Premier league.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/watch-out-for-amritsar-based-players-at-tokyo-olympics-284059
16-07-2021||Our Correspondent||4 young lives lost in road accident near Shergarh bypass in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, July 15Four youths hailing from Purhiran village lost their lives after their car collided with a tipper parked on the road near Shergarh bypass in Hoshiarpur on late night Wednesday. The vicitms have been identified as Pushp Kumar, Vikas Kumar, Narinder Kumar and Prakash Jha.The impact was so severe that three youths died on the spot, while their fourth companion was rushed to a hospital, which referred him to the DMCH, Ludhiana. However, he succumbed on his way.Model Town police station SHO Karnail Singh said the vicitms were around 28 years of age. He said bodies of the vicitms were handed over to their kin after getting their post-mortem conducted at the Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital.The police have registered a case against tipper driver Sukhdev Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-young-lives-lost-in-road-accident-near-shergarh-bypass-in-hoshiarpur-284065
16-07-2021||New Delhi||Expect heavy rain in Punjab, Haryana from July 17, says IMD||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) today predicted enhanced rainfall activity over plains of the northwest, including Punjab and Haryana, between July 17 and 19.It said fairly widespread to widespread rainfall “is likely to continue over HP and Uttarakhand with isolated heavy rainfall till July 16, increasing to isolated heavy to very heavy rain on July 17 and 18”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/expect-heavy-rain-in-punjab-haryana-from-july-17-says-imd-283906
16-07-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Day after Gurnam Singh Charuni’s suspension, rift in SKM comes to fore again||Tribune News ServicePanipat, July 15With the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) suspending BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni for the second time on Wednesday, fissures among farmer organisations have again come to the fore again.A number of such incidents have taken place simnce the stir began. Meanwhile, SKM leaders and Charuni claimed the farmers’ protest would continue and they would work together to intensify it.Earlier, the SKM had suspended Charuni in January this year, when he had hosted a ‘Jan Sansad’ programme of all Opposition parties in Delhi just before the tractor parade on the Republic Day. But the matter was resolved within the 10 hours.Another rift came to the fore when the SKM suspended two leaders, namely Surjeet Singh Phul and Harpal Singh Sangha, after the Republic Day incident but both of them were reinstated after sometime. Then the SKM announcedthe Parliament march in April but it was postponed.The rift was again visible when Charuni announced to form a new outfit named the ‘Bharatiya Kisan Mazdoor Federation’ on May 28. The BKU leader again made statements about the weak farmers’ protest in UP. Moreover, fissures between Charuni and Shiv Kumar Kakka, SKM leader from MP, also became the media highlights.Meanwhile, SKM leader Yogender Yadav said: “There were some differences among leaders, which have been resolved by the SKM from time to time. The leaders’ spirit for the protest is good and it’s a miracle that despite the differences, all of them are working together.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-after-gurnam-singh-charunis-suspension-rift-in-skm-comes-to-fore-again-283916
16-07-2021||Aditi Tandon and Rajmeet Singh||Something around that: Harish Rawat on Navjot Sidhu as Punjab Congress chief||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi/Chandigarh, July 15Amid speculation over MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu becoming Punjab Congress president, AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat met party president Sonia Gandhi at her residence late Thursday evening.Asked after the meeting whether Sidhu was to be named state Congress chief, he replied: “I never said that. I only said that whatever decision is taken would be around these lines,” adding that Capt Amarinder Singh would continue as CM. In Chandigarh, CM’s media adviser Raveen Thukral termed reports of CM offering to quit as humbug. “He will lead the party to victory in 2022 as he did in 2017,” he said.AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is backing Sidhu after the party ordered a survey in Punjab which revealed his popularity, claimed sources. Ahead of Rawat’s meeting with Captain on Friday, there was hectic political activity in the rival camps of the Punjab Congress throughout the day. The buzz over Sidhu being considered for the post of PPCC chief started after he arrived at the residence of minister Sukhjinder Randhawa where he held a closed-door meeting with ministers Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Sukhbinder Sarkaria, Charanjit Channi and MLAs Kuljit Nagra, Pargat Singh, Barindermeet Pahra and Kulbir Zira, who have been critical of the CM for not fulfilling poll promises.“We are not against the CM. We will abide by any decision taken by the high command regarding the new PPCC president or Cabinet rejig,” one of the leaders said after the meeting. Reports suggest that the new PPCC chief would be assisted by two working presidents, one Hindu and the other Dalit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/something-around-that-harish-rawat-on-navjot-sidhu-as-punjab-congress-chief-283890
16-07-2021||Patiala||Farmers gherao Patiala BJP leader Harinder Kohli’s residence||Tension between farmers and BJP leaders in Patiala continues as the former today gheraoed the residence of Harinder Kohli, BJP’s Patiala district president. The BJP leader, however, managed to slip away before the protesters grew in number.Boycott of only saffron men: SKMFatehgarh Sahib: Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader and BKU (Sidhupur) president Jagjit Singh Dalewal on Thursday clarified that the morcha had not given any call to boycott all political leaders in villages, except for BJP leaders. OCFarmers gathered outside the residence of Kohli alleging a meeting had been organised at the residence. Gurdhian Singh Seuna of the Krantikari Kisan Union, Punjab, said the farmers received information that a meeting was being held at the BJP leader’s residence after which they reached the site. “We will continue holding protests wherever they hold meetings. We will leave the site if and when they leave.”He added, “We do not have any personal animosity with BJP leaders but the farm laws have affected all. The leaders should raise people’s voice with their high command.” Kohli said no meeting had been organised. “Patiala district (urban) in charge Subhash Verma had paid a visit to my residence. Farmers got to know that someone had come to the house. I don’t know the latest update as I have now come to my relative’s house,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-gherao-patiala-bjp-leader-harinder-kohlis-residence-283715
16-07-2021||Sangrur||Open to alliance  with like-minded parties: Parminder Dhindsa||SAD (Sanyukt) leader Parminder Dhindsa, who is a former minister and current MLA from Lehra, today led a protest here against the rising prices of petrol and diesel. Dhindsa said they were trying to form a third front in Punjab to give better governance to residents.“We have left Badals and their party as we want to work honestly for the development of the state. We are open for an alliance with like-minded parties,” said Dhindsa while leading the protest in front of the Sangrur DC’s office.About announcements of free electricity to residents by various political parties, Dhindsa said freebies should be given on economic basis and not to everyone. “More than 50 per cent residents of the state want good facilities and they are willing to pay for them,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/open-to-alliance-with-like-minded-parties-parminder-dhindsa-283716
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||After Dalits, SAD woos Hindus; promises 2nd Deputy CM’s post||In a unique promise to the electorate, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today said if it is voted to power in the 2022 Assembly elections, it will have two Deputy Chief Ministers — one from the Dalit community and the other from the Punjabi Hindu community.To move motion in Parliament on farm lawsEarlier, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had announced that the party would reserve the post of the Deputy CM for a Dalit leader. After some a re-think on the matter, which seems to be aimed at wooing Hindu voters, Sukhbir today said the party would have not one but two Deputy Chief Ministers.Interestingly, the promise to appoint a Dalit Deputy CM was made on April 14, while the poll alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), which has a strong base among Dalits, was announced on June 12. The incumbent Congress government does not have a post of the Deputy CM. The Aam Aadmi Party or the BJP also have not announced any such post so far.Sukhbir did not take questions from mediapersons on who would be the CM face, though party leaders said it was understood that the party chief would be the CM if it was elected to power.Sukhbir had called a hurried press conference today evening after chairing the core committee meeting of the party. He said the SAD-BSP government truly represented the composite Punjabi culture and was a symbol of complete Punjabi unity, peace and communal harmony as espoused by five-time CM Parkash Singh Badal.He said: “We understand there are external forces that want to disturb the peace of Punjab by pitching communities against each other. We want to guarantee Punjabis that the SAD will continue to follow the policies of Parkash Singh Badal under whom all religions were respected and honoured.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-dalits-sad-woos-hindus-promises-2nd-deputy-cms-post-283730
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Debt waiver poll gimmick: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today termed the Congress government’s decision to waive the debt of farm labourers and landless farmers to the tune of Rs 590 crore as a ploy to fool the people ahead of the Assembly elections.Support farmers’ whip in Parliament: MannAAP state president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann on Thursday said the party supported the whip issued by farmers to the MPs and they would raise the issues of farmers loudly during the upcoming session of Parliament.AAP MLA and Kisan Wing state president Kultar Singh Sandhwan said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had promised to waive all debts of the Punjab farmers, farm labourers and landless farmers in the first meeting of the Cabinet during the 2017 Assembly elections, but it took him four and a half years to take the decision, which will benefit the Congressmen only. In a statement, Sandhwan said according to a survey, a farm labourer’s family in the state had a debt of Rs 77,000 per head, but as per the Congress government’s relief package, only a debt of Rs 20,000 per head would be waived and the sword of debt of about Rs 57,000 would still hang over the family.He further said the government had increased the market fee and Rural Development Fund from the mandis of the state by one per cent. “With this increase, the Captain government has collected Rs 700 crore from the Mandi Board in the name of debt waiver of farm labourers, but has waived only Rs 590 crore,” said Sandhwan, urging the Chief Minister to announce complete waiver and fuilfil his promise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/debt-waiver-poll-gimmick-aap-283744
16-07-2021||Ropar/Bathinda||Protests over statement on Constitution||Workers of the SAD and BSP today staged protests over recent controversial remarks by AAP leader Anmol Gagan Maan on the Constitution and Delhi Government’s petition in the Supreme Court seeking closure of 10 thermal plants.Maan had clarified she had only criticised amendments to the Constitution and the petition was also rejected by the court last week. The protesters also burnt the effigy of AAP supremo and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal over the issue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protests-over-statement-on-constitution-283753
16-07-2021||Jalandhar||Some action has begun in Congress, says Pargat Singh||Amidst reports that Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu may be announced the PPCC chief soon, his aide and Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh, who for the past over a month had been quite vocal about the functioning of the state government and had targeted CM Capt Amarinder Singh, seems upbeat at the likely move.Asked if he felt the things were now on the right track, Pargat said: “Some action has begun for sure. A new SIT has been formed to probe the post-sacrilege firing. Farm loans to the tune of Rs 590 crore too have been announced for landless farmers and labourers. Things have begun moving in the right direction. We still have time for course correction. I have always been insisting that we must do everything before going to people and asking for votes.”Stressing he only intended to bring things in order, Pargat said: “The perception in people’s minds about the government needed to improve.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/some-action-has-begun-in-congress-says-pargat-singh-283758
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court reserves order in sacrilege case||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today reserved orders in a sacrilege-related case in which an accused had claimed that the SIT was competent only to further investigate the matter and not to reinvestigate it.The orders were reserved by Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill on a petition by accused Sukhjinder Singh alias Sunny. Justice Gill was told the probe of all three cases related to the matter was initially handed over to the CBI. But in August 2018, the state Assembly resolved to withdraw the investigations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-reserves-order-in-sacrilege-case-283759
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Striking doctors run parallel OPDs in Punjab||On the call of the Joint Government Doctors Coordination Committee, medical and veterinary doctors from all over Punjab today ran parallel OPDs on their respective hospital premises and expressed displeasure over the government’s evasive policy on the non-practising allowance (NPA) issue.The parallel OPDs were run free of cost and the cost of medicines for treatment was borne by doctors.Earlier, the doctors had boycotted all routine services, including OPDs, for three days. The coordination committee had decided to run parallel OPDs from the July 15 to 17 to avoid inconvenience to people. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/striking-doctors-run-parallel-opds-in-punjab-283760
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Can’t suspend sarpanch indefinitely: High Court||In a significant judgment aimed at protecting democracy at the grass-roots level, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that services of an elected office-bearer or a sarpanch cannot be placed under suspension in a routine manner. The services can also not be kept under suspension indefinitely.Justice Anil Kshetarpal made it clear that the state could not keep an inquiry against a sarpanch pending to oust him in an indirect manner. The ruling came on a petition filed against the state of Punjab and other respondents by Sukhvir Kaur.She had questioned the correctness of the order dated September 21, 2020, vide which her services were suspended. The order was affirmed in an appeal by the Additional Chief Secretary on April 1.Justice Kshetarpal’s Bench was told that the petitioner was the elected sarpanch of Dhurali gram panchayat in the Kharar block of Mohali district. Her services were placed under suspension on September 21, 2020, on the allegations that she blocked water passage through a culvert on “account of earthwork in a cremation ground”. She also allegedly facilitated the cutting of two or three trees in the cremation ground.Justice Kshetarpal asserted it was undisputed the petitioner continued to be under suspension for around 10 months and the regular inquiry ordered against her was still pending. “Prima facie the allegations do not warrant her continuous suspension,” he observed, directing expeditious completion of the probe. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cant-suspend-sarpanch-indefinitely-high-court-283761
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Publicise pro-farmer schemes: Minister||Takht seeks arrest over cutting of hairAmritsar: Akal Takht has demanded the arrest of a man accused of cutting of hair of a baptised Sikh at Dhariwal in Gurdaspur on Wednesday. Officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh called it an attack on religious freedom of a Sikh. TNSFarmer drowns as car falls into canalAbohar: A farmer drowned after the car he was driving fell into the Dangarkhera sub-canal in Abohar on Wednesday. Rajwinder, 35, was returning to Kamalwala village from Malout and lost control of the vehicle. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/publicise-pro-farmer-schemes-minister-283762
16-07-2021||Amritsar||Job racket busted by Vigilance Bureau, sarpanch among four held||With the arrest of four persons, including a health worker and a sarpanch, the Vigilance Bureau today claimed to have busted a recruitment racket that duped a number of persons for getting recruited in the Powercom as helper.The preliminary investigation has unearthed their links with a notorious fraudster, Dominic Sahota, who was the kingpin of a gang of kidnappers and robbers busted by Mohali police in January. According to the Vigilance, he used to pose as an official of security agencies like NIA and BSF. He would be brought on production warrant for questioning in the case.Jailed fraudster to be questionedThose arrested were identified as Pirthipal Singh, who was posted at the Primary Health Centre at Dhotian village in Tarn Taran, Harpal Singh, sarpanch of Kad Gill village in Tarn Taran, Malkiat Singh and Sukhwant Singh.One Barinderpal Singh of Jaswant Nagar complained to the Vigilance that Pirthipal offered to get him recruited in the powercom. However, he asked Pirthipal to get his relative recruited for which the latter allegedly demanded Rs 3.5 lakh. Barinderpal initially gave Rs 10,000 to Pirthipal to initiate the process. But Barinderpal, however, changed his mind and approached the Vigilance, which laid a trap and nabbed Pirthipal and Malkiat red-handed accepting Rs 50,000 as bribe.SSP, Vigilance, Parampal Singh said during the interrogation, the duo informed about the kingpin, Sukhwant Singh, who was operating from Ludhiana and had duped a number of persons for getting recruited in government departments. He used to charge Rs 3.5 lakh. A Vigilance team raided the residence of Sukhwant and found six more such cases of fraud.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/job-racket-busted-by-vigilance-bureau-sarpanch-among-four-held-283763
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||High Court reserves order on Simarjeet Bains’ plea against rape FIR||The Punjab and Haryana High Court reserved orders on a plea filed by MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains challenging lower court orders directing the registration of a rape case against him. Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul reserved the order after hearing detailed arguments.In his petition filed through counsel Gautam Dutt, Bains sought directions to the state for quashing the order dated July 7 passed by the Ludhiana Additional Chief Justice Magistrate, directing the SHO of Division No. 6 police station to register a criminal case against him. His argument was that the order was passed without application of judicial mind and was contrary to the settled principles of criminal jurisprudence. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-reserves-order-on-simarjeet-bains-plea-against-rape-fir-283764
16-07-2021||Sangrur||Teachers to protest||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/teachers-to-protest-283765
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Engineers warn of stir||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/engineers-warn-of-stir-283766
16-07-2021||Ludhiana||Users up, gaming now socialising tool: Survey||Amid the pandemic, people have started accepting mobile gaming as a socialising tool. The number of women gamers is also growing in north India.Mobile gaming took off amid the pandemic and for those who were trying to deal with the prolonged social isolation, it provided a creative outlet. However, the flip side of the coin is that it is also leading people towards anxiety, depression and sleeplessness as such patients have increased 10 times over the past year.Career for womenIn a recent HP Gaming Landscape Report-2021, 96 per cent respondents from both Chandigarh and Jaipur and 92 per cent from Ludhiana said they were accepting gaming as a socialising tool. Besides, the report mentions that in north India, women gamers are growing in number, with 83 per cent of expressing a desire to pursue gaming as a career.According to the report, 91 per cent respondents in north India agreed that gaming helped relieve work and study pressure while reducing stress and inducing positive feelings. The survey reveals Chandigarh and Lucknow to be more accepting in gaming as a stress-reliever than their counterparts in Delhi.Nitish Singal, head, Personal Systems (Consumer), HP India, said, “We are on the verge of a massive gaming boom, based on the increasing popularity in the past 18 months. People today look at gaming as more than a hobby. It is a lucrative career option and an outlet to relieve stress.”Meanwhile, it’s having negative impact on the health of those who are indulging in too many mobile gaming activities. “Gaming is perceived as an enabler to socialise and make new friends, especially amid social distancing, but it has its flip side. People aged 14-30 years have become addicted to it and face health issues,” said Dr Rajeev Gupta, a psychiatrist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/users-up-gaming-now-socialising-tool-survey-283767
16-07-2021||Abohar/ Sriganganagar||3 sisters crack Rajasthan Administrative Service||Three sisters from Bhairusari village in Hanumangarh district of Rajasthan have together cracked the Rajasthan Administrative Service (RAS) exam of the Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC).Their father Sahadev Saharan is a farmer who studied up to Class VIII and mother Luxmi is an illiterate. Their two other sisters are also RAS officers.Anshu secured 31st rank in the OBC category, Ritu 96th and Suman 98th rank. Ritu is the youngest among them. Their elder sisters Roma and Manju are already serving as RAS officers. Roma, the first RAS officer in the family, passed the exam in 2010. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-sisters-crack-rajasthan-administrative-service-283768
16-07-2021||Muktsar||In Muktsar, no death due to Covid in a week||After witnessing 521 deaths due to Covid, Muktsar has finally got some respite as not even a single patient died in the past one week.The last Covid death was reported on July 8. Further, the total number of patients has also decreased. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-muktsar-no-death-due-to-covid-in-a-week-283769
16-07-2021||Sangrur||Bus shelters built at ‘inflated’ cost, Sangrur residents demand probe||Construction of 12 bus shelters in Sangrur city at “higher” rates and installation of iron railing in front of them at many places by the Sangrur Improvement Trust authorities has kicked a controversy.Locals have demanded a high-level Vigilance Bureau (VB) inquiry and registration of a case as they alleged it was wastage of the government money.“The trust authorities have paid Rs 1.66 lakh per shelter for the work which we could get done in Rs 65,000-75,000. It is unacceptable and we will meet senior VB officers to submit an evidence for a high-level inquiry and registration of a case,” said advocate Dasvir Singh Dalee.Baljit Kumar, SDO, Sangrur Improvement Trust, denied the allegations and said the tender for the bus shelters was worth Rs 24.60 lakh and they had got the work done at Rs 19.92 lakh. They had saved the government money worth Rs 4.68 lakh, he said.“The tender process is online and we had given it to the lowest bidder. Everything has been done with transparency. All allegations are baseless,” said Naresh Gaba, chairman of the trust.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bus-shelters-built-at-inflated-cost-sangrur-residents-demand-probe-283770
16-07-2021||Amritsar||300 guns ‘supplied’ to gangs in Punjab in four months||The Madhya Pradesh-based illegal weapon module busted by the counter-intelligence wing yesterday had supplied over 300 country-made weapons to prominent gangsters in Punjab. This has set the alarm bells ringing for the Punjab Police with Assembly elections round the corner.This came to light during preliminary interrogation of two MP residents arrested by the police in this regard. With the arrest of Jeevan (19) of Jamli Gaytri Dham village and Vijay Thakur (25) of Umrypani from Sendhwan village in Barwani, MP, the Punjab Police claimed to have busted the fourth interstate module involved in the manufacture and supply of illicit weapons across the state.“The two had supplied weapons to Jaipal Bhullar, who was recently killed in an encounter in Kolkata, Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, Lawrence Bishnoi, Billa Mandiala gangs, among others, in the past four to five months,” said Investigating Officer Inderdeep Singh, who was part of the raiding team that was camping in MP since Sunday to bust the module. The police had confiscated as many as 39 illicit weapons from there.The police have also identified several of their accomplices who used to book orders from their ‘clients’ for their MP-based handlers. On June 12, the counter-intelligence wing had arrested two persons — Hira Singh and Harmandeep Singh, both from Tarn Taran, — after recovering three country-made pistols and ammunition from their possession. During interrogation, they revealed they had procured these weapons from MP.A special team led by Inspector Inderdeep Singh was sent to MP to bust the module. Preliminary investigations revealed the weapons were meant to be supplied to gangs and other anti-national elements in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/300-guns-supplied-to-gangs-in-punjab-in-four-months-283771
16-07-2021||Batala||Gangster’s aide Saabi Fauji shot in Dera Baba Nanak||Two armed men gunned down Karamjeet Singh, alias Saabi Fauji, said to be an accomplice of gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, at Dera Baba Nanak late last night. Karamjeet is an ex-serviceman.SSP Rachpal Singh and a team of senior officers reached the scene last night and started investigations. “Around half a dozen cases were registered against Karamjeet. He was gunned down by two motorcycle-borne assailants, identified as Mandeep Singh and Jagdeep Patwari. They shot him with a pistol at a street. He is an accomplice of Bhagwanpuria,” said the SSP.An FIR under Section 302 (murder), IPC, has been registered at the Dera Baba Nanak police station. Some of their hideouts had been identified and the police were working on certain clues, he said. “No eyewitnesses have come forward. We will arrest the accused soon,” he added.Hours after the murder, gangster Amarjot Singh Bal claimed responsibility in a social media post. He claimed the deceased had insulted him some time ago and that he had sent his henchmen to take revenge.“Karamjeet’s murder should be attributed to me. I take full responsibility. He had abused me many times when we were in the Gurdaspur jail not long ago. The person who was with Karamjeet when he assaulted and abused me will also be dealt with in the same manner. I request the police not to harass anyone as I claim responsibility for the murder,” claimed Bal.The murder took place around 9.30 pm when Karamjeet was on a walk. “The assailants had conducted a recee. He was targeted from close range and died on the spot,” added the SSP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gangsters-aide-saabi-fauji-shot-in-dera-baba-nanak-283772
16-07-2021||Tarn Taran||8 held for killing Harike contractor||The district police have arrested eight persons, including four absconders, in connection with the murder of a Harike-based fish contractor.One of the suspects, Gursewak Singh, a former terrorist belonging to the Khalistan Commando Force (KCF), has been arrested for sheltering the suspects. Mukhtiar Singh was murdered last October and the Harike police had registered a case under Section 302 of the IPC. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale today said those arrested included Amritpreet Singh, Jagpreet Singh Jagga, Jobanjit Singh and Sandeep Singh Shishu, who allegedly carried out the killing.Further, Gursewak was arrested from his native Mari Kamboke village, while Jagjit Singh and Sandeep Singh were nabbed from Panchkula for giving shelter to the suspects. Another suspect, Jaswant Singh, was arrested. The SSP said 1.550 kg heroin, a rifle, four country-made pistols, Rs 22 lakh in cash and 27 cartridges were recovered from the accused. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/8-held-for-killing-harike-contractor-283773
16-07-2021||Amritsar||KZF operative brought on production warrant||The State Special Operation Cell has brought alleged operative of the Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF), Maan Singh Nihang, on a production warrant in connection with the seizure of 48 foreign-made automatic weapons. The investigations carried out so far revealed that the weapons were smuggled from across the international border with the help of unmanned aerial vehicles.According to the operation cell officials, the weapons were dropped in Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur areas. The police were also working on the suspected smuggling of heroin along with the arms consignment which was yet to be recovered. The officials, preferring anonymity, said arms droppings were made in the Dera Baba Nanak and Khemkaran areas. Drones have been a challenge for the Border Security Force and the Punjab Police as repeated incidents of smuggling of weapons and narcotic substances are being reported. Operation cell AIG Opinderjit Ghuman said investigations in the case were on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kzf-operative-brought-on-production-warrant-283774
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Rs 6.4 cr grant for facilities at govt schools in Punjab||School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said the government had decided to provide additional facilities for effective learning activities and make the look of schools attractive. He added that a grant of Rs 6.43 crore had been given under the smart school project for construction and renovation of entry gates and construction of reception areas in the best schools across the state.Singla said as the budget of Rs 117 crore had already been approved for smart classrooms, now the Education Department had also decided to provide an additional grant of Rs 73.38 lakh for paint and other renovation works of smart classrooms of 832 government schools. He added that soon, the department would also release a grant of Rs 4.46 lakh for similar works in 14,853 classrooms of government schools.He said the required instructions had already been released to all district education officers for proper utilisation of these grants. The department, in the directions, had directed the district education officers to ensure proper paint work on doors and windows of smart classrooms and required work for the protection of projectors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-6-4-cr-grant-for-facilities-at-govt-schools-in-punjab-283775
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Back to normal self, says Punjab cop, whose hand severed in Patiala attack last year||Punjab police officer Harjit Singh, whose hand was chopped off in a brutal attack and then reattached by PGIMER doctors last year, on Thursday said he was back to his normal self.Singh, who was later promoted to Sub-Inspector rank from ASI, was present here on the occasion of ‘Replantation Helpline’, launched by the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) here.Read also“There are no words to thank PGIMER team for what they have done and I feel deeply indebted to them. It is because of the PGIMER team that I am back to my normal self, gaining full function of my amputated part.” Singh’s hand was chopped off with a sword by a group of people at a vegetable market in Patiala district in April last year.He was attacked after the accused were asked to produce curfew passes outside the market.His hand was reattached after a long and complicated surgery at PGIMER.Punjab Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta, who joined the event virtually, expressed his gratitude to the department of Plastic Surgery for successfully replanting Singh’s chopped hand last year.“One of the key enablers in case of successful replantation of the chopped hand of Harjit Singh was the timely reporting at PGIMER. In view of the same, my department will extend all the support for speedy transportation of amputated body parts,” he said.PGIMER Director Jagat Ram said: “The basic intent of Replantation Helpline is to help streamline the flow of patients with such injuries so that the part can be stored properly and the patient can be provided the care at the earliest without losing precious time.”R K Sharma, Head, Department of Plastic Surgery said the department has also been in the forefront of replantation services and have successfully replanted amputated hands, forearms, thumbs, fingers, scalp, penis-scrotum, etc., in the last 30 years.He said the department of Plastic Surgery, which was established at PGI in 1966, has been at the forefront of providing quality care to the people and has been actively managing the correction of congenital and acquired deformities and defects.The burns unit of the department treats about 300 to 400 patients every year.The department also manages the trauma to the limbs and maxillofacial region, neuro-vascular injuries, maxillofacial trauma, and major skin losses, he stated. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/back-to-normal-self-says-punjab-cop-whose-hand-severed-in-patiala-attack-last-year-283708
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||SAD-BSP government will have two deputy CMs, says Sukbhir||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) President Sukhbir Singh Badal announced that his SAD-BSP government would have two deputy chief ministers—a Dalit one as well as one from Punjab’s Hindu community—if they’re voted to power.“This will make the SAD- BSP government truly representative of the composite Punjabi culture and a symbol of complete Punjabi unity, peace, and communal harmony as espoused by five-time chief minister Parkash Singh Badal,” a press note quoted him as having said after a core committee meeting. “We understand that there are external forces which want to disturb the peace of Punjab by pitching communities against each other. We want to guarantee Punjabis that the SAD will continue to follow the policies of Mr Parkash Singh Badal under which all religions were respected and honoured,” he said.“We are committed to keeping all communities together and it is with this in mind that the SAD has decided to have a representative from the Hindu community as a Deputy CM once it secures power in Punjab.”He said Punjab had the highest population of Dalits vis-a-vis other states, and it was felt that more efforts should be made to protect their interests.He also said that the decision to have two Deputy CMs was in consonance with “the liberal secular ethos of Sarbat da Bhala handed down to us through the rich heritage of the great Guru Sahiban”.“It is also symbolic of the strong emotional bonds that bind the different communities together. In addition, the party is committed totally to ensuring complete social justice based on human dignity and equality, and repairing the emotional social fabric of Punjab was fractured by Congress conspiracies of ‘divide and rule’,” he claimed.He also announced that his party would move an adjournment motion demanding the three agricultural laws be repealed in the forthcoming parliament session.Monsoon session of Parliament is scheduled to begin on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-bsp-government-will-have-two-deputy-cms-says-sukbhir-283686
16-07-2021||New Delhi||Enhanced rainfall activity over Punjab, Haryana from July 17: IMD||The IMD on Thursday predicted enhanced rainfall activity over the plains of Northwest, including Punjab and Haryana, between July 17 and 19, with peak activity on July 18. The weather office also said that fairly widespread to widespread rainfall is “very likely to continue over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand with isolated heavy falls till July 16, increasing to isolated heavy to very heavy falls on July 17 and 18”.According to the IMD, apart from Haryana which is seeing “isolated heavy rainfall” today, the plains of Northwest India can expect isolated to scattered rainfall till July 16.However, “there is a likelihood of enhanced rainfall activity over these areas from July 17 with widespread rains likely over Haryana, Punjab, north Rajasthan, north Madhya Pradesh, and south Uttar Pradesh during July 17 and 19 with peak activity on July 18.“Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely over north Rajasthan, Haryana, northwest Madhya Pradesh and west Uttar Pradesh during July 17 and 19. Isolated heavy rainfall is also very likely over Punjab, Delhi, and east Uttar Pradesh during the same period,” it said.The axis of the monsoon trough is passing through the south of normal position along Amreli, Surat, Buldana, Adilabad, Jagdalpur, Vishakhapatnam, and then east­southeastwards to the east-central Bay of Bengal, the IMD said.As per Numerical Weather Prediction Models forecasts, the trough is likely to shift northwards along with a weakening of the east-west convergence zone from July 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/enhanced-rainfall-activity-over-punjab-haryana-from-july-17-imd-283634
16-07-2021||---||'Peace formula' to make Capt, Sidhu work together to be announced soon: Harish Rawat||Chandigarh, July 15Congress' Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat on Thursday claimed a peace formula had been finalised to make Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and his former Cabinet colleague Navjot Singh Sidhu work together in the run-up to the next Assembly elections.Rawat's announcement came amid reports that Sidhu is likely to be made the next Punjab Congress president and two working presidents, one a Hindu and the other a Dalit face, would assist him. The final decision is likely to be announced soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/peace-formula-to-make-capt-sidhu-work-together-to-be-announced-soon-harish-rawat-283612
