19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 2 new Covid deaths, 56 cases||Punjab on Monday recorded two Covid-related deaths and 56 fresh infections, taking the number of fatalities and infections to 16,237 and 5,98,387 respectively, according to a medical bulletin.The two new deaths were reported from Fatehgarh Sahib and Sangrur, it said, adding the toll includes two casualties, which were not reported earlier.The number of active cases stood at 953.Amritsar reported nine infections, followed by eight each in Ferozepur and Hoshiarpur, as per the bulletin.With 142 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,81,197 in the state.A total of 1,16,77,723 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state.Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported four cases.The infection tally stood at 61,893, the bulletin said, adding the death toll reached 809. The number of active cases was 46, it said.With eight patients having been discharged after recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons in the union territory reached 61,038, it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-records-2-new-covid-deaths-56-cases-285462
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Pegasus report: Punjab CM slams govt, says ‘shocking assault’ on country’s democracy||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday attacked the BJP-led Centre over the Pegasus snooping issue, saying it was a “shocking assault” on the country’s democracy, and urged the Supreme Court to take cognisance of the matter.More than 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two serving ministers, over 40 journalists, three Opposition leaders and one sitting judge, besides scores of business persons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through the Israeli spyware sold only to government agencies, an international media consortium had reported on Sunday.In an official statement issued here, the Chief Minister said this is a “shocking assault” and “shameful attack” on India’s democratic polity by the Union government and it has “compromised national security with this blatantly disgraceful act”.IT and Communications Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has dismissed media reports on the use of the Pegasus software to snoop on Indians, saying the allegations levelled just ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament are aimed at maligning Indian democracy.The Chief Minister alleged that “with such snooping, which simply could not have been undertaken by the Israeli company without the central government’s go-ahead, the NDA government had put sensitive information into the hands of various global agencies, governments and organisations with the potential to misuse it against the country”.“This is not only an attack on individual freedom but also on the security of our nation,” he said.Singh urged the Supreme Court to take suo motu cognisance of the matter and take action against the Central Government.“The Central Government cannot get away with this. They have committed a horrendous sin, and they have to be made to pay for it,” he said.Singh said that nobody has the right to intrude into the lives of people, “leave alone enter their bedrooms, as this government has done.”               Terming the developments as part of a pattern of the BJP-led government to “destroy” all democratic institutions and “stifle” the voice of the Opposition, Singh lashed out at the Centre, saying this “reprehensible act” has set a new low in India’s democratic history.“No government in any part of the world has ever put the security and safety of its own institutions and people at stake in this manner before,” he said.He said that there appeared to be a “global conspiracy” to target India, of which the NDA government was “clearly an appalling part”. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pegasus-report-punjab-cm-slams-govt-says-shocking-assault-on-countrys-democracy-285457
19-07-2021||---||Akali Dal, BSP say they will continue to protest against farm laws||New Delhi, July 19Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Badal on Monday said his party along with alliance partner Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) would continue to protest and demand a repeal of the three farm-related laws.“We want the matter to be discussed in Parliament and duly accepted by the Union government,” said Badal after a protest outside the House on Monday. Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal and BSP MPs, including its national General Secretary Satish Mishra, were part of the protest.Badal condemned the NDA government for turning down the adjournment motion moved by the party in conjunction with others demanding repeal of the three agricultural laws in keeping with the sentiments of the farming community of the country.Outside the House, Badal urged all political parties to unite on the issue of forcing a discussion on what he said were ‘black laws’.  Farmers have been agitating for their demands for more than eight months now. More than 500 farmers have died. “We had even moved a resolution calling for paying tribute to the farmers who lost their lives during the protests. It is unfortunate that obituaries were not paid to the farmers in Parliament,” Badal said.The NDA government should show sensitivity towards farmers by acting in a responsible manner befitting an elected government, he said. Instead of listening to the farmers, the union government tried to defame and repress the peaceful movement.He questioned the style of the Government saying, “Even now no attempt is being made to talk to farmers and resolve their grievances. Such an attitude does not hold well for a democracy.”The three laws were pushed through Parliament in utter disregard for farmers, the farm labourers and traders, said Badal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akali-dal-bsp-say-they-will-continue-to-protest-against-farm-laws-285414
19-07-2021||Aditi Tandon||Sidhu on mind? Preneet-Rahul chat during LS proceedings||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 19A day after the appointment of Amritsar East MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu as Punjab Congress president against the opposition of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, Singh’s wife Preneet Kaur, party’s Patiala MP, was seen in the Lok Sabha on Monday engaged in an animated discussion with Rahul Gandhi.The gallery view revealed the two conversing for over seven minutes while Lok Sabha Speaker was making obituary references.CM Amarinder Singh has not welcomed the appointment of Sidhu as state chief yet and has called MPs and MLAs for lunch on Wednesday.Preneet Kaur’s conversation with Rahul today came a day after she attended the meeting of nine Punjab MPs at former state chief Partap Singh Bajwa’s house yesterday where concerns were expressed about Sidhu’s elevation.The CM has demanded a public if apology from Sidhu for his “150 personal derogatory tweets” to meet him.Sidhu has been meeting state leaders all day since his appointment was announced late last night.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-on-mind-preneet-rahul-chat-during-ls-proceedings-285384
19-07-2021||Jalandhar||Blasphemy case: SAD (S) asks Sukhbir Badal to explain inaction||Reacting on SAD chief Sukhbir Badal’s statement that his government did not withdraw the 2007 blasphemy case against Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, SAD (Sanyukt) spokesperson Gurcharan S Channi questioned him as to why he did not ensure that the police filed a challan in his 4.5-year tenure since the incident.Channi, who served as the district SAD chief before quitting the party, further said: “We agree that the case was withdrawn by the police at a time when election code had been imposed but why didn’t he act against the police officials who had withdrawn the case when his government returned to power in 2012?” Channi asked Sukhbir to ensure that he replies to these queries as the Sikh community was deeply hurt over inaction by the SAD at the incident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/blasphemy-case-sad-s-asks-sukhbir-badal-to-explain-inaction-285286
19-07-2021||Neeraj Bagga||‘Unearthed structure at Golden Temple built originally in 1773’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 18Burj Giania, demolished in 1988, to pave the way for galliara beautification, was actually built in 1773, seven years before the birth of legendary Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh, claimed a Delhi-based Assistant Professor, SGTB Khalsa College, north campus, Dr Amanpreet Singh Gill, here on Sunday. He said documented proofs available in literature during that period confirm the same.Also read: ASI team to inspect excavated structure at Golden Temple tomorrowTracing antecedentsFrom the Sikh Misl period (1773) to the foundation of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (1925), four generations of the Gianis witnessed every development associated with the Golden Temple. The Gianis contributed enormously in terms of scholarship, management, infrastructure development and the Sikh art. The heir in their family at present is Yadwinder Singh Giani (80), who had vacated the building after accepting money from the government. He identified the basement as part of the demolished Burj.There was no tunnel but a two-room basement of Burj Giania. The building is a relic from the pre-Ranjit Singh Sikh Misl period architecture. -  Dr Amanpreet Singh Gill, Asst Prof, SGTB Khalsa College, North campusWhile excavating a site for new joda ghar on the Golden Temple complex, a basement of the heritage building was accidently unearthed at the depth of 12 ft, throwing spotlight on the contribution of Gianis.Producing literary reference of Bunga Giania, which was constructed during the Sikh Misl period, Dr Gill said there was no tunnel but a two-room basement of Burj Giania.“The building is a relic from the pre-Ranjit Singh Sikh Misl period architecture.” Citing SS Padam, a scholar, on the life and works of Surat Singh Giani, Dr Gill mentioned the 1930s Sri Darbar Sahib report. This text says that Burj Giania was built by Surat Singh Giani between 1778 to 1783. It even mentioned that the cost of the construction at that time was Rs4,500.Surat Singh Giani was the first chief priest and manager of Harmandir Sahib rebuilt in 1764 after the attack by Ahmad Shah Abdali. “He was responsible for reintroducing the daily ‘Maryada’ of Harmandir Sahib earlier authenticated by Bhai Mani Singh.”From the Sikh Misl period (1773) to the foundation of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (1925), four generations of the Gianis witnessed every development associated with the Golden Temple. Surat Singh, who died in 1804; Sant Singh, who died in 1832; Gurmukh Singh, who died in 1843; Praduman Singh and Gurbaksh Singh ran the management of the Golden Temple.The Gianis contributed enormously in terms of scholarship, management, infrastructure development and the Sikh art. The heir at present in their family is Yadwinder Singh Giani (80), who had vacated the building after accepting money from the government.He identified the basement as part of the demolished Burj.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unearthed-structure-at-golden-temple-built-originally-in-1773-285107
19-07-2021||Hisar||To protest arrests, SKM leader Baldev Singh Sirsa begins indefinite fast||Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Baldev Singh Sirsa went on an indefinite fast outside the mini-secretariat in Sirsa today in protest against the arrest of five leaders arrested in connection with the attack on Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa’s car on July 11.More than 100 farmers were booked for sedition in connection with the July 11 protest.The farmers’ outfit served an ultimatum on the district administration till noon tomorrow to withdraw sedition and other charges.“I will fast until the five farmers are released,” Sirsa said, adding he would only drink lemon water during the fast. A team of the Health Department tried to take him to hospital for checkup, but he refused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-protest-arrests-skm-leader-baldev-singh-sirsa-begins-indefinite-fast-285093
19-07-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Farm activist suspended for hosting Gurnam Singh Charuni in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, July 18Leaders of Punjab’s 32 protesting farmers’ unions have suspended president of one of their unions Harsulender Singh for 15 days for welcoming Haryana farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni during his visit to Punjab.‘Matter of morcha unity & discipline’Charuni had been suspended by the SKM for a week on Wednesday for asking Punjab farm leaders to contest the upcoming Assembly polls.Darshan Pal Singh, a Punjab farm leader and member of the SKM, confirmed that Harsulender Singh, president of the Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee, had been suspended for welcoming Charuni. It was the decision of all farm unions of Punjab, he added.Kulwinder Singh Sandhu, general secretary of the Jamhuri Kisan Sabha (one of the organisations), said the suspension was ordered to maintain discipline and unity in the morcha. “It is not the first time that a farm leader has been suspended. Earlier too, some leaders were suspended to maintain the decorum.”Meanwhile, Harsulender claimed the decision was taken by the Punjab outfits, not by the SKM. “They took the decision during a meeting on July 13, and have banned me from participating in any meeting during the period. Some farm leaders even opposed the decision, but they were overruled.”He said his only fault was that he had welcomed and offered tea to Charuni at his village Kishangarh in Jalandhar district.“It is my moral duty to welcome and offer water and tea to any senior farm leader visiting my village,” Harsulender said, adding that he would, however, obey the decision of the group and not run away from the farmers’ protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-activist-suspended-for-hosting-gurnam-singh-charuni-in-punjab-285257
19-07-2021||Patiala||Patiala city lad tops Punjab in NTSE||Karan Noor Singh, 17, a student of Our Lady of Fatima Convent Secondary School here, has bagged the first position in the state in the National Talent Search Examination (NTSE), 2020, the result of which was declared recently. He secured 157 marks out of 200.Another city lad, Aditya Garg, stood second in the state with 156 marks.Subhav Garg, Kumar Anshuman, Gursahiljot Singh, Sidharth Angra, JatinSingla and Shreya Gupta, all from Patiala, also cleared the exam. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-city-lad-tops-punjab-in-ntse-285258
19-07-2021||Karam Prakash||Jobless protester completes 4 months atop mobile tower||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 18What will I do if I climb down this mobile tower given that the government of the day is not ready to fulfill our demands? I am qualified but jobless, which shows that something is fundamentally wrong in the policies of the government. This was stated by Surinder Pal, an ETT-TET pass unemployed teacher, whose protest atop a mobile tower here completed four months today.While talking to TNS over the phone, Surinder said he won’t come down until the government issued a notification on fresh recruitment of ETT teachers.To a query, he said at times, he felt a bit scared atop the tower. Surinder said, “There was a storm the other day and I was told that old trees had been uprooted. Wind was blowing at a high speed and I was bit scared. I am here for a cause, which gives me strength.”He added that his father had said however strong might be the wrongdoer, one should always fight against the wrong in the society. “If you don’t contest the wrong in the society, then, I think, we are siding with the wrongdoer.”When asked about the future course of his protest, he said, “I am not counting days. The protest will continue though the government seems to be insensitive.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-protester-completes-4-months-atop-mobile-tower-285255
19-07-2021||---||Day on, three more farm activists held in Chandigarh for attacking BJP leaders||Chandigarh, July 18Three more arrests, two at 1.30 am, were made today in connection with vandalisation of the BJP leaders’ cars during a protest by farm activists at the motor market in Sector 48 on Saturday. Malwinder Pal Singh, Harpreet Singh and Rajinder Singh were presented before court from where they were remanded in judicial custody.They have been charged with sections 147, 148, 149, 269, 270, 341, 427, 506, 332, 353, IPC. The Lawyers Defence Committee for Farmers is fighting their case free of cost.“A bail application has been filed and the hearing has been fixed for tomorrow,” said Vipin Kumar, an advocate. “New sections, 427, 332 and 353 have been added. Harpreet and Rajinder were picked at 1:30 am and Malwinder was picked up by the police around 8 am today. In fact, Malwinder was released yesterday and was re-arrested today,” said Ramandeep Singh Gill, an advocate.Advocate Satbir Walia said Rajinder worked at the motor market and didn’t have anything to do with the incident. “He has a shop in the motor market. He didn’t even come outside. Maybe all this is being done for the MC elections and his arrest is politically motivated,” he said.Walia added: “The charges against protesters were changed overnight after Kirron Kher tweeted about the ‘City Beautiful’, tagging PMO and Amit Shah. .”Bhaag Singh Suhaag, president, District Bar Association, said: “As per news, Sood informed the DGP that an attack was anticipated. Yet, the police weren’t prepared.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-on-three-more-farm-activists-held-in-chandigarh-for-attacking-bjp-leaders-285240
19-07-2021||Gurdaspur||Punjab Diary: Changing with times||Déjà vu for Cong in FaridkotFaridkot: As Navjot Sidhu became the state Congress chief, party leaders drew the battle lines. Once again, the ‘high flying’ banners of the All-India Jat Maha Sabha dotted the town. Loyalists of CM’s OSD Sunny Brar replaced their posters and banner with those of supporters of Faridkot MLA Kushaldeep Dhillon. Capt Amarinder Singh is the president of the Jat Maha Sabha and it came into existence in 2013, when the party faced similar crisis.Amritsar loses its Good SamaritanChandigarh: In the death of eminent businessman Chaman Lal Setia, Amritsar lost its Good Samaritan known to champion the cause of destitute women and children. He fought for the cause of widows, advocating that their names be incorporated in the death certificates of their husbands, so that they could avail of government benefits. For a long time, he also advocated that children of widows should be given government aid for free education and reservation in government jobs.Drive to promote paper bagsAbohar: The Municipal Corporation has launched a campaign to promote the use of paper bags. A team led by Swachh Bharat Mission coordinator Gurinderjit Singh gave a demo at the Town Hall and said there was a need to spread awareness about using paper bags. Plastic takes years to decompose, whereas paper can be recycled easily. The MC staff will visit markets and residential colonies to educate women on making carry bags using newspaper waste and glue. In the past six months, the staff raided many shops and godowns and confiscated sub-standard polythene carry bags. Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal, Balwant Garg, Ruchika M Khanna and Raj Sadosh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-diary-changing-with-times-285230
19-07-2021||Ferozepur||Ferozepur hospital gets oxygen plant||In a much-needed relief for patients, an imported oxygen plant being set up at the Civil Hospital will start functioning from next week.MLA Parminder Singh Pinki said the plant would generate over 1,000 litre oxygen per minute and had been set up at a cost of around Rs 1 crore. “Further, to ensure uninterrupted power supply, a 250-KV generator purchased at a cost of Rs 23 lakh has also been installed,” he added. As per information, the oxygen plant has been installed under the PM Cares fund. It has been manufactured by Tata Advance System and developed by the DRDO. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ferozepur-hospital-gets-oxygen-plant-285228
19-07-2021||---||SKM, Oppn condemn Chandigarh police action on farm activists||Chandigarh, July 18The events of yesterday’s protest by farm activists at the motor market in Secor 48 have evoked strong reactions from the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) and local parties. While the morcha and BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni condemned police action on protesters, Opposition parties questioned MP Kirron Kher’s sudden wakening after about two years of absence from the city. No call for blocking roads: SKMA statement about several organisations holding a meeting with the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) in connection with “blocking entry roads to Chandigarh if false charges on protesters aren’t dropped,” was issued by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta), Punjab. However, the morcha said it held no such meeting and it had nothing to do with the notice. The SKM shared this information through “Tractor 2 Twitter”.In their collective statement, SKM leaders said: “Yesterday, the Chandigarh police unleashed violence on peacefully protesting farmers who gathered to protest against BJP’s Sanjay Tandon and Ravikant Sharma (Mayor of Chandigarh).”They added: “Worse, they even picked up and arrested a child! When video clips of the eight-year-old arrested boy went viral, the police put out a flimsy explanation that cut no ice with anyone. There is a lot of visual evidence to show that the police, indeed, picked up and arrested the boy. The SKM condemns the Chandigarh police’s application for judicial custody of three protesters for 14 days today.”Former city MP Pawan Kumar Bansal, too, tweeted about the incident: “Farmers are protesting peacefully against three black laws for over 10 months now but government remains obdurate and slaps criminal charges against them, last week in Haryana and now in Chandigarh. Has the BJP forgotten that dharnas, gherao, rasta roko were the means it deployed in the past?”Harmohan Dhawan, city’s AAP representative, said: “I support farmers’ agitation. Unnecessarily, the BJP is instigating these people (farm activists); they have been sitting there for eight months, peacefully. The BJP should avoid going to places where farm activists are protesting so as to not instigate them.”Commenting on Kirron Kher’s tweet, Dhawan said: “The police should not come under Kirron Kher’s or any person’s political pressure and stay impartial in their line of duty.”Meanwhile, in a video message, Chaduni said: “If the Chandigarh police don’t stop its witch-hunt, going to various villages in Punjab, we will intensify protests. Some BJP people are saying farm activists are not farmers, well, this fight is that of anyone who eats food. They bought potato from us at Rs5 per kg and sold it at Rs40 per kg in Chandigarh. Similarly, onions bought at Rs8 a kg were sold at Rs80 a kg, so it should concern the city folk.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/skm-oppn-condemn-chandigarh-police-action-on-farm-activists-285155
19-07-2021||Balwant Garg||NTSE re-evaluation exposes ‘blunders’||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, July 18The result of National Talent Search Examination (NTSE), declared by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCSERT) recently, has stirred a controversy.While hundreds of students could not get their result due to technical glitches, many others are not satisfied with it and are approaching the SCSERT, demanding rechecking of their answersheets.OMR sheet errorThe ‘mistakes’ in preparing the results were due to improper filling of OMR sheets. As an OMR sheet is evaluated by computer, any minor mistake in filling it creates problems. Prabhjot Kaur, NTSE nodal officerAfter rechecking, majority of the students have got an increase of 200 to 300 per cent marks. Aayush Dhingra of Faridkot scored only 37 out of the total 200 marks. He approached the SCERT for rechecking and the marks were increased to 159. Goyam Jain’s marks were also increased from 52 to 160 after rechecking. There are dozens of such students in Faridkot and their number is much higher in the state.Around 40,000 Class X students in the state had appeared in the NTSE, conducted by the SCERT on December 20, 2020. The result, which is usually declared within 40-45 days after the exam, was declared on June 21 after a delay of around five months.Prabhjot Kaur, SCERT Deputy Director and NTSE nodal officer, said the “mistakes” in preparing the results were due to improper filling of OMR (optical mark recognition), which are used as answersheets. As the OMR sheets were evaluated by the computer, any minor mistake in filling the sheet creates problems. “We are re-evaluating the answersheets manually in cases where the students have approached us,” she said, adding: “We are also going for proper training of invigilators in the NTSE exams to avoid such mistakes in future.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ntse-re-evaluation-exposes-blunders-285227
19-07-2021||Ferozepur||Ferozepur heritage gates get a facelift||In an effort to revive the lost ‘glory’ of the historic town, 10 heritage gates, which were christened to indicate the names of the destination they would lead to during the pre-partition times, are being given a facelift.Local MLA Parminder Singh Pinki inaugurated the renovated ‘Baghdadi Gate’ last evening. “I will ensure the gates are revived and resurrected in the best possible manner,” he said.“One doesn’t have to be a history student to notice the rich heritage of the place,” said Rishi Sharma, a young councillor who has been instrumental in restoration of these heritage structures.The present-day circular road, which is main artery of the town, is still dotted with these gates, but most of them had collapsed due to encroachments. While the renovation work on Delhi Gate, Baghdadi Gate and Multani Gate has been completed, the efforts are on to renovate the rest of them. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ferozepur-heritage-gates-get-a-facelift-285225
19-07-2021||Aditi Tandon and Rajmeet Singh||Navjot Sidhu appointed Punjab Congress chief||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi/Chandigarh, July 18After days of speculation, the Congress on Sunday appointed cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu as the next president of the Punjab Congress, ignoring persistent opposition from CM Capt Amarinder Singh and leaders close to him.Former Amritsar MP and sitting MLA from Amritsar East, Navjot Sidhu replaces Sunil Jakhar.The party also named four working presidents. They are Urmar MLA Sangat Singh Gilzian, Jandiala legislator Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra and Pawan Goel from Jaito in Faridkot.The announcement came late Sunday night by AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal. The appointments spell a setback for Capt Amarinder who had put up a stiff resistance to Sidhu’s elevation, urging Congress president Sonia Gandhi to make Sidhu either the campaign committee chairman or a prominent minister, even Deputy CM.Also read: The Congress has struck a balance in the appointments with three-time MLA Gilzian representing the OBCs and Doaba region. He hails from Hoshiarpur. Gilzian started out as a sarpanch. He then went on to contest zila parishad elections and fought his first Assembly election in 2002 from Tanda Urmar.Gilzian lost the first poll. He was elected as an Independent in 2007 from the same segment, which he went on to retain in 2012 and 2017 on the Congress ticket.Danny, an MLA from SC (reserved) segment Jandiala, is former vice-president of the Punjab Youth Congress and son of SS Bandala, former Excise Minister in the Congress government in 2002- 2007.Two-time MLA Nagra, considered close to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, represents the Jat Sikhs. Nagra is AICC in-charge of Sikkim, Nagaland and Tripura. He has been relieved of the charge.While Gilzian is from Doaba, Danny is from Majha and Goel and Nagra are from Malwa. The appointments signal a mix of experienced and young leaders with the CM’s stamp evidently missing.Sonia Gandhi’s Punjab announcements today could potentially herald a change in the Punjab politics with Sidhu emerging as Capt Amarinder’s successor.Recent Congress history reveals that state unit presidents have gone on to become CMs – Capt Amarinder Singh was Punjab unit chief ahead of becoming CM in 2017 andKamal Nath was Madhya Pradesh Congress chief ahead of becoming CM. Sidhu’s top challenge would be to take the CM on board and put up a united front.He is expected to energise cadre||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-appointed-punjab-congress-chief-285150
19-07-2021||GS Paul||ASI team to inspect excavated structure at Golden Temple tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 18The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) will gauge the significance of the tunnel-like structure discovered during the excavation while building a new ‘joda ghar’ in the Golden Temple complex.Also read: ‘Unearthed structure at Golden Temple built originally in 1773’A team of the ASI is scheduled to visit the site on Tuesday. The work on a new ‘jora ghar’ for devotees has been suspended partially till then after the intervention of the Amritsar district administration.DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira said the ASI team was to take a final call over its significance. “The ASI team, which at present is at Lahaul and Spiti, will visit the place on Tuesday. The team will determine the historic or religious significance of the tunnel-like structure. The team will decide what has to be done as per the law. The next course of action will be decided accordingly — whether to protect the structure or keep it underneath only,” he said.On the other hand, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said a ‘wait and watch’ policy should be adopted till the ASI’s report was received.“So far, no concrete historical facts have come to light about the structure. Primarily, it is being speculated that it must have been buried underneath during the demolition of area surrounding the Golden Temple and construction of a ‘galliara’ by the then government,” she said. In view of the surge in the number of devotees, the SGPC had decided to construct an expanded ‘joda ghar’ and the task was assigned a voluntary organisation headed by Baba Kashmir Singh Bhuri Wale. It was during the excavation of the site at a depth of 20-25 feet that the tunnel-like structure made of small bricks surfaced. Could be ‘bungas’: Art body memberPunjab state convener and governing council member, Indian National Trust for Art and Culture, Dr Sukhdev Singh said the structure appeared to be the century-old ‘bungas’ (a kind of dormitory accommodation) meant for visitors to the Golden Temple from far-off places, but these seldom have any link to Gurus’ era. The arches could be the roofs or the remains of the underground parts of the bungas, he claimed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asi-team-to-inspect-excavated-structure-at-golden-temple-tomorrow-285224
19-07-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab to lose Rs 1,600-cr RDF amid new rules||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 18Punjab’s rural economy is set to be hit with the Centre once again toughening its stand on the release of Rs 1,600 crore, to be paid to the state for the recently concluded Rabi Marketing Season (RMS).As the Centre imposed fresh conditions for releasing the money, the state government went into a tizzy, realising the conditions could not be fulfilled.The Centre, in a communique sent to the state, a copy of which is with The Tribune, has demanded that the state government should match the details of land of each farmer whose produce has been bought with the quantity of produce sold by him, by examining all the J-Forms (these are submitted at the time of grain procurement).The Centre has also asked the state to take action against farmers, commission agents, officials of procurement agencies, if there is any discrepancy in the two. It is only on compliance of this that the state can expect the Centre to release the Rural Development Fund (RDF), it has been conveyed.The conditions put by the Centre for release of RDF have to be met before July 31, when the cash credit limit (CCL) for the RMS 2020-21 ends. Officials in the state government told The Tribune that it was impossible to meet these conditions in the coming days, which meant the state would have to forego the Rs 1,600 crore.“The stand now taken by the Centre smacks of bias against Punjab and their earlier decision of not granting the RDF. As against three per cent RDF, only one per cent was released in the last Kharif Marketing Season. This year’s provisional cost sheet mentioned that no RDF would be given, following which ministers and officers from the state had a round of meetings with the Union Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution. It was agreed that the state government would get all J-Forms countersigned by sarpanches/ panches/ lambardars. The state got this done for 10 lakh farmers, and now fresh conditions have been imposed,” a senior state government officer told The Tribune.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-lose-rs-1-600-cr-rdf-amid-new-rules-285223
19-07-2021||---||Malwa teachers protest pay panel proposals, demand old pension||Bathinda, July 18On a call given by the Joint Teachers’ Front, scores of teachers from the Malwa region staged a protest outside the district administrative complex in Bathinda against the 6th Pay Commission’s proposals and demanded that the old pension scheme be revived at the earliest.The protesting teachers raised slogans against the government and pushed their way through by removing barricades installed near the Deputy Commissioner’s residence. The police used mild force, but could not stop the protesters, who later sat on a dharna outside the DC’s residence and planned to continue the protest through the night. Later, senior officials intervened and placated the teachers by promising them that they would organise their meeting with members of the pay panel’s committee, following which the latter ended the protest.Earlier, teachers blocked the road outside the city bus stand and raised slogans against the government. Teachers from various unions, including the Democratic Teachers’ Front, 6060 Master Cadre Union, 5178 Master Cadre Union, 3582 Adhyapak Union, Physical Education Teachers’ Association and ETT 6505 Teachers’ Union among others participated in the protest.Digvijay Sharma, a joint front representative, said: “Working on similar lines as that of the Centre, the state government is taking decisions aimed at reducing regular jobs and bringing in privitisation policies that will jeopardise the future of qualified unemployed youth and favour corporate houses. But such approach will not be tolerated anymore.” Navcharanpreet Kaur, another representative of the union said, “The pay grade benefit introduced after 2011 has been reduced, exposing the government’s anti-employee approach. Instead of regularising the services of contractual teachers, they have been subjected to lathicharge, but we will give a befitting reply to such indifferent approach.”Adhyapak morcha takes out bike rallyRopar: On a call given by the Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha, government teachers of Ropar and Nawanshahr — protesting over their long pending demands — took out a bike rally here on Sunday. They also handed over a memorandum of demands to Speaker Rana KP Singh following which, union leaders addressed a gathering at Giani Zail Singh Nagar Park.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/malwa-teachers-protest-pay-panel-proposals-demand-old-pension-285221
19-07-2021||Faridkot||Faridkot medicos to resume OPD today||After boycotting OPD services for many days which caused huge inconvenience to patients, over 100 doctors at Guru Gobind Singh Government Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot have decided to restart the treatment.All doctors and faculty members will gather at the OPD block and protest from 9 am till 11 am on Monday. After that, the OPD will be opened and routine work will restart, said doctors.Over 1,000 patients visit the OPDs of different departments every day. The suspension of the OPDs for the past week had left these patients in the lurch. The strike was more problematic for cancer patients who visit the tertiary health centre from different parts of the state.“While the callous and apathetic attitude of the state government towards its people is known to all, we don’t want to be insensitive to patients,” said Dr Amarbir Singh, a senior functionary of the doctors’ association here.Other than suspending the OPD, the doctors and faculty members had stopped elective surgeries and teaching of MBBS and MD/MS students. Two days back, many doctors started examining the patients on the premises of the hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faridkot-medicos-to-resume-opd-today-285219
19-07-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Gurdaspur doctors reach out to poor on doorsteps||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, July 18In a novel initiative, and what is being called the first of its kind in the state, Gurdaspur Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq has asked government doctors to set up medical clinics in slum areas of Gurdaspur and Batala once a week to ensure “hospitals should move to the doorstep of the poor and not otherwise”.The DC has ordered the District Red Cross Society to supervise these clinics where the downtrodden are given free medicines. Officials claim this is the first such initiative in Punjab where doctors will treat slum dwellers by personally visiting them.Ishfaq has formed a committee, headed by Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar, which is working out the expansion plans for these clinics.For the past three years, frail-looking Savita Kumari, a 78-year-old rag picker, could not afford the expenses of visiting the hospital to get a skin problem treated. Patches on her arms would cause torturous pain. Her husband, a rickshaw puller, used to curse his fate as he did not have enough money to take his wife to the Batala Civil Hospital. Last Saturday, a team of doctors visited the Loha Mandi slum, studied her test reports and cured her. “90 per cent of my pain is relieved now. Whatever remains will be dealt with by doctors at the next camp,” she says.Apart from Dr Nijjar, the doctors’ team comprises a laboratory technician, a gynaecologist, a pharmacist, a paediatrician and a medical officer. The lab technician takes blood samples to the Civil Hospital lab where tests are done on for free. If the lab is closed, like it happened last Saturday when doctors were on strike, the tests are done at private labs. “During the ongoing doctors’ strike, we asked private doctors to fill the gap, which they did without any objection,” said Rajiv Singh, secretary, Gurdaspur Red Cross Society.Dr Nijjar said: “We have elaborate expansion plans where we will cover more slum areas. Batala’s Loha Mandi and Shiva resort slum areas in Gurdaspur are just pilot projects. Let the poor not visit the hospital, let the hospital visit the poor.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurdaspur-doctors-reach-out-to-poor-on-doorsteps-285218
19-07-2021||---||To make healthcare legal right, Punjab mulls new law||Chandigarh, July 18Meeting the long-pending demand of public health activists seeking protection of health rights, the state government has prepared the Punjab State Public Health Bill, 2021. The draft of the Bill is ready and has been circulated for feedback from public.According to activists, once the Bill becomes an Act, it will provide for protection of rights in relation to health and well-being and will be instrumental in achieving universal health coverage.“Apart from bringing synchronisation in multiple departments, it will make health and healthcare services a legal right, which can be defended in a court of law,” said an expert associated with the drafting of the Bill. After feedback from public, the Bill will be taken up by the Cabinet and may be tabled in the Assembly for approval.The draft states that health is a fundamental human right and intricately linked with the exercise of all other human rights. As per the details, it aims to set a broad legal framework for providing essential public health services and functions, including powers to respond to public health emergencies, principally through the state and local self-government, in collaboration with all other sectors.“There is a need to have an overarching legal framework and a common set of standards, norms and values to facilitate the governments’ stewardship of private health sector as a partner as well as for a more effective operation of other existing and future public health-related laws enacted at the state level and to unite them,” the draft notes.One of the important provisions of the Bill is that it gives power to the state to make it compulsory for the private healthcare establishments to notify 34 diseases listed in Schedule II (drugs having a high potential for abuse).For formulating, negotiating and adopting the state policy on public health and ensuring that there is a policy revision every five years and that the plans and policies for public health and the expenditure on health are consistent, the Bill has a provision for forming a state public health board. The board will consist of 30 members with the Chief Minister as the chairman. On the lines of the state, a district public health board will also be established with the zila parishad head as the chairman.Aimed at achieving universal coverage||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-make-healthcare-legal-right-punjab-mulls-new-law-285216
19-07-2021||Jalandhar/Khanna||Navjot Sidhu calls on party leaders in Jalandhar, Khanna||Before his elevation, Navjot Singh Sidhu held meetings with various Congress leaders, including Avtar Henry, Mohinder Singh Kaypee, Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry, Khanna MLA Gurkirat Singh Kotli and Payal legislator Lakhvir Singh Lakha, today.In Jalandhar, he was accompanied by Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh and Tanda legislator Sangat Singh Gilzian. Asked about Sidhu’s possible elevation, Pargat said: “He just came to meet Henry. Some things don’t need to be said. When it is overcast, you know it is going to rain.”Avtar Henry said: “I have known Sidhu for past 30 years. He is a friend. So he has come to meet us. We’ll talk over a cup of tea.” Earlier, Sidhu met MLAs Kotli and Lakha in Khanna. Praising Sidhu, Kolti said party workers had complete faith in him.“Sidhu enjoys public support and if the 2022 elections are fought under his leadership, it will yield positive results,” said Kotli.“The decision by the Congress high command has to be accepted by all party leaders, irrespective of their stature. We are soldiers of the party and will readily accept the decision to make it stronger.” — TNSNo infightingThere is no infighting within the Congress. There are no two factions. It’s just an opposition narrative. Avtar Henry, CongressDullo for Dalit CMGiven the Dalit vote share in the state, a leader from the community should be made the CM. Shamsher Singh Dullo, Rajya Sabha MP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-calls-on-party-leaders-in-jalandhar-khanna-285214
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Forgive Navjot Sidhu like you did Partap Singh Bajwa: Tript Rajinder to Punjab CM||Amid the stand taken by Capt Amarinder Singh that he would not meet Navjot Singh Sidhu until he publicly apologises for his “derogatory” remarks, minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa has advised the Chief Minister to forget Sidhu’s tweets as he has “forgotten” the letters and public remarks made against him by Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa.The Rajya Sabha MP was seen with the CM at latter’s Siswan farm house, signalling a compromise between the two leaders after a long spell of bitterness. Bajwa had been regularly hitting at the CM over the unfulfilled poll promises.Apparently, reacting to the two leaders’ dinner meeting, Tript Bajwa, a bête noire of the Rajya Sabha MP, said Sidhu’s tweets and utterances could be forgotten as had been done in the case of Partap Bajwa. Party sources say seeking a return to active politics in the 2022 Assembly elections, Partap Bajwa was keen on a significant position.Ghanaur MLA Madan Lal Jalapur also advised the CM to have a large heart and forgive Navjot Singh Sidhu. “Maharajas have a big heart. It is time to work together and end mafias”, he said. — TNSRS MP clarifiesClarifying on his meeting with Capt, Bajwa said they had discussed people’s issues. “The CM has promised to meet all MPs once every week over the 18-point charter given to him. Sidhu was not discussed,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/forgive-navjot-sidhu-like-you-did-partap-singh-bajwa-tript-rajinder-to-punjab-cm-285211
19-07-2021||Aman Sood||PCC chief Navjot Sidhu’s Patiala abode ‘new’ power centre||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 18After almost over two decades, the power centre in the Congress citadel of Patiala held firmly by Capt Amarinder Singh and wife MP Preneet Kaur suddenly seems to have shifted from their official residence of New Moti Bagh to the Yadavindra Colony-based new PCC chief Navjot Sidhu’s parental house.In the past three days, over three dozen MLAs and former and present MPs have met him, in a clear signal that the corridors of power have shifted from the palace to the colony, named after the ancestors of Capt Amarinder.“Over 30 MLAs met Sidhu on Saturday and the last time so many leaders visited the city was when Capt Amarinder held lunch diplomacy meetings in run-up to the 2017 polls. This is enough to show that political shift is not inevitable,” said a second generation Congressman from the old city. While the local Congress unit has been maintaining distance from Sidhu, claiming they are with Preneet Kaur, Ghanaur MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur — considered close to Preneet — today hosted Sidhu and Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Randhawa who played a key role for bringing Jalalpur on board. The recent visits by senior leaders to meet Sidhu at his residence seem to be changing political equations.Shutrana MLA Nirmal Singh was the other Patiala leader to have met Sidhu.A senior Congress leader said since there was nobody at Moti Bagh Palace, all leaders were meeting Sidhu. “But we are still united under Captain. There is no shifting of power centres in Patiala or elsewhere,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pcc-chief-navjot-sidhus-patiala-abode-new-power-centre-285207
19-07-2021||---||10 legislators back Capt Amarinder Singh, say he commands respect||Chandigarh, July 18Even as Navjot Singh Sidhu met near 40 MLAs to seek their “blessings” ahead of his elevation as the PPCC chief, at least 10 party MLAs issued a joint statement in support of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Bholath MLA Sukhpal Khaira, who recently crossed over from AAP to Congress, maintained that after talking to his colleagues Harminder Gill, Fatehjang Bajwa, Gurpreet GP, Kuldeep Vaid, Balwinder Laddi, Santokh Singh Bhalaipur, Joginder Bhoa, Jagdev Kamalu and Primal Khalsa, a joint statement supporting Capt Amarinder had been issued.The statement says due to Capt Amarinder’s unrelenting efforts, the party stands well entrenched in Punjab. “There is no doubt that the appointment of state PPCC chief was the prerogative of the party high command, but at the same time, washing dirty linen in public has only decreased the party graph during the last couple of months,” it read.The MLAs said since merely six months were left for the elections, pulling the party in different directions would only harm its prospects in 2022. They also supported the CM’s demand that Navjot Sidhu, who had made numerous tweets against him and the government, should tender a public apology so that the party and the government could function in tandem. The MLAs offered a word of caution to Navjot Sidhu, who they said was a celebrity and was no doubt an asset to the party, but condemning and criticising his own party and the government in public had created a rift in the cadres and weakened it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-legislators-back-capt-amarinder-singh-say-he-commands-respect-285205
19-07-2021||---||Hectic politicking: Punjab MPs huddle up at Partap Singh Bajwa’s house||New Delhi, July 18Even as the majority of Punjab leaders on Sunday appeared reconciled to the elevation of MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu as state president, a section of party MPs met here today and shared their concerns about the appointment.Though the official agenda of the meeting of nine MPs at the residence of former Punjab Congress chief Partap Singh Bajwa was to finalise actionable items with respect to Punjab in the monsoon session of Parliament starting tomorrow, deliberations were also held on Sidhu’s role and its possible repercussions in the state.In attendancePreneet Kaur | Manish Tewari | JS Gill | Santokh Chaudhary | Gurjeet Aujla | Ravneet Bittu | Mohd Sadique | SS DulloAbsentAmar Singh, Lok Sabha MP, | Ambika Soni, Rajya Sabha MPInternal issues are raised internallyThe meeting at Bajwa’s house was only meant to talk about Punjab issues. Internal issues of the Congress are always raised internally. Manish Tewari, MPMPs Preneet Kaur, Manish Tewari, JS Gill, Santokh Chaudhary, Gurjeet Aujla, Ravneet Bittu, Mohammad Sadique and SS Dullo attended the meeting, but Amar Singh (Lok Sabha) and Ambika Soni (Rajya Sabha) gave it a miss.After the meeting, Bajwa and Tewari said the discussions today centred on issues concerning Punjab and a decision was taken to move adjournment motions in both Houses of Parliament tomorrow on the issue of farmers’ agitation.Tewari, whose tweet last night saying “Bajwa-Capt would make a good team for the future” aroused curiosity across state circles, today said the MPs’ meeting was only meant to talk about Punjab issues and how to use parliamentary instruments to articulate state’s concerns. On Sidhu’s appointment, which happened few hours after the MPs met, Tewari said: “Internal issues of the Congress are always raised internally. Today, we discussed sensitive issues concerning the state.”Bajwa said the party MPs would move notices of adjournment in both Houses of Parliament tomorrow to seek repeal of farm laws.“We also discussed pending GST compensation to Punjab, shortage of Covid vaccine and fuel price rise to flag these matters in the monsoon session,” added Bajwa, who was seen sitting with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh last night, triggering speculation of possible emergence of a united front against Sidhu.The former Punjab Congress chief, however, today said he had met the CM to discuss people’s issues. “The CM has promised to meet all MPs once every week and fulfil on a weekly basis at least one promise out of the 18-point charter given to him. Sidhu was not discussed. All MPs will meet the CM on Wednesday,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hectic-politicking-punjab-mps-huddle-up-at-partap-singh-bajwas-house-285201
19-07-2021||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu named Punjab Congress chief||New Delhi, July 18Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday appointed Navjot Singh Sidhu as Punjab Congress chief.She also named four working presidents of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee.They are: Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra.   "Congress president has appointed Navjot Singh Sidhu as the president of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee with immediate effect," according to a party statement."The party appreciates the contributions of outgoing PCC president Sunil Jakhar," the statement said.Nagra, who was in-charge of party affairs in Sikkim, Nagaland and Tripura, has been relieved of his present responsibilities.In the run-up to his appointment, cricketer-turned-politician Sidhu had stepped up his efforts and reached out to more party leaders and legislators for their support.While Sidhu's name was opposed by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh who wrote a letter to the Congress president, but on Saturday, party's state in charge Harish Rawat flew to Chandigarh to pacify the sulking CM.Read alsoAfter the meeting, Amarinder Singh reiterated that any decision of the party chief would be acceptable but said he raised certain issues which Rawat said he would take up with her.Accept leadership’s decision: Ashwani Kumar to Punjab Cong leadersSenior Congress leader and former law minister Ashwani Kumar on Sunday urged party leaders in Punjab to gracefully accept decision of the Congress high command to appoint Navjot Singh Sidhu as the new state party president and stressed on maintaining unity while fighting the upcoming assembly polls.The former Rajya Sabha member from Punjab said the Congress leadership’s decision should now be accepted by all in the interest of party unity.“This is a time to be united. There are no victors or losers. Reconciliation is the way forward. All Congress persons will, hopefully, have a role to play in fighting an ideological battle,” he said in a statement.His remarks come amid factionalism in the Punjab unit and a series of meetings by various factions ahead of the party’s revamp.The chief minister and the incoming PPCC chief will need to pull together, and for this purpose magnanimity is expected on both sides, Kumar said.“It is necessary to ensure that no one feels diminished. Sometimes, and in a complex political situation, perfect solutions are impossible. We know that in politics a person is as important as the purpose one serves,” he said.“The voice of the silent majority that defines the conscience of the party is in favour of unity and should be heeded,” the former law minister also said.Sidhu emerged as the frontrunner for the post of PPCC chief but the chief minister was opposed to the move and a flurry of political activity was on to prevent him from becoming the new party chief, sources said. — With agency inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-named-punjab-congress-chief-285072
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress infighting: 'He commands respect', 10 Congress MLAs bat for Capt Amarinder||Even as Navjot Singh Sidhu met over 30 MLAs to seek their 'blessings' ahead of his anticipated elevation as PPCC chief, at least ten party MLAs have issued a joint statement in support of CM Capt Amarinder Singh. MLA Bholath Sukhpal Khaira, who recently crossed over from AAP to Congress, said after talking to his colleagues Harminder Gill, Fateh Bajwa, Gurpreet GP, Kuldeep Vaid, Balwinder Laddoo, Santok Singh Bhalaipur, Joginder Bhoa, Jagdev Kamalu, Primal Khalsa, a joint statement supporting Capt Amarinder had been issued.The statement said that due to Capt Amarinder’s unrelenting efforts, the party stands well entrenched in Punjab.Also read:"There is no doubt that the appointment of state PPCC chief was the prerogative of the party high command, but at the same time, washing dirty linen in public has only decreased the party graph during the last couple of months", read the statement.The MLAs said that it was due to Capt Amarinder Singh that the party regained power in Punjab in the aftermath of 1984 attack on Darbar Sahib and the subsequent genocide of the Sikhs in Delhi and elsewhere in the country. ``He commands immense respect across different sections of the society in the state, particularly the farmers for whom he even endangered his chair as CM while passing the 2004 Termination of Waters Agreement Act,’’ the MLAs claimed.They said that Capt Amarinder Singh had to also face extreme vendetta politics at the hands of the Badal family, for filing corruption and disproportionate assets case against them in his first tenure as chief minister.The MLAs said that since merely six months were left for the elections, pulling the party into the different directions will only harm its prospects in the 2022 polls.They also supported the demand of  the Chief Minister that Navjot Singh Sidhu, who had made numerous tweets against him and the government, should tender a public apology so that the party and government can function in tandem.The MLAs offered a word of caution to Navjot Singh Sidhu, who they said was a celebrity and was no doubt an asset to the party, but condemning and criticising his own party and government in the in public view has only created a rift in the cadres and weakened it.The MLAs said they hoped the party high command would take cognizance of their suggestions and will definitely keep in mind the status, contribution and background of Captain Amarinder Singh in mind while making vital decisions for the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-infighting-he-commands-respect-10-congress-mlas-bat-for-capt-amarinder-285022
19-07-2021||Patiala||As Navjot Singh Sidhu begins political outreach, action shifts from Patiala's Moti Bagh palace to Yadavindra colony||After almost over two decades, the power centre in the Congress citadel of Patiala, held firmly by Capt Amarinder Singh and wife MP Preneet Kaur, suddenly seems to have shifted from their official residence of New Moti Bagh to the Yadavindra Colony-based Navjot Sidhu’s parental house.It all started in almost end of February when the Sidhu couple shifted their base to Patiala. After being away from Patiala for over a decade, cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu, along with his wife had suddenly become active with recent press conferences and political functions in the bastion of the Chief Minister openly challenging the government and their failure to punish sacrilege accused and those accused of firing in Bargari.From opening an office to criticising the state government, the Sidhu couple has fast emerged as the talk of the town. Though openly local Congress leaders have been staying away from their events, insiders claim many are in touch with them.Also read:In the past three days, over three dozen MLAs and former and present MPs have met him, in a clear signal that the corridors of power have shifted from the palace to the colony, named after the ancestors of Capt Amarinder. “Over 30 MLAs met Sidhu on Saturday and the last time so many have visited the city, when Capt Amarinder had held lunch diplomacy meetings in run up to the 2017 polls. This is enough to show that political shift is not inevitable”, said a second generation congressman from old city. Interestingly, even though the local congress unit has been maintaining distance from Sidhu and have been claiming that they are with Preneet Kaur, but equations seem to be changing rapidly. Ghanaur MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur— considered close to Preneet Kaur hosted Sidhu and Sukhjinder Randhawa on Sunday along with other MLAs at his residence. Jalalpur’s son is married to Rajpura MLA Hardyal Kambhoj’s daughter and they are usually considered to be on same page politically.Till a month back, Sidhu, had always claimed that his “focus is not to make any political gains, but to highlight the injustice for the victims of drugs and Bargari issues”. Meanwhile his wife and former Amritsar (East) MLA was often seen meeting party workers at her husband’s ancestral house in Yadavindra Colony. Off late, she has been taking keen interest in the two Vidhan Sabha segments of Patiala (rural) and Sanaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/as-navjot-singh-sidhu-begins-political-outreach-action-shifts-from-patialas-moti-bagh-palace-to-yadavindra-colony-285017
