21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Three deaths, 68 fresh Covid cases in Punjab||Three more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Wednesday as 68 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection count to 5,98,521, according to a medical bulletin.So far, the infection has killed 16, 246 people in the state.One death each was reported from Faridkot, Jalandhar and Patiala. One death, which was earlier counted twice, has now been excluded from the toll figure, the bulletin said. The number of active cases stood at 869. Jalandhar reported 10 infections, followed by six each in Bathinda and Ferozepur. With 94 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured people reached 5,81,406, the bulletin said. A total of 1,17,60,706 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-deaths-68-fresh-covid-cases-in-punjab-286348
21-07-2021||New Delhi||India, Pakistan armies exchange sweets on LoC on Eid-ul-Zuha||The Border Security Force (BSF) and Pakistan Rangers on Wednesday exchanged sweets at various points along the border on the occasion of Eid-ul-Adha, the first time since the Pakistani side shunned the custom in 2019.The Pakistani side had unilaterally stopped the exchange after the Narendra Modi government on August 5, 2019, abrogated provisions of Article 370 of the Constitution which gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir.A BSF spokesperson here said that "exchange of sweets took place between BSF and Pakistan Rangers on the occasion of Eid at JCP (joint check post) Attari" in Punjab's Amritsar district, which lies across the Wagah border front of Pakistan.A similar exchange of sweets took place between the two forces along the Rajasthan front too, officials said.This was the first time that sweets were exchanged between the two forces after the abrogation of Article 370 as the Pakistani side refused to continue with the custom, they said, adding after the developments of August 2019, the offer of exchanging sweets was made by the BSF but the Pakistani side did not reciprocate.The BSF spokesperson, however, said this custom was suspended last year due to the outbreak of COVID-19.The BSF guards the about 2,290 km India-Pakistan International Border (IB) that runs north to south from Jammu, Punjab, Rajasthan up to Gujarat on India's western flank.Exchange of sweets on the occasion of Eid-ul-Adha also took place along the border in Jammu."This is the first exchange of sweets between the two border guarding forces (BSF and Pakistan Rangers) after the Pulwama incident (in 2019). There was no cross-border shelling for long and farmers on both sides of the border have been able to carry out their farming activities peacefully," the Jammu frontier of the BSF said in a statement.Forty CRPF personnel were killed when their bus in a long convoy of over 70 vehicles plying from Jammu to Srinagar was bombed on February 14, 2019, by a Jais-e-Mohammed suicide bomber. Soon after, India carried out an aerial strike on a terrorist training camp of the terror group in Pakistan's Balakot.Exchange of sweets is also undertaken by the two sides during festivals like Diwali and Eid, Republic Day, Independence Day, BSF Raising Day on December 1 and Pakistan's Independence Day on August 14.India and Pakistan had on February 25 this year released a joint statement announcing a ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir, following talks between their Directors General of Military Operations.The two countries had earlier signed a ceasefire agreement in 2003 but it was repeatedly violated leading to deaths and injuries to civilians and troops on either side.Meanwhile, a similar exchange of sweets continued as usual between the BSF and their Bangladesh counterpart BGB at multiple locations along the 4,096-km long IB on the eastern flank of the country."Both the border guarding forces share cordial and congenial relations. The exchange of sweets comes as a goodwill gesture and reflects true comradeship. It also helps in building and strengthening cordial relations," the BSF south Bengal frontier headquartered in Kolkata said in a statement.It "has been a long-running tradition between the two forces to exchange sweets on the festive occasions", the BSF said.The south Bengal frontier of the BSF guards about 903 km of the India-Bangladesh border along with the Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB). PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/india-pakistan-armies-exchange-sweets-on-loc-on-eid-ul-zuha-286271
21-07-2021||---||With Capt adamant on Sidhu apology, pressure builds on him to welcome new PPCC chief||Chandigarh, July 21As Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh intends not to pardon Navjot Singh Sidhu till he apologises for his tweets, pressure is building on the CM to unconditionally welcome the new PPCC chief.Voices of dissent are now rising against the CM for not calling the truce. Efforts are still on to bring truce between the two leaders.Sukhjinder Randhawa said they are for the unity of the party and would not allow anyone to split the party, be it Capt Amarinder Singh. He said he could leave any leader, be it Amarinder, for the sake of the party.“If the CM can meet Sukhpal Khaira, who has passed personal and damaging comments against him and he can meet Partap Bajwa, what is the harm in meeting Sidhu,” Randhawa said while reminding the CM that they did not allow the party to split when Bajwa was removed as PPCC chief to make way for Amarinder.Randhawa said he, along with Tript Bajwa and Sukhbinder Sarkaria, had gone to the house of senior leader Lal Singh to convey that they, along with Sidhu, could walk up to the CM, if he agreed to show a large heart.Randhawa said that instead of giving statement that he would not meet Sidhu till he settled his issue with the CM, Brahm Mohindra should have taken Sidhu along to meet the CM. He claimed that Sidhu had even called up Mohindra to make a courtesy call, but the latter said he was not well. Joining the issue, MLA Pargat Singh said asking for an apology at a time when people are giving a rousing welcome to Sidhu made his opponents small in the public’s eyes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/with-capt-adamant-on-sidhu-apology-pressure-builds-on-him-to-welcome-new-ppcc-chief-286254
21-07-2021||Patiala||Two children killed, 5 injured as roof collapses in Patiala district||Two children, aged nine and seven, died while five other members of the family were injured when the roof of their house collapsed early Wednesday morning in Patiala district.The deceased have been identified as 7-year-old girl Tania and 9-year-old boy Sachin.The children's father, Bittu, his wife, Neelam, and the couple's other three children, Manish, Hans and Kapil, all aged less than 12, were injured and admitted to Government Rajindra hospital here.Sources in Dudhan Sadhan village said the roof of the kachha house collapsed at about 5 am Wednesday when the family was sleeping. "The area behind their house is not paved and as such, the back wall of the house shifted after yesterday's heavy rainfall," a source said.They said the entire family was buried beneath the debris and locals, along with police officials, pulled them out of the debris.Raur Jagir police post in-charge Gurwinder Singh confirmed the two deaths and said the other family members were recuperating at the Government Rajindra Hospital. He said as per the family, the house was strongly built but the roof suddenly collapsed. He said the two children were pronounced dead by doctors at the Rajindra hospital and the bodies were being handed over for post-mortem.Meanwhile, Dudhan Sadhan Tehsildar Sarabjit Singh Dhaliwal said the government will immediately compensate the family for the loss. "The family will be provided financial help of Rs 95,000 for construction of their house. The postmortem of the dead bodies is being conducted. The government will also provide Rs 4 lakh as compensation for each deceased family member," he said.Four were killed the previous night:The incident has taken place a day after a roof that collapsed at village Matoli of Patran here buried and killed four members of a family including three children. The children's mother was injured while two other family members who were in another room escaped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-children-killed-5-injured-as-roof-collapses-in-patiala-district-286253
21-07-2021||New Delhi||Sikh official on UK Navy warship headed to India||When the UK’s biggest warship, aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth, arrives in India for an exercise, on board will be Indian-origin Jagjeet Singh Grewal. The warship and its accompanying strike group are to meet the Indian Navy for a series of maritime exercises this week. A leading engineering technician with the Royal Navy, Grewal works in the Marine Engineering Department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-official-on-uk-navy-warship-headed-to-india-285971
21-07-2021||Sonepat||‘Kisan sansad’ to be held at Jantar Mantar||The SKM today reiterated that its proposed Parliament protest on all days of the ongoing Monsoon Session would be carried out as per plan.‘Kisan sansad’ would be organised at Jantar Mantar by 200 protesters every day. Farmers would showcase how deliberative democratic processes are to be run to strengthen Indian democracy, said a joint press release issued by Balbir Singh Rajewal, Dr Darshan Pal, Hannan Mollah, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Shivkumar Sharma ‘Kakkaji’, Yudhvir Singh and Yogendra Yadav on Tuesday.The SKM has also stated that any violation of discipline will not be tolerated,” said the press release. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kisan-sansad-to-be-held-at-jantar-mantar-286199
21-07-2021||Karnal||Ideological differences, says Gurnam Singh Charuni on his suspension||Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Gurnam Singh Charuni, who was suspended for seven days by the SKM allegedly for his campaign ‘Mission Punjab’, on Tuesday displayed his strength on GT belt by leading a procession from Yamunanagar to Singhu border in Sonepat.During his brief stay near Baldi bypass on Indri road, Charuni refrained from commenting on his suspension. He evaded the question by saying he was also suspended by his wife, but she came to convince him on the eighth day.“It is our internal issue and it should not be in the media,” said Charuni while replying to a question related to his suspension. He said, “It is a difference of ideology. Mission Punjab is my ideology and it should be. The SKM’s ideology is Mission UP to defeat the BJP.” Charuni even batted for the repealing of all the anti-farmer laws passed so far. “If the three farm laws are repealed, the farmers will get relief. But they would remain on the ventilator till the repealing of the laws,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ideological-differences-says-gurnam-singh-charuni-on-his-suspension-286122
21-07-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Ban on protests in Chandigarh: AAP calls it draconian, Cong says overreaction||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 20While the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has questioned the rationale behind imposing “draconian” Section 144 across Chandigarh “on the pretext of an incidence of violence in the Motor Market, Sector 48”, the Congress termed UT’s blanket ban on protests and demonstration in the city, other than at the Sector 25 Rally Ground, as an “overreaction to the incident”.Prem Garg, AAP convener, said: “We condemn the violence with BJP leaders and demand that real culprits should be identified. However, imposition of Section 144 is uncalled-for. Political parties and other organisations have the right to protest, hold peaceful meetings and rallies, particularly in view of the forthcoming MC elections in December.”He shared that such blanket ban might have been imposed by the Administration to muzzle the voice of Opposition parties and various organisations that keep highlighting the failures of the Administration and the MC, on almost all fronts.Garg said: “It is illogical to ask us to hold small meetings or protests at the rally ground, which is meant for huge gatherings. The right to hold meetings can’t be denied to the public under the guise of law and order issue, which is the responsibility of the Administration and the police. Holding any protest or rally on the outskirts of the city has no meaning.”Meanwhile, Pawan Banal, former city MP from the Congress, said: “There are occasions when employees, traders, residents or other sections of society have to come out of their houses and establishments in a spontaneous protest against a decision of the authorities. If they were to be slapped with criminal cases for such speech and expression of thought, guaranteed by the Constitution, it would tantamount to promulgation of a totalitarian, police state.”Bansal said: “This omnibus ban can lead to action if women were to come out of their houses to protest against turbid water supply, overflowing sewers or garbage piling up in their locality. What if members of a trade union were to strike work and voice their indignation against some haughty and insulting behaviour of a senior? Must they go to the rally ground for the purpose?”Advising the Administration to not be oversensitive and de facto extend Section 144 of the CrPC to the entire UT, Bansal recalled that recognising the unsuitability of the Sector 25 Rally Ground, the Administration itself had permitted political rallies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress president Rahul Gandhi in Sector 34 and 38, respectively, during the last elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ban-on-protests-in-chandigarh-aap-calls-it-draconian-cong-says-overreaction-285937
21-07-2021||---||Farm activists, lawyers term Section 144 in Chandigarh attack on democracy||Chandigarh, July 20Besides farm activists, lawyers, intellectuals and members of civil society have sharply criticised the UT Administration’s order that earmarks the rally ground in Sector 25 as the only protest site (with permission) in the city while imposing Section 144 ‘as a measure of emergency’. The order was last issued in March this year, according to the Administration’s website.Issued two days after the Saturday’s Motor Market protest by pro-farmer organisations, where windshields of BJP leaders’ cars were broken allegedly by the protesters, the order is being viewed as “an attack on democracy” and “people’s right to dissent peacefully”.Prem Singh Bhangu, convener, Legal Cell, Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), said: “In entire Chandigarh, there is no apprehension of peace being disturbed. This order has been passed with an intension to debar people who are raising their voice against the farm laws. They want to sabotage this peaceful protest and quell our voice.”Bhangu said: “Farm activists at roundabouts are creating a public opinion and the city’s response has been overwhelming. This order is undemocratic as even the Supreme Court allows peaceful protest. About four people will continue to stand on roundabouts and protest. If anyone intervenes, then the SKM will oppose it.”Daljeet Singh Palsora and Gurpreet Singh Somal from the city’s Pendu Sangarsh Committee said: “This order is undemocratic. We condemn it. The UT Administration is under political pressure. Therefore, it is making anti-farmer decisions.”Advocate RS Bains of the Punjab and Haryana High Court said: “Section 144 is for emergency use only. It is never to dilute the fundamental rights of peaceful protesters. This order is not as per law as only 10-20 people protest at the Plaza or chowks. You can regulate protests, not ban them. Section 144 was never to be a limitation on constitutional rights.”Bhaag Singh Suhag, president of the District Bar Association, said: “Has this order been implemented in the city only for farmers? BJP people have been organising public functions. This has been done to harass farm activists and register cases against them.”Vinod Kumar Verma, former vice-president of the District Bar Association, said: “This is just to frustrate the claim of farmers although there is no threat to the public peace. Farm activists have been protesting peacefully for months now.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-activists-lawyers-term-section-144-in-chandigarh-attack-on-democracy-285943
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Farm loan waiver likely to fall short as poll plank||The rollout of the Agriculture Loan Waiver and Debt Relief Scheme by the Capt Amarinder Singh government, a key poll promise of the Congress, may give the party bragging rights going into the 2022 elections, but its scope has been limited in terms of lifting farmers out of the debt trap.Almost two years since the Punjab Government completed the loan waiver of Rs 4,603 crore to the targeted 5,61,390 farmers, most of them have once again taken loans and remain trapped in the cycle. The state’s per capita farmer indebtedness continues to be amongst the highest at Rs 80,000-1 lakh crore, as does the farmer suicide rate. Since 2017, after the scheme was announced and later rolled out, nearly 1,700 have ended their lives.Agriculture Debt Relief SchemeRolled out in january 2018It aims at providing loan waiver up to Rs2 lakh for small and marginal farmers, those who have taken loan from public sector banks, cooperative institutions, commercial banks. Initially, the scheme was to cover 10.25 lakh farmers with Rs10,000 crore outlayEligibility criteriaFund managementThe downsideEven as the government looks at expanding the scheme to landless farmers and agriculture labourers, questions are being raised about its efficacy. Farmers and farm union leaders, who are now fighting a different battle (three farm laws), and economists are unanimous in their opinion that the scheme has facilitated only limited relief. They say though it did benefit the small and marginal farmers, it may not be a decisive factor when they vote.“The state’s agriculture economy is at the risk of being overtaken by corporates. Farmers will vote on the basis of the contribution of each politician to their struggle. The rural indebtedness of farmers is up by 12 per cent in the past two years. The scheme helped marginal farmers initially, but the government should have a broader approach and policy intervention to effectively deal with issues concerning farmers’ income,” says Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, BKU Ekta Dakaunda.Farmers rue there is no end to their economic woes. “Sixteen farmers in my village got the loan waiver, but now they have again taken loans and find it difficult to repay,” says Gurbakshish Singh of Bimber village near Nabha.Almost 40 per cent of the loans taken by farmers are from arhtiyas and they have not been included in the scheme. A 15-year-old from Markhai village in Ferozepur, whose father died by suicide because of inability to repay the moneylender, says the government needs to do much more to get farmers out of the debt trap and ease the process of granting relief. His family had not got the compensation as his father was a landless farmer, cultivating on land he had taken on lease, and the loan was taken from a non-institutional source.RS Ghuman, economist and ex-chairman of Punjab's MSP committee, says the debt waiver scheme did meet the crisis in rural economy, though its scope was limited as after getting their loans cleared, farmers who face shortage of capital have again taken loans.“What is needed is a comprehensive agriculture policy with targeted interventions for small and marginal farmers and those caught in debt trap. The data compiled by three universities (PAU, GNDU and Punjabi University) shows that over 75 per cent suicides were because of inability to repay loans. But banks are pushing for more loans to farmers, which only adds to the debt burden. A broader policy outreach is needed to take them out of the debt trap,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-loan-waiver-likely-to-fall-short-as-poll-plank-285946
21-07-2021||Patiala||4 of family killed in roof collapse in Patran||Four members of a family, including three children, were killed at Matoli village of Patran when a roof of a house suddenly collapsed on Monday night.Residents said the deceased included Vanshdeep Singh (14), Simranjit Kaur (13), Kamaldeep Kaur (10) and their father Mukhtiar Singh (40).Police station wall crumbles, man killedHis wife Surinder Kaur is admitted to a hospital and undergoing treatment. People said the roof of the house collapsed after it rained during the day. Shutrana SHO Shamsher Singh said, “The house was constructed in the early 90s. As such it did not have any major problem. As per preliminary findings, the walls of the house shifted due to which the roof came plummeting down.”He said the police reached the site to evacuate those buried under the debris where the woman was pulled out and admitted to a hospital. The kids’ grandmother and a family member, who were sleeping in another room, are safe.Meanwhile, a flood-like situation prevailed in Patiala, the hometown of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, on Tuesday as rain lashed the city. Water entered houses of residents at Lehal Colony, near Kadah Wala Chowk, Preet Nagar and other areas.Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma blamed the haphazard development of colonies in and adjoining areas of the city in the past 70 years, lack of stormwater system and presence of dairies for the problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-of-family-killed-in-roof-collapse-in-patran-285958
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Doctors on indefinite strike over NPA cut||Government doctors today started an indefinite strike in protest against delinking of the non-practicing allowance (NPA) from basic pay. The healthcare and animal husbandry services remained paralysed in the state.Accusing the government of an insensitive attitude, the Joint Government Doctors’ Coordination Committee announced to hold a protest in front of the Chief Minister’s residence on Friday.Dr Indervir Gill, convener of the committee, alleged that the government failed to fulfil the promises it made in the past three weeks during various negotiation meetings. Medical and veterinary doctors from across Punjab participated in the emergency meeting here.He warned that if the government did not address the issue of NPA, the entire medical fraternity of Punjab would to go on an indefinite strike. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doctors-on-indefinite-strike-over-npa-cut-285970
21-07-2021||Amritsar||ASI team inspects excavated structure in Golden Temple complex||A four-member team of the Archaeological Survey of India today inspected the tunnel-like structure discovered during excavation while building a new ‘joda ghar’ in the Golden Temple complex.The ASI was approached to ascertain the antiquity of the Nanakshahi brick-made structure found during the excavation near Akal Takht secretariat. The team of archaeologists, led by AK Mishra, inspected the structure, took its pictures and measurements. Some specimens of the structure have also been taken to check its heritage status. SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur said if the site was found to be related to the Sikh history, it would be preserved. Though there was no proof to authenticate its historic or religious significance, it is learnt to be a private property, ‘Gianian Da Bunga’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asi-team-inspects-excavated-structure-in-golden-temple-complex-285979
21-07-2021||Nawanshahr||Navjot Singh Sidhu gives clarion call for ‘sach di ladai’||Newly appointed PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu today paid obeisance at the memorial site of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh at his ancestral Khatkar Kalan village near here.Sidhu was accompanied by PCC working president Kuljit Nagra and six MLAs — Angad Saini, Darshan S Mangupur, Rajkumar Verka, Sukhpal Bhullar, Inderbir Singh Bolaria and Gurpreet GP. Youth Congress leader Brinder Dhillon, former Banga MLAs Tarlochan Soondh and Mohan Lal Banga, and Pungrain Chairman Lalli Majithia also came along. The convoy of Congress leaders started from Chandigarh and headed towards Amritsar, Sidhu’s home constituency.Farmers wave black flags, block highwayA fully charged Sidhu raised slogans ‘Shaheedo teri soch te, pehra deyange thok ke’ and ‘Shaheed Bhagat Singh amar rahe’ at the memorial. Since it was raining heavily when the PCC chief reached the site, he got totally drenched.Sidhu suffers toe injurySidhu got injured during his visit to Khatkar Kalan. He was walking barefoot after paying respects at the statue when the nail of his right toe got plucked. Despite the injury, the PCC chief continued his roadshows via Phagwara and Jalandhar towards Amritsar.He addressed mediapersons at the site, saying, “I have come here to seek direction and light up the spirit of truthfulness among Punjabis. I wish Punjabis draw strength from Bhagat Singh and set out on ‘haq te sach di ladai (fight for right and truth)’. Every Punjabi must consider himself a stakeholder in the ongoing quest to regain prosperity for the state. The proposed Punjab model will bring things on the right track. The implementation of the 18-point programme of the Congress high command will empower the masses.”In a veiled reference to the scathing attacks by CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s camp, he mentioned, “Punjab cannot progress if we keep abusing one another”.Meanwhile, ahead of Sidhu’s visit, Congress workers from Banga, who are supporting the rival factions of ex-MLAs Tarlochan Soondh and Mohan Lal Banga, almost came to a faceoff and indulged in sloganeering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-gives-clarion-call-for-sach-di-ladai-285919
21-07-2021||Amritsar||Senior Congress leaders skip Navjot Sidhu event in Amrtisar||PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu was given a rousing welcome by Congress workers upon his arrival in the holy city. However, prominent Congress leaders, considered loyal to CM Capt Amarinder Singh, stayed away from the reception.Sidhu’s supporters eagerly awaited his arrival despite the inclement weather. The crowd raised slogans and danced to the beats of dhol and burst firecrackers to celebrate his elevation. The scenes were reminiscent of 2004 when he arrived in the city from Lahore to kick-start his maiden political innings in Parliament on a BJP ticket.The national highway got choked as people stopped to catch a glimpse of Sidhu, who waved at the crowd throughout his roadshow. Ironically, no local MLA was present at the Golden Gate to receive him. Amritsar South MLA Inderbir Singh Bolaria and Amritsar West MLA Raj Kumar Verka joined Sidhu from Chandigarh to Amritsar. North MLA Sunil Dutti met Sidhu at his residence.Sidhu was welcomed by Jandiala MLA Sukhwinder Singh Danny Bandala, who is among the four working presidents of the PCC. However, Amritsar Improvement Trust chairperson Dinesh Bassi and Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu missed the appointment for the day.Bassi and Rintu too are considered to be Capt Amarinder’s loyalists. Rintu had installed hoardings showing open solidarity with Capt Amarinder. Both could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.Another prominent leader and Cabinet Minister OP Soni was also conspicuous by his absence. Insiders said friction between Sidhu and Soni still prevailed, though they had reached a compromise after changed political equations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/senior-congress-leaders-skip-navjot-sidhu-event-in-amrtisar-285920
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||In supremacy battle, Capt Amarinder ‘loyalists’ left him||The rebellion in the Punjab Congress finds sense in the proverbial utterance that ‘politics makes strange bedfellows’.The ‘architects’ of the rebellion against Capt Amarinder Singh once swore by his name. They had pulled all stops to topple Partap Singh Bajwa as the PCC chief in 2015, cutting short his term midway. The ‘Majha brigade’, a group of three ministers from the region, namely Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Sukhjinder Randhawa and Sukhbinder Sarkaria, are now leaving no stone unturned in trying to unsettle the CM to make way for Navjot Singh Sidhu.The leaders have once again shown their political acumen by opting to side with the leader they thought can lead their party to power. After enjoying significant portfolios for four and a half years, the leaders started airing differences with Capt Amarinder Singh, particularly after the adverse verdict of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in the Kotkapura police firing case.Another leader of the Malwa region, Charanjit Singh Channi, is learnt to have played an important role in meeting the party leadership in communicating the displeasure with the Congress on the ground. He had been holding meetings with Partap Bajwa, Sidhu and Randhawa since April to bring them on the same page.Political analysts say Sidhu’s appointment has not resolved the crisis in the state party unit, rather it could be the beginning of a protracted battle for supremacy. Others feel Sidhu’s elevation as the PCC chief is just the first phase of a larger plot in an attempt to pull down the royal scion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-supremacy-battle-capt-amarinder-loyalists-left-him-285921
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Brahm Mohindra throws weight behind Capt Amarinder||Amid the standoff between Capt Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu, two days after the latter’s elevation as the PCC chief, Brahm Mohindra, the senior-most minister in the Punjab Cabinet, has thrown his weight behind the CM.Mohindra, who is considered close to the CM, in a statement said he welcomed Sidhu’s appointment as the PCC president but ruled out a personal meeting with him till he resolved his issues with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. The statement was issued after the minister met the CM on Tuesday evening. “Capt Amarinder Singh is the leader of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) and I am duty-bound to follow him. Besides being the CLP leader, the Chief Minister heads the Cabinet, of which I’m a part. We have a collective responsibility and hence I will refrain from meeting the newly appointed president till issues between him and the CM are resolved,” said Mohindra.In the past three days, Sidhu has gone to the house of ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa, Sukhbinder Sarkaria, Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Balbir Sidhu, Gurpeet Kangar, Razia Sultana and Charanjit Channi. Barring Manpreet Badal, who has welcomed Sidhu’s elevation, no other minister has so far reacted to the appointment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/brahm-mohindra-throws-weight-behind-capt-amarinder-285922
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Bust drug cartel, High Court directs Punjab DGP||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the Punjab Director General of Police to bust drug cartel after being told of an extraordinary method of drug trafficking, in which the manufacturers were themselves creating fake companies to supply intoxicant tablets.Fake firms supplying intoxicantsJustice HS Madaan asserted this was to be done “by catching hold of the persons who are supplying drugs by way of creating fake companies, or otherwise, and fake medical stores are being run without valid licences”. Justice Madaan was hearing a petition filed against the State of Punjab by Tarsem Singh through counsel Raj Kumar Gupta for pre-arrest bail in a case registered on January 6, 2019, at the Samrala police station in Ludhiana district under the provisions of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.The Bench was told that one Manpreet Singh was allegedly apprehended by the police at a naka at Samrala main chowk and contraband in the form of certain tablets was allegedly found in his possession.During the course of investigation, Manpreet Singh allegedly disclosed that he had supplied tablets to Channi Medicos of which petitioner Tarsem Singh was the proprietor. Tarsem Singh, subsequently, approached the Ludhiana Special Court for anticipatory bail. But his plea was dismissed and he approached the High Court.The petitioner’s counsel submitted the manufacturers had themselves created fake companies for supplying intoxicant tablets. The stock of such tablets was being handed over to drug suppliers to facilitate trafficking. Granting pre-arrest bail, Justice Madaan asserted enough material was not there at the current stage to show that he had committed an offence under the NDPS Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bust-drug-cartel-high-court-directs-punjab-dgp-285923
21-07-2021||Faridkot||Faridkot: Three get bail in sacrilege case||The court of Judicial Magistrate Ist Class (JMIC), Faridkot, on Tuesday granted bail to three accused: Shakti Singh, Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola, and Baljit Singh, in a sacrilege case. The accused were in custody since May 17 when they were arrested by the newly formed Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the police.While granting bail, the court observed that the accused had already remained in custody for sufficiently long time. Moreover the offences, allegedly committed by the accused, were punishable for imprisonment for a maximum term of five years, so in view of the existing situation due to the pandemic, the trial of the case was not going to conclude soon, it said while releasing them on bail.The accused claimed that they were falsely implicated in the case and were not named initially in the FIR.Meanwhile, a day after the Punjab and Haryana High Court dismissed a petition by an accused in a sacrilege-related case, in which he had opposed sending his handwriting samples for comparison with those on some derogatory posters which were pasted outside a gurdwara in Bargari in September 2015, the SIT filed its chargesheet in the case in the court of JMIC here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faridkot-three-get-bail-in-sacrilege-case-285924
21-07-2021||Fazilka||Facing water scarcity, farmers block Fazilka-Abohar national highway||A large number of farmers blocked the Fazilka-Abohar national highway near Hiranwali Maur to protest the scarcity of canal water for irrigation purposes in tail-end villages of Fazilka district today. Hardip Dhaka, sarpanch of Khanpur village, said nearly 40 villages falling at the tail-end of the some non-perennial minor canals had been suffering due to scarcity of water.Dhaka said the government was supposed to release water in these canals from April 15 to August 15 during the peak season but the minor canals, which supplied water to tail-end villages, were almost running dry for the past 40 days as a result of which the standing cotton, paddy and guar crops had started dying.The affected villages are Khanpur, Kerian, Sivana, Muradwala, Tillanwali, Shahtirwala, Dhaban, Lakhewali Dhab, Bareka, Kabulshah, Hiranwali, Sabuana, etc. Most of these villages fall in the border belt. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/facing-water-scarcity-farmers-block-fazilka-abohar-national-highway-285925
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Rs 650 cr approved under Punjab Nirman Programme||Court stays conferring of sahitkar awardsLudhiana: Amid the allegations of nepotism, a local court here has restrained the state government and Languages Department from conferring Shiromani Sahitkar Awards to the selected persons till August 2, 2021. The petitioners have challanged the constitution of State Advisory Board.— OC300 kg lahan recovered, 3 held in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: Teams of the police and the Excise and Taxation Department on Monday conducted raids at seven points and recovered 300 kg of lahan and 68,250 ml of illicit liquor. While three persons were arrested, four managed to escape. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said a case had been registered against the accused. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-650-cr-approved-under-punjab-nirman-programme-285926
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh approves Rs 331 cr more to fight Covid||CM Capt Amarinder Singh today approved allocation of Rs 331 crore in addition to the money already allotted for emergency Covid response.During a virtual meeting on Covid review, he ordered establishment of a paediatric unit in each district and one centre of excellence in paediatrics for the state. The government, he further announced, will also establish liquid medical oxygen storage tanks in every district to ensure 24X7 availability of medical grade oxygen. Medical gas pipeline systems will also be set up at each district, sub-division and CHC level, he said, announcing the establishment of 17 additional RTPCR labs. ICU beds in government hospitals shall also be increased to 142, and a hub and scope model for telemedicine and teleconsultation shall also be established, he said.Dr KK Talwar, head of expert group on Covid, said the state was currently in a comfortable situation, though the fear of a possible third wave prevailed, with ICMR predicting it by end of August or beginning of September. “The situation may not be as bad as in the second wave unless a new variant is reported,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-approves-rs-331-cr-more-to-fight-covid-285991
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||100-bed makeshift Covid hospital in Talwandi Sabo||CM Capt Amarinder Singh today virtually inaugurated a 100-bed makeshift Covid hospital at Talwandi Sabo in Bathinda, scaling up the state’s preparedness for a possible third wave.The hospital has been built at a cost of Rs 651.21 lakh with the help of HMEL Refinery under the guidance of the CBRI, Roorkee. The government has provided Rs 4,51,21,000 out of its SDRF funds and HMEL Refinery, Phullo Khari, has given Rs 2 crore. HMEL Refinery has also provided 2.6 acre land for the hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/100-bed-makeshift-covid-hospital-in-talwandi-sabo-285992
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab government seeks 40L Covid vaccine doses from Centre||Citing the current demand for more than 2 lakh Covid vaccine doses for the second dose alone, CM Capt Amarinder Singh today demanded 40 lakh more doses from the Centre on an urgent basis to inoculate the eligible population.The state was expecting 2.46 lakh doses to arrive today but the CM, during a virtual meeting, noted that vaccine remains in short supply, having run out of Covishield and left with mere 3,500 Covaxin doses as of Monday. Punjab has vaccinated more than 90 lakh eligible persons (nearly 37% of eligible population), he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-seeks-40l-covid-vaccine-doses-from-centre-285993
21-07-2021||---||Punjab schools reopen for Class 10-12 from July 26||Chandigarh, July 20Relaxing Covid curbs, the Punjab Government has allowed reopening of schools for Classes 10 to 12 from July 26. The gathering cap has been eased to 150 persons indoors and 300 outdoors, subject to an upper limit of 50 per cent of the capacity of the venue.The decisions were announced following a Covid review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. It was noted that the positivity rate had fallen to 0.3 per cent while the reproduction number (Rt) had declined to 0.75, which was lower than the national average.Capt Amarinder said only those teachers and staff would be allowed to be physically present in schools who were fully vaccinated. “The physical presence of students will purely be on the consent of the parents. The option of virtual classes will continue,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-schools-reopen-for-class-10-12-from-july-26-285983
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh firm on apology, won’t meet Navjot Singh Sidhu||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh has reiterated his stand that he won’t meet newly elected PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu till he publicly apologises for his “derogatory social media attacks against him”.Terming reports of Sidhu seeking time to meet the CM as baseless, the latter’s media adviser Raveen Thukral tweeted, “Reports of @sherryontop seeking time to meet @capt_amarinder are totally false. No change in stance... CM won’t meet Sidhu till he publicly apologises for his personally derogatory social media attacks against him.” The statement came in the wake of ministers Tript Bajwa, Sukhbinder Sarkria and Charanjit Channi asking the CM to “have a large heart and forgive Sidhu like he did Partap Bajwa. For the entire day, political circles remained abuzz with contradictory reports on reconciliation.The issue gained importance after the CM in a meeting with Harish Rawat sought public apology from Sidhu for his social media tirade before meeting him. A senior party leader said reconciliation between the two was being linked to impending Punjab Cabinet reshuffle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-firm-on-apology-wont-meet-navjot-singh-sidhu-285985
21-07-2021||---||Congress, Akalis, AAP skip PM’s Covid meeting over farmers' stir||New Delhi, July 20Farmers’ issues continued to dominate the political landscape inside and outside Parliament with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today boycotting a meeting on Covid-19 called by PM Narendra Modi accusing the government of inaction in the matter.Narendra Singh Tomar, Agri MinisterDoor for discussion always open: TomarThe govt has repeatedly requested the farmers’ unions to discuss provisions of the farm laws, so that advancement can be made towards a resolution. But the unions insisted only on the repeal of laws.The Congress, RJD, CPI, CPM and the AIMIM also skipped the meeting citing other issues.Asked why the Congress was skipping the meeting, Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said, “Why should the PM brief only the floor leaders on the issue of national importance? He should speak in Parliament so that all MPs can listen.”SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said, “We have been urging the government to call an all-party meeting on farmers’ issues, understand sentiment of farmers and repeal the black laws. Since they are not responsive, we will boycott today’s meeting by the PM.”AAP’s Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann said, “What to speak of attending the PM’s meeting outside Parliament, we will not let him speak even inside Parliament till he adequately responds to the concerns of agitating farmers.”Earlier in the day, farmers’ issues were raised in both Houses and the proceedings remained disrupted.Congress’ Lok Sabha members Manish Tewari and JS Gill and party’s Rajya Sabha MPs Deepender Hooda and Partap Singh Bajwa gave adjournment notices for the suspension of business of the two Houses to discuss the demands of agitating farmers.Akali Dal’s Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal and Aam Aadmi Party’s Bhagwant Mann also submitted notices for the second straight day.All parties repeated the call to repeal the three laws besides assuring farmers as regards the minimum support price regime and the role of agricultural produce marketing committees. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla disallowed the notices with the Members of Parliament of the Congress, the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party vowing to move adjournment motion notices every day during the session.Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu also turned down Deepender Singh Hooda's notice for suspension of business of the House to discuss farmers' stir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-akalis-aap-skip-pms-covid-meeting-over-farmers-stir-285986
21-07-2021||Saurabh Malik||Ex-CJ moves HC against installation of ‘surveillance cameras’ at Chief Justice's residence||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 20In virtually a Chief Justice-versus-Chief Justice case, a former Chief Justice and a Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Justice N.K. Sodhi, on Tuesday moved the HC against the installation of “surveillance cameras” at the residence of the present Chief Justice.Living opposite the official residence of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha in Sector 4, Karnataka High Court’s former Chief Justice Sodhi claimed that the high-resolution, infra-red, cameras installed on the “tall poles” violated his right to privacy.Justice Sodhi’s pleaHis counsel Rajiv Atma Ram, Arjun Partap Atma Ram and Brijesh Khosla contended: “The cameras can record persons and cars and other vehicles coming to, leaving, going in, and going out of the petitioner’s residence; they can look into the front and the side portion of the petitioner’s built-up house. Thus, there is an invasion of privacy of all the residents of (his) house number 36, Sector 4, Chandigarh….”The petition against the Union of India, UT Chandigarh, Adviser to the UT Administrator, the Chandigarh Police, the High Court and CRPF Director-General was placed before Division Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash this morning.  The matter has been disposed of but detailed order was not yet available.UT additional standing counsel Namit Kumar, during the course of hearing, placed before the Bench an “inquiry report” in a sealed cover. A communication by HC Registrar-General Sanjiv Berry to Justice Sodhi was also placed before the Bench. It said spot inspection was carried out after Justice Sodhi’s letter was sent to UT DGP for information and necessary action.The DGP’s office subsequently said the cameras were installed to “secure the protected persons from all possible apprehensions of threats in accordance with the provisions of the Yellow Book”. These cameras did not cover the houses on the opposite side of the street and only covered area up to the road-berm of house number 34 and 36. There was no trespass or breach into privacy of house number 36.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-cj-moves-hc-against-installation-of-surveillance-cameras-at-chief-justices-residence-285912
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu's appointment is welcome, but won't meet him till he resolves issues with Punjab CM: Brahm Mohindra||Senior Punjab Cabinet Minister Brahm Mohindra on Tuesday welcomed the appointment of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the PPCC president, but ruled out a personal meeting with him till he resolves his issues with Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh.In a statement issued here, Brahm Mohindra said the decision to appoint Sidhu had been taken by the high command and is welcome.“However, I will not meet him (Sidhu) till he meets the Chief Minister and resolves his issues with him”, said Mohindra, adding that Captain Amarinder Singh is the leader of the Congress legislative party and he (Mohindra) is duty-bound to follow him.Besides being the CLP leader, the Chief Minister also heads the cabinet of which he is a part, said the minister, making it clear that unless the newly appointed Punjab Congress chief sorts out all issues with Captain Amarinder, there was no possibility of him (Mohindra) meeting him personally.“We have a collective responsibility and hence I would refrain from meeting the newly appointed president till issues between him and the CM are resolved”, said Mohindra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhus-appointment-is-welcome-but-wont-meet-him-till-he-resolves-issues-with-punjab-cm-brahm-mohindra-285870
21-07-2021||---||Punjab reopens schools for Classes 10-12 from July 26||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 20Schools for Classes 10, 11, and 12 in Punjab are all set to open from July 26, with Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday announcing further relaxations, including an increase in the number of people in indoor gatherings to 150 and outdoors to 300, subject to an upper limit of 50% of the capacity.Taking note of the decline in Covid positivity to 0.3 %, with Reproduction number (Rt) at 0.75 for Punjab (lower than the national average), the Chief Minister said schools will be allowed to open for classes X to XII, but only those teachers and staff shall be allowed to be physically present who are fully vaccinated.Physical presence of the students shall be purely at the consent of the parents, and the option of virtual classes shall be continued. An undertaking to this effect shall be submitted to the Deputy Commissioners concerned, he directed.If the situation remains under control, the remaining classes shall similarly be allowed to open from 2nd August 2021, the Chief Minister announced, pointing out that the Cambridge University has predicted that the cases shall further decline in the coming weeks.With respect to social gatherings, the Chief Minister said artists/ musicians shall be allowed at such functions/ celebrations in all areas, with adherence to Covid protocols.The relaxations came days after the Chief Minister had ordered opening of bars, cinema halls, restaurants, spas, swimming pools, coaching centres, sports complexes, gyms, malls, museums, zoos, etc. at 50 % with vaccine compliance.He had also earlier allowed colleges, coaching centres and all other institutions of higher learning to open with similar compliance.The Chief Minister, during a virtual review meeting of the Covid situation, said that the month wise whole genome sequencing has shown that more than 90% is a variant of concern i.e. the original virus has been practically replaced by variants, and the Delta variant remained predominant even in the month of June.However, there are no new cases of the Delta Plus variant, he noted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reopens-schools-for-classes-10-12-from-july-26-285857
21-07-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||New PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu calls for ‘haq-sach di ladai’ at Khatkar Kalan||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, July 20Two days after being appointed the PPCC president, Navjot Singh Sidhu paid obeisance at the memorial site of Bhagat Singh at his ancestral village Khatkar Kalan around noon on Tuesday. Sidhu was reportedly accompanied by working president Kuljit Nagra and six other MLAs - Angad Saini, Darshan S Mangupur, Rajkumar Verka, Sukhpal Bhullar, Inderbir Singh Bolaria and Gurpreet GP.Youth Congress leader Barinder Dhillon, ex-MLA Tarlochan Soondh and Lalli Majithia also came along.The convoy of Congress leaders started from Chandigarh to head towards Amritsar, Sidhu’s home constituency.Also read: Navjot Singh Sidhu receives warm welcome in Amritsar; several senior leaders conspicuous by their absenceSidhu raised slogans, ‘Shaheedo teri soch te, pehra deyange thok ke’ at the memorial.Since it was raining heavily when the PPCC chief reached the site, he got drenched. Clad in a purple kurta pyjama and turban, he addressed the media at the site saying, “I have come here to seek the directions from the land of the martyr. I wish all Punjabis take strength from Bhagat Singh and set out on 'haq ate sach di ladai'. Every Punjabi must consider himself to be a stakeholder in the ongoing quest to regain prosperity for the state."Hours before Sidhu was to reach the venue, farmers representing Doaba Kisan Union gathered in large numbers at the memorial. The farmers said they had come to tell him that he should not make false promises about Punjab at the site.They also alleged that Sidhu had not supported their ongoing agitation so far.High security arrangements had to be made to ensure safety of the political leaders. Since the farmers could not catch up with Sidhu, they blocked the Phagwara-Nawanshahr highway for some time to lodge their protest.Ahead of Sidhu’s visit, the scenes of Congress infighting surfaced. Congress workers from Banga who are in support and defiance of Sidhu came across each other and indulged in pro- and anti-Sidhu sloganeering.Sidhu gets injury in footNavjot Sidhu got hurt during his visit to Khatkar Kalan.He had removed his shoes to pay respects at the statue and was walking barefoot to address the media, when the nail of his toe came off. The party leaders standing next to him said he bled profusely but he carried on.He was later provided bandage in the car.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-ppcc-chief-navjot-sidhu-calls-for-haq-sach-di-ladai-at-khatkar-kalan-285830
