23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sees 69 new Covid cases, 4 more deaths||Punjab on Friday reported four more COVID-19 deaths, which took the toll to 16,256, while 69 fresh infections took the total case count to 5,98,658, according to a medical bulletin.The deaths were reported from Amritsar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Jalandhar and Mohali.The toll also includes two deaths which were not reported earlier, according to the bulletin.The number of active cases in the state stands at 768, it said.Jalandhar reported 16 infections, followed by six in Bathinda and five in Faridkot, according to the bulletin.With 105 recoveries, the number of cured persons has reached 5,81,634 in the state, it stated.A total of 1,18,38,018 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, according to the bulletin.Meanwhile, Chandigarh, the common capital of Punjab and Haryana, reported only one case.The case tally stands at 61,917 in the Union Territory, according to the medical bulletin. The toll figure stood at 809.The number of active cases is 33, it said.With two patients being discharged after they recovered from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 61,075, according to the bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sees-69-new-covid-cases-4-more-deaths-287224
23-07-2021||Amritsar||2015 sacrilege: ‘Parallel’ acting Jathedar summons cabinet ministers, MLAs to Akal Takht||Dhian Singh Mand, the ‘parallel’ acting Jathedar of Akal Takht, has summoned two Punjab ministers and three MLAs to the Akal Takht on August 2 for explaining why the promises made to end the ‘Bargarhi Morcha’ protests over the 2015 sacrilege and the subsequent police firing were as yet unfulfilled.Mand, who was named acting jathedar during the controversial 2015 Sarbat Khalsa and had spearheaded the protest, condemned the Punjab government under Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh for not keeping their word. The Bargarhi protests lasted six months from June 1 to December 10, 2018.Mand, who paid his obeisance at the Akal Takht here, asked two ministers in the Amarinder Singh government, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, and three Congress Members of Legislative Assembly Harminder Singh Gill, Kulbir Singh Zira and Kushaldeep Singh Kiki Dhillon to appear before the Akal Takht on August 2 at 11 am.“The government has betrayed the Sikh Panth. These ministers and MLAs were directed to appear in person at the Akal Takht to explain the constraints of not fulfilling the promises. The issue related to Sikh sentiments and there could be no place for leniency and negligence,” Mand said.All five were in a government panel set up to hold talks with organisers of the protest. The protest ended after the panel promised to bring those behind the sacrilege and the police firing incidents at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan to justice.The morcha had also demanded the release of Sikh detainees languishing in various jails or their transfer to those in Punjab.‘Panj pyaras’ Baba Nachchattar Singh, Bhai Gurbhej Singh, Bhai Gurwinder Singh, Bhai Gurjinder Singh, and Bhai Buta Singh were present. Also in attendance was Jarnail Singh Sakhira, one of the main organisers of Sarbat Khalsa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2015-sacrilege-parallel-acting-jathedar-summons-cabinet-ministers-mlas-to-akal-takht-287191
23-07-2021||Patiala||Punjab lad shines at world cadet wrestling championship||Wrestler Jaskaran Singh's performance at the ongoing World cadet wrestling Championship finally ended Punjab’s three-decade wait for a medal.Singh, a 16-year-old wrestler from Mandaur village in Patiala, won a silver medal at the World Championship (July 19-25) being held at Budapest, Hungary.Notably, Randhir Singh was the last wrestler of Punjab to win a medal at the World Cadet Championship in 1987.Jaskaran, who has been trained by the coaches Saraj Singh and Gurmel Singh at the Rustum-E- Hind Pehwlan Kesar Singh Akahda in Patiala, has won the silver medal in the 60 kg weight category in freestyle wrestling. He defeated four wrestlers one-sided in the run-up to the final bout. In the final, Jaskaran lost to Kamronbek Kadamov of Uzbekistan.Singh has already won several medals at the National level Championships.Saraj Singh said, “It was Jaskaran’s first international tournament, and he won a medal. He is a talented young wrestler and will go a long way.”It has been learned that Jaskaran’s family had moved to Patiala from their village a few years ago -- just to support Jaskaran. Ranjeet Singh, Jaskaran's father, said, "We had shifted to Patiala to support Jaskaran. We are very happy with his performance. We are thankful to his coaches."Arjun awardee Palwinder Singh Cheema, incharge of Jaskaran's akahda, said, “Jaskaran has made everyone proud. The hard work of Jaskaran and his coaches have resulted in a big achievement. I think this performance will inspire other wrestlers.”Mohinder Singh, General Secretary, Patiala wrestling association, said, “This medal will give a big boost to the wrestling sport in the state. “||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-lad-shines-at-world-cadet-wrestling-championship-287162
23-07-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Sonu Sood, sister visit those injured in Moga road accident, announce financial help||Chandigarh, July 23Actor Sonu Sood, along with his sister Malvika Sood, rushed to the Civil Hospital to meet the victims of the Moga bus accident on Friday.He enquired about the condition of the injured.Expressing grief over the accident, he announced Rs 50,000 each to the families of the deceased and Rs 25,000 each to those injured, according to a report in Punjabi Tribune.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sonu-sood-sister-visit-those-injured-in-moga-road-accident-announce-financial-help-287160
23-07-2021||Archit Watts||Senior Congress leader from Lambi Gurmeet Khudian quits party||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, July 23Senior Congress leader from Lambi Gurmeet Singh Khudian on Friday left the Congress.He said, "We were feeling ignored for long, thus took the step. Even Capt Amarinder Singh after contesting the Assembly election from Lambi in 2017 did not visit the place even once. Nobody heard our issues."Gurmeet, son of former MP Jagdev Singh Khudian, said he would contest the coming Assembly election.Khudian was earlier president of District Congress Committee, Muktsar, for five years. He was the covering candidate for Capt Amarinder Singh in 2017 from Lambi Assembly segment. He had joined the Congress in 2004.Khudian claimed that some other Congress leaders had also left the Congress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/senior-congress-leader-from-lambi-gurmeet-khudian-quits-party-287154
23-07-2021||---||Naidu assured delegation that he had looked into matter related to Panjab University, says Sukhbir||New Delhi, July 23Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Badal on Friday claimed that Vice President Venkaiah Naidu, who is Chancellor of Panjab University, had assured a delegation that he had already looked into the matter of dis-affiliating some colleges of the university and no change in the character of the PU would be done.The Akali Dal delegation thanked Naidu.The delegation had raised the issue which, they said, was anti-Punjabi.The PU is based in Chandigarh and colleges in Punjab are affiliated to the university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/naidu-assured-delegation-that-he-had-looked-into-matter-related-to-panjab-university-says-sukhbir-287147
23-07-2021||---||3 Congress workers killed in road accident in Punjab’s Moga||Moga, July 23Three persons were killed and 50 others injured when a Punjab Roadways bus and a private minibus collided near Lohara village in  Moga district on Friday morning.The injured, most of them Congress workers, were rushed to the district hospital at Moga from where three seriously injured were referred to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital at Faridkot.Congress workers were in the minibus which was on its way from Zira to Chandigarh. They were going for the installation ceremony of new Punjab Pardesh Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.The police reached the spot and began investigation.Preliminary investigation revealed that the driver of the minibus was driving the bus at a high speed, the police said.The deceased have been identified as Virsa Singh and Vicky, residents of Malsihan village in Zira of Ferozepur; and Gurdev Singh, resident of Ghuduwala village in Ferozepur.Later in the evening, Sidhu visited the district hospital in Moga to enquire about the health condition of the injured workers.Saddened to learn of the bus accident in Moga district in which 3 Congress workers have reportedly died & many persons are injured. Have directed DC Moga to immediately provide full medical treatment to all the injured and to send a report to the Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-congress-workers-killed-in-road-accident-in-punjabs-moga-287127
23-07-2021||Aparna Banerji||Dr BR Ambedkar — the only Indian to find a place at Gray’s Inn||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 22Dr BR Ambedkar became the first Indian with a room dedicated to him at the Gray’s Inn, London. The Gray’s Inn is one of the four Inns of Court in London with an illustrious list of jurists, judges and barristers such as Francis Bacon, Baron Slynn, Lord Bingham of Cornhill and others having been its members.An institution unique to BritainDr Ambedkar’s connectDr BR Ambedkar is the first person of the Indian origin and the very second jurist in the world to have a room dedicated to him at the Gray’s Inn. The Inn, previously had a room dedicated to Rose Heilbron, England’s first woman queen counsel and judge.The historic development is the result of the efforts of human rights and equality campaigner Santosh Dass — an ex-civil servant and a woman of Punjabi origin. Hailing from Hamirowal village in Nawanshahr, Dass has been a relentless rights activist and the campaigner against caste-based discrimination. She was also the key person behind the proposal to the Indian government to make Ambedkar House in London a memorial.The room dedicated to Dr Ambedkar is a direct result of discussions since 2018 between Santosh Dass MBE, president of the Federation of Ambedkarite and Buddhist Organisations (FABO) UK and Brigadier Anthony Harking OBE, Under Treasurer, at the Inn. Unveiled by Master Ali Malek QC, Master Treasurer, Gray’s Inn, it will be used by barristers in training and as a meeting room. A portrait of Dr Ambedkar donated by FABO UK was also unveiled on the occasion.At a 25-member reception held on June 30, those present included Dass, Dr Ambedkar’s great grandson Sujat Ambedkar, alumni of Gray’s Inn, Ambedkarite Dr Suraj Yengde, Master Ali Malek QC, artist David Newens (who painted Dr Ambedakr’s newly dedicated portrait) and parliamentarian Lord David Alton of Liverpool, among others.Santosh Dass, said: “This is a great honour for all Ambedkarites around the world. I am confident that the new Ambedkar Room and the portrait donated by the FABO UK will arouse the curiosity of legal students who will get a chance to learn about Dr Ambedkar’s accomplishments. It is a wonderful feeling to know that the generations of barristers will now have a direct acquaintance with Dr Ambedkar’s persona. For a number of years, the Gray’s Inn and I discussed the ways in which we could raise the profile of Dr Ambedkar at Gray’s Inn. Dr Ambedkar inspired the Buddhist movement in India and was the chief architect of India’s Constitution. It is therefore demeaning when he is merely reduced to a leader of the ‘untouchables’. He believed in secular society. We can imagine his outrage at the draconian laws that are being liberally used by the Indian Government now to incarcerate without bail, academics (including Dr Anand Teltumbde), human rights activists who raise their voice against atrocities against minorities or corruption.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dr-br-ambedkar-%E2%80%94-the-only-indian-to-find-a-place-at-grays-inn-286850
23-07-2021||---||Three Punjabis stuck in Malta rescued safely||Jalandhar, July 22Swift action by the Jalandhar Commissionerate Police has yielded positive results as three Punjabis, including a woman, have been rescued from Malta.Deputy Commissioner of Police Gurmeet Singh said a few days ago, a video of Jalandhar resident Sagar had gone viral on social media, in which he highlighted his plight in Malta where he was taken as a machine operator.Sagar and Arshdeep from Jalandhar and Krishna Devi from Ludhiana were sent to Malta as machine operators by A&Z Exports Ltd, he added. The company had exported some machinery to Malta for making face masks and these three persons were sent along with the consignment as machine operators, adding that initially they were kept in Dubai for a period of 14 days and then they were sent to Malta.The DCP stated that they were allegedly made bonded labourers and made to undergo physical torture where Sagar made his videos seeking help and highlighting their plight in Malta. Notably, Sagar in the video had also mentioned that he would commit suicide, if not rescued, he said. Taking prompt action on the viral video, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar deputed officials to verify the facts and take appropriate action.He said appropriate arrangements were made to bring all three distressed Punjabis back to Jalandhar and now they have been reunited with their families. Thanking the CP, all rescued persons stated that they had got a new lease of life. The DCP further added that legal action will be taken against the erring persons under the prevailing laws after all the victims file a written complaint.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-punjabis-stuck-in-malta-rescued-safely-286851
23-07-2021||The Tribune correspondent Neha Saini and photojournalist Sunil Kumar take you through an aesthetic journey by capturing art works that add to the visual beauty of the holy city. Here’s a sneak peek into the abstract world of creativity...||An art work on life of Guru Nanak Dev that captures the visual beauty of holy city Amritsar||Janamsakhi of Tera TeraThe art on life of Guru Nanak Dev has been displayed at the Vice-Chancellor’s office at GNDU. It’s 12 ft in height and based on ‘Janamsakhi of Tera Tera’, which is designed by city-based artist Sumeet Dua, and conceptualised in collaboration with Arvinder Chamak. It has been made in ‘Nanakshahi’ brick structure, with graphic representation of Tera (13) and jute bags of various grains displayed with a ‘takadi’ (scale). It was installed during Art Festival, which was organised on the eve of the 550th Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev at Dera Baba Nanak.Bloody PartitionOne of the striking art works at the Partition Museum, is a gigantic saw jutting out from a brick wall, showcasing India-Pakistan Partition in 1947. The art installation is among many other aesthetic reminders of one of the biggest mass migrations in the world history.A saga of loveThe famous Punjabi folklore of Sohni Mahiwal has been depicted beautifully by eminent artist OP Verma at Art Gallery in Amritsar. In a relief work, figures project from a supporting background. Titled Sohni Mahiwal, the art work was inaugurated in 2014, and since has been attracting art students.Women as foundation stoneTo commemorate the International Women’s Day in 2020, a brick art was created by several city-based artists in collaboration with the FICCI FLO on a roundabout near the airport. The brick art done in a ‘Nanakshahi’ style depicts women as a foundation stone of society. A champa tree planted in the middle is a metaphor for women.Universality mattersThe 500 kg and 13-foot tall sculpture greets passangers at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport’s entrance. It is designed by artist Sumeet Dua. The sculpture ‘Ball of Joy’ has two abstract human figures. It was set up in 2019 and was conceptualised to convey the message of universality and global travelling.Right to EducationThe pencil and book art is installed on one of the busiest routes in the city and is dedicated to the Right to Education Act. Installed in 2016, when the city was undergoing massive aesthetic makeover, this structure was donated by a city-based private education centre to the district administration.In memory of martyrs Considered as one of the oldest art installation in the city, this concrete structure was made by architect Mohinderjit Singh at Rose Avenue Park in 1995. It was designed on a pattern similar to a memorial inside Jallianwala Bagh.Tributes to freedom fightersA 16-ft high memorial of marble sculpted by Anoop Barlaria and Shashank Jain has sketches of freedom fighters etched on it. The 'White flame' has names of all Jallianwala Bagh martyrs embedded on it. It was inaugurated by former deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal, when he dedicated Heritage Street to public in 2016.Message of sustainabilityColourful striking mural made out of acrylic and ceramic waste by Smiley Chaudhary was installed at the Police Lines on the International Earth Day this year. Giving a message of sustainability, this site will be turned into a mini-forest by the FICCI FLO.Broken bondsThe red-brick structure at the Partition Museum is a ‘Nanakshahi’ style of architecture, which depicts broken bonds of humanity during the 1947 Partition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/an-art-work-on-life-of-guru-nanak-dev-that-captures-the-visual-beauty-of-holy-city-amritsar-287119
23-07-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Extortion gang busted in Fatehgarh Sahib||Bank official robbed Abohar: A bank official, who was returning after collecting money from customers, was on Wednesday night robbed of Rs 32,406 by an armed miscreant. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/extortion-gang-busted-in-fatehgarh-sahib-286937
23-07-2021||New Delhi||DSGMC poll on August 22||The election to the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC), which was earlier postponed due to the second wave of Covid-19, will be held on August 22.DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Thursday tweeted about the schedule after Delhi Government’s submission in the Delhi High Court affirming the date. The Directorate of Gurdwara Elections submitted the poll schedule to the court. The result will be announced on August 31. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dsgmc-poll-on-august-22-286935
23-07-2021||Bathinda||ASHA workers seek pay  hike||Demanding an increase in their commissions/incentives on Haryana pattern, ASHA Workers and Facilitators’ Union members carried out a protest march from the district administrative complex to the Finance Minister’s office.They pushed their way through the barricades outside the minister’s office and gheraoed it. A heavy police force was deployed that used mild force to stop them, but the protesters managed to reach the office. They raised slogans against the government and also thumped utensils to express their resentment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asha-workers-seek-pay-hike-286933
23-07-2021||Our Correspondent||33 booked for water theft from canals in Fazilka district||Fazilka, July 22The state government has cracked the whip on affluent persons and farmers for allegedly stealing water from non-perennial canals in Fazilka district.As many as 33 persons have been booked on the allegation of organised theft of canal water. However, no one has been arrested. SDO Tehal Singh said nearly 80 pipes laid illegally on different canals had been confiscated during the past few days.Farmers, whose land fall at the tail-end of canals, had blocked Fazilka-Abohar national highway on Tuesday on the allegation that the canals were almost running dry due to paucity of water.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/33-booked-for-water-theft-from-canals-in-fazilka-district-286931
23-07-2021||---||Jalandhar: Kin seek world record for 124-yr-old woman||Jalandhar, July 22“I have lost my husband and five of nine children. I have even lost my eyesight but perhaps God has forgotten to take me back from this world,” says Basant Kaur of Sabuwal village near Lohian here, whose family claims she is 132 years old.The documents of the elderly woman, however, show her age as 124 years. Her voter ID card says her age, as of January 1, 1995, is 98 years. Hard of hearing, Basant Kaur has to be conveyed all queries through her daughter-in-law Kulwant Kaur, who maintains that she is 132 years old and a proper age entry could not be made in the ID proof. Her great grandson Varinder Singh (27), who resides in Kapurthala, demands that her name be entered in the world record as the oldest woman on Earth.Basant Kaur says she has seen three centuries and is happily watching kids of her fifth generation grow. Her great great granddaughter Jasleen Kaur is two years old. “I had nine children, five of whom have already passed away. One of them died at 94,” she says. She proudly tells that she is free from any ailment. “My only problem is that I cannot see and I am a little hard of hearing. I enjoy taking sweets in all my meals. I take two chapattis along with a vegetable and curd. I am not taking any medicine even at this age,” she laughs with the number of wrinkles on her face doubling up and her eyes getting even more sunken. Well verse of the current situation, she talks about the prevailing Covid infection. She can even walk about her home with some support. Neighbour Aman Panesar says he enjoys listening to the stories of pre-Independence era from Basant Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-kin-seek-world-record-for-124-yr-old-woman-286930
23-07-2021||New Delhi||Ruckus in Parliament, Opposition rallies behind farmers as protesters hold ‘Kisan Sansad’||Even as a group of 200 farmers protesting the Centre’s three agricultural laws started a ‘Kisan Sansad’ at Jantar Mantar today, Opposition MPs, including those of the Congress, SAD and AAP, staged a protest inside Parliament complex demanding repeal of the legislations.The issues concerning the farmers resonated inside the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha as well and were one of the reasons for adjournment of the Houses for the day. The Opposition members raised slogans and waved placards, demanding a rollback of the laws. In the morning, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi led a protest by party MPs at Parliament complex, expressing solidarity with the agitators at Jantar Mantar. All Punjab Congress MPs were present with several carrying posters reading “justice for farmers”.In Rajya Sabha, breach of privilege noticeCongress MPs Deepender Singh Hooda and Partap Singh Bajwa submitted breach of privilege notice against the Delhi Police to the RS Secretary-General, flagging ‘attempts by cops to obstruct them from briefing the media at Vijay Chowk.’SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and his wife and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Badal too protested outside Parliament and flashed pro-farmer placards at Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar when he arrived for the proceedings. “Akali Dal will not give up till the Centre repeals three farm laws,” said Sukhbir. AAP MP Bhagwant Mann supported the protesters and said they deserved justice.Earlier, Mann, Harsimrat and Congress MPs, including Manish Tewari (Lok Sabha), Deepender Singh Hooda and Partap Singh Bajwa (Rajya Sabha) again moved notices for adjournment of proceedings of the two houses to discuss farmers’ issues. The notices were rejected by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu.Even as Tomar reiterated the government commitment to engage the farmers should they flag specific objections to the laws, BJP leader and Minister of State for External Affairs Meenakshi Lekhi at an official party press conference called the protesters at Jantar Mantar “mawaalis”.“Stop calling them farmers. They are not farmers (but)... a handful of people playing into the hands of conspirators and doing all in the name of farmers,” said Lekhi.Asked again about the protesters, she added, “Again you are calling them farmers. They are ‘mawaalis’. Whatever happened on January 26 in the capital was a criminal act and the Opposition promoted these things.” She retracted after Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh demanded her resignation for using "disparaging references for the agitating farmers”.Meanwhile, the protesters organised a ‘Kisan Sansad’ and debated the changes in the APMC Act in two sessions, punctuated by a ‘langar’ (community kitchen) on the first day.Rejecting Tomar’s claim on the farm laws as “hollow”, the farmers said “he should visit ‘Kisan Sansad’ to understand their concerns. Farmer leaders also said they suspected they were being snooped on.BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, denying political ambitions, said farmers would hold a ‘mahapanchayat’ in September to devise a strategy for the upcoming Assembly elections. “We will not contest, nor support any party. But the medicine we gave in Bengal, we will give it in UP and other states too. Till the time the government does not recover completely, we will continue with our ‘ilaaj’ (treatment),” Tikait said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ruckus-in-parliament-opposition-rallies-behind-farmers-as-protesters-hold-kisan-sansad-286807
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM to attend Navjot Singh Sidhu’s installation today||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday agreed to attend the installation ceremony of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the new PPCC chief. The CM had earlier said he would not meet Sidhu till he publicly apologised for his “derogatory” tweets. AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat, who reached here by a chopper late this evening, is expected to bring Captain and Sidhu together before the installation ceremony.Significantly, 58 of the 80 Congress MLAs had on Wednesday signed a four-page letter to Captain, urging him to attend the installation ceremony. The letter was today handed over to the CM by working presidents Kuljit Singh Nagra and Sangat Singh Gilzian. Minister Sunder Sham Arora and former Batala MLA Ashwani Sekhri were also present. The CM reportedly told the working presidents that there was no need for an invite as he had already called party MLAs and MPs for tea tomorrow. Nagra and Gilzian are learnt to have pointed out that it was to express unity that the MLAs had signed the invitation.“I have no personal agenda. Only pro-people agenda.Thus, as the eldest of our Punjab Congress family, I request you to please come and bless the new team of the PPCC,” Sidhu wrote in another letter.The CM has invited all party leaders, including MPs and MLAs, for tea at Punjab Bhawan after which they will together leave for Congress Bhawan for the installation ceremony. Raveen Thukral, CM’s media adviser, tweeted: “Punjab @capt_amarinder has invited all @INCPunjab MLAs, MPs and senior party functionaries at Punjab Bhawan for tea at 10 am on Friday. They will all then go to Punjab Congress Bhawan for the installation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-to-attend-navjot-singh-sidhus-installation-today-286808
23-07-2021||Sameer Singh||Provide Rs 4L relief to patients given HIV-positive blood at Civil Hospital in Bathinda: NHRC||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, July 22The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), in a letter issued to the Chief Secretary, has directed to provide a compensation of Rs 4 lakh each to the victims who were transfused HIV-positive blood at the Civil Hospital in Bathinda last year.Notably, a seven-year-old thalassemic girl patient and another woman were transfused HIV-positive blood at the blood bank unit of the Civil Hospital. Later, owing to gross negligence on the part of the staff, five more patients were given this blood on different occasions thereby putting lives in danger.In a letter to the Chief Secretary, NHRC Deputy Director Debindra Kundra said the matter of compensation to the victims was brought to the notice of the state government on previous occasions as well but nothing was done. The NHRC said the state government must provide a compensation of Rs 4 lakh each to two victims and also file a compliance report and details of payment made to it on or before August 27, 2021, failing which the commission would exercise its powers to ensure compliance of the directive.The NHRC noted that it was negligence and a criminal act by the hospital staff that HIV-positive blood was given to patients. It further added a staff member of the blood bank unit deliberately invited an infected person for blood donation and transfused it to children and other patients to settle scores with the other staff members of the unit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/provide-rs-4l-relief-to-patients-given-hiv-positive-blood-at-civil-hospital-in-bathinda-nhrc-286928
23-07-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda roads inundated, parties spar over drainage||Rain yet again exposed the ill-preparedness of the Municipal Corporation (MC), Bathinda, on Thursday as many parts of the city, including markets and posh localities, remained waterlogged throughout the day.Former SAD MLA Sarup Chand Singla shared a video on a social media platform wherein he is wading through knee-deep water in the market areas of the city.He criticised the “lack” of preparedness of the MC and attacked Finance Minister Manpreet Badal, saying every year, crores of rupees were earmarked in the name of providing better sewerage and drainage system but the ground reality told a different tale altogether.Apart from many market and residential areas, posh localities such as Civil Lines, Model Town, Mall Road and Powerhouse Road were waterlogged for hours. As per the meteorology department, Bathinda witnessed 34 mm rain on Thursday. In Parasram Nagar, water overflowed from roads and entered houses in the area. Ram Singh Virk, former Youth Congress president, said, “It seems Singla has forgotten when rainwater used to take more than 10 days to get drained out from city roads during the Akali government. The Finance Minister has carried out developmental works in the city and now, rainwater is getting drained in a matter of few hours.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-roads-inundated-parties-spar-over-drainage-286927
23-07-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Sangrur: Water level in Ghaggar rises, residents worried||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, July 22Water level in the Ghaggar has increased. After the initial rain, mud has started flowing into the river from the embankment near Moonak to Tohana road.Farmers in Sangrur claim they have been pooling money for strengthening the embankments of the river.“The Punjab Government must order a high-level inquiry into the utilisation of funds spent on cleaning the Ghaggar. We have not seen the sanctioned funds being put to proper use. During the past two years, farmers of the area have contributed Rs 400 per acre for the Ghaggar. Had the officials used the funds properly, there was no need for residents to pool money,” said Lakhvir Singh Bhindar, member of the Ghaggar Control Committee formed by farmers.Will clean riverThe Panchayat Department is getting the river cleaned through MGNREGA labour and it will spend Rs83 lakh on it. Chetan Gupta, SDO, Drainage DepartmentResidents of villages, located near the Ghaggar, said the officials concerned had been getting huge bills passed every year when the water level of the river rose, but no action was taken when the level receded.Senior officials of the Drainage Department said resectioning of the Ghaggar was done from Khanauri to Makraud Sahib, around 10 years back.However, farmers, whose land was located between Makraud Sahib to Kadail, have been facing problems as the resectioning of that area is pending. “Presently, the water level in the Ghaggar is 745 feet, while the danger point is 747 feet. The panchayat department is getting the river cleaned through MGNREGA labour and it will spend Rs 83 lakh on it. The money is being used as per the government norms,” said Chetan Gupta, SDO, Drainage Department.Sangrur Deputy Commissioner Ramvir, who visited various areas near the Ghaggar, in Moonak, on Thursday, said, “We are committed to protecting the lives and property of people. At present, the water situation in the Ghaggar is under control. Sufficient funds are available with the district administration and arrangements are in place to deal with any situation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-water-level-in-ghaggar-rises-residents-worried-286926
23-07-2021||New Delhi||AAP to oppose electricity Bill: Bhagwant Singh Mann||Punjab AAP president and MP Bhagwant Singh Mann on Thursday said his party will oppose the Electricity Amendment Bill-2021 in Parliament because the proposed law was against the interest of farmers.“The Centre is now snatching electricity rights from the states, like health and education,” Mann told reporters. He was accompanied by Jarnail Singh, AAP MLA from Delhi and in-charge of Punjab affairs, on the occasion.He expressed apprehension that with the implementation of the Electricity Amendment Bill, the farmers would start getting bills. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-to-oppose-electricity-bill-bhagwant-singh-mann-286924
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||14 years on, ‘house’ for PCC chief in Punjab Congress Bhavan in disuse||Navjot Singh Sidhu’s elevation as the PCC chief has brought into spotlight a two-room residential accommodation for the state party chief in Punjab Congress Bhavan that has been lying in disuse for the past over 14 years.The foundation stone of Congress Bhavan was laid by slain Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in September 1973 and inaugurated by former Punjab CM late Giani Zail Singh in December 1974. Now, a part of ill-kept accommodation is being used by security personnel, deputed with different leaders.Last time, accommodation was used by Rajya Sabha MP Shamsher Singh Dullo, who remained PCC chief from 2005 to 2007. After Dullo, Partap Singh Bajwa, Capt Amarinder Singh and Sunil Jakhar, who remained PCC chiefs, never used the premises.Rajpal Singh, a veteran Congress leader who worked as general secretary with Dullo, said there used to be lot of activity in Congress Bhavan as the party president used to regularly sit there.Many old timers recall that slain Chief Minister Beant Singh used to stay here. Another former PCC president Hanspal renovated the place and used it. Adjoining residence was made for the Punjab affairs general secretary, before being taken over by the Punjab Youth Congress and NSUI office. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/14-years-on-house-for-pcc-chief-in-punjab-congress-bhavan-in-disuse-286923
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Quit for dubbing farmers ‘hooligans’: Punjab CM to Union Minister Meenakshi Lekhi||Even as Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh condemned the alleged attack on a journalist at the farmers’ protest site Delhi’s Jantar Mantar, he demanded immediate resignation of Union Minister Meenakshi Lekhi for dubbing the farmers ‘hooligans’.Slamming the BJP leader for using derogatory language against the farmers, who have been peacefully agitating against the farm laws for nearly eight months, the Chief Minister said it reflected the anti-farmer mindset of the party.The Union Minister’s reaction was uncalled for and provocative, he said. Lekhi, he said, had no right to defame the farmers.The Delhi Police should file a case, he said, adding that the BJP should not condemn the farmers in an outrageous manner over the incident. Pointing to the comments made by various BJP leaders against the farmers ever since their agitation started at the Delhi borders, he said, the ruling party had been trying to malign the farmers and undermine their peaceful protests. He said the BJP leaders had earlier to defame the farmers with slanderous descriptions such as ‘terrorists’ and ‘urban Naxalites’.Having failed to deter the farmers, who had even lost their lives in the ‘fight’, the BJP leadership had once again resorted to shameful tactics, said the Chief Minister. The BJP-led Union Government had proved, time and again, that it was not interested in hearing the voice of the ‘annadaatas’, he said.Capt Amarinder said the anger among the farmers was a matter of concern and the Prime Minister should immediately take steps to resolve the crisis, which could have serious repercussions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/quit-for-dubbing-farmers-hooligans-punjab-cm-to-union-minister-meenakshi-lekhi-286921
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure free movement to Adani firm in Punjab, says High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that Punjab was required to resolve issues — arising out of farmers’ stir — for providing free ingress and egress to Adani Logistics Ltd. to its premises. But the state counsel has not been able to bring to the court’s notice “further efforts” made recently for solving the problem.The observations by Justice Lisa Gill came almost a month after a high-powered committee was ordered to be constituted to prevent further loss/wastage of about 8,000 metric tonnes of foodgrain stored in Adani Wilmar Limited facility at Ferozepur.‘Defer order in Raninder’s case’The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the trial court to defer the passing of the final order beyond the date fixed for hearing a petition filed by Deputy Director of Income Tax against Raninder Singh, the son of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh.As a petition filed against the Union of India and other respondents by Adani Logistics Ltd. through senior counsel Sanjay Kaushal came up for hearing, Justice Gill observed that a coordinate Bench had on May 20 directed that the State DGP, in consultation with the Chief Secretary, may take the initiative to get the blockade lifted by active persuasion of the protesters, peacefully and in accordance with law. But the blockade in question had not been removed till date. Justice Gill added it was also brought to the court’s notice that the coordinate Bench on June 18 in another matter directed the constitution of a committee to find a way forward for putting an end to the piquant situation.“It is for the state to redress the issue which has arisen in order to provide free ingress and egress to the petitioner to its premises to enable it to continue its business. The counsel for the state is unable to bring to my notice any further efforts which may have been taken for solving the problem,” Justice Gill observed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-free-movement-to-adani-firm-in-punjab-says-high-court-286920
23-07-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab Government to renegotiate pacts on renewable energy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 22The Punjab Government will be renegotiating the power purchase agreements (PPAs) made with 117 companies generating electricity from renewable energy sources. The state plans to reduce the charges paid to them by Re 1 per unit.A decision to this effect was taken in a meeting between the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) and Power Department officials here today. The power officials have been told to convene a meeting with all those producing renewable energy for the state and renegotiate and reduce the charges paid to them, on the same lines as has been done by the Uttar Pradesh Government. The charges paid to private power producers in UP have been reduced by Rs 0.75 per unit.This decision comes close on the heels of the state filing a petition in the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission for cancelling three PPAs with National Thermal Power Corporation and getting a legal opinion to cancel two other PPAs with Damodar Valley Corporation and GVK. The Chief Minister has been under pressure to cancel the PPAs, majority of these signed during the 10-year tenure of the previous SAD-BJP government, as the state is paying high fixed charges to power producers.The rate at which the government is buying power from the power producers (through 95 PPAs for solar power) is between Rs 2.67 and Rs 10.62 per unit. Similarly, power being contracted from plants set up in sugar mills and biomass and mini-hydel projects is also at a very high tariff.Officials point out the setting up of so many renewable energy projects at high tariff (both fixed and variable) led to the state achieving a “power surplus” status. Till the time these projects had not been commissioned and PPAs signed for private power plants at Rajpura, Talwandi Sabo and Goindwal Sahib (2010), the state had surplus of 65 MW only. With the renewable energy generation, the state became surplus by another 1,500 MW.A perusal of all PPAs of renewable energy reveals that pacts signed with a company setting up two biogas plants of 18 MW each at Faridkot and Ferozepur, have a fixed tariff of Rs 3.28 per unit and a variable tariff of Rs 4.88 per unit, with 5 per cent annual escalation. This company, which has a stake of a sitting MLA from the ruling party, is now giving power at Rs 8.66 per unit. The government will also be negotiating the tariff with this company.“Since this power is very expensive, we have decided to ask them in no uncertain terms to reduce their tariff by Re 1 per unit,” said a senior CMO official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-to-renegotiate-pacts-on-renewable-energy-286918
23-07-2021|| Amritsar||Bibi Jagir Kaur miffed at Navjot Singh Sidhu’s ‘show’ at Golden Temple||The ‘show of strength’ by new PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu with his supporters at the Golden Temple complex yesterday has not gone down well with the SGPC.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur alleged that after becoming the PCC president, Sidhu had come to the Golden Temple to show his political strength, which had hurt sentiments of Sikhs.Speaking on the social media platform of the SGPC, she said it was against the Sikh etiquette for the leaders of political parties to show off their political strength in the holiest place.“Sidhu’s visit with his supporters has caused inconvenience to the common devotees. He should have avoided it and come like a humble human being, not as a celebrity,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bibi-jagir-kaur-miffed-at-navjot-singh-sidhus-show-at-golden-temple-286917
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||With rejig, Congress has accepted failure: SAD leader Daljit Cheema||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today said the Congress high command had already accepted that its government had failed Punjabis miserably and was now trying to hide its performance by bringing about a change in face in its Punjab unit.Stating that this was another form of fraud with the people, former Minister Daljit Singh Cheema said Punjabis would see through this game and would not let this conspiracy succeed.Daljit Cheema said, “It is a fact that Congress legislators had told the party high command that they would not be able to enter villages because the state government had not fulfilled any of the promises made to the people. The high command admitted this failure by handing over an 18 point to-do list to the CM.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/with-rejig-congress-has-accepted-failure-sad-leader-daljit-cheema-286916
23-07-2021||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran: Farmers’ protest forces Navjot Singh Sidhu to take detour to reach function||Newly appointed PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday had to change his route in the wake of the farmers’ protest to reach Mehmoodpur village. As a result, Congress workers, who had lined up on roads for hours to welcome him here, had to return disappointed.Sidhu had to attend a function organised by Khemkaran MLA Sukhpal Singh Bhullar at his native Mehmoodpur village. As per the programme, he was to reach Mehmoodpur via Tarn Taran, Chabal, Sursingh, Bhikhwind, Algon Kothi, Amarkot, etc. However, his cavalcade took a detour through Patti, Valtoha and Amarkot to reach the village to avoid the farmers’ protest in the area. He reached there by about three hours late.Cong still holding events despite appealFarmers have already appealed to all political parties not to organise events till farm laws are repealed, but the Congress is celebrating the appointment of the new chief. Sahib Singh, farmer leaderAt Mehmoodpur, the new PCC chief remained seated on the stage but did not address the gathering. He was accompanied by Amritsar MLA Raminder Singh Bularia. Bhullar welcomed the elevation of Sidhu.Meanwhile, farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) protested at different places. They staged dharna in Bhikhiwind and Sursingh and gathered at Chabal to show Sidhu black flags.Farmers in Sursingh village, too, remained on the road for more than nine hours to show black flags to Sidhu. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tarn-taran-farmers-protest-forces-navjot-singh-sidhu-to-take-detour-to-reach-function-286914
23-07-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s backers failed to gauge mood||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 22With 58 of the 80 Congress MLAs backing Navjot Singh Sidhu’s appointment as the new PCC chief, it is clear that Punjab MPs, including Partap Singh Bajwa, Manish Tewari, Ravneet Bittu and Gurjeet Aujla, who stood by CM Capt Amarinder Singh on the issue, completely failed to read the popular sentiment.Sensing anti-incubency, the MLAs have welcomed the change in the PCC presidentship in the hope that a crowd-puller like Sidhuwill help revive the party’s poll prospects.“The message is loud and clear. The people are disappointed with the government for its failure to fulfil its promises. Now that Captain has accepted this reality, it is to be seen what all will change on the ground,” former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar observed. Rana Gurjeet Singh, a prominent face in the CM’s camp, noted that a directive issued by the high command had to be followed by all, including the CM and the Pradesh Congress chief.Pramod Kumar, the Director of the Institute for Development and Communication, maintained that Captain had no other choice but to abide by the high command’s decision, “waiting for the situation to change in his favour.” He did not think that a change in the PCC presidentship would help the Congress. “The people are unlikely to forget the fruitless four-and-a-half years of the Congress rule. Most of the ‘tainted’ leaders are now with Sidhu,” he claimed.A senior Congress leader said it was evident that the party had decided to go by the report prepared by poll strategist Prashant Kishor, who reportedly told the high command that the Congress in Punjab could not win another term under the “current leadership”. He said it was unfortunate that Captain’s advisers had not told him about the on-ground situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-singhs-backers-failed-to-gauge-mood-286913
23-07-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Sidhu’s installation: All Congress MLAs from Doaba to attend event in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 22With Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh agreeing to attend the installation ceremony of the newly appointed PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday, 10 of the 17 Congress MLAs from Doaba have decided to attend the event.While seven MLAs, including the new working president, Sangat Singh Gilzian, and Sidhu’s main protégé Pargat Singh, had reportedly already been part of the show of strength of Sidhu, the remaining are in wait-and-watch mode.The other five Doaba MLAs who had expressed solidarity with Sidhu yesterday at Amritsar included Bawa Henry from Jalandhar North, Angad Saini from Nawanshahr, Chaudhary Surinder Singh from Kartarpur, Arun Dogra from Dasuya, Indu Bala from Mukerian. There are 23 Assembly seats in Doaba with the Congress having representation on 17.All Kapurthala MLAs, including Rana Gurjeet, Balwinder Dhaliwal, Navtej Cheema and Sukhpal Khaira, are from the CM’s camp. Sidhu had visited Cheema’s Chandigarh residence but the latter maintained that he could not say no to a guest. The only minister from Doaba, Sunder Sham Arora, too, had kept a distance from Sidhu. Other than Arora, MLAs from Hoshiarpur district, including Pawan Adia and Raj Kumar Chabbewal, too, have been CM’s loyalists.Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri, who reportedly did not meet Sidhu at the residence of ex-minister Avtar Henry Sunday last despite repeated messages made to him, said, “When the CM is himself going to the function tomorrow, how can I stay back now? If he has buried the issues, so have I.”Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh, who had met the Chief Minister yesterday when all MLAs were at Amritsar, said, “I am certainly attending the function tomorrow. I have had no issues but I just wanted to support the CM, as I have always done. I have had no grudges against Sidhu.”Hardev Laddi from Shahkot, who too had been on CM’s side, said, “I have no personal issues with Sidhu. I was simply awaiting the two to come on the same page for the good of the party.”Over 30K expected at the ceremonyThe Punjab Congress is leaving no stone unturned to make new PCC chief Navjot Sidhu’s installation ceremony a mega event at Punjab Congress Bhavan on Friday.Apart from painting the building, senior leaders have planned a gathering of over 30,000 persons. Sources said since the sitting arrangements had been made for 3,000 persons, others would have to stand in open areas around the main pandal where the events was being held.All issues resolvedI have no grudge against Sidhu. We resolved our issues in a recent meeting. I am now definitely attending Sidhu’s function tomorrow. Sushil Rinku, Jalandhar West MLAOn same pageI was awaiting the two to come on the same page for the good of the party. I have already reached Chandigarh for the event. Hardev Laddi, Shahkot MLA||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhus-installation-all-congress-mlas-from-doaba-to-attend-event-in-chandigarh-286912
23-07-2021||Tribune Web Desk||‘At my Happy Place’: Capt Amarinder joins soldiers of his ‘paltan’ on Raising Day||Chandigarh, July 22Marking his bond with the Army, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh joined the soldiers of 2 Sikh to commemorate the 175th Raising Day.“At my Happy Place with Jawans of my Paltan, 2 Sikh to commemorate our 175th Raising Day. Jai Hind!,” Amarinder tweeted as he posted a video.At my Happy Place with Jawans of my Paltan, 2 Sikh to commemorate our 175th Raising Day. Jai Hind! 🇮🇳 pic.twitter.com/I4VKmmXNb2  The Punjab CM also shook a leg with the soldiers and posed for pictures with them.Capt Amarinder had served in the 2nd battalion of the Sikh Regiment from 1963 to 1969.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-my-happy-place-capt-amarinder-joins-soldiers-of-his-paltan-on-raising-day-286801
23-07-2021||---||Capt Amarinder’s 'chai pe charcha' with leaders before Navjot Singh Sidhu’s installation ceremony||Chandigarh, July 22In indications of a truce between Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu, the former will host a tea party for all party leaders, including MLAs, before the installation ceremony of the latter as the PCC Chief, here on Friday.Newly appointed Congress working presidents, Kuljit Nagra and Sangat Gilzian met Capt Amarinder Singh at about 3 p.m and handed over the invite to him for attending the installation ceremony. At least 58 MLAs, besides Navjot Singh Sidhu have signed the request letter.Soon after, Raveen Thurkal, the media advisor to the CM tweeted informing about the tea party being hosted by Capt Amarinder before heading to the installation ceremony. ``Punjab @capt_amarinder has invited all  @INCPunjab MLAs, MPs and senior party functionaries at Punjab Bhawan for tea at 10 am on Friday. They will all then go to Punjab Congress Bhawan together from there for the installation of the new PPCC team.’’Punjab CM @capt_amarinder has invited all @INCPunjab MLAs, MPs and senior party functionaries at Punjab Bhawan for tea at 10 am on Friday. They will all then go to Punjab Congress Bhawan together from there for the installation of the new PPCC team. pic.twitter.com/fdm2XXprlP  Sources said that as part of the truce plan, CM invited the MLAs for tea at Punjab bhavan and the rapprochement between the two leaders will happen there in presence of Harish Rawat||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinders-chai-pe-charcha-with-leaders-before-navjot-singh-sidhus-installation-ceremony-286756
23-07-2021||Ravi S Singh||Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee election to be held on August 22||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 22The election to the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC), which was earlier postponed due to second wave of Covid, will be held on August 22.DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Thursday tweeted the schedule following the Delhi government's submission in the Delhi High court affirming the date.The Directorate of Gurdwara Elections submitted to the court the poll schedule. The result will be announced on August 31.The election had been scheduled for April 25, but was called off before the casting of votes owing to the second wave of the pandemic.The 46 seat DSGMC is currently governed by the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) of the Badals.Jago president and former DSGMC chief Manjit Singh GK welcomed the schedule, saying his party would contest the election alone and emerge victorious.Shiromani Akali Dal (Delhi) leader Harvinder Singh Sarma said his group enjoyed the support of Sikhs in Delhi.SAD president Harmeet Singh Kalka urged people to take part in the election.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delhi-sikh-gurdwara-management-committee-election-to-be-held-on-august-22-286725
23-07-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Security beefed up at Delhi's Jantar Mantar as farmers begin protest||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, July 22Following the call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), farmer leaders on Thursday staged a protest against the three central farm laws.As many as 200 protesting farmers from various organisations led by union leaders, including Hanan Molla, Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav, Manjeet Singh Rai, Ruldu Singh Mansa and Shiv Kumar ‘Kakka’, reached Jantar Mantar in five buses.Farmers of various organisations from Punjab, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and other states have also moved towards Delhi.Rakesh Tikait, SKM leader, reiterated that the protests would be peaceful and they would hoist the National Flag on Independence Day.Yogendra Yadav, another SKM leader, said, "We are going peacefully to protest at Parliament and to tell the government about our objections today. Wherever the police will stop us, we will start our ‘Kisan sansad'."Thousands of farmers were protesting at Singhu, Tikri, Shazanpur and Ghazipur borders in Delhi for the past eight months against the three farm laws enacted by the Union Government and for legal guarantee for the MSP.Meanwhile, security at Jantar Mantar in central Delhi has been tightened in view of the protest amid the monsoon session of Parliament, officials said. Adequate security arrangements have been made and police and paramilitary personnel have been deployed, they said.Jantar Mantar is metres away from Parliament House where the monsoon session is under way.Farmers will hold protest at Jantar Mantar till 5 pm. with PTI inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/security-beefed-up-at-delhis-jantar-mantar-as-farmers-begin-protest-286658
23-07-2021||London||Sophia Duleep Singh in the running for UK's Hidden Heroes statues campaign||Sophia Duleep Singh, daughter of the last ruler of the Sikh empire Maharaja Duleep Singh, is among the historical figures in the running for a Hidden Heroes campaign calling for more diversity in new commemorative monuments across the UK.Princess Sophia, the goddaughter of Queen Victoria, was among the leading suffragettes who fought for women's right to vote in 1900s Britain. Now, Britain's first Sikh female parliamentarian, Preet Kaur Gill, has nominated her as a candidate for a new memorial to better represent the diversity of the country. “The last few years we have seen our country more polarised. As an MP, I want to use my voice to bring people together and to build cohesion in the UK,” said Gill. “I am backing the Hidden Heroes campaign because we have so many of our achievements to celebrate and the stories of more under-represented groups can help build pride and a shared narrative of what Britain is today,” she said.The Hidden Heroes campaign has been created to build on the diversity of public monuments, statues and art, because fewer than 3 per cent of the statues in the UK are of non-royal women, with other categories hardly represented. “We need more statues, not less. Let's celebrate people whose values we can all be inspired by and who tell the story of this wonderfully diverse nation,” said Zehra Zaida, campaigner and founder of the Hidden Heroes campaign as part of her wider We Too Built Britain initiative. “Symbolism in representation has a role to play in cohesion and bringing people together under shared values,” she said.The initiative, to coincide with the ongoing South Asian Heritage Month in the UK, calls on members of Parliament from every constituency to ask local people to nominate their “Hidden Heroes”.Some might be figures that history has somewhat neglected, others might be more local heroes with inspirational stories.Tom Tugendhat, parliamentarian and Chair of the UK Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee, has long supported the campaign to better memorialise the women spies of the World War II Special Operations Executive (SOE), including Indian-origin SOE agent Noor Inayat Khan. “Britain has always brought together people from different cultures and backgrounds. It's what has made us strong and adaptable over centuries. We need to celebrate our community with all its differences,” said Tugendhat.The We Too Built Britain campaign, which has attracted cross-party political support as well as celebrity and grassroots backing, was set up with the aim of improving the diversity of representation across legal tender. It led to UK Chancellor Rishi Sunak launching a new “Diversity Built Britain” 50 pence coin series last year. “I have seen first-hand the contribution made by ethnic minority communities to Britain's history. That is why I backed the ‘We Too Built Britain' campaign and requested that the Royal Mint introduce this coin to celebrate it,” Sunak said at the time. “This coin, and the rest of the series, will act as a fitting tribute to the very profound impact ethnic minority communities have made on Britain, and I am grateful to the Royal Mint for turning this around at record speed,” the Indian-origin Cabinet minister added.The UK's Treasury Department has said the government will consult with stakeholders, including We Too Built Britain and other groups representing minority communities, on the themes of future coins in the series. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sophia-duleep-singh-in-the-running-for-uks-hidden-heroes-statues-campaign-286289
