24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab sees 83 more cases||With 83 fresh Covid cases, the infection tally in Punjab rose to 5,98,741 on Saturday, according to a medical bulletin.With one death reported from Amritsar, the toll reached 16,258 in the state, it said.The toll also includes one death which was not reported earlier, the bulletin said.The number of active cases in the state is 771.Pathankot reported 11 infections, followed by nine in Patiala and seven in Amritsar, the bulletin said.With 78 recoveries, the number of cured persons reached 5,81,712, it said.A total of 1,18,77,764 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, according to the bulletin.  — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-punjab-sees-83-more-cases-287724
24-07-2021||---||First case of Chikungunya after a gap of 2years; officials on toes||Patiala, July 24Punjab, on Saturday, reported the first case of chikungunya after a gap of almost two years. A 24-year-old factory worker from Ludhiana tested positive for the vector-borne disease – Chikungunya, here at Rajindra hospital Patiala.The last case of Chikungunya in the state was reported in 2019.State health officials informed that the 24-year-old, who is under treatment at Government Rajindra Hospital, was having symptoms of the Chikungunya and found to be infected with Chikungunya after testing.Dr Gagan Grover, state nodal officer, said that the infected person had been working in a factory in the Ludhiana district before he was admitted to Rajindra hospital. The patient was referred to Rajindra Hospital wherein he was tested positive for Chikungunya.Dr Gagan said,"After the confirmation of the disease, the health officials in Ludhiana surveyed his house and found mosquito breeding therein.” He added that teams had destroyed the larvae in his house. Officials would also visit the factory where he was working, said Gagan.Disclosing the measures Gagan said, “We have recently held a meeting over dengue and Chikungunya. The allied departments have already been asked to carry out fogging. Besides, several appeals have been made to the people, during the Dry Friday Campaign, to drain out water from discarded containers – at least once a week.’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/first-case-of-chikungunya-after-a-gap-of-2years-officials-on-toes-287717
24-07-2021||Chandigarh/New Delhi||Fire at farmers’ protest site on Singhu border, tent damaged||A tent was damaged as a fire broke out at the farmers’ protest site on the Delhi’s Singhu border on Saturday, police said.No loss of life was reported in this incident, a police official said. However, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the stir against the Centre’s farm laws, said two tents were damaged in the incident.“However, the spirit of the farmers is unaffected,” the body said.Meanwhile, Jamhuri Kisan Sabha general secretary Kulwant Singh said no person was injured in the incident but things were damaged. Sukhwinder Singh, a protester, suspected that it was someone’s doing. “Rain stopped around 5 pm and the fire in the first tent broke out around 5.30 pm. Later, another tent, which was around 100 metres away, caught fire. We suspect that someone has come here and done this thing,” he said. Farmers have been camping at Delhi borders since November last year, demanding the repeal of the Centre’s three contentious farm laws and a new law to guarantee minimum support price for crops.However, the government has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer. Several rounds of talks between farmers and the government have failed to break the deadlock over the farm laws. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fire-at-farmers-protest-site-on-singhu-border-tent-damaged-287697
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Will go ‘barefoot’ to meet protesting farmers whenever they call me: Navjot Sidhu||Newly-appointed Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday said for him the “victory” of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha is a top priority and he will go “barefoot” to meet farmers protesting the Centre’s farm laws whenever they call him.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha is an umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws.Farmers have been protesting at Delhi borders since late November, demanding the repeal of the laws. “I consider the victory of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha as my top priority. I have been calling the farmers’ agitation as sacred for the past one year,” Sidhu told reporters at Chamkaur Sahib, where he got a rousing reception from party workers, a day after taking charge as the state Congress chief.Chamkaur Sahib is the constituency of Punjab minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Party supporters showered flower petals on Sidhu as his cavalcade passed through various places. The cricketer-turned-politician also visited various religious places. Later, he told reporters at Morinda that he wants to ask the protesting farmers how the Punjab government can assist them in their cause. “I want to ask them how our government’s power can help them in a big way. Look, rising cost, declining yield and income for the past 25 years are forcing farmers to hold agitation. It is our intention that this social movement should convert into an economic power,” said Sidhu. He recalled that he had put up a black flag at his house in support of agitating farmers. “Whenever they call me, I will go barefoot and take their blessings,” he stated. Sidhu also raised the issues concerning the desecration cases, power tariffs and the drug menace.  “Every Punjabi wants justice in ‘beadbi (desecration) of the Guru Sahib’,” Sidhu said. He said people want to know the names of the big fish behind the drug menace. “Why we have a power purchase contract at Rs 18 a unit when it is available at Rs 2 per unit. When we know every year, solar power rates are declining by 20 per cent, then why Punjab pays from Rs 7 to 18 per unit. Why should it not be bought from the national grid? We have to give answers to all these questions,” Sidhu said raising the issue of power high tarrif.Sidhu further said his party has an 18-point agenda. “Every MLA, MP and worker is a guard of this agenda and it has to be implemented,” asserted Sidhu.  “We have no option other than this to move forward,” said Sidhu while pointing towards the 18-point agenda. The party high command last month had asked Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to act on 18 issues, including the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib, drugs and power purchase agreements. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-go-barefoot-to-meet-protesting-farmers-whenever-they-call-me-navjot-sidhu-287694
24-07-2021||---||Capt congratulates Mirabai Chanu and her Punjab coach||Chandigarh, July 24Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday congratulated weightlifter Saikhom Mirabai Chanu for her stupendous achievement of bagging the silver medal for India in the 49 kg category at Tokyo Olympics.Earlier, the Chief Minister tweeted, "Our first medal! Congratulations to Saikhom Mirabai Chanu for winning Silver at Tokyo Olympics with a combined lift of 202 kg in women's 49 kg weightlifting event. India is super proud of your accomplishment."Meanwhile, the Chief Minister also congratulated her assistant coach Sandeep Kumar under whose constant guidance, Chanu honed her skills.Assistant coach Sandeep Kumar hails from Bara village in Jalandhar district and had participated in the 1996 Atlanta Olympics besides 1998 Commonwealth Games held in Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia) winning a bronze (69 kg category) in the latter event. He is serving with Punjab Police as inspector and is posted at Sports Centre in PAP, Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-congratulates-mirabai-chanu-and-her-punjab-coach-287656
24-07-2021||---||No option except to implement party high command’s 18-point agenda, says Navjot Sidhu||Morinda, July 24Newly elected Punjab Pardesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday said the implementation of the 18-point pro-people agenda set up by the party high command was the only option to address the grievances of people in the state.Sidhu was here on the invitation of local MLA and minister Charanjit Singh Channi to visit different religious places, including Gurdwara Katalgarh Sahib at Chamkaur Sahib.After addressing the media at Channi’s residence, Sidhu refused to take questions.In his address, Sidhu said people of Punjab wanted to know the names of the big fish behind drug smuggling and ruining the youth in the state. Their names had to be revealed, he said.All Punjabis had been waiting for justice in the cases of sacrilege and firing incidents, he added.People also wanted to know as to why Punjab is purchasing power at a price of Rs 18 per unit despite the fact that it is being purchased by other states at Rs 7 per unit.Reiterating his support to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, Sidhu said he would go barefoot to meet the farmers whenever they intended to meet him. “I want to seek guidance from them that in what way the state government could solve their issues, including their demands regarding three agriculture laws,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-option-except-to-implement-party-high-commands-18-point-agenda-says-navjot-sidhu-287648
24-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||This is Kapil Sharma's 'memories for life' picture; it features Rishi and Neetu Kapoor; have a look||Comedian Kapil Sharma took a trip down memory lane, and shared a throwback picture with legendary actor Rishi Kapoor and his wife, actress Neetu Kapoor.The comedian-turned-actor posted the picture on his Instagram account. The picture is from the sets of 'The Kapil Sharma Show'. This is back when the power couple showed up as guests on the talk show.Rishi and Neetu were seen sitting on the show's couch beside each other as they smile towards the camera.The photo shows a smiling Kapil standing between them. He wrote in the caption, "One of my favourite pictures with both my favourites." He added a red heart emoji and his hashtags read, "memories for life."Check out:A post shared by Kapil Sharma (@kapilsharma)In a recent post, the comedian spread awareness towards covid vaccines. In the picture, we can see Kapil Sharma with his show crew standing behind a board reading, "I am covid-19 vaccinated." Kapil Sharma captioned the post, "Are you?"A post shared by Kapil Sharma (@kapilsharma)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/this-is-kapil-sharmas-memories-for-life-picture-it-features-rishi-and-neetu-kapoor-have-a-look-287639
24-07-2021||Muktsar||Navjot Sidhu hoardings come up in Malout||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-hoardings-come-up-in-malout-287564
24-07-2021||---||Doctors protest Punjab Govt’s 6th Pay Commission||Mohali, July 23Hundreds of doctors from across the state held a protest dharna against the 6th Pay Commission notified by the Punjab Government, here today. Protesters march towards CM’s houseLater, the protesters started marching towards the Chief Minister’s house in Chandigarh after breaking the barricades installed by the police outside the hospital complex. Meanwhile, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu reached the protest site and received a memorandum on behalf of the Punjab Government.The protesters included veterinary, dental rural medical officers, ayurvedic and homeopathic practitioners, besides officials of the Health Department.Doctors from every district of Punjab wearing aprons raised slogans against the state government.The protest was led by president of the PCMSA Dr Gagandeep Singh, president of the Veterinary Officers Association Dr Sarabjit Singh Randhawa, president of the Dental Association Dr Pawanpreet Kaur and president of the Ayurvedic Association Dr Sanjeev Pathak.Dr Inderveer Singh Gill, convener, Coordination Committee, and Dr Manohar Singh, general secretary, PCMS Association, said the doctors’ strike was to save the public healthcare and veterinary healthcare system.They said the Coordination Committee strongly opposes the ongoing privatisation policy under which the 6th Pay Commission has slashed the non-practicing allowance being paid to the doctors.Later, the protesters started marching towards the Chief Minister’s house in Chandigarh after breaking the barricades installed by the police outside the hospital complex. Meanwhile, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu reached the protest site and received a memorandum on behalf of the Punjab Government.Sidhu assured the protesters that their demand regarding non-practicing allowance would definitely be met within a week’s time.After the assurance given by the minister, the leaders of the Coordination Committee agreed to suspend the agitation for a week.The committee though said their struggle would continue until a final solution is reached.They said the roadmap of the struggle would be decided during a virtual meeting of the committee tomorrow.President of the Homeopathic Association Dr Balwinder Singh, president of the Rural Medical Officers Association Dr Jagjit Singh Bajwa, and Dr Darshan Kheri, general secretary, Punjab State Veterinary Officers Association, also addressed the protesting doctors.CM shown black flagsThe ETT and TET pass teachers protesting at the PSEB building in Phase-7 here tried to stop the carcade of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh at the Airport road when he was going to attend the installation ceremony of the PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. A group of teachers carrying black flags tried to stop the CM’s convoy but the police thwarted their attempt. A few protesting teachers were detained and they were not released till late evening. Various temporary teachers’ union members have been protesting for more than a month outside the PSEB building demanding regularisation of their service and enhancement in their salary. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doctors-protest-punjab-govts-6th-pay-commission-287512
24-07-2021||Amit Sharma||Covid norms go for a toss at Navjot Sidhu’s installation ceremony in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 23Covid norms went for a toss at the Punjab Congress Bhawan in Sector 15, where thousands of party supporters reached from different parts of Punjab to witness the installation ceremony of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief.Traffic snarls in vicinity of venueTraffic snarls were witnessed in Sector 15 and neighbouring sectors, causing inconvenience to commuters. The situation turned normal almost two hours after the function concluded.FIR lodged against unknown personsA case under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 51-B of the Disaster Management Act has been registered against unknown persons. - DSP Ram Gopal, spokesperson, UT PoliceCars on cycle trackDriving or parking a vehicle on a cycle track is an offence in the UT. However, Congress men were seemingly given a special privilege by allowing them to park their vehicles on the cycle track.No permission was sought from the SDM (Central) for the function, which was held in violation of Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Section 188 of the IPC.While around 4,000 persons were present inside the bhawan, thousands stood outside to mark their presence.Harjeet Singh Sandhu, SDM (Central), said no permission was taken from his office to hold the event.These days, permission for a gathering is given for 200 persons or 50 per cent of the capacity of the venue, whichever is less.A UT official, not wishing to be named, said this was a breach of the DM’s order and invited action under the Disaster Management Act and Section 188 (disobedience to an order duly promulgated by a public servant) of the IPC.The Covid protocol was blatantly violated by a large number of people, who were not wearing a mask. Social distancing was also given a miss. The police, who are responsible for getting Covid norms complied with, remained a mute spectator. Not even a single challan was issued for not wearing a mask.The police also allowed parking of vehicles on cycle tracks, which was yet another offence.A police official said everyone was busy managing the crowd following which no challan could be issued. In the evening, the police registered a case against unknown persons under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 51-B of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, at the Sector 11 police station.The event also led to traffic snarls in Sector 15 and surrounding sectors. Traffic diversions at the PGI and the GMSH, Sector 16, roundabouts led to traffic jams in neighbouring sectors, including the dividing roads of Sector 10, 11, 14, 16, 17 and 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-norms-go-for-a-toss-at-navjot-sidhus-installation-ceremony-in-chandigarh-287447
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-serviceman gets disability pension after over 50 years||It has taken over 50 years of legal wrangling and crossing administrative hurdles for a visually impaired ex-serviceman residing in Mohali to finally get his disability pension. Mohinder Singh, who is now 100 per cent visually impaired, had been discharged from the Sikh regiment in June 1970 on medical grounds. During a night training exercise, he fell on his head and lost his eyesight.He was initially sanctioned 40 per cent disability pension by the Army, which was rejected by the Medical Adviser on Pension (MAP) in the office of the Controller of Defence Accounts (Pension). The post of MAP was abolished in 2005.He approached the Ex-Servicemen Grievance Cell, Mohali, for taking up his matter for the release of the pension. A case was filed before the Armed Forces Tribunal, which, in August 2018, ordered the release of the pension as sanctioned by the Army earlier, but the Army contested the order of the tribunal.The cell filed a case of contempt for non-implementation of the order of the tribunal and in June 2019, pension payment orders were issued for Rs265 per month for 40 per cent disability with effect from June 1970 along with arrears as well as instruction for holding a review medical board within two years.The medical board took place in February 2020, where Mohinder’s disability for visual impairment was reassessed at 100 per cent. Besides increase in pension to Rs33,500 per month, he also got arrears regarding the new pension for the past 16 months with interest last week. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-serviceman-gets-disability-pension-after-over-50-years-287460
24-07-2021||Amritsar||Dr Adarsh Pal Vig nominated Punjab Pollution Control Board chairman||Rs 21L heroin seized in HanumangarhAbohar/Sriganganagar: The police on Friday arrested four persons in Hanumangarh and seized 760 gm of heroin from their possession. SP Preeti Jain said the cost of the heroin recovered from them was around Rs 21 lakh. OC Sangrur man duped of Rs 24L, two bookedSangrur: Two persons, Harinder Singh and Lakhwinder Singh, have been booked for fraud for allegedly duping a local resident of Rs 24 lakh on the pretext of sending him to Australia. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dr-adarsh-pal-vig-nominated-punjab-pollution-control-board-chairman-287513
24-07-2021||Amritsar||‘Parallel jathedar’ Dhian Singh Mand summons two ministers, three MLAs||‘Parallel’ acting jathedar of Akal Takht Dhian Singh Mand has summoned two Punjab Cabinet ministers and three MLAs on August 2 for clarifying their stance on misguiding organisers leading to the end of the Bargari morcha (stir) over the 2015 sacrilege and police firing incidents.Mand, who was appointed during the controversial 2015 Sarbat Khalsa, paid obeisance at Akal Takht here today. He condemned the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government for not fulfilling the assurances on the basis of which the morcha was lifted. The morcha lasted for nearly six months between June 1 and December 10 in 2018.He directed ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa besides MLAs Harminder Singh Gill, Kulbir Singh Zira and Kushaldeep Singh Kiki Dhillon to appear before the Takht on August 2 at 11 am for a clarification in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parallel-jathedar-dhian-singh-mand-summons-two-ministers-three-mlas-287508
24-07-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala lad shines at Cadet World Wrestling Championship||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 23Wrestler Jaskaran Singh's performance at the ongoing Cadet World Wrestling Championship has finally ended Punjab’s three-decade wait for a medal. The 16-year-old wrestler from Mandaur village in Patiala has won a silver medal in the 60-kg weight category at the championship being held in Budapest.Randhir Singh was the last wrestler from Punjab to have won a medal at the championship in 1987. Jaskaran, who has been trained by Saraj Singh and Gurmel Singh at Rustum-e-Hind Pehalwan Kesar Singh Akhada in Patiala, on his road to the final bout, defeated four wrestlers. In the final, Jaskaran lost to Kamronbek Kadamov of Uzbekistan.He has already won several medals at national-level championships. “It was Jaskaran’s first international tournament and he won a medal. He is a talented young wrestler and will go a long way,” said Saraj Singh, his coach. Jaskaran’s family moved to Patiala from their village a few years ago just to support him.Arjuna awardee Palwinder Singh Cheema, in charge of Rustum-e-Hind Pehalwan Kesar Singh Akhada, said, “Jaskaran has made everyone proud. This performance will inspire other wrestlers.”Cheema is currently posted as Superintendent of Police in Patiala.Mohinder Singh, general secretary of the Patiala Wrestling Association, said, “His victory will give a big boost to the wrestling sport in the state.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-lad-shines-at-cadet-world-wrestling-championship-287498
24-07-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Rajpura brewery fined Rs 7.48 cr  for illegal transport of liquor||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 23The Excise Commissioner (Punjab) has imposed a penalty of Rs 7.48 crore on the NV Distilleries and Breweries for “bending laws” to illegally transport liquor to Chhattisgarh and Arunachal Pradesh.The order dismissed the appeal by the distillery against the penal excise duty levied by the Patiala DC (Excise). The DC's order had come on the basis of a report prepared by the Excise Department following raids in May 2020. The unit at Sandarsi near Rajpura in Patiala has been directed to deposit the amount by August 31. The department report had recorded that the unit had manufactured and stored 22,936 cases of unaccounted IMFL. Excise Commissioner Rajat Aggarwal said, “In view of fraudulent attempts to cover up its lapses, the licence of the unit will be suspended for one month from August 1”.The office of the DETC-cum-Collector, Patiala, said during an inspection on May 21, 2020, multiple irregularities were detected. The unit was illegally manufacturing IMFL for Chhattisgarh and could not also provide the demand letter for supply to Arunachal. The report also noted that an “unauthentic stock register was being maintained.” Erasable pens were being used to maintain records.The distillery said officials didn’t have genuine orders while conducting the raids. It also said they were not served any show-cause notice before the issuance of arbitrary order. Talking to The Tribune, chairman of the NV Distilleries Ashok Jain said, “We have the required permits for carrying out work. A team of the Excise Department is always present to inspect our work so where is the question of illegal transportation? We are moving a court against the order.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rajpura-brewery-fined-rs-7-48-cr-for-illegal-transport-of-liquor-287487
24-07-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Centre’s Rs 3,500-cr largesse for cash-strapped Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 23In a major development for the state, the Centre has released the Rural Development Fund worth Rs 1,600 crore, which was withheld since last year’s paddy season.The Centre has also released another Rs 1,700 crore due as administration and arhtiya charges for the just-concluded Rabi Marketing Season. The custody and maintenance charges worth Rs 276 crore, due for almost a decade, too, have been released. Together, the Centre has showered largesse of Rs 3,576 crore on the cash-strapped state.It may be noted that the state received just one per cent RDF for the last year’s kharif marketing season (paddy crop of 2020), while the RDF for 2020-21 wheat crop was completely denied in the provisional cost sheet. Certain new conditions were imposed on the state last week, to match the land records with the payments made to each farmer, to get the RDF, after the state had got all J-Forms countersigned by village panches. Since this was impossible to achieve before the cash credit limit for the wheat crop ended at the end of the month, Punjab Food and Supply Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and his team of officers rushed to Delhi to get this waived.Though the RDF funds are being released now, the state government has been categorically told that this fund should not be used for any other purpose except for creating mandi infrastructure.Punjab has been asked to make amendments in its Rural Development Act, so that the funds granted by the Centre are no longer used for debt relief to farmers, construction of village roads and panchayat ghars etc., before they demand the RDF for the upcoming paddy season.The denial of these funds to Punjab had created a storm in the state, especially as it came in the midst of a raging farmers’ agitation spearheaded by farmers of Punjab against the three agriculture laws. The state government had been categorical in its criticism of the Centre on the issue, saying it was being withheld to teach Punjab a lesson for opposing the Centre’s farm laws.Food and Supply Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said he was thankful to the Centre for giving Punjab its dues. “It will go a long way in maintaining healthy relations between the Centre and the state,” he added.RDF can only be used to create mandi infra||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centres-rs-3-500-cr-largesse-for-cash-strapped-punjab-287484
24-07-2021||---||In Sept, govt to use school buildings for Punjab Police exam||Faridkot, July 23As over 8 lakh candidates are set to appear in the test for the recruitment of 10,387 constables in Punjab Police on September 25-26, the state home department has decided to use the campuses of all private and government educational institutions, including government schools, to conduct the test.In a letter to district education officers, directing them to cooperate with the authorities in providing school buildings for the test, the home department conveyed that due to Covid-19 pandemic, it was mandatory to maintain proper distance among candidates and it required a lot of space for around 8 lakh candidates to take the test. All the required educational buildings for the purpose will be provided to the home department from September 18 to 27.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-sept-govt-to-use-school-buildings-for-punjab-police-exam-287479
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Cong creating fear among people: AAP leader Harpal Cheema||AAP’s Leader of Opposition Harpal Cheema today said the Congress, like the BJP, was trying to create fear among people by using “Pakistan and Khalistan as weapon” ahead of the elections.Cheema slammed CM Capt Amarinder Singh and the Congress over allegations of AAP having ties with Pakistan. Cheema said: “Capt Amarinder should refrain from creating an atmosphere of fear under the guise of Pakistan or terrorism and must fulfil the promises he made in the remaining few months.” He said a few days ago, the CM claimed Navjot Sidhu had met AAP leaders, but today he accused the party of having ties with Pakistan. He claimed the CM was in fact using Pakistan to remind people about links Sidhu had with Pakistan Army chief Gen Bajwa and his proximity to PM Imran Khan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-creating-fear-among-people-aap-leader-harpal-cheema-287476
24-07-2021||---||‘Ignored’, Cong’s Lambi leader Gurmeet Singh Khudian quits, may join another party||Muktsar, July 23Senior Congress leader Gurmeet Singh Khudian from Lambi today quit the party, saying he was feeling ignored. He took the step when PCC chief Navjot Sidhu’s installation ceremony was underway.Gurmeet said: “We were feeling ignored for long, so decided to quit the Congress. Nobody heard our genuine issues. Even Capt Amarinder Singh after contesting the Assembly election from Lambi in 2017 did not visit the place even once. We feel embarrassed over issues such as sacrilege, drugs, etc.”Covering candidate’ for ‘Capt in 2017Gurmeet, 59, son of former MP Jagdev Singh Khudian, said he would contest the Assembly polls from Lambi. “I may join some other party to contest the polls,” he said.Gurmeet claimed that some Congress leaders had today gathered at his village and quit the party along with him. “I congratulate Sidhu on becoming the PCC chief. He had yesterday tried to persuade me over the phone,” he said.Political observers say since Gurmeet holds sway in Lambi, his decision may dent the party’s vote bank and benefit the SAD. “Now, the Congress is left with two senior leaders in Lambi — Maheshinder Singh Badal, who has already announced that he would not contest the polls, and Jagpal Singh Abulkhurana,” said a party leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ignored-congs-lambi-leader-gurmeet-singh-khudian-quits-may-join-another-party-287474
24-07-2021||Faridkot||3 killed as bus ferrying Congress supporters crashes in Moga||At least three persons were killed and 37 others injured when a private mini bus hired by Congress MLA Kulbir Singh Zira collided head-on with a Punjab Roadways bus near Lohara village in Moga district around 8.30 am today. The victims were on their way to attend the installation ceremony of Navjot Singh Sidhu as PCC president in Chandigarh. Most of the victims were from the Zira area of Ferozepur. The Roadways bus was on its way from Moga to Amritsar.PCC chief visits injured in LudhianaLudhiana: PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday visited DMC Hospital here to enquire about the health of Congress worker Rashpal Singh, one of those injured in the accident. He was accompanied by Cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria. TNSThe driver of the mini bus was among those killed. Nine of the seriously injured, most of them Congress workers, were shifted to the DMC, Ludhiana, and Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot. The police reached the spot and began investigations into the incident. Preliminary investigations suggested the mini bus driver tried to overtake some vehicles ferrying Congress workers at a high speed and crashed it into the oncoming bus, the police officials said.The deceased have been identified as Virsa Singh and Vicky of Malsia village in Zira and Gurdev Singh, the driver.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh later directed the Moga administration to provide an ex gratia of Rs 5 lakh each to the kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 to the seriously injured persons. The administration has been asked to ensure free treatment of all injured. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-killed-as-bus-ferrying-congress-supporters-crashes-in-moga-287471
24-07-2021||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu's elevation attempt at hiding failures: SAD||Chandigarh, July 23The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today said the appointment of Navjot Singh Sidhu as PCC chief was an attempt by the Congress to divert public attention from its failures.Addressing a press conference here, ex-Minister Daljit Singh Cheema asked Sidhu to give a definite timeline for fulfilling the promises made to the people instead of resorting to empty talk.Prem Singh Chandumajra SAD Vice-PresidentState real victimCong is like a vehicle with engines on both sides, pulling in opposite directions. The only victim of this infighting is Punjab.The SAD also condemned outgoing PCC president Sunil Jakhar for stating that the road to re-election for the Congress ran through Bargari and Behbal Kalan, the places associated with sacrilege incidents. Cheema said there could not be stronger proof of the party’s contention that the Congress had played politics on the issue in association with the AAP in 2017. The Congress was again going on the same dangerous path on the eve of the 2022 Assembly election, Cheema said.He said both Sidhu and CM Capt Amarinder Singh were guilty of deceiving people. “It is now becoming increasingly clear that their quarrel was stage-managed to divert people’s attention. “Sidhu has a personal responsibility to tell how he will now ensure justice in the 2018 train tragedy in which his close confidant is guilty,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhus-elevation-attempt-at-hiding-failures-sad-287468
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sunil Jakhar: Red tape to blame for Punjab Congress crisis||Former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar today blamed the present crisis in the Punjab Congress as the outcome of “red tape” in the Congress government governance.“If red-carpet welcome rolled out for the Akalis in the aftermath of the High Court staying the judgment in the Kotkapura police firing case sounded the death knell for them, red tape by bureaucracy brought down the morale of Congress workers. Still, we have a few months for course correction,” he told Capt Amarinder Singh during the installation ceremony of Navjot Singh Sidhu as PPCC chief.In the same breath, he told Sidhu he was leaving an unfinished agenda of strengthening the hands of party workers. “It is not that the CM did not roll out policies or take good initiatives, like handling the farmers’ crisis, but the message did not percolate down through to the party workers who feel demoralised.”Without naming anyone, he said: “The back-stabbers who are in talks with the BJP or AAP should remember they have to return to the party.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunil-jakhar-red-tape-to-blame-for-punjab-congress-crisis-287465
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Unease palpable as Navjot Sidhu takes reins of Punjab Congress||Amid party leaders working hard to bring together Capt Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu on stage at the latter’s installation ceremony as the new PCC chief at the Punjab Congress Bhawan here, palpable unease among the rival camps indicated beginning of yet another round of infighting.Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat specially flew to Chandigarh to ensure that the ceremony went smoothly. But simmering differences were visible as the MLAs and MPs loyal to the CM left immediately after the on-stage function, without attending the symbolic exercise of Sidhu assuming the charge.Barring Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu and MP Shamsher Singh Dullo, who did not attend the ceremony, all other MPs of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha arrived in a special chartered plane.On the party high command advice, the CM showed political wisdom in joining the stage with Sidhu and repeatedly acknowledged the latter’s elevation. However, on the other hand, Sidhu touched feet of several senior party leaders, but not the CM. Little discussion took place between the two leaders, as their body language did not seem comfortable.A senior party leader said: “The top brass has clearly indicated that in the succession, Sidhu would replace Capt Amarinder. Until then, there will be a lot of turmoil.”Earlier in the day, there was unease at the Punjab Congress Bhawan when Sidhu suddenly left as the CM, Harish Rawat, party MLAs and MPs were having tea. On returning, Sidhu told Rawat that he had gone to a nearby gurdwara. — TNSRival camps hint at yet another round of infightingTension on stage||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unease-palpable-as-navjot-sidhu-takes-reins-of-punjab-congress-287458
24-07-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Country-specific Covid norms leave air passengers harried||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 23Passengers intending to board international flights are perturbed at different Covid-19 norms being followed by various countries.Though international flights are yet to resume regular operations, passengers are travelling under the Vande Bharat Mission and air bubble. Parminder Singh, in his late sixties, says he has been preparing to travel to the UK. “I have to take the help of a travel agency to ensure I do not miss out on any document or test.”Footfall upRandhir Singh Bhullar, who arrived from the US recently, says he gave samples a day before boarding the flight and received the report hours before departure. Back in Amritsar, he says the procedure was simple and smooth when he departed from here in April. He blames agents for misleading people. Airline officials at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport say each international destination has a different set of Covid rules. Airlines change norms frequently and sometimes fail to intimate passengers, they say.The RTPCR test should be conducted within 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey to the UK and the US. In case of Doha, the test should be conducted 48 hours before boarding. Ashwani Kumar Gupta, tour and travel agent, says expenses have increased manifold as passengers have to quarantine in hotels. In UK, the quarantine period is 10 days. He says most of the passengers heading abroad from the region are students. “On the way to Canada, they stop at Belgrade to quarantine for three days. Canada recently increased the quarantine period to seven days,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/country-specific-covid-norms-leave-air-passengers-harried-287264
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Simarjeet Singh Bains’ plea against FIR in rape case dismissed||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today dismissed a petition filed by MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains challenging a lower court order directing registration of a rape case against him. The allegations levelled by the complainant could not be disbelieved outrightly at this juncture, the High Court added.Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul asserted the mere registration of an FIR could not be construed as an act which might prejudice the petitioner in any manner. The court was only required to examine the existence of a cognisable offence and direct the registration of an FIR in case necessary ingredients with respect to the offence were made out.“I do not, thus, find any illegality in the impugned orders dated June 7 passed by Ludhiana Additional Sessions Judge, and July 7, passed by the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, wherein the latter rightly directed the registration of the case on the basis of the material before it,” Justice Kaul asserted.In her detailed order, Justice Kaul added the power under Section 156(3), CrPC, on investigation by the police was a statutory power conferred upon a magistrate, giving rise to a remedy in favour of the aggrieved. It would rather be an act of abdication of his powers by a magistrate in case he did not take appropriate decision and failed to exercise his jurisdiction in the event of the aggrieved approaching him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/simarjeet-singh-bains-plea-against-fir-in-rape-case-dismissed-287265
24-07-2021||Mohali||Doctors protest against 6th Pay Commission recommendations, minister Balbir Sidhu assures action in a week||On the call of the Joint Government Doctors Coordination Committee, hundreds of doctors from across Punjab held a dharna and a protest march in Mohali on Friday against the 6th Pay Commission recommendations notified by the Punjab Government. Dr Gagandeep Singh Shergill, senior vice-president, PCMSA, said there was resentment among doctors across the state against the government’s privatisation policy and the cut in non-practicing allowance.He said it was under this policy that the government had reduced the NPA of doctors from 25 per cent to 20 per cent and also separated it from the basic pay. Health Minister Balbir Sidhu was later given a memorandum. He said the doctors’ demand regarding the NPA would be met within a week. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doctors-protest-against-6th-pay-commission-recommendations-minister-balbir-sidhu-assures-action-in-a-week-287266
24-07-2021||Aparna Banerji||Farmers ready with posers for leaders visiting villages||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 23“Don’t come to villages, you have not done anything for us. Don’t ruin the atmosphere. Go to Delhi. Gherao Parliament and get the farm laws repealed.” This video statement addressed to politicians by Satnam Singh, president, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, on July 17 sums up the mood of farmer unions under the Samyukt Kisan Morcha ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections.Even as farmers hold a parallel ‘Kisan Sansad’ in Delhi, in Punjab, teams of farmers are planning to offer stiff opposition to politicians visiting villages ahead of the elections. “We’ll boycott BJP leaders and ask others some tough questions,” says a union leader.The SKM has asked its members to stay away from any political event. The BKU (Rajewal) has created district-wise patrol teams of farmers to question political leaders in every village they visit.Posters have been issued stating all leaders entering villages will be opposed if they haven’t fulfilled their manifesto promise or have supported the farm laws.Kashmira Singh, BKU (Rajewal) spokesperson, Jalandhar, said: “We have constituted two patrol teams in each district which shall visit villages where political leaders plan to come.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-ready-with-posers-for-leaders-visiting-villages-287267
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Apologise for calling farmers ‘hooligans’: AAP to Union Minister Meenakshi||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Punjab, on Friday protested against BJP leader and Union Minister Meenakshi Lekhi for calling farmers ‘hooligans’ and burnt her effigies across the state, demanding an apology.Expressing anger against the ruling Narendra Modi-led central government, AAP workers and leaders said the party would keep raising the voice of farmers from streets to Parliament until the three laws were repealed. In a statement issued from the party headquarters here, AAP’s Kisan Wing state president and MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan said the AAP leaders and workers staged protests against the Modi government in Amritsar, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Nawanshahr, Ludhiana and Patiala among some other districts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/apologise-for-calling-farmers-hooligans-aap-to-union-minister-meenakshi-287268
24-07-2021||---||‘Agriculture minister’ resigns after debate at Kisan Sansad||New Delhi, July 23The second day of Kisan Sansad at Jantar Mantar saw the “resignation of the designated agriculture minister” following a debate around the ‘APMC Bypass Act’. The protesters also condemned Union Minister Meenakshi Lekhi for her “outright illegal and casteist slur” for farmers.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which organised the Kisan Sansad, rejected her statement where she withdrew her remarks, calling it “simply unacceptable and unpardonable”.The Kisan Sansad today had six ‘Speakers’ and ‘Deputy Speakers’ for three sessions of the ‘House’. As many as 200 farmers associated with the SKM participated in the ‘proceedings’ that included a ‘Question Hour and a debate’. “Playing the agriculture minister, Ravneet Singh Brar resigned after failing to answer the questions of the members,” the statement said. The sansad also passed a unanimous resolution on “adverse experience of the operation of the APMC Bypass Act from June 2020 to January 2021 before the Supreme Court suspended the implementation”.The resolution stated that “farmers need much higher number of operating mandis and not less mandis” and called for “a repeal of the central act immediately”.Resolutions passed by farmers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/agriculture-minister-resigns-after-debate-at-kisan-sansad-287269
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Retd IAS, Army officers back farmers’ stir||The Kirti Kisan Forum comprising retired IAS, IPS and Army officers today came out in favour of the ongoing farmers’ agitation, now centred at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi.Appreciating the peaceful struggle of farmers agitating for their rights, the forum challenged the supporters of the three farm laws to debate the pros and cons of the new legislation on any platform in the presence of media.By a show of hands, the forum decided to join the ongoing ‘Kisan Sansad’ at Jantar Mantar for a day. The forum appreciated the role of the farmers in unifying the nation and almost the entire political class in the interest of the farmers and workers. The members paid tribute to hundreds of farmers who died during the protest. The meeting was co-chaired by SS Boparai and Ramesh Inder Singh (both retired IAS officers) and was attended among others by MPS Aulakh (retired DGP), GPS Sahi, Brig Harwant Singh, Brig Inder Mohan Singh, and DS Bains, Kulbir Sidhu, Harkesh Sidhu, GK Singh and Iqbal Singh Sidhu. — TNS‘Stalemate due to Insistence on repeal’Insistence of protesting farmers on repeal of the three laws and their reluctance to point out particular provisions of the laws that they find unacceptable is posing a problem on reaching a settlement with the agitators, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said in a written answer in the Rajya Sabha on Friday||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/retd-ias-army-officers-back-farmers-stir-287270
24-07-2021||---||Withdraw panel report on Panjab University, Akali Dal urges Venkaiah Naidu||New Delhi, July 23A delegation of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MPs led by its president Sukhbir Singh Badal today urged Vice-President and Panjab University (PU) Chancellor M Venkaiah Naidu to ensure the unique character of the PU as a symbol of Punjabi pride was not tinkered with in any manner and called for the withdrawal of the report of the Chancellor’s high-level committee on governance reforms.Adjournment notice moved by AAP, SADSAD and AAP leaders on Friday again moved adjournment notices in the Lok Sabha to discuss issues arising out of the passage of farm laws. Inside the Lok Sabha, Harsimrat Badal repeated her adjournment notice on the issue as did AAP's Sangrur MP Bhagwant MannBadal claimed Naidu had assured the SAD delegation that he had already looked into the matter and that all contentious issues were being resolved.The delegation, which comprised former Union Minister Harsimarat Kaur Badal, Balwinder Singh Bhunder and Naresh Gujral, called for withdrawal of all recommendations made by the committee, including disaffiliation of colleges of Punjab by drastically reducing the territorial jurisdiction of Panjab University. The delegation claimed the committee set up for reforms had been hijacked by “anti-Punjab forces” seeking to change the very character of the university in the name of reforms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/withdraw-panel-report-on-panjab-university-akali-dal-urges-venkaiah-naidu-287271
24-07-2021||Amritsar||Punish culprits of Kanpur Sikh genocide: SGPC||Welcoming the special investigation team’s (SIT) move to collect the evidence after reopening the files pertaining to the cases of Kanpur Sikh genocide in November 1984, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur today demanded that the accused be strictly punished.In November 1984, Sikhs were massacred in Delhi, Kanpur, Bokaro and other cities. “Although with the convictions and punishments to some accused, there is a glimmer of hope, but even after 37 years, all the accused have not been put behind bars. Now that action is being taken against the culprits of the Kanpur Sikh genocide, we hope the culprits are punished soon,” she said.The SGPC had continuously worked to get the culprits of the genocide punished but they had been escaping the law with the patronage of the Congress, she alleged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punish-culprits-of-kanpur-sikh-genocide-sgpc-287272
24-07-2021||Abohar||Abohar: Assaulted, veteran shuts free academy||An ex-serviceman, who has been giving free physical training to boys and girls for recruitment in the Indian Army and Punjab Police, has decided to shut his academy following an assault and misbehaviour by some anti-social elements.Malkit Singh, who has been providing training for the past three years and has helped many get job, was allegedly assaulted by some miscreants last week after he told them to stop videographing girl trainees at a college playground. The police were informed but none of the miscreants had been nabbed so far.Trainees Sandeep Kumar, Jyoti Bishnoi and Gagandeep Kaur said on Saturday, some goons from Bahawalbasi village started making videos of girls during training. When coach Malkit Singh asked them to stop doing so, they abused and assaulted him, forcing him to shut the academy.Trainees submitted a memorandum to police officials here today and said they would protest outside the District Administrative Complex if the miscreants were not nabbed. Senior officials had on Saturday ordered the police to take strict action but none of the miscreants had been arrested so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-assaulted-veteran-shuts-free-academy-287273
24-07-2021||Parvesh Sharma
||Farmers start night vigil to prevent breach in Ghaggar||Tribune News Service Sangrur, July 23 Fearing soil erosion from the embankments of the Ghaggar, farmers have started night vigils in various villages. “Many farmers have suffered crop losses repeatedly due to breach in the Ghaggar. During night, groups of farmers have been conducting patrolling to prevent breach in the rivulet,” said Goldy Cheema, a farmer. Farmers from Bundar Bhaini, Surjan Bhaini, Makraud Sahib, Handa, Kundi, Moonak and Phullad have started night patrolling on both sides of the Ghaggar. “I have suffered repeated losses due to breach in the Ghaggar, but the government help has always been meagre. The authorities do not assess the damaged crop properly,” said Kulwant Singh, a farmer from Surjan Bhaini village. Lehra MLA and former minister Parminder Dhindsa alleged the state government had failed to make required arrangements to prevent soil erosion. “Government officials should make public the details of funds utilised. The government has not done anything to prevent the Ghaggar problem and authorities must look into the matter urgently,” said Dhindsa. “The water level is increasing near Handa village and if it does not recede, there may occur floods in the area. The government authorities have failed to properly strengthen the embankments,” said Jasvir Singh Kudni, an AAP leader. Chetan Gupta, SDO, drainage department, said the water level in the Ghaggar was increasing and it had reached 746.4 feet. The danger point is 747 feet. “Our teams are working round the clock to complete the repair of embankments,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-start-night-vigil-to-prevent-breach-in-ghaggar-287274
24-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Drive against canal water theft suspended over ‘political pressure’||Fazilka, July 23Two days after the state authorities launched a campaign against canal water theft, the drive remained suspended today.Hardeep Dhaka, sarpanch of Khanpur village, alleged the work could not be undertaken today due to political pressure and instructions by higher authorities.Dhaka said the authorities were to remove the plastic pipes being used in water theft between Chahlan to Chackpakhi villages, but the work was stopped midway.Vijay Singh Dudi, sarpanch of Kerian village, and Davinder Jhorar, former sarpanch of Dhaban village, said a deputation of nearly 50 farmers residing at the tail-end of the non-perennial canals met Fazilka Deputy Commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu today to lodge their protest. The DC assured that he would look into the matter.Despite repeated attempts, Tehal Singh, SDO (canals) who led the campaign, could not be contacted. Pawan Kumar, junior engineer (canals), who was also part of the official team, said the SDO (canals) was away to attend a meeting and he himself was busy in removing water hyacinth to prevent breach in canals. He brushed aside allegation of pressure from higher authorities.As many as 33 persons were booked on Thursday and over 80 pipes have been confiscated in the last few days.The information gathered by The Tribune reveals that some affluent persons and farmers have laid pipes in a clandestine manner to steal water.Farmers on fast over lack of water supplyAbohar: Irked at the Irrigation Department’s failure to ensure water supply to villages located on the tail-end of the canal system in Abohar and Balluana segments, members of the BKU Rajewal continued their dharna at the railway over-bridge on the Abohar-Hanumangarh highway on Friday. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drive-against-canal-water-theft-suspended-over-political-pressure-287275
24-07-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Take steps on NITTTR report, university told||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, July 23Irked over no action being taken by Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University, Bathinda, on the evaluation report submitted by the National Institute of Technical Teachers’ Training and Research (NITTTR), Chandigarh, on the classroom teaching performance of the faculty, the Technical Education and Industrial Training Department has asked the Vice-Chancellor to take action.Improve performanceThe department has asked the VC that faculty members who have got less than 50% marks be issued advisories to improve their performance.“They should be asked to attend faculty development programmes,” it said, adding that their performance should be evaluated by the NITTTR again after three months. It is learnt that there are six professors who have scored less than 50 out of 100 marks in the report. In a letter, Anurag Verma, Principal Secretary, Technical Education and Industrial Training, said it had come to his notice that in order to improve quality of teaching, recordings of lectures of faculty members were sent to the NITTTR for evaluation in 2019. A fee of about Rs 6 lakh was paid for it. The letter said no action was taken on the report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/take-steps-on-nitttr-report-university-told-287277
24-07-2021||---||Students’ equation with maths to be made easier||Chandigarh, July 23To help government students excel in mathematics, the Department of School Education has collaborated with an NGO named Khan Academy and started an online learning programme in all 6,292 schools for the current academic session 2021-22.Originally, it was started as a pilot project in as many as 186 schools in 2019. The programme is available in English and Punjabi for personalised practice exercises. Personal email IDs have been created exclusively for this purpose across the state.About 11,000 maths teachers and 10 lakh students belonging to Classes VI till XII in government schools have been given the access to the email connectivity. Maths teachers have been given special training for the programme handling.The department has ensured appropriate devices and connectivity solutions for the students to have hassle-free access to the content when they return to schools. Besides, the students and teachers can access all resources through any Internet-enabled device -- smartphone, tablet, laptop and PC from home.“The programme is aimed at bringing in qualitative improvement in the teaching-learning of mathematics, ultimately impacting about 11,000 teachers and 10 lakh students of Classes VI to XII in government schools of the state,” said Vijay Inder Singla, Education Minister, adding that it would hone up the mathematical skills of the students to enable them to face the challenges of the present era.Meanwhile, School Education Secretary Krishan Kumar said the curriculum includes videos and over 20,000 exercises to make the teaching-learning of mathematics a joyous journey for teachers and students. “The programme will go a long way in boosting the interest as well as the confidence level of the students, especially from rural areas, in learning the complexities of different concepts of mathematics easily and effectively.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/students-equation-with-maths-to-be-made-easier-287311
24-07-2021||---||Will work as a team, say Navjot Singh Sidhu, Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, July 23Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh on dais, the new PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu today stressed that Punjab’s “real issues” needed to be resolved. Speaking at his installation as the new Punjab Pradesh Congress chief, Sidhu gave a call to the Congress workers to empower the common man through the Punjab model envisaged by him.My first mission as the PPCC president is to use every resource in the state to protect the interests of farmers. Navjot Singh SidhuAfter months of deadlock, Captain and Sidhu were seen together on the stage, indicating efforts by the party high command to put up a show of unity. Even as both leaders announced they would work as a team in the run-up to the Assembly elections, their body language on the stage and at the tea party at Punjab Bhawan preceding the installation ceremony showed some discomfort. Sidhu and the four PPCC working presidents — Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Kuljit Singh Nagra and Pawan Goel — assumed charge at the Punjab Congress Bhawan amid deafening sloganeering. The party headquarters was jam-packed. Roads leading to the party headquarters were lined with vehicles.Speaking at the event, the CM referred to his ties with Sidhu’s family. “When Sidhu was born in 1963, I was in the Army. When I left the Army in 1970, my mother asked me to join politics. She said meet Bhagwan Singh Sidhu (father of Navjot Sidhu). He helped me enter politics... When party president Sonia Gandhi told me that Sidhu will be the next Congress chief in Punjab, I said whatever the high command decides, I will abide by the decision,” he said.Hitting out at his critics, Sidhu said: “I have no ego, I will work with all party workers shoulder to shoulder. The Congress stands united today, contrary to what the Opposition says.” He went on to add: “Farmers sitting in Delhi, the problems of doctors and nurses are the ‘real’ issues. Who is accountable for the deaths due to drug overdose? I will hold all of them accountable.”But unease evident at installation & tea||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-work-as-a-team-say-navjot-singh-sidhu-capt-amarinder-singh-287263
24-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Watch: 'Such a pleasure...': Navjot Sidhu's first words to CM Capt Amarinder after months of acrimony||Ahead of taking charge of the state Congress, Navjot Singh Sidhu met Chief Minister Amarinder Singh at the Punjab Bhavan here on Friday.According to a video from the event, Sidhu greeted Singh with folded hands and broke the ice by saying: "How are you, sir? Such a pleasure."Also read: LIVE: Ahead of installation ceremony, Navjot Singh Sidhu, CM Capt Amarinder come together after months of controversySidhu was about to sit across the table from Singh, who was already seated, but was asked to sit next to the CM.According to a Congress leader, the meeting between Sidhu and Singh, who have been at loggerheads with each other for some time, was "cordial".||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/watch-such-a-pleasure-navjot-sidhus-first-words-to-cm-capt-amarinder-after-months-of-acrimony-287146
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu takes over as Punjab Congress chief; Capt Amarinder says both will work together for Punjab||Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday took over as president of the Punjab Congress in the presence of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh who said they will work together for the welfare of Punjab, their public truce indicating an end to a fractious chapter in the party’s state unit.Executing a bat stroke in the air with a flourish before heading to the rostrum, Sidhu told the packed house gathered at the party headquarters that the Congress was united and his aim was to work towards giving power back to the people.“Punjab will win, Punjabis will win,” the once famous batsman and now politician said.“All Congress workers in Punjab have become the party’s state unit chief today. There is no difference between a leader and a worker,” Sidhu said in an impassioned speech.                    The Amritsar East MLA was appointed the Punjab Congress chief despite strong opposition from Amarinder Singh. He had earlier refused to meet Sidhu without an apology for the “derogatory” tweets against him.Today was the first time in four months the two leaders met each other.Sidhu takes over the reins of the party from Sunil Jakhar along with four working presidents—Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra – appointed by the party high command to assist him in the run-up to the state Assembly elections next year.Without naming anyone, the former cricketer said in his speech in Punjabi that those who oppose him make him better.Declaring he has no ego issues and will take everyone along and work shoulder-to-shoulder, he said, “We are incomplete without power of our workers, who are party’s soul.” The purpose of his party president’s post is to resolve people’s issues. If these are not resolved then it counts for nothing, he said.At one point, he gestured towards Amarinder Singh on stage and said, “CM sahib, issues have to be resolved…”              The chief minister, on his part, also urged party workers to extend full support to the new state president.“We will move together in politics. We have to think of Punjab’s welfare,” the chief minister said.Pointing towards Sidhu, Amarinder Singh said they will work together towards the state’s welfare.“And not just Punjab, we have responsibility for the country as our state shares a long border with Pakistan,” he asserted in his speech.Striking a personal note, he recalled his ties with the Sidhu family, saying it was Navjot Sidhu’s father, the late Bhagwant Singh, who had asked him to enter politics.He also recalled his mother, the late Mohinder Kaur, and Sidhu’s father, a former Congressman, working together.In 1963, the year Sidhu was born, he said he was commissioned in the army. Amarinder Singh also recalled visiting the Sidhu home when Navjot Sidhu was six years old.Though he was earlier opposed to Sidhu’s appointment, the chief minister said, “When Sonia Gandhi told me that the party wants to make Sidhu state unit chief, even then I had told the media that whatever decision Soniaji will take will be acceptable to us.”           Despite being seated next to each other on the stage and saying all the right things in their speeches, Sidhu and Amarinder Singh were not seen exchanging any words one on one.Nonetheless, party workers are hoping Sidhu’s elevation and Amarinder Singh’s participation at the event brings back cohesion in the Punjab Congress.Tension between Amarinder Singh and Sidhu flared up in April after the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashed a probe report on a 2015 police firing incident in Kotkapura and other places following the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib. Two protesters were killed.The chief minister referred to that in his speech and said challans have been filed in these cases.“The issue of Bargari, Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan had been raised. These issues are related to law. Challans have been filed in these cases. It takes time,” he said in an apparent response to the criticism of his government in the alleged delay in justice in the matter.He said he had promised Punjab not to spare anyone who was involved in these incidents.Sidhu has said he will be make himself available to workers at party office from August 15 onwards and also asked ministers to spare three hours at least to be there.Getting ready for the installation of the new @INCPunjab team, @sherryontopp with CM @capt_amarinder pic.twitter.com/oYcUmXdt4J  Ahead of his swearing-in as new @INCPunjab president, @sherryontopp meets CM @capt_amarinder during the tea hosted by the latter. Flanking the CM is @harishrawatcmuk pic.twitter.com/NLtNlhMgs3  CM @capt_amarinder shares special moments with @INCPunjab MLAs & MPs at the tea hosted by him before the installation of the new Punjab Congress team. pic.twitter.com/DvB6bROO23  The event was attended by Congress general secretary Harish Rawat, who is also in-charge of Punjab affairs at the AICC. He urged party leaders and workers to unitedly to ensure win the 2022 assembly polls.A two-minute silence was held as a mark of respect for three party workers, who died in an accident early in the day in Moga district while coming to attend the function.In a letter on Thursday, Sidhu requested Amarinder Singh to come for the “installation ceremony”, calling him the “eldest of the Punjab Congress family” and saying he had “no personal agenda”.Also read: SIDHU’S INSTALLATION: All Congress MLAs from Doaba to attend event in ChandigarhAll Punjab Congress MLAs, MPs andsenior party members are requested to be present at Congress Bhawan on Friday 23rd July at 10AM to set up the new team of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. pic.twitter.com/jpm3JP39wa  Softening his stance, the chief minister invited party MLAs for tea at Punjab Bhawan ahead of the installation ceremony at the party headquarters here.Every move of the two leaders, whose feud threatened to splinter the Punjab Congress, was closely watched.Ahead of taking charge of the state Congress, Sidhu met the chief minister at Punjab Bhawan here.A video was circulating of Sidhu greeting the chief minister with, “How are you, sir?”Sidhu was stated to have gone out for a few minutes after Amarinder Singh reached Punjab Bhawan. When he returned, there is another video of him being asked to sit next to the chief minister as he tries to take a chair opposite him.The two leaders were seen sitting next to each other at Punjab Bhawan and later at the party headquarters.According to Congress MLA Pargat Singh, the meeting between the two at Punjab Bhawan was “cordial”. The chief minister’s media adviser also tweeted pictures of the two leaders having a conversation.Sidhu had resigned as a state minister in 2019 after he was divested of his local bodies portfolio. He had switched sides from the BJP to the Congress before the 2017 Assembly polls. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-takes-over-as-punjab-congress-chief-capt-amarinder-says-both-will-work-together-for-punjab-287140
