26-07-2021||---||Covid: 5 more deaths, 42 new cases in Punjab||Chandigarh, July 26Punjab recorded five more Covid-related fatalities on Monday that took the death toll to 16,278, while 42 new cases pushed the infection tally to 5,98,840, according to a medical bulletin issued here.Of the new fatalities, three were reported from Tarn Taran and one each from Patiala and Sangrur, it said.The death toll also includes seven deaths which were not reported earlier, according to the bulletin.The number of active cases stands at 637, it said.Of the new cases, Jalandhar reported nine infections, followed by five in Amritsar and three in Pathankot, it said.With 96 recoveries, the number of those cured from the infection has reached 5,81,925, the bulletin said.A total of 1,19,35,633 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.Chandigarh reported four cases, taking the infection tally to 61,931, according to a medical bulletin issued here.The death toll stands at 809, it said, adding the number of active cases was 36.With one patient being discharged after his recovery, the number of those who have been cured from the infection has reached 61,086, the bulletin added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-5-more-deaths-42-new-cases-in-punjab-288599
26-07-2021||---||Navjot Sidhu holds first meeting as Punjab Cong chief||Chandigarh, July 26Days after taking charge as the Punjab Congress chief, Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday held his first meeting with four working presidents and representatives of different wings of the party’s state unit.Sidhu had detailed discussions with four working presidents about rebuilding the organisation and further strengthening the party at the grassroots level, the party said.He also met representatives of the party’s frontal organisations and cells, including Youth Congress, NSUI, SC cell, BC cell and Legal cell and heard their views at the Punjab Congress Bhawan here.Sidhu also learnt from them the details of their working and how they can play a pivotal role to further strengthen the organisation, the party said.He also met the office staff of the Punjab Congress Bhawan.Sidhu took the charge as Punjab Pradesh Congress chief on Friday last. He replaced Sunil Jakhar.Besides, the party had appointed four working presidents—Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra—to assist Sidhu in the run-up to the next assembly elections.Goel, while talking to reporters after the meeting, which lasted about four hours, said Sidhu first held the meeting with the four working presidents. Thereafter, a meeting with representatives of frontal organisations and different cells was held, he added.Another working president Danny said the agenda of the meeting was to further strengthen the party in the state.However, Sidhu did not talk to the media. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-holds-first-meeting-as-punjab-cong-chief-288592
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||AAP to go it alone in Punjab Assembly polls next year: Raghav Chadha||The Aam Aadmi Party will not forge alliance with any political party for the 2022 Punjab Assembly polls, said the party’s senior leader Raghav Chadha here on Monday.Chadha, who is AAP’s Punjab co-incharge, said his party will contest all the 117 Assembly seats on its own.“AAP will fight the 2022 elections on its own. There will be no alliance with any party. And the party will contest all 117 Assembly seats on its own and will form the government,” said Chadha when asked whether the AAP will enter into an alliance with any political party for the upcoming polls.Meanwhile, a senior Congress leader from Muktsar Gurmit Singh Khudian on Monday joined the AAP in the presence of Chadha and AAP’s Punjab unit chief Bhagwant Mann. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-to-go-it-alone-in-punjab-assembly-polls-next-year-raghav-chadha-288568
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Only 5.35% fully vaccinated against Covid in Punjab||Just 5.35 per cent people in Punjab have got both doses of the coronavirus vaccine, state Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said on Monday.He said the state has been able to vaccinate 94,79,351 people, out of which 77,16,433 have received the first dose and 17,62,918 completed their vaccination with both doses.Sidhu said Punjab has been receiving less supply of vaccine and he been urging the central government to expedite the vaccine supply so that the state can safeguard its population by vaccinating them with both doses of the vaccine.To avoid a third wave of Covid-19 apart from health infrastructure, vaccine supply needs to be ramped up by the Union government so that entire population can be covered, the minister said in a statement.Amid fear of the third wave, the state government has been gearing up to tackle an anticipated load of patients, he said.The Health Department has strengthened the health infrastructure with the enhanced bed capacity, 9,000 oxygen concentrators, 75 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants have been added in a short span of time.Commenting on the fourth sero survey conducted by the ICMR in four districts of Punjab, the Health Minister said 63.15 per cent of population had Covid antibodies and amongst the healthcare workers 83.25 per cent had antibodies.Out of these four districts, Ludhiana had the maximum positivity of 71 per cent among the general population.Sidhu said as per the survey the state has much higher number of cases than the number reported. Considering the high prevalence of Covid among the population, he appealed all to follow appropriate behaviour till the entire population is completely vaccinated with both doses. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/only-5-35-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-in-punjab-288558
26-07-2021||New Delhi||LOC issued against Manjinder Sirsa, police informs Court||Delhi Police informed a court here on Monday that a ‘Look Out Circular (LOC)’ has been issued against ‘Shiromani Akali Dal’ leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa in case related to misappropriation of funds.Sirsa is facing probe in the case of alleged misappropriation of funds during his tenure as the secretary-general of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC).The step was taken in compliance of court’s earlier direction to the police to ensure that Sirsa does not flee from justice.“In continuation of previous status report submitted before the court and in compliance of order dated July 9 of court, it is submitted that LOC of alleged Manjinder Singh Sirsa has been opened. The investigation of the case is in progress,” the status report filed before Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma said.The court had passed the directions after being told by complainant’s advocate Sanjay Abott that Sirsa has already sold his properties and he allegedly is in the process of fleeing as soon as flights resume.Delhi Police had however told the court that LOCs against the accused persons had not been opened as they were joining investigation as and when asked.The FIR was lodged by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Delhi Police on complaint that Sirsa, who at the time of the incident in 2013 was general secretary of DSGMC, had allegedly caused wrongful loss of public funds. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/loc-issued-against-manjinder-sirsa-police-informs-court-288556
26-07-2021||Arun Sharma||Taking u-turn, Channi demands cancellation of FIR against Sidhu ‘attack’ suspects||Tribune News ServiceRopar, July 26A day after blaming Punjab police for an alleged life-threatening attack on the car of newly-elected PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu during his visit to Chamkaur Sahib on July 24, cabinet minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday asked the local police to cancel the FIR registered against the suspects in the case.Though Channi on Tuesday alleged that it was a stage-managed attack on Sidhu at the behest of police, on Monday he said that neither he nor any other Congress worker had lodged any complaint with the police in this regard. Channi’s u-turn on the issue came to the fore apparently when the farmers of the area threatened to oppose him after police registered cases against Kirti Kisan Morcha members.On Saturday, a large number of farmers had staged a protest when Sidhu accompanied PPCC working president Kuljit Singh Nagra and Channi to Gurdwara Katalgarh Sahib at Chamkaur Sahib in a cavalcade with fanfare. While most of them were confined near Chamkaur Sahib bus stand, nearly a dozen others managed to reach the parking gate of the gurdwara and tried to chase the car of the VIPs when they were leaving. Many of the protesters could be seen reaching close to the car showing black flags to Sidhu.The protesters had said that this kind of celebration with pomp and show by Sidhu for his installation as PPCC chief were unpardonable when farmers were on roads demanding their rights.Following the incident, Channi had alleged that unscrupulous elements were brought by the police to attack Sidhu. He also said that he had lodged a protest with DGP and Ropar SSP Akhil Chaudhary in this regard.After this the district police claimed to have registered a case under sections 148,149, 282,323 and 341 of IPC against four members of Kisan Kirti Morcha and 45 other unidentified persons following which farmers of the area got enraged and started a dharna at Solakhian toll plaza.Channi said that those who attacked Sidhu were not farmers. Now, the police on their own have registered cases. “I have no animosity with anyone, and forgot their attack on us in the gurdwara,” he said adding that he has already written a letter to police to cancel the FIR in this matter.Chamkaur Sahib DSP SS Virk confirmed that he has received a letter from cabinet minister Channi for the cancellation of FIR and the police have started proceedings in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/taking-u-turn-channi-demands-cancellation-of-fir-against-sidhu-attack-suspects-288526
26-07-2021||Abohar||Man sets grandson on fire in Abohar; arrested||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-sets-grandson-on-fire-in-abohar-arrested-288471
26-07-2021||Amritsar||Pak Sikh body greets PCC chief Navjot Sidhu, hopes it will help re-open Kartarpur corridor||Foreseeing it as an opportunity to help reopen the Kartarpur corridor, PSGPC general secretary Amir Singh said ‘lehnda Punjab’ (West Punjab, now in Pakistan) expressed happiness at Sidhu’s elevation.Stressing Sidhu was instrumental in opening of the gurdwara in 2019, he said, “The corridor has been closed from the Indian side due to Covid-19. We appeal to Sidhu to take up the matter of reopening the corridor with the Government of India.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pak-sikh-body-greets-pcc-chief-navjot-sidhu-hopes-it-will-help-re-open-kartarpur-corridor-288466
26-07-2021||---||Doaba farmers call the shots at ‘Kisan Sansad’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 25The ‘Kisan Sansad’ being held at Jantar Mantar, near Parliament, where the Monsoon session is underway, has been witnessing active participation of farmers from the Doaba region.Manjit Singh Rai from Hoshiarpur played the role of deputy speaker on the first day of the ‘Kisan Sansad’. Langar service daily at the sansad was being managed by Davinder Singh, vice-president, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Doaba), who hails from from Nawanshahr.He said the motive of holding the sansad is that they want to give a message that the farmers don’t only know about farming, but also about what happens in the Parliament. “We have been criticised by a certain section, but we aren’t going to stop no matter what,” Singh said.He doesn’t remember when he had a sound sleep. “I don’t even remember how many days I have not seen my family. even when I go home, I am on my mobile phone or making some plans and future strategies,” he said.“I have a 10-year-old son. He used to ask me why I do not come home often. But when the protest started, I took him with me and he also gave a speech there. Due to my routine, he has come to know that I am fighting for our rights, but he still misses me,” he added. When the protests were taking place at Behram toll plaza, Davinder along with other farmers would gather and start their speeches.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doaba-farmers-call-the-shots-at-kisan-sansad-288407
26-07-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Sitting in two different cities, Punjab girls pen murder mystery||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 25All of 14 years, two girls – Baruni Arora of Jalandhar and Pratibha Sharma of Ludhiana – have jointly penned a novel, which is a murder mystery. The most interesting part is that two of them have never met each other in the past nine months ever since they conceived the idea of writing a novel together, planning its plot and jotting it down into a 116-page novel ‘Summer Enigma’.At a book release function here, Baruni and Pratibha shared, “While our friends used to play online games and indulged in unnecessary chats with their friends to break their monotony during the lockdown period, the two of us were happily engaged in the productive work.”Asked how the two came across with the idea, they shared, “We were both very fond of reading novels of Agatha Christie and used to share stories of her murder mysteries. Discussing her novels, it struck to us if we too could begin to write something of the sort. We discussed the plan with our parents and they readily agreed and we started on. We used to daily discuss the ideas on our Zoom meeting. There used to be daily additions and deletions till the time we both were satisfied with the final output.”About the novel story, they said, “The plot is based in Goa. Four friends are on a tour and they come across a murder incident and begin its investigation just out of curiosity. The two of them had their fathers as detective agents. This is the main idea around which the story sets in.”Both Baruni and Pratibha were students of Delhi Public School till the last year and the best of friends for almost two years. The duo got separated when Pratibha’s father, Varinder K Sharma, who was posted as Deputy Commissioner in Jalandhar got transferred to Ludhiana. Baruni’s dad Manhar Arora is working as MD at the St Soldier’s Group of Schools here.Manhar praised his daughter saying, “I knew that she had good writing skills since the beginning. Since she was a Class III student, she would pen poems for me, my wife and her elder sister on all special occasions including our birthdays and anniversary. I never knew that this skill in her would make her a novel author one day.” His daughter reciprocated saying, “I got the writing genes from my dad, who himself writes too well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sitting-in-two-different-cities-punjab-girls-pen-murder-mystery-288415
26-07-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||When a ragi decided to marry a visually challenged girl||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 25Hardeep Singh (26) immediately fell in love with Amandeep Kaur, a visually challenged girl, when he saw her during an interview with vlogger Giani Sukchain Singh, while reciting the Gurbani and kirtan in her melodious voice.Though, it is quite uncommon in society to choose a visually challenged partner, Hardeep didn’t think twice and decided to marry Amandeep. Not only this, he married her two weeks ago without any dowry and thanked the almighty for giving him a dream soul mate.The marriage was appreciated by one and all, including several Sikh bodies, especially Gurmat Ragi Parcharak Sabha.I was born in Banaras and left my house in childhood. I came to Amritsar, where my Ustad (music teacher) Charanjeet Singh provided me shelter, food and gave me training in music. Ustad ji was visually challenged and everything for me. He died in 2017. I am fortunate that I got Amandeep. She is not dependent on anyone. Every morning she recites Gurbani in her melodious voice. I have no words to thank the almighty. —Hardeep Singh, Hazoori Ragi at Gurdwara Guru Harkrishan, Majitha RoadRagi Hardeep Singh has huge regards and respect for the visually challenged. While sharing his love for special people, he said: “I was born in Banaras and left my house in childhood. I came to Amritsar, where my Ustad (music teacher) Charanjeet Singh provided me shelter, food and gave me training in music. Ustad ji was visually challenged and everything for me. He left for his heavenly abode in 2017. I am well-settled in my life and serving as Hazoori Ragi at Gurdwara Guru Harkrishan Majitha Road.”After watching an interview of Amandeep, Hardeep expressed his desire to marry the girl with Bhai Jaswinder Singh, who is Hazoori Ragi at the Darbar Sahib. He contacted Amandeep’s parents and made the marriage possible.Hardeep claimed that he lived his entire life with a visually challenged person and found that God created them with a special heart.“I am fortunate that I got Amandeep. She is not dependent on anyone. Every morning she recites Gurbani in her melodious voice. I have no words to thank the almighty,” he said.Amandeep is pursuing MA Punjabi and wants to be a teacher. Hardeep, on the other hand doesn’t want to be in the limelight as he feels he hasn’t done anything extraordinary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/when-a-ragi-decided-to-marry-a-visually-challenged-girl-288373
26-07-2021||Karam Prakash||Punjab Medical Education Department proposes increase in retirement age||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 25While the retirement of the Director Research and Medical Education (DRME) is due in August, the Punjab Medical Education Department has reportedly sent a proposal to the government for enhancing the retirement age of the medical professors from 62 to 65 years.Sources said a host of senior doctors in government medical and dental colleges in the state — holding administrative posts — are retiring by the end of the next month. Therefore, if the Cabinet gives its nod to the proposal, many senior doctors, including the incumbent DRME, will be benefited.Meanwhile, Dr Sujata Sharma, the DRME, said: “I am not aware of the issue at all.”Alok Shekhar, Principal Secretary, Medical Education, said: “No decision has been taken so far. Therefore, I won’t be able to comment.”Medical Education Minister OP Soni, in a recent interaction with doctors, assured the medicos of presenting the proposal in this regard before the Cabinet.Resident doctors despise moveHowever, resident doctors are resenting the enhancement in the retirement age. They said the development would be demoralising for the functionaries who were the next in line because it would block their avenues for at least three years. Moreover, it would also badly impact the new entrants.Junior doctors argued that when there was a re-employment policy already in place wherein doctors could work until 70 years then what was the need for the said proposal.Meanwhile, Medical Education Minister OP Soni could not be contacted despite attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-medical-education-department-proposes-increase-in-retirement-age-288456
26-07-2021||Rajmeet Singh &||Charanjit Channi alleges bid to attack Navjot Sidhu in Chamkaur Sahib, blames cops||Arun SharmaTribune News ServiceRopar/Chandigarh, July 25Cabinet Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today alleged that a group of persons tried to attack Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu during his visit to Gurdwara Katalgarh Sahib in Chamkaur Sahib on Saturday.Chamkaur sahib eventSerious IssueIf mischievous persons, in the guise of farmers, harm some important person, it can have serious repercussions. - Kuljit Nagra, MLAChanni claimed the incident occurred despite the police being informed in advance about the alleged presence of unscrupulous elements. Sidhu, PPCC working president Kuljit Nagra and Channi were reportedly returning in a vehicle after paying obeisance at the gurdwara when the incident occurred.“The police allowed the movement of miscreants close to the PPCC chief’s vehicle,” Channi alleged, saying he had already lodged a protest with the Director General of Police (DGP) and Ropar SSP Akhil Chaudhary. While Sidhu did not respond to queries in this regard, Channi said, “No effort has been made to identify the troublemakers. Cops deployed at Chamkaur Sahib were sent to Morinda in police vans while Sidhu was moving towards Chamkaur Sahib, apparently to help unscrupulous elements.”While police managed to stop protesting farmers on the main road, some of them managed to reach the gurdwara and tried to chase his vehicle. “They charged towards our vehicle while we were leaving the gurdwara parking. If the DGP cannot ensure protection of the PPCC chief, he has no right to continue in the office,” Channi said.Kuljit Nagra termed it as breach of security. “If mischievous persons, in the guise of farmers, manage to harm some important person, it can have serious repercussions,” he said. He appealed to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha to make its stand clear on the issue, besides ensuring that its banner is not misused by mischievous elements.Ropar SSP Akhil Chaudhary, meanwhile, denied any lapses on part of the police. Heavy police force was deployed for VIPs’ security, he claimed. Around 10-12 persons, claiming to be Congress workers, managed to reach there and they later tried to chase the PPCC chief’s vehicle. Due to proper security, they could not reach up to the car, he claimed. A case has been registered under Sections 148, 149, 323, 283 and 341 of the IPC against unidentified persons, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/charanjit-channi-alleges-bid-to-attack-navjot-sidhu-in-chamkaur-sahib-blames-cops-288356
26-07-2021||---||Gurnam Singh Charuni announces Chandigarh unit of farmer union||Chandigarh, July 25Gurnam Singh Charuni, president, BKU (Charuni), today announced the expansion of his farmer union. At a function organised at a gurdwara in Sector 38, he announced the formation of the Chandigarh unit of the BKU (Charuni).“The new union is not a political party and has been formed to organise farmers in Tricity region,” he said.All members of the tricity Naujawan Kisan Ekta have joined hands to form the city’s BKU unit. While Kirpal Singh has been made the president of the unit, Sarbans Parteek will assume the role of its national core committee member and Parjinder Singh is the general secretary.Laddi Pannu aka Malwinder Pal Singh, who was arrested last Sunday after the Motor Market violence and then granted bail a day later, has been made the vice-president of the unit.Gurnam Singh Charuni said: “People in various parts of the country are protesting against the agro-market laws. When farm activists in Chandigarh protested, the police said they weren’t farmers. Anyway, I still maintain that the laws must not only be condemned by farmers but also those who eat and buy food. The reason why we made a unit here is so that no one feels left out or alone and to make the protests more organised.”Sarbans Parteek said: “More people will be recruited in the unit. We are organising in such a way that one representative or head is assigned to all light points in the city as well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurnam-singh-charuni-announces-chandigarh-unit-of-farmer-union-288300
26-07-2021||Pathankot||Sunny Deol back ‘on track’ after US visit||Fatehgarh Sahib high on hopeFatehgarh Sahib: There is hope and expectation in the Fatehgarh Sahib constituency with the elevation of MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra as working president of the PCC. People have welcomed his elevation, with a large number of hoardings put up in every nook and corner of the constituency. Nagra has been widely acclaimed for the unprecedented development of the constituency over the last four years. There are various projects that have either been completed or are nearing completion. Now with Nagra becoming the working president, the expectations of people have risen and they hope more projects will be in the offing. With more burden on him, the constituency is being looked after by his wife Mandeep Kaur Nagra.On allocation spree, minister shown ‘rule book’Chandigarh: The political corridors are abuzz with reports about a senior state minister sulking quietly in his hometown after his discretionary powers for the release of funds were clipped by the Chief Minister. The minister was releasing funds to his own constituents at will without seeking the approval of the Chief Minister. Certain party MLAs had objected to the grants announced by the minister, following which the “rule book” for the release of discretionary grants was shown to him during the last meeting of the Cabinet and he was told in no uncertain terms that this could be done only by the CM. The budget from which the minister was showering largesse on his constituents has increased during the election year by hundreds of crores.Accolades for 109-year-old gaushalaFazilka: The management of the 109-year-old gaushala in Fazilka town has been honoured by Punjab Gau Sewa Commission. The certificate of appreciation reads that the efforts made by the Gau Rakshani Sabha, Fazilka, for the service, well-being, nutrition and health of cows and to make indigenous species flourish, are highly appreciated. Ashok Gulbadhar, president of the gaushala, set up in 1912, says nearly 1,800 cows are being taken care of. He says special arrangements have been made to take care of injured and sick cows.Sidhu, Channi connect over Vastu ShastraChandigarh: Newly appointed PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, who on Saturday visited the newly constructed palatial house of minister Charanjit Channi in Morinda, was quick to comment that the premises had been constructed as per Vastu Shastra. Channi, who played in a key role in Sidhu’s elevation, was playing host to the new PPCC chief in Morinda and Chamkaur Sahib. Sidhu is also believed to be a follower of Vastu Shastra, a common interest among the two leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunny-deol-back-on-track-after-us-visit-288367
26-07-2021||Sangrur||Sangrur: Kargil martyrs’ family members honoured||Rs 4.5L drug money, 160 kg poppy husk seizedAbohar: Police teams seized 160 kg poppy husk, an unlicensed pistol and drug money worth Rs 4.5 lakh at a naka on the Abohar-Sriganganagar stretch of NH-15. A case under the NDPS Act and Arms Act has been registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-kargil-martyrs-family-members-honoured-288359
26-07-2021||---||Daily random sampling must as schools open in Punjab today||Faridkot, July 25With the opening of schools for Classes X-XII from Monday, the School Education Department has decided to conduct random sampling of students for Covid. One student per 100 will be tested every day in schools.Seek parents’ consentIn a letter to school heads, the department has conveyed that one official in every district would be nominated as district Covid nodal officer to keep a tab on the situation with the help of the health department. The schools have been asked to inoculate all students above 18 years. They have to upload data related to positive cases and students vaccinated on the portal of the department.All schools that were used as Covid care centre will be fully sanitised. School managements have been asked to ensure vehicles were sanitised before they start plying.There must be at least 6-ft distance between students. If there are a large number of students and distancing norms are not maintainable, school managements may hold classes in two shifts or call students on alternate days.If there is shortage of vaccine for students, the district education officers have been asked to contact the DCs. All school employees who are at greater risk of infection have been asked to take extra precautions. They should not be exposed to any frontline work requiring direct contact with students.There should be no congregations or meetings. Schools have been asked not to organise events where distancing is not possible. Functions and celebration of festivals shall be avoided. School assembly, however, may be conducted by students in their respective classrooms or outdoor spaces under the guidance of class teacher.To-do list||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/daily-random-sampling-must-as-schools-open-in-punjab-today-288186
26-07-2021||PK Jaiswar||Punjab Govt issues job orders for kin of Dasehra train tragedy victims||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 25Nearly three years after the 2018 Dasehra train tragedy in Amritsar, which claimed over 50 lives near Jaura Phatak, the Punjab Government has finally issued orders to provide jobs to 34 family members of the deceased.34 families to benefitThe orders were issued by the Chief Secretary, Personnel, today, which have been forwarded to Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira and other authorities for necessary action and completion of formalities such as police verification, medical examination and verification of educational qualification.For over a year, the families of the deceased had been holding a protest seeking government jobs as promised by the state government at the time of the tragedy, which had snatched away bread-winners of several households.The beneficiaries will be accommodated at the Deputy Commissioner’s office, Civil Surgeon’s office, municipal corporation, Education Department and the Improvement Trust.According to officials, the state government had approved jobs in undisputed cases, while several cases were still pending with the government owing to some disputes.The Punjab Cabinet had decided to provide government jobs to the victims’ families during a Cabinet meeting in March this year. A ray of hope had emerged among the families following the government’s approval. The victims had been protesting against the state government over non-fulfilment of its promise. Recently, they had written to the Chief Minister demanding jobs.They had alleged even after several months of the decision, they had not received any communication from the state government, while the district administration had failed to provide any information in this regard.Earlier, the Centre and state had released an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh and Rs 5 lakh respectively, for the victims, but the affected families alleged the amount could hardly secure their future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-issues-job-orders-for-kin-of-dasehra-train-tragedy-victims-288187
26-07-2021||Faridkot||National Medical Commission eases norms for PG students||In view of the current Covid-19 pandemic, the National Medical Commission (NMC) has announced three-month relaxation to medical students for the submission of PG degree thesis.Considering many requests from students and medical institutions, the Postgraduate Medical Education Board (PGMEB) of the NMC has decided to allow the postgraduate degree students of batches 2018-19 and 2019-20 to submit their thesis at least three months before the theory and clinical/practical exams.As per the NMC’s regulations with regard to the submission of the postgraduate thesis, these need to be submitted at least six months before the exams.The NMC has also allowed relaxation in regard to presentation of one poster, read one paper at a national/state conference and present one research paper for a postgraduate student of a postgraduate degree in broad specialities/super specialities. Earlier, it was mandatory for a postgraduate student to make him eligible to appear at the postgraduate degree examination. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/national-medical-commission-eases-norms-for-pg-students-288188
26-07-2021||Amritsar||NIA to take over Amritsar heroin seizure case||Nearly one and a half years after the seizure of 194 kg heroin from Akash Avenue in Sultanwind village by the Special Task Force (STF), the probe has now been handed over to National Investigation Agency (NIA).The probe was handed over to the NIA by the Ministry of Home Affairs. A team of the NIA will be arriving in the city this week for taking over the case. The STF had nabbed Afghan national Arman Basharmal along with several others, including former Subordinate Service Selection Board member Anwar Masih and Pollywood actor Mantej Mann in the case.Kingpin in ItalyThe Gujarat and Punjab Police had zeroed in on the prime suspect Simarjit Singh Sandhu, a resident of Amritsar, who is currently living in Italy. According to the police, he was the mastermind behind smuggling of heroin in IndiaVavinder Mahajan, DSP, STF, said the case was currently under trial in a local court. During the investigations, the STF officials believed that 194 kg heroin was a part of the 300-kg drug consignment that was smuggled into India through Mandvi coast in Gujarat in 2018. A Gujarat Police team had also visited Amritsar to join probe and question the suspect arrested by the Punjab Police. It was believed that around 200 kg of contraband was allegedly sold to Ankush Kapoor which was later smuggled to Punjab.The Gujarat Police as well as Punjab Police had zeroed in on the prime suspect Simarjit Singh Sandhu, a resident of Amritsar, who is currently living in Italy. According to the police, he was the mastermind behind smuggling of heroin into India. STF officials said Sandhu was likely to be extradited soon though he had filed an appeal in an Italy court against it. The STF had also nabbed Ankush Kapur, Tamanna Gupta, Sahil Sharma and Sukhbir Singh Happy besides others in the seizure case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nia-to-take-over-amritsar-heroin-seizure-case-288189
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Take steps to control dengue in Punjab, officials told||As 80 per cent of dengue cases have been reported from urban areas, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu instructed all stakeholder departments of the State Task Force (STF) to strictly implement the preventive measures to control the outbreak of dengue, malaria, chikungunya and other vector and water-borne diseases.While presiding over the STF meeting, the Health Minister said the role of the Local Government Department was to ensure spray of insecticides and larvicides for prevention and control of dengue in the urban areas. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/take-steps-to-control-dengue-in-punjab-officials-told-288190
26-07-2021||Bathinda||Scholarship fund not given, Bathinda college turns to SC panel||Bathinda-based Tapacharya Hem Kunwar RLD Jain Girls College has written a letter to the National Commission for Schedule Castes (NCSC) demanding release of pending amount of the Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme.Rs 17 lakh pending’As per the information received by the NCSC from Gagandeep Kaur, college Principal, the state had not released Rs17,47,887 to the college under the scholarship scheme from session 2013-14 to 2016-17As per the information received by the NCSC from Gagandeep Kaur, college Principal, the state government had not released an amount of Rs 17,47,887 to the college for its SC students under the Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme from academic session 2013-14 to 2016-17. As per the audit done by the departments concerned of the Punjab Government, an amount of Rs 30,33,537 was to be given to the college under the scheme but only Rs 12,85,650 was released by the government.The NCSC has issued a notice to the state government in this regard. While issuing the notice to Chief Secretary; Principal Secretary, Department of Social Justice Empowerment and Minorities; and Secretary, Department of Higher Education, the NCSC asked the authorities to submit with 15 days, through post or email, the action taken on the allegation/matter. NCSC chairman Vijay Sampla cautioned the officials that if an action-taken report was not received, the commission might exercise the powers of civil courts conferred on it under Article 338. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/scholarship-fund-not-given-bathinda-college-turns-to-sc-panel-288191
26-07-2021||Amritsar||Akal Takht to probe ‘violations’ at historic Gurdwara Sri Nanak Mata in Uttarakhand||Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has taken note of the alleged violation of Sikh ‘rehat maryada’ at the historic Gurdwara Sri Nanak Mata in Uttarakhand where Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami was welcomed recently.Giani Harpreet Singh has constituted a three-member inquiry committee to probe the matter, which will visit there and submit its report after investigating the issue.This was disclosed by Jaspal Singh, personal assistant to the jathedar. He said the Uttarakhand CM had gone to the gurdwara and to welcome him, girls in traditional hill attire were made to dance inside the gurdwara campus and pro-BJP slogans were raised inside the shrine. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akal-takht-to-probe-violations-at-historic-gurdwara-sri-nanak-mata-in-uttarakhand-288192
26-07-2021||Sangrur||Acute gastroenteritis outbreak in Sangrur||The mixing of sewage with pipeline water has led to an acute gastroenteritis outbreak at Matran village with 70 persons falling ill in the past three days. The district health authorities have formed teams to treat patients at the village. “With 24 more patients being reported today, the number has reached 70. Though no one is in a serious condition, the teams of Health Department are conducting a door-to-door survey to prevent the spread of acute gastroenteritis,” said sarpanch Gurmale Kaur. Residents said initially, they were not aware of the outbreak, which started around three days ago. “Our teams have surveyed 157 houses in the village and are providing round-the-clock treatment at the village,” said Dr Mahesh Kumar, SMO, Bhawanigarh Civil Hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/acute-gastroenteritis-outbreak-in-sangrur-288193
26-07-2021||Amritsar||Sucha Singh Langah seeks pardon from Akal Takht Jathedar again||Former SAD minister Sucha Singh Langah has again pleaded before Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh for pardon.Langah was excommunicated by Akal Takht on October 5, 2017, after a video allegedly showing him in a compromising position with a woman, went viral. The woman had accused him of sexually exploiting her. However, he was later acquitted by the court as the complainant withdrew the charges.Langah claimed for the past 101 days, he had been attending Golden Temple prayers seeking an apology for his mistakes. “Whatever religious punishment the Akal Takht Jathedar will award, it will be acceptable to me,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sucha-singh-langah-seeks-pardon-from-akal-takht-jathedar-again-288194
26-07-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Picking team to be tough task for Navjot Sidhu||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 25Recently appointed Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief Navjot Singh Sidhu faces a tall order of putting together a new team, steering clear of the party leaders whose “stakes” with illegal mining and liquor mafia are no more a secret.With an apparent free hand from the party high command to choose his team, Sidhu has little time to gather a fine squad reflecting a balance between caste combination and experience to energise the party cadre in the run-up to the 2022 Assembly elections. It has been over one-and-a-half year that the PCC body was dissolved. The AICC will release the list after getting the recommendations from the state unit.The challengesNavjot Sidhu’s predecessor Sunil Jakhar in his speech at the former’s installation ceremony recently had advised: “Fulfilling the unfinished agenda of making party workers stakeholders in power sharing is the key to mobilising party workers ahead of the elections.”Former PCC chief Shamsher Singh Dullo said: “Sidhu has to tread cautiously. The very people who were on board with Capt Amarinder Singh are now the force behind Sidhu. At least 70 per cent of the leaders have stakes in liquor, sand mining or bus operations business. Whom will he take along?”A prominent Dalit leader and Rajya Sabha MP, Dullo said: “Navjot Sidhu has to take along the Dalit, Hindu and OBC leaders along if he is keen to mobilise the party cadre down the line.”In the past, the party candidates on losing in Assembly elections were made district unit presidents, as in case of Mohali and Ropar. “This should be discouraged. Those who contest polls should not be made DCC presidents. Besides, the dominance of Jats in key positions, as reflective in the Cabinet, was also visible in the previous PCC body,” he said.A senior party leader from Doaba, Dr Ram Lal Jassi, said Sidhu was a reasonable person. “He should put up a united front with the CM if the 18-point agenda has to be implemented on a war footing.” He pointed out that he had to write to party president Sonia Gandhi when Dalits were ignored in the PCC body in 2016. Meanwhile, it is learnt that Sidhu was keen on getting the DCC presidents announced on priority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/picking-team-to-be-tough-task-for-navjot-sidhu-288174
26-07-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Cadre ‘dispirited’, revival tall order for Punjab AAP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 25Aam Aadmi Party national convener Arvind Kejriwal’s June 30 announcement promising 300 units of free power to all families in Punjab if voted to power seems to have been an attempt to rejuvenate party workers, apart from wooing the voter.With fatigue setting in after the 2017 performance in the Punjab, party’s revival to ensure success in the 2022 Assembly elections is not going to be easy.What’s ailing partySenior AAP leader and Leader of Opposition Harpal Cheema says: “We are not as strong as we were in the 2017 Assembly elections. However, our revival programme has started. Those who joined us for personal gains have left our cavalcade. We are looking for committed party men, like Mamata Banerjee’s TMC in West Bengal, and we are getting some on board.”A senior AAP leader, who contested the last Vidhan Sabha elections unsuccessfully from Malwa, says: “Unlike the last elections, when our workers surprised the Opposition with their dedication — some even spending from own pocket — the party is now full of members with vested interest. There is a vertical split in the cadre at several places. The party lacks a leader whom we can project as our chief ministerial face.”Leaders on the ground accept large-scale disenchantment among workers. Sukhraj Singh from Talwandi Sabo says: “I had caught a team of Akalis distributing liquor among voters last time. Kejriwal had personally acknowledged my work on Twitter. That was the level of commitment and appreciation. No one really bothered after the elections and now I am sitting at home.”Khudian to join AAP todayMuktsar: Gurmeet Singh Khudian, son of former MP Jagdev Singh Khudian, who had quit the Congress on Friday, will join AAP in Chandigarh on Monday. Gurmeet, former president of the District Congress Committee, Muktsar, said he along with supporters would join AAP in the presence of state leadership. Gurmeet had left the Congress saying he was feeling ignored. TNSNo longer actively working for AAP, Kuljit Singh, a former president of the Amritsar (Urban) unit, says: “The present organisation at the booth level doesn’t have leaders or workers who can reach out to people, like they did before.”However, AAP leader from Patiala Dr Balbir Singh feels Kejriwal’s recent visit has instilled some enthusiasm among party workers here. Party spokesperson Ahbaab Singh Grewal from Ludhiana, who lost the Assembly elections last time, says: “We have limited resources, but we are doing our best to revive the party cadre.”Sukhdeep S Apra (43), a former general secretary and AAP spokesperson, was a party observer for Amritsar who trained 62 candidates during the 2017 Assembly elections. “The state AAP leadership is being controlled by two or three persons from Delhi. I have seen some hand-picked activists being reprimanded by the Delhi leadership for no reason,” he says.Another worker says: “It is sad that our party did not wake up when dedicated leaders like Dr Dharamvir Gandhi from Patiala left. One of the founding party leaders in the state, Sucha Singh Chhotepur, was also given an unceremonious exit. Several other leaders have left. It is unfortunate for the state unit as the central leadership has been controlling its activities through a remote control.”However, Raghav Chadha, co-in charge of Punjab affairs, says the party is receiving a good response at the ground level during its recent outreach programmes. State president Bhagwant Mann could not be contacted for comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cadre-dispirited-revival-tall-order-for-punjab-aap-288175
26-07-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa’s ‘interest’ in Batala may prove Achilles’ heel for Congress||Tribune News ServiceBatala, July 25The Batala Assembly seat, considered to be a safe bet for the Congress, is witnessing a no-holds barred battle between Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and three-time former legislator Ashwani Sekhri for political upmanship.A one-time Capt Amarinder Singh supporter, Bajwa has now joined the ranks of newly elected Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu. Bajwa has ushered in numerous developmental works, which are visible on ground, ever since he was made a Cabinet Minister.Sekhri holds swayIn April, Bajwa took an avid interest in appointing his supporter, Sukhdeep Singh Teja, to the mayoral post. This is being seen as an indicator that he would test the political waters from this city itself.Sources claim youth Shiromani Akali Dali (SAD) leader Ravi Karan Singh Kahlon has done a lot of ground work in the past few years in Fatehgarh Churian, forcing the minister to shift to Batala. The Akalis have already announced the candidature of Ravi from this seat.In the 2017 Assembly elections, Bajwa had won Fatehgarh Churian with a wafer-thin margin. “This time he knows it will be difficult for him to retain his seat,” said an MLA.However, the Cabinet Minister will face a tough challenge from three-time former Batala MLA Ashwani Sekhri, a leader who holds tremendous sway over the Hindu vote bank.A couple of weeks ago Sekhri had threatened to join the SAD because of the “continued interference of Bajwa into his domain”. Insiders say as part of the package formula worked out between the Chief Minister, state Congress unit and Sekhri, he will be allowed to retain the candidature from Batala seat.Sekhri’s candidature has been given a massive push following assertions made by the powerful Hindu industrial lobby that the seat should be given to a Hindu, keeping in view the fact that more than 50 per cent of the voters belong to this community.“Batala could turn out to be the last in the list of seats to be announced by the PCC,” said a senior leader. Observers say the squabbling between the two leaders is lowering the morale of the party rank and file.Meanwhile, residents are a happy lot, keeping in view the various development works that are underway in the city. “We know neither Sekhri nor Bajwa. All we know is that the civic amenities are improving,” said Jagjot Singh Sandhu, an RTI activist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tript-rajinder-singh-bajwas-interest-in-batala-may-prove-achilles-heel-for-congress-288176
26-07-2021||Ferozepur||Ferozepur farmers gherao BJP leader’s residence||Hundreds of farmers belonging to the BKU (Dakonda) today protested outside the residence of the BJP district president where the saffron party leaders had assembled for a review meeting. The farmers raised slogans against the BJP leaders and exhorted them to leave the party and join the protest against the agricultural laws. The protesters scuffled with the police after forcing their way through the barriers to march towards the  venue. Already a heavy police force had been deployed which prevented the situation from taking an ugly turn. Earlier, even before the meeting had started, the farmers belonging to BKU (Dakonda) reached the venue and did not allow the BJP leaders to enter Guru Nagar Colony, where the meeting was scheduled to take place at the residence of Surinder Singh, district BJP president.  Harnek Singh Mehma, BKU leader, said till the time the central government repealed the anti-farmer laws, they would not allow any BJP leader to settle down. “We are fighting for the rights of farmers and we will fight till our last breath,” said Mehma. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ferozepur-farmers-gherao-bjp-leaders-residence-288177
26-07-2021||Sangrur||More Sangrur farmers, especially women leave for Delhi stir||More farmers, especially women, and their family members continue to leave for New Delhi to join the protest against the central farm laws. On Sunday also, many vehicle of farmers left from Sangrur for Delhi borders.“We are committed to taking our fight to a logical conclusion, even if take years. We know the central government is unwilling to repeal the laws, but we would also not end our protest without getting our demand met,” said Baljit Kaur while leaving for Delhi.Tomar’s remark frivolous: MannJangir Kaur, another protester, said she had been visiting the borders along the national capital regularly while her husband and both sons with their wives too were also supporting the agitation.Though women have been away from their families for long, they stay connected over the phone. BKU (Ugrahan) Lehra block president Dharminder Pashore said every week thousands of farmers were leaving for Delhi borders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/more-sangrur-farmers-especially-women-leave-for-delhi-stir-288178
26-07-2021||Patiala||Jobless take to Twitter to lodge protest against Punjab Govt||After having been ignored by the state government, members of the ETT TET-Pass unemployed union decided to take their protest to the social media. With #justiceforsurinderpal, the jobless teachers took to Twitter on Sunday.Surinder Pal Singh, an unemployed ETT TET-Pass teacher, has been protesting atop a mobile tower for the past 127 days to highlight the issue of jobless teachers.A Dalit activist, Dr Ritu Singh, has already come out in support of Surinder Pal and, in a video message, appealed to everyone to support him. Navjot Singh Sidhu, in his speech during his installation ceremony as the PCC chief, had also raised the issue of ETT teachers.Surinder Pal said: “I hope that Sidhu will use his influence to convince the government and resolve our issue.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-take-to-twitter-to-lodge-protest-against-punjab-govt-288179
26-07-2021||Fazilka||Fazilka farmer shot over water dispute||A farmer was allegedly shot by his neighbours over a water dispute at Kamalwala village in Fazilka district today morning. According to police sources, Pushpinder Singh (35) had an outstanding dispute with Gurpreet Singh and his father Jaspal Singh over canal water turn to irrigate their fields.Khui Khera police station SHO Bachan Singh said Pushpinder was sitting outside his residence when Gurpreet and Jaspal arrived there and fired two shots at them. Pushpinder was hit in the chest and stomach and taken to a local hospital where he was declared brought dead.The SHO said the two sides had an old rivalry over turn for water to irrigate the fields.The SHO said the father and son had been booked and teams had been dispatched to nab the accused. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fazilka-farmer-shot-over-water-dispute-288180
26-07-2021||Aparna Banerji||Olympics: 3 from Jalandhar's Mithapur village in Indian hockey team||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 25Of the 19 players of the hockey contingent representing India in the Tokyo Olympics, 11 are from Punjab. Of the 11, four are from Jalandhar, of which three are from Mithapur village alone.When Manpreet Singh (29), Captain of the Indian hockey team, led the Olympic contingent with boxing legend Mary Kom during the opening ceremony on July 23, it was a record-breaking moment.Clad in the Indian team blazer, Manpreet is the second hockey team captain and second flag-bearer of the Indian contingent from Mithapur village. Olympian Pargat Singh, MLA from Jalandhar Cantt, was the first. There is jubilation and cheer in the village which has a history of hockey greats and is currently one of the most productive nurseries of hockey players in the state.Along with Manpreet Singh, players Mandeep Singh and Varun Kumar also hail from the village. Another hockey team member, Hardik Singh, is from nearby Khusropur village.While Mithapur has had a huge section of population serving in the armed forces, it is most popular for its illustrious list of hockey greats.Village’s Swarup Singh was a member of the 1952 Helsinki Olympic gold-winning hockey team; Kulwant Singh was a member of the bronze-winning hockey team in 1972 and Pargat Singh was part of the hockey teams in the 1988, 1992 and 1996 Olympics.The 70 students who train at the hockey academy at the village seek inspiration from these illustrious Olympians.Balwinder Singh, a coach at the academy, said, “It is a proud moment for us. Generations of hockey players have sought inspiration from the village. Every house here has a player. But this moment is unparalleled. Manpreet trained here and at the Surjit Hockey Academy. The village’s Shaheed Darshan Singh Kaypee Stadium is filled with his memories. Till a couple of years ago, we had four players from Mithapur in the Indian team. The fourth was Talwinder Singh.”“The huge representation from Punjab after so many years is heartening. The future of the Mithapur academy is bright. We hope to see many more players from the village in the Indian team,” Olympian Pargat Singh said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/olympics-3-from-jalandhars-mithapur-village-in-indian-hockey-team-288181
26-07-2021||---||Vax crunch in Bathinda triggers chaos at camp||Bathinda, July 25Tempers ran high at a vaccination camp organised by Sri Satya Sai Sewa Samiti, Bathinda, today at Sai Mandir here as the organisers registered more people than vaccines allotted to them by the Health Department.People were seen asking the organisers that if they had just 100 doses, why did they register more people. They also alleged the organisers and department officials gave jab to people out of turn and people waiting in line had to go back.Later, Health Department officials cancelled their registration and noted some names who had not got the jab.Manpreet Kaur, a teacher, said, “I went along with my husband to get the vaccine and we were given registration numbers 81 and 82, but before our turn came, we were told the vaccine is over. This is totally wrong on the part of organisers and health staff, who were present at the spot.”Another person said that he had come from a far-off place to get vaccinated, but upon reaching here, he got to know that the vaccine stock was over. When a department official present at the spot was asked about this, she said they had informed the organisers about having just 100 doses left and only they could tell why more registrations had been done.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vax-crunch-in-bathinda-triggers-chaos-at-camp-288182
26-07-2021||---||63% have antibodies against Covid in Punjab||Chandigarh, July 25In Punjab, as many as 63.4 per cent people have developed antibodies against Covid-19 after two waves swept the state.The fact came to the fore in the fourth sero survey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).During the survey, antibody test (anti SI-RBD antibodies) was carried out on 1,585 persons in four districts — Gurdaspur, Ludhiana, Patiala and Jalandhar — last month.Ludhiana tops the chart as 71 per cent people were found positive for antibody test. It was followed by Jalandhar with 65.6 per cent and Gurdaspur 63.4 per cent. Patiala was at the bottom with just 52.6 per cent people having antibodies.The survey also corroborates with the ground situation as Ludhiana contributes the highest cases and deaths to the state’s total cases. In the district, 87,262 cases and 2,093 deaths have been reported. The first case of Covid in the state was reported in March last year. Since then, the state has reported 5.98 lakh cases and over 16,000 deaths.A similar survey was carried out on 400 healthcare workers in the same districts. As far as the healthcare workers are concerned, Gurdaspur had the highest antibodies with 87 per cent. It was followed by Ludhiana with 85 per cent and Patiala 82 per cent. Among healthcare workers of Jalandhar, it was found that 79 per cent of them had developed antibodies against Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/63-have-antibodies-against-covid-in-punjab-288183
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Trans fat surveillance launched||A capacity building workshop of district-level designated officials and food safety officers on trans fat surveillance was organised by the Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER, Chandigarh; Strategic Institute for Public Health Education and Research, Chandigarh; and the Department of Food and Drug Administration. The workshop saw the launch of trans fat surveillance, wherein food safety officers shall collect a few samples from their jurisdiction and send these to the state laboratory for analysis of trans fat. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/trans-fat-surveillance-launched-288184
26-07-2021||---||Active Covid cases dip to 699, lowest ever in Punjab||Chandigarh, July 25The active Covid cases have come down to the lowest-ever figure in the state.As per the latest bulletin, at present there are 699 active cases in the state. This is the lowest-ever figure recorded after both Covid waves.As per the state health officials, this is the lowest figure in the last 13 months. “Earlier, it was just before the second wave in June last year when the number of cases was that low,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state’s nodal officer for Covid.Since then, the number of active cases started increasing rapidly and touched almost 50,000 during the first wave in September last year. After that the cases started coming down and in January this year at one point of time, the number of active cases had come down to around 2,000 in the third week of January. But after that, with the onset of the second wave of Covid, the number started increasing. And in mid-May, the number of active cases increased to over 80,000.However, after May, the cases started dropping and a month ago, there were just around 5,000 active cases in the state. In the last one month, the active cases have kept on decreasing and have come down to around 700.During the peak of the second wave, the state was reporting around 9,000 cases and over 200 deaths everyday but now the number of average daily cases has come down to around 70 and on an average three deaths are being reported every day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/active-covid-cases-dip-to-699-lowest-ever-in-punjab-288185
26-07-2021||PK Jaiswar||Dussehra train tragedy: Punjab govt gives jobs to victims’ kin||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 25Two years and nine months after the Dussehra train tragedy in Amritsar that claimed over 50 lives near Jaura Phatak railway crossing, the Punjab government has finally given jobs to 34 kin of the deceased.An order was issued by Chief Secretary, Personnel, on Sunday which has been forwarded to Deputy Commissioner, Amritsar, Gurpreet Singh Khaira and other authorities for further action and completing the formalities like police verification, medical and educational qualification.For past over a year, the kin of the deceased had been holding agitation seeking government jobs as promised by the state government at the time of the tragedy that had left many families devastated who lost their bread earners in the incident.The beneficiaries were offered jobs in Deputy Commissioner’s office, Civil Surgeon’s officer, Municipal Corporation, Education department and Improvement Trust.According to officials, the Punjab government approved provided jobs to undisputed cases while several cases were still pending with the government owing to some disputes. The Punjab cabinet had decided to provide government jobs to the victim’s families during a cabinet meeting in March this year. A ray of hope emerged among the victims’ families following the government’s approval.The victims had been agitating against the state government for non-fulfilment of its promise. Recently, they had shot a letter to the CM seeking jobs. They had alleged that even after over two months, they have received no communication from the government, while the district administration also failed to give any information regarding this.Earlier, the Centre and the state had given an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh and Rs 5 lakh, respectively, but the affected family members alleged that the amount could hardly secure their future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dussehra-train-tragedy-punjab-govt-gives-jobs-to-victims-kin-288154
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Australia Sikh assault case: Haryana CM writes to Lekhi, asks for her intervention for Karnal youth Vishal Jood’s release||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday wrote to Union Minister of State for External Affairs Meenakshi Lekhi, seeking her intervention in securing the matter pertaining to 24-year-old Vishal Jood who is lodged in a prison in Australia.Urging Lekhi’s intervention “to secure justice for a son of Haryana”, Khattar said that he has received representations from various quarters including Jood’s family, according to a state government release.They have conveyed to him that “Jood got into a tussle with a group that was raising anti-Indian slogans and even desecrating the Indian national flag and these groups have subsequently framed him on false charges”, Khattar said.In the letter, the CM highlighted that he had held a virtual meeting with some representatives of the Indian Diaspora in Australia, who are backing Jood and have started a campaign there, to get him released from jail, as early as possible.There have been protests and demonstrations in various parts of Haryana and north India in support of Jood and there is strong public sentiment for his early release, he said in the letter, as per the release.According to local media reports, Jood, who hails from Haryana’s Karnal, is lodged in an Australian prison for his alleged role in a series of hate attacks on some Sikhs in Sydney this year.Khattar had earlier said that he would also urge the Australian High Commission to intervene. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/australia-sikh-assault-case-haryana-cm-writes-to-lekhi-asks-for-her-intervention-for-karnal-youth-vishal-joods-release-281138
