30-07-2021||Washington||Memorial service of Sikh soldier held at Arlington National Cemetery in US||Recognising the valour of Sikh-American Gurpreet Singh who died in a combat mission in Afghanistan over a decade ago, the Arlington National Cemetery on Thursday held a service in his honour more than six months after he was memorialised at America’s most hallowed ground with the placement of a memorial headstone.The service was held at the memorial marker of Corporal Gurpreet, the first and only Sikh service member from the Afghanistan campaign to be memorialised at the Arlington National Cemetery.“The ceremony that was done today was for my brother late Cpl Gurpreet Singh. He was killed in action 10 years ago in Afghanistan. We didn’t do a proper burial, we had his cremation. We actually wanted to have a place at Arlington (National Cemetery),” his sister Manpreet Singh told PTI after the ceremony.After he joined the armed forces, Gurpreet was assigned to 1st Battalion, 5th Marines, 1st Marine Division, Camp Pendleton, California. He made the ultimate sacrifice on June 22, 2011, in Helmand Province, Afghanistan while conducting Combat Operations. He was awarded the Bronze Star with Combat “V” for valour, posthumously for heroic service in Sangrin District. He was 21 when he died.In November 2020, he was memorialised at the Arlington National Cemetery with the placement of a memorial headstone. His memorial marker is one of two, symbolising Sikh warriors in the American wars. The other one is of Uday Singh, who died in the war in Iraq.Manpreet said that Gurpreet joined the Marine Corps right after high school as he always wanted to be in the Marine Corps.“It took us a while. It has been a really emotional journey, even though it’s been 10 years. Today we were able to get him a gravestone and a place where everybody can come,” Manpreet said.Describing Gurpreet as part of the “wonderful historical military legacy” that Sikhs carry, LTC Kamal Kalsi, who was behind organising the event and was the first Sikh to be granted a religious accommodation in nearly a generation, said that Sikhs have a strong connection with the military.“Today, we honoured the life and service of Cpl Gurpreet Singh,” he told PTI.“It’s really the Sikh memorial at the Arlington National Cemetery. We were very honoured to be able to do this. This was long time coming. He gave the ultimate sacrifice in 2011. This process, because of the Covid-19, took year and a half to get his memorial marker set up,” he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/memorial-service-of-sikh-soldier-held-at-arlington-national-cemetery-in-us-290594
30-07-2021||---||Haryana yet to hand over encumbrance free land for AIIMS Manethi: Govt in Lok Sabha||New Delhi, July 30The government on Friday informed Lok Sabha that the Haryana government was yet to hand over encumbrance free land for the construction of AIIMS at Manethi, as approved by the Union Cabinet on February 28, 2019."Encumbrance free land is yet to be handed over by the state government," the Health Ministry said in Parliament about the status of pending AIIMS across the country.In respect of other AIIMS in the region, the government said, MBBS classes have already commenced at AIIMS Bilaspur (from academic year 2020-21), Jammu (from 2020-21 from a temporary campus) and Bathinda (from 2019-2020).Sixty-six per cent construction work is complete at AIIMS Bilaspur in Himachal Pradesh, 22 per cent in AIIMS Jammu, 4.5 per cent in AIIMS Kashmir and 86.10 per cent in AIIMS Bathinda where oPD services became functional from December 25, 2019, the government said.The AIIMS are being built under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY), which aims to establish the institutes in all the states in a phasedmanner.Setting up of 22 AIIMS has been sanctioned so far under the Scheme. Six of the sanctioned AIIMS at Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Jodhpur, Patna, Raipur and Rishikesh are fully functional.  The remaining 16 are at different stages of operationalisation.The envisioned facilities at each new AIIMS include a 960- or 750-bedded hospital (610 beds in case of AIIMS, Raebareli), facilities for teaching in undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) medical education and nursing, 18 specialty and 17 super specialty departments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/haryana-yet-to-hand-over-encumbrance-free-land-for-aiims-manethi-govt-in-lok-sabha-290533
30-07-2021||---||Akali Dal, 7 other parties demand JPC into farmers’ deaths||New Delhi, July 30Eight parties, including the Shiromani Akali Dal, the Left, BSP, RLP, NCP, Shiv Sena and NC on Friday wrote to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla demanding a joint parliamentary committee probe into the number of deaths during the farmers’ agitation and also sought Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar’s apology for saying the “government had no knowledge of farmers’ deaths” during the nine-month-long Kisan Andolan.“We urge you to form a Joint Parliamentary Committee led by an Opposition member to probe the entire issue and ascertain details of the total number of lives lost in the ongoing Kisan Andolan and suggest ways and means to rehabilitate the victim families. The JPC could also take feedback directly from farmers and their representatives about their reservations vis-a-vis the three agriculture laws and submit the same to the government for necessary action. We are confident that as custodian of the august house you will ensure that the insult meted out to farmers and their democratic protest is addressed. This will also send out a clear signal that the temple of democracy stands with the ‘annadaata’ and will not stomach the insult heaped on him,” says the letter to the Speaker written on Friday and signed, among others, by Akali Dal MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal, NCP’s Supriya Sule, BSP’s Danish Ali and NC’s Hasnain Masoodi.The leaders in the letter also described as galling the agriculture minister going on record to say that neither a study had been conducted to verify the numbers of the farmers’ deaths nor a study to understand the apprehensions in the minds of farmers regarding the three farm laws. “You will agree that this is a very serious lapse on the part of the agriculture minister. He has, in fact, misled the nation. So we urge you to ask the minister to apologise to the farming community for his intemperate remarks which have hurt their self-respect,” the leaders said.The letter states that farmers across the nation have been protesting for almost a year against the three farm bills - namely the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm  Services Bill, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020. “It is very well known that the NDA government did not go through a due consultative process before bringing in the Bills in Parliament even with the farmers, for whose welfare the Bills were supposedly framed. We would like to bring to your notice a most recent painful episode which has hurt the sentiments of the farming community across the country.  Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar has stated in Parliament that the Union Government did not have any record of the farmers who have died in the course of the ongoing Kisan Andolan on the borders of Delhi. It is shocking that the ‘annadaata’ was subjected to this insult despite clear-cut recorded proof of hundreds of farmers being martyred during the Kisan Andolan,” the letter says demanding the minister’s apology.These parties will meet the President on Saturday on farmers' and Pegasus issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akali-dal-7-other-parties-demand-jpc-into-farmers-deaths-290505
30-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Muktsar lad Manhar Bansal tops all-India CLAT exam||Muktsar lad Manhar Bansal topped the national level Common Law Admission Test (CLAT), the results of which were announced on Thursday.Congratulations to Muktsar boy Manhar Bansal for topping the national level Common Law Admission Test (CLAT). Your great achievement will certainly be an inspiration for other students. Best of luck beta for your bright future…God bless! pic.twitter.com/dLER8Gt0hC  Announcing the development, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh congratulated Bansal in a tweet saying: "Congratulations to Sri Muktsar Sahib boy Manhar Bansal for topping the national level Common Law Admission Test (CLAT). Your great achievement will certainly be an inspiration for other students. Best of luck beta for your bright future…God bless!"||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-lad-manhar-bansal-tops-all-india-clat-exam-290502
30-07-2021||---||Former Punjab and Haryana HC judge Justice Nirmaljit Kaur appointed member of Punjab State Human Rights Commission||Chandigarh, July 30Justice Nirmaljit Kaur, a former judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, has been appointed a member of the Punjab State Human Rights Commission.Justice Nirmaljit Kaur had retired from the High Court in January this year.She was elevated as a judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in July 2008.Known for her impeccable integrity, calibre and administrative experience, Justice Nirmaljit Kaur was transferred to Rajasthan High Court in July 2012 and was posted at Jodhpur.Heading a Division Bench hearing criminal matters, Justice Nirmaljit Kaur heard sensitive cases such as Asaram’s bail plea.In November 2018, Justice Nirmaljit Kaur was repatriated to the Punjab and Haryana High Court and was admired by the lawyers and litigants alike, especially for her tough stand against non-compliance of judicial orders while hearing contempt of court pleas.Justice Nirmaljit Kaur also delivered milestone judgments in the realm of education and child adoption.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-punjab-and-haryana-hc-judge-justice-nirmaljit-kaur-appointed-member-of-punjab-state-human-rights-commission-290499
30-07-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Punjab School Education Board announces Class 12 result; girls outshine boys||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 30About 96.48 per cent students cleared the Class 12 exams conducted by the Punjab School Education Board the results of which were declared on Friday.A total of 2,92,663 regular students had appeared in the exams and out of these, 2,82,349 students cleared the exams.Last year, the Class 12 results recorded a passing percentage of 90.98 percent while in 2019, over 2.5 lakh students had appeared for Class 12 exams, with the state recording 86.41 pass percentage.With 99.57 pass percentage, Ropar district secured top position in the state, while Patiala district bagged the second place with a pass percentage of 99.08 per cent, followed by Muktsar district with 99.06 per cent.Giving details, PSEB Chairman Dr Yograj said in the urban area, 12,2,594 students had appeared in the exams and out of these, 1,18,461 cleared the exam, securing the pass percentage of 96.63 per cent. While in rural area, a total of 1,70,049 students had appeared and out of these, 1,63,888 cleared the exams.Dr Yograj said the girls this year outshone the boys as 97.34 per cent students cleared the exams, while boys secured a pass percentage of 95.74 per cent. A total of 1,34,672 girls had appeared  in the exams and out of these, 1,32,691 cleared the exams, while a total of 1,57,951 boys had appeared and out of these, 1,51,258 passed out.In the affiliated and Adarsh schools, out of the total 74,643 students, 69,652 cleared the exams, securing a pass percentage of 93.31 per cent, which is marginally below than government schools. Similarly, in associated schools, a total of 15,784 students appeared in the exams and 14,719 passed, securing a pass percentage of 93.25 per cent.In the meritorious schools of the Punjab government, a total of 4,244 students appeared and out of these, 4,233 students cleared the exams, securing the pass percentage of 99.74 per cent.In the Commerce stream, 31,562 students appeared and out of these, 29,943 cleared the exams, securing the pass percentage of 94.87 per cent. In the Science stream, 43,537 students appeared and out of these, 39,500 students passed, securing the pass percentage of 94 per cent.Maximum number of 2,07,285 students had appeared in Humanities stream and out of these, 2,01,264 students cleared the exams, securing the pass percentage of 97.10 per cent. In the vocational courses, 12,269 students appeared and out of these, 12,096 students passed, securing the pass percentage of 98.51 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-school-education-board-announces-class-12-result-girls-outshine-boys-290487
30-07-2021||So revered is the hallowed soil of Mithapur that people from all over Punjab come to take it in order to mix it at their village playgrounds. Tribune correspondent Aparna Banerji and lensman Sarabjit Singh visit Mithapur hockey nursery||Flick it like Mithapur||It’s said Mithapur and hockey are inseparable. The village has produced six Olympic greats — Swarup Singh (1952 Helsinki Olympics), Kulwant Singh (1972 Olympics), Pargat Singh (1988, 1992 and 1996 Olympics) and three players, including Captain Manpreet Singh (also played in 2012 and 2016 Olympics), Mandeep Singh and Varun Kumar, are part of Indian hockey squad presently playing in the Tokyo Olympics.On July 29, alarms went off at 6 am in every house to witness India beat Argentina 3-1, thus cementing their place in quarterfinals. As Varun scored the first goal in the match, the village let out a collective gasp of joy.Coach Balwinder Singh and member Hockey India said, “Hockey is in our blood. Generations toiled for this moment. From Swarup Singh to Manpreet Singh, numerous unsung heores have fanned the sporting passion. Coach Sarabjit Singh Sabi gave wsidom after playing for leagues abroad. Olympian Pargat Singh is always there to support us. We train at least 70 players and around four sportspersons will make it to the next Olympics.”Rick Charlesworth, who is a five-time Australian Olympian and runs Roundglass Academy, provides free hockey coaching to players at Shaheed Darshan Singh Kaypee Stadium.Surinder Pal Singh (72), who is the eldest living hockey veteran, and played six years for East Bengal Club, said, “Saria Singh Kairon started hockey fad in the village. Swarup Singh Olympian was the first product. Earlier, there was no field or stadium. Gurdwara Singh Sabha Mithapur’s front yard used to be our hockey ground. With hockey sticks and ‘khesis’ on shoulders, villagers used to come out in hordes to play the game in evening.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/flick-it-like-mithapur-290435
30-07-2021||---||Employees’ state-level protest creates chaos, brings traffic to a halt in Patiala||Patiala, July 29Traffic came to a halt today as government employees from across the state gathered in the city and protested against the ruling dispensation for implementing the Sixth Pay Commission recommendations and not fulfilling their other demands.Employees protested at the new grain market on the Sirhind road here. Later, they also held a march near the Chief Minister’s residence.There was a complete traffic jam on Sirhind Road starting from Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib upto the grain market for all day long.Residents of Harinder Nagar and the Tripuri area had to take long detour to reach their destinations.The protesters came to the city from Pathankot, Amritsar, Barnala, Faridkot and all other districts in buses and private vehicles, which remained parked on roadsides in the city.The protest march that followed the show-of-strength created further traffic snarls in the city. The protesters marched from the new grain market to YPS Chowk and then through Khanda Chowk, Leela Bhawan Chowk and the Fountain Chowk area.Later, the road connecting Sewa Singh Thikriwala Chowk and YPS Chowk also witnessed traffic jam as protesters congregated near the DPDO office where the police had barricaded the area.The protest continued till 5.30 pm after which protesters were allowed to meet Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/employees-state-level-protest-creates-chaos-brings-traffic-to-a-halt-in-patiala-290388
30-07-2021||---||Will get power purchase agreements cancelled, says Navjot Sidhu||Jalandhar, July 29A day after Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh asked Punjab State Power Corporation Limited to cancel/revisit all one-sided power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed by the previous government, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Sidhu today claimed it was a step towards addressing the five priority areas — farm laws, power, sacrilege, employees’ protest and drugs — identified by him.To interact with workers regularlyChandigarh: To listen to party workers on a regular basis, Navjot Singh Sidhu will meet them at Punjab Congress Bhawan here every Tuesday and Friday. Sidhu will meet workers and leaders from Mohali, Ropar, Fatehgarh Sahib and Sangrur districts on Friday, besides holding talks with Dalit MLAs. A senior party leader said the first priority was announcements of the new district unit presidents by the party high command. TNSConsumer feeling the pinchOur domestic consumer is feeling the pinch of higher power tariff because of the wrong PPAs signed by the Badals. But we will get these cancelled. - Navjot Sidhu, PCC  ChiefAddressing mediapersons after meeting party leaders and workers of Jalandhar and Kapurthala, Sidhu said: “Our efforts to push the five-point priority areas have started bearing fruit.”Expressing satisfaction over the pace of work in the Congress government after months of acrimony with the Chief Minister, Sidhu reiterated the Punjab model on power supply was far better than that of Delhi. Punjab was perhaps the only state to offer Rs 10,000 crore subsidy to people as compared to Delhi, which was offering only Rs 1,700 crore subsidy, he said.“Our domestic consumer is feeling the pinch of higher power tariff because of the wrong PPAs signed by the Badals owing to which peak time fixed charges have to be doled out throughout the year to private power generation companies. But we will get all these agreements cancelled,” said Sidhu.He said the government would take up the cancellation of PPAs with the PSPCL with the same vigour as it did in the contentious issue of the river water sharing through the SYL.Sidhu said he would now be focusing on the task of strengthening the organisation. While Sidhu had reportedly invited 10 workers, including block presidents and councillors, from each Assembly segment for the meeting, hundreds of workers showed up at the venue.While all six Congress’ Jalandhar MLAs were present, only one of the four MLAs from Kapurthala — Balwinder Dhaliwal of Phagwara — turned up for the event. Rana Gurjeet Singh, Sukhpal Khaira and Navtej Cheema gave the meeting a miss even as some office-bearers, including block presidents and councillors from their Assembly seats, turned up to put across their message.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-get-power-purchase-agreements-cancelled-says-navjot-sidhu-290281
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Why delay in scrapping of power purchase agreements, asks AAP||A day after Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh wrote to the PSPCL Managing Director, asking him to review or cancel the “faulty” power purchase agreements (PPAs), the Aam Aadmi Party today questioned the Congress government over delay in initiating action during the past four and a half years.CM’s letter a ployThis game of letters is another ploy by the Congress government to waste time.Harpal Singh Cheema, leader of OppositionEx- mayor joins partyFormer Hoshiarpur mayor and former MP Kamal Chaudhary’s cousin Babbi Chaudhary on Thursday joined the AAP along with hundreds of his associates. They joined the party in the presence of Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema.Promising party’s support on the issue, Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said had the CM been really serious on the issue, he would have immediately cancelled the PPAs — passed by the SAD-BJP government — in the Cabinet meeting and then through the Assembly session.Addressing a press conference, Cheema said: “This game of letters is another ploy by the Congress government to waste time.” He asked the CM to explain to the public why he had not convened a Cabinet meeting for the past 41 days. “Never has a Cabinet meeting been delayed by so many days,” he added.Demanding convening the Assembly session, Cheema asked the CM to explain the status of the white paper on the PPAs that was floated in the House. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/why-delay-in-scrapping-of-power-purchase-agreements-asks-aap-290284
30-07-2021||Bathinda||SAD questions timing of Punjab CM’s order on power purchase agreements||Questioning Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s order to revisit or cancel all PPAs (power purchase agreements) signed with private firms, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said if the government was really concerned, why it did not cancel the pacts in its past four and a half years of its term?Sukhbir was in the city to preside over an event where more than 250 members from different parties, including 100 members from the Congress Sewa Dal, joined the SAD on Thursday.The SAD president said it was entirely the prerogative of the government and if it deemed the power pacts were wrong, it was free to cancel them at any time.On the CBI probe into the SC scholarship scam, he said: “The Congress government is not sharing the complete record of the scam with the central agency. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-questions-timing-of-punjab-cms-order-on-power-purchase-agreements-290285
30-07-2021||---||Soon, Punjab Cabinet to take up Bill on budget for SC welfare schemes||Chandigarh, July 29Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday gave the go-ahead for putting a new Bill before the Cabinet which will earmark a part of the state’s annual Budget for the welfare of the Scheduled Castes in proportion to their population in the state.Earmarking funds as per populationThis is one of the demands raised by the MLAs of the ruling party, belonging to the Scheduled Castes and backward classes. This was also discussed by the Congress high command with the Chief Minister and he was asked to implement it, considering that nearly 32 per cent of the voters in the state are Dalits.The ‘Punjab State Welfare and Development of Scheduled Castes (Planning, Earmarking and Utilization of Financial Resources) Sub-Allocation Bill, 2021’ will also enable the government to put in place an institutional mechanism to formulate and monitor the implementation of the Scheduled Caste Sub Plan (SCSP), and matters connected with it. An SCSP plan already exists and 30 per cent of the budget is to be allocated for the welfare of SCs and STs. But generally the target is never met.The legislation, when passed in the Assembly, will provide the state government a platform to ensure the overall development of Scheduled Castes through effective implementation of various welfare schemes under SCSP.An official spokesperson said the Directorate of Scheduled Castes Sub Plan would be the nodal agency to ensure formulation of SCSP, besides monitoring its implementation. The authority competent to approve State Annual Budget estimates would also accord approval to the SCSP simultaneously with the State Annual Budget of the relevant financial year, before submitting it to the Punjab Vidhan Sabha. There would be a single mechanism for flow of funds under SCSP, and the Finance Department would remain the controlling authority for this purpose.The progress of SCSP would be reviewed and monitored at state, district and block levels, as per procedure and by the Committee as prescribed. Each department shall ensure transparency and accountability at all levels in the implementation of the SCSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/soon-punjab-cabinet-to-take-up-bill-on-budget-for-sc-welfare-schemes-290291
30-07-2021||---||FM Manpreet Badal holds closed-door meeting with Punjab Speaker Rana KP Singh||Tribune News ServiceRopar, July 29Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal visited the residence of Speaker Rana KP Singh here today.While Rana refused to elaborate on the meeting, which he termed a “courtesy call”, sources said the two leaders had a closed-door meeting for over half an hour. The Speaker said Badal had merely halted “for a cup of tea” at his residence while on his way to Jalandhar.A delegation of the Bar association from Anandpur Sahib, where Rana had inaugurated some lawyers’ chambers, later met Badal, demanding funds for incomplete works of the Bar room and chambers. A Bar association member said the Finance Minister promised a grant of Rs 50 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fm-manpreet-badal-holds-closed-door-meeting-with-punjab-speaker-rana-kp-singh-290294
30-07-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Power play: AAP’s Sangrur unit gets 3rd chief in 9 months||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, July 29The appointment of third district chief of AAP in past nine months in Sangrur, which is known as strong fort of the party as all senior leaders belong to this district, has given a reason to Opposition parties to cheer.Don’t know reason for removalI do not know the reason for my removal. Neither have I got any call nor received any notice from the party. There is no rift in the party and I will remain with it. - Devinder Singh Badesha, Sangrur aap ex-presidentWhile Opposition leaders say AAP is a divided house in Sangrur, AAP leaders claiming they have changed districts chiefs to make party stronger and to groom leaders.Punjab AAP chief and MP Bhagwant Mann, Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema and senior leader and Sunam MLA Aman Arora belong to the district. But the repeated change of district president has been raising questions as AAP in last October had appointed Mahinder Singh Sidhu as district head. But it caused a division in Sangrur unit with many workers launching a campaign against him.Even one leader Avtar Ealwal, who was then district secretary of the party, had resigned from his post. Later Devinder Singh Badeshas was given the responsibility.The new district president and Gharachon sarpanch Gurmale Singh, who along with other senior leaders, was honoured at Sangrur on Thursday, said he had the support of all party leaders. “AAP has lost its base and is not able to find a reliable district president,” said Congress leader Satish Kansal. However, Cheema said: “Our earlier district chief Sidhu is working at the state level, while the party would also adjust Badesha in coming days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/power-play-aaps-sangrur-unit-gets-3rd-chief-in-9-months-290300
30-07-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda: Hotelier, couples detained, SAD cries vendetta||Former SAD MLA and a senior leader of the party Sarup Chand Singla, along with party workers, sat on a dharna at the Civil Lines police station in Bathinda today, demanding action against cops who detained couples and a hotel owner allegedly over “inappropriate acts” late on Wednesday. The hotel owner is reportedly close to Singla.Singla claimed: “The police under political patronage from senior Congress leaders had detained the hotel owner last night as we had organised a meeting in the hotel four days ago. Some miscreants who have patronage from relative of a senior Congress leader deliberately entered into a verbal spat with hotel owners and both sides roughed up each other. Later, police came there and detained the hotel owner and some couples staying in the hotel. We will not tolerate this high-handedness of police working under the influence of its political masters.”DSP Aaswant Singh reached the protest venue and assured that required action would be taken, following which the dharna was called off. “The police had received information that some inappropriate activities were going on at the hotel so some couples and the hotel owner were detained. They were let off after they tendered an apology. No case has been registered. If the protesters want action against anyone, they must submit a written complaint. We will investigate the matter,” the DSP said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-hotelier-couples-detained-sad-cries-vendetta-290302
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||No scam in Mohali industrial land auction: Minister Sunder Sham Arora||Terming the allegations of scam in the auction of industrial land in Mohali absurd and baseless, Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora on Thursday said the ownership and possession of the property, which was allotted to JCT Electronics Ltd, now liquidated, still vested with ARCIL.Caused no lossNo financial loss has been caused to the state. Also, there is no role of Punjab Government in the e-auction, which was carried out by an agency registered with the RBI. - Sunder Sham Arora, Industries MinisterTraining his guns on the Opposition, especially the SAD and AAP, Arora said the allegations based on unfounded facts reflected their desperation to stay politically relevant.The auction of the plot was conducted by Assets Reconstruction Corporation of India Ltd (ARCIL) in February 2020. The allottee, JCT Electronics Ltd, had become a defaulter as a consequence of which it went into liquidation. Ordering the winding up of the company, the Punjab and Haryana High Court appointed an official liquidator to take over the assets.He said ARCIL had then taken over the possession of the said property and made attempts to monetise the assets. The minimum bid price of Rs 105 crore for the plot received no response in the first e-auction held in December 2018. Subsequently, the reserve price was reduced to Rs 95.50 crore and then to Rs. 90.50 crore. However, again no bids were received. The minister said ARCIL again conducted an open e-auction in February 2020 and sold the plot at the highest bid amount of Rs 90.56 crore to GRG Developers & Promoters in a transparent manner.The minister refuted the allegation of causing any financial loss to the state government. “PSIEC has not issued the no-objection certificate for effecting the transfer of property in favor of the auction purchaser. PSIEC has categorically conveyed to ARCIL and auction purchaser that NOC will be provided only after the matter is decided by the Finance Department” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-scam-in-mohali-industrial-land-auction-minister-sunder-sham-arora-290305
30-07-2021||New Delhi||Lakha Sidhana gets bail in R-Day case||A Delhi court on Thursday granted anticipatory bail to gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana in a case related to his alleged involvement in the violence that ensued at the Red Fort here on Republic Day, saying no case is made out against him.Additional Sessions Judge Kamini Lau said there was no prima facie material to show that Sidhana was present inside the Red Fort and “if that be so, even no case is made out against him.”“The investigating officer is unable to respond why the custodial interrogation of the accused is further required in the investigation,” the judge said. The court also observed that the investigating officer is not sure as to whether the presence of the accused outside the Red Fort is a very grave offence and non-bailable. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lakha-sidhana-gets-bail-in-r-day-case-290308
30-07-2021||---||SC Scholarship scam: Fresh trouble for Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, ED begins probe into grants||Jalandhar/Chandigarh, July 29Minister for Social Justice, Empowerment and Minorities Sadhu Singh Dharamsot’s problems are set to get compounded as after the CBI, the Enforcement Directorate has now started investigating the disbursal of funds under the SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme.Documents sought by central agency…ED officials said a preliminary inquiry had already begun and documents related to the alleged scam were being procured. The case pertains to the probe report tabled by former ACS Kirpa Shankar Saroj to the Chief Secretary on August 24, 2020, about the scam amounting to Rs 55.71 crore. He had pointed out that Rs 39 crore had been disbursed to “ghost” institutes as the records were missing and Rs 16.71 crore had been wrongly distributed to some private institutes at the behest of a Deputy Director, who had the minister’s patronage.Meanwhile, a day after getting the official communication from the CBI regarding the preliminary inquiry registered into the alleged scam, the state government is preparing details related to the case before sending it to the central agency. A meeting of top government functionaries was held today at the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) here. Officials privy to the case said the state would provide details of the recovery made from the erring institutions for the period related to the SAD-BJP government from 2012-17. The entire record related to different probes conducted by the government in the last over 10 years was being checked, it is learnt.The Anti-Corruption Branch (ACB) of the central agency has asked the Principal Secretary (Social Justice) for a complete record of the probe report submitted on August 24, 2020, to the Chief Secretary by then Additional Chief Secretary Kirpa Shankar Saroj.Sources said the CBI probe was being seen as a political move by the BJP-led government at the Centre, as the state government had got the matter probed by a panel headed by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan.The panel was constituted after the former ACS in his report had questioned the role of Dharamsot in “shielding” those involved in the case. However, the second probe by the Chief Secretary-led team gave a clean chit to the minister, while detecting wrong payment of over Rs 7 crore to private educational institutes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-scholarship-scam-fresh-trouble-for-sadhu-singh-dharamsot-ed-begins-probe-into-grants-290312
30-07-2021||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court adjourns cases amid Covid||Chandigarh, July 29Continuing with restrictive functioning following Covid outbreak, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered adjournment of cases already listed for hearing between July 31 and August 31. These cases will now be listed between October 29 and December 1.The High Court also made it clear that anticipatory and regular bails, criminal revision (bail) filed under Section 102 of Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection) Act, habeas corpus petitions, criminal writ petitions pertaining to protection/life and liberty/ parole/ furlogh/ premature release and application for suspension of sentence, irrespective of the year of their registration, would not be adjourned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-adjourns-cases-amid-covid-290313
30-07-2021||Tarn Taran||Minors thrashed by farm owner for 'stealing mangoes', Tarn Taran admn takes note||The district administration has taken a dim view of a video clip that has gone viral on the social media purportedly showing two minors being struck in the head with a shoe by a land owner for allegedly stealing mangoes from his horticulture farm at a nearby village. The village where the incident occurred is 4 km from Tarn Taran town.District Child Protection Officer (DCPO) Rajesh Kumar said after the video surfaced, the boys’ parents were called to his office and their statements were recorded. He said the report would be sent to the DC and the SSP.He said the victims were 10 and 12 years old and belonged to the SC community. In the video, the boys are purportedly seen being brought to the fields of the land owner and thrashed. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minors-thrashed-by-farm-owner-for-stealing-mangoes-tarn-taran-admn-takes-note-290314
30-07-2021||Patiala||Govt employees protest 6th Pay Commission report in Patiala||Thousands of government employees associated with various organisations gathered in Patiala today to protest the implementation of the 6th Pay Commission recommendations.Protesters included members of the Punjab and UT Employees and Pensioners Front, Ministerial Services Association and Vocational Teachers’ Union, besides employees of the PSPCL, medical practitioners and over 100 other groups.They said they were being provided minimal increments in salaries after the implementation of the new rules. “The state government has been giving assurances of regularisation to contractual employees, but in vain,” they said.The protesters said issues of various associations and employees, including providing DA arrears and regularisation, had been pending for long. They also demanded that the old pension scheme be re-implemented and the probation period that continues for three years be reduced to two.Meanwhile, the protest from the Sirhind road to the YPS chowk brought traffic to a standstill. The protesters also tried to break the barricades, leading to a scuffle between them and cops. A number of protesters and police personnel were injured. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-employees-protest-6th-pay-commission-report-in-patiala-290315
30-07-2021||---||Farm workers seek power bill waiver||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 29On a call given by rural and agriculture workers’ organisations, thousands staged dharnas outsides residences of ruling Congress ministers and lawmakers at 17 places for remission of electricity bills and loans and repeal of amendments made in labour and agricultural laws.In a statement issued by the joint front, Lachhman Singh Sewewala, general secretary, Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union, said demand charters were given to several ministers and legislators. Demonstrations at different places were addressed by Zora Singh Nasrali, president of the Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union; Gurnam Singh Daud, general secretary, Dehati Mazdoor Sabha; and Avtar Singh, state general secretary, Pendu Mazdoor Union, among others.They accused the Capt Amarinder Singh-led state government of sending them power bills amounting to thousands of rupees instead of remitting these, as promised. They said the government had also disconnected their power connections. They said by amending labour laws, the working class had been rendered helpless in front of mills and factories owners. Leaders said the new agricultural laws would deprive workers of employment opportunities, destroy the already weak public distribution system and increase food prices. Workers would be pushed into starvation, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-workers-seek-power-bill-waiver-290317
30-07-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Banga-Anandpur Sahib-Naina Devi stretch not fit for highway, says Nitin Gadkari||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 29In reply to a question by Member of Parliament Manish Tewari in the Lok Sabha today, Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari said the ambitious Banga-Anandpur Sahib-Naina Devi road was not fit to be a highway.Tewari flags issue in lok sabha“After conducting a feasibility study, the ministry has not found this stretch fit to be declared a national highway,” said Gadkari. The foundation stone of the ambitious 67.64-km project worth Rs 581 crore was laid with much fanfare in the presence of SAD MP Prem Singh Chandumajra in February 2019. The project was tipped to be a move by the BJP in the Centre to placate voters for its ally SAD candidate in elections. The project, however, was buried in the political din after Congress’ Manish Tewari won from Anandpur Sahib.Facing repeated queries about the project from people in his constituency, Tewari continued to peruse the matter with the Centre. Even during the Budget session in March, he raised the issue of the incomplete road project. Gadkari had said if he received specific information about the project, he would look into the matter.Not satisfied with the government response, Tewari put in specific questions this time. He asked why the NHAI had not initiated any action after February 2019 and whether the ministry had decided to abandon the project.Tewari said, “I am raising the issue as the project is being shelved only due to political reasons. We all know no project of this magnitude is started by the Centre without getting a detailed project report. It would not have been named a national highway without getting a report of project implementation from ground. I am not satisfied with the answer and will keep pursuing it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/banga-anandpur-sahib-naina-devi-stretch-not-fit-for-highway-says-nitin-gadkari-290318
30-07-2021||Sangrur||Indian Air Force helicopter lands in Malerkotla school after glitch||Staff of a private school in Malerkotla were in for a surprise today when an Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter made an emergency landing in the ground on the premises.After receiving information, the police from Amargarh and Malerkotla arrived at the scene to assist the IAF personnel. “I noticed a helicopter hovering over our school, and within minutes it landed in our ground. Initially, I was confused, but when I saw the IAF crew, I realised it was an Air Force helicopter. I met the pilot and informed him that he had landed the helicopter in a school ground,” said an employee.A Malerkotla police team led by DSP William Jeji and another from Amargarh led by DSP Rajan Sharma arrived at the scene and secured the area to prevent anyone from reaching near the helicopter. DSP Sharma said: “The helicopter made an emergency landing in a local private school after it developed a technical snag. A technical team arrived in another helicopter later and repaired the fault.” The helicopter had taken off from the Halwara Air Force Station and was on a routine sortie. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/indian-air-force-helicopter-lands-in-malerkotla-school-after-glitch-290319
30-07-2021||GS Paul||Excavated structure in Golden Temple complex part of heritage, preserve it: Archaeological Survey of India||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 29The tunnel-like arc-shaped structure found during abrupt digging at the site of new ‘joda ghar’ being constructed in the Golden Temple complex is part of the heritage and should be preserved. This was observed by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), which has submitted its report to the Amritsar district administration.Also read:Constructed with ‘lakhori’ bricksThe ASI observed that the remains of the structure appeared to be a part of a residential complex of late medieval period, constructed with ‘lakhori’ bricks (size 20x10x5 cm) laid in lime mortar. Traces of lime plaster were also visible at some placesSite claimed to be ‘Gianian Da Bunga’The structure was termed as ‘Gianian Da Bunga’ by Amritsar-based descendants of legendary Sikh figure Giani Sant Singh, a former head granthi of the Golden TempleExperts invited from gnduWe have invited experts from the Department of Architecture, Guru Nanak Dev University, to review the matter. The Deputy Commissioner has referred the issue to the Punjab Tourism Department for further action. - Bibi Jagir Kaur, SGPC ChiefOn July 21, an ASI team, headed by deputy archaeologist AK Tiwari, had inspected the site situated near the Akal Takht secretariat and adjoining Gurdwara Thara Sahib.The ASI observed the remains of the structure appeared to be part of a residential complex of late medieval period, constructed with ‘lakhori’ bricks (size 20x10x5 cm) laid in lime mortar. Traces of lime plaster were also visible at some places. The Amritsar district administration has been conveyed to preserve the structure keeping in view its heritage significance. The ASI has also offered to provide technical guidance in the matter, as and when required.Also read: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Amritsar“Since the exposed structures are heritage remains and cannot therefore be allowed to be destroyed, the district administration may initiate necessary steps for their preservation under the Punjab Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1964, or under the relevant provisions conferred on the Deputy Commissioner for the protection of unprotected heritagestructures and remains,” the report reads.The ASI experts viewed that since the area around the Golden Temple was culturally rich, there was a possibility of buried heritage structure in its surroundings. During inspection, the ASI had discovered that at the depth of 20-22 feet, a dual-arched structure covering an area of 15x15 feet was present. The exposed height and width of the outer arch was approximately 2 metres each.The main entrance led to three arched cells located in east, west and north directions. The experts observed that these were probably attached with each other from the inner side, but since a limited area was exposed, it was not possible to ascertain the exact nature, use or association of these structures with other existing ones in the surrounding area.Also read: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranNonetheless, the structure was termed as ‘Gianian Da Bunga’ by Amritsar-based descendants of a legendary Sikh figure Giani Sant Singh, a former head granthi of the Golden Temple. Yadwinder Singh, who represented the sixth generation, claimed the structures were a gift from Maharaja Ranjit Singh to their ancestor who supervised gold-plating of the Golden Temple.It was known as ‘Sarad Khana’, attached with Gurdwara Jhanda Bunga in the shrine complex. The family lived there till 1988 when this building was acquired in lieu of adequate compensation to pave way for the Galliara Beautification Scheme. The building was demolished then and the structure discovered now could be its underground portion.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said it was now clear the structure was not a historical building related to the Golden Temple.“Since it has heritage value, it will be preserved under the directions of the ASI and Amritsar administration. We have invited experts from the Department of Architecture, Guru Nanak Dev University, to review the matter. The Deputy Commissioner has referred the matter to the Punjab Tourism Department for further action in this regard,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/excavated-structure-in-golden-temple-complex-part-of-heritage-preserve-it-archaeological-survey-of-india-290320
30-07-2021||---||Ghaggar level up again after rain, Sangrur farmers anxious||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, July 29The rise in the water level of the Ghaggar after fresh rains has caused anxiety among area farmers. Three days ago, the water level had gone down and farmers had heaved a sigh of relief.“We have suffered repeated losses as successive governments have failed to find a proper solution to the problem. During the monsoon every year, we face floods and our crop is destroyed,” said Gagan Sharma, a farmer from Moonak.Gurtej Singh, another farmer, feared it could cause floods in the area in case the water level continued to rise.“Though we are maintaining night vigil, it is not the solution. At many places, the embankments are so weak they cannot even withstand the flow of water. We have heard the government is spending crores on the rivulet, but we haven’t seen any proper repair or cleaning being done before the rainy season,” he rued.Chetan Gupta, SDO, drainage department, said, “The water level in the Ghaggar has again reached 742 feet. It is a danger point. Last evening it was 734 feet. We are taking all measures, including strengthening of the embankments and cleaning of the rivulet.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ghaggar-level-up-again-after-rain-sangrur-farmers-anxious-290321
30-07-2021||Our Correspondent||No canal water, BKU activists block Abohar-Sriganganagar highway||Abohar, July 29Activists of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), who had been staging a dharna at the railway overbridge on the Abohar-Hanumangarh state highway for the past one week, today blocked traffic on the Abohar-Sriganganagar highway for four hours. Hundreds of vehicles were stranded due to the stir.The farmers said none of the senior government officials had so far tried to ensure canal water supply for irrigation in the villages located at the tail-end of the canal system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-canal-water-bku-activists-block-abohar-sriganganagar-highway-290322
30-07-2021||Saurabh Malik||Demolish part of building with non-compoundable violations: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 29The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that only the part of the building that was impermissible or where violations could not be compounded would be demolished. Otherwise, the local bodies, municipal councils, committees and corporations were required to adopt a pragmatic approach in building violation cases and earnest efforts were required to be made to compound the violations when permissible.Justice Anil Kshetarpal also made it clear that an exception was violations on public land or encroachments. The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after Inderjit Jain filed a petition against the state of Punjab andother respondents. Justice Kshetarpal observed the Patti Municipal Council resolved to demolish a building constructed by the petitioner allegedly in violation of the building plan.Responding to the contentions, the municipal council said the petitioner had taken certain steps to bring the building in conformity with the building plan. The council was prepared to reconsider the matter if the petitioner submitted a revised building plan. Referring to the High Court decision in the case of ‘Devender Kumar versus the state of Haryana and other respondents’, Justice Kshetarpal added: “If the building violations are not on a public land or in other words there is no encroachment, sincere efforts must be made to compound the violations, if permissible.” Disposing of the petition, Justice Kshetarpal permitted the petitioner to submit a revised building plan after raising the structure in conformity with the building by-laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/demolish-part-of-building-with-non-compoundable-violations-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-290323
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Bail for man who prayed in gurdwara for dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim’s release||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has granted bail to a person accused of praising the dera head and praying for his early release while performing ardas at a gurdwara. It was alleged the religious sentiments of a particular community were hurt with such an ardas.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after Gurmail Singh filed a petition for regular bail in an FIR registered for hurting religious sentiments on May 20 under Section 295A of the IPC at the Sadar police station in Bathinda. Justice Avneesh Jhingan observed the FIR was a result of a complaint alleging that a prayer was offered in the gurdwara “making praises of the head of a dera and for his early release”. The investigation regarding the petitioner was complete and the challan stood presented. The petitioner had no criminal antecedents. The case was of magisterial trial. The evidence by way of a video clip circulated on social medial was already with the investigating agency. In the facts and circumstances of the case, no useful purpose would be served by depriving personal liberty of the petitioner, the High Court said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bail-for-man-who-prayed-in-gurdwara-for-dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahims-release-290324
30-07-2021||Abohar||Rs 2 cr for uplift of Mandi Kesar Ganj||Mandi Kesar Ganj, which was developed by the British in the 18th century, will be renovated by the Municipal Corporation (MC).Under the Punjab Nirman programme, the state government has released a grant of Rs 2 crore for its renovation. A cheque in this regard was presented by Mayor Vimal Thatai to Superintending Engineer Sandeep Gupta today.Thanking the former PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar and CM Capt Amarinder Singh, the mayor said special efforts were being made by the MC to develop the city. More than Rs 200-crore development works were in progress, he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-2-cr-for-uplift-of-mandi-kesar-ganj-290325
30-07-2021||Mohali||NHAI, Punjab Forest Dept start green drive along highways||In a bid to spread greenery near National Highways across Punjab, a joint massive plantation drive has been launched by the Punjab Forest Department with the collaboration of National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). The drive was formally initiated by signing of an MoU between the department and NHAI today under the Green Highways Mission Project.VB Kumar, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, (HoFF), said the project aims to bring land acquired by the NHAI under plantation so as to increase productivity of the land, to add to ecosystem services along the highways and hence transform them to lush green linear forests.The formal collaboration between the two agencies started with the first plantation project (2020-21) on NH-54 (Amritsar-Pathankot section) undertaken by the Forest Department at the behest of the NHAI, which has given fruitful results.He said, “we shall be taking up plantation on five National Highways across the state where we intend to plant 1,36,842 saplings during the current plantation season in financial year 2021-22 and ensure its subsequent care by doing various maintenance operations.”The total financial outlay for the project is Rs 25.42 crore out of which Rs 20.37 crore will be utilised during the current financial year for doing various earthworks, plantation, care and protection through barbed wire and tree guards. The plantation will bejointly monitored through IT-enabled apps and wherever possible QR code will be shared for public disclosure/ dissemination. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nhai-punjab-forest-dept-start-green-drive-along-highways-290326
30-07-2021||Muktsar||Man dies in roof collapse in Muktsar||A man died and his wife sustained multiple injuries after the roof of their house collapsed during rain.The deceased has been identified as Mahavir Prasad and his wife Nirmala Devi. Rinku Sharma, their son, said the roof of their house, located on the Kotkapura road, collapsed around 9 am today. The family was living in a single-room house. Rinku has sought financial aid — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-dies-in-roof-collapse-in-muktsar-290327
30-07-2021||---||Punjab minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa urges Union Fertilisers Minister Mansukh Mandaviya to allocate 2.5 lakh MT DAP||Chandigarh, July 29Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa today urged Union Fertilisers Minister Mansukh Mandaviya to immediately allocate 2.5 lakh MT diammonium phosphate (DAP) for August.Randhawa called on the minister at his office in New Delhi this morning and sought uninterrupted supply of the DAP to farmers as per their requirement during the ongoing kharif season.On his part, Mandaviya said the ministry would make all arrangements in advance for adequate allocation of fertilisers to ensure farmers were not put to hardship. The Union Minister said the ministry was committed to ensuring timely supply of DAP to all states, adding the requisite quantities of DAP would be moved to Punjab well in time.Randhawa was accompanied by MP Dr Amar Singh, Registrar Cooperative Societies Vikas Garg and Markfed MD Varun Roojam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-minister-sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-urges-union-fertilisers-minister-mansukh-mandaviya-to-allocate-2-5-lakh-mt-dap-290328
30-07-2021||PK Jaiswar||Nabbed gangster Preet Sekhon ‘extorted’ crores from 25 bizmen, docs||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 29Notorious gangster Preet Sekhon has been a troublemaker not only for the police department, but also for the trading community, colonisers and doctors owning hospitals in the city.He extorted huge amount of money from them, which was deposited in a foreign bank account of an international-level hawala operator.“They, along with their Canada-based accomplice Lakhbir Singh alias Landa Patti, had extorted amount to the tune of several crores from at least 25 persons, including prominent colonisers and doctors besides smugglers as ransom. They have heaved a sigh of relief following his arrest during a joint operation by Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) and Amritsar rural police on Tuesday,” said OCCU DSP Balbir Singh.Ironically, majority of the victims did not inform the police, he said, adding that they could have approached the OCCU. Singh said the money was deposited in a bank account in Surrey, England, which was in the name of Tarlochan Singh. The details of the bank account were being procured.Daya Singh alias Preet Sekhon Amritsariya, along with his aide Jarmanjit Singh alias Nikka Khaduria of Chamba Khurd village in Tarn Taran, was nabbed in Chamiari village of Ajnala. The police recovered five country-made pistols, double barrel rifle and three mobile phones and a car from their possession. The police also arrested Gurlal Singh of Kamalpur village in Tarn Taran for sheltering him. The accused were living at the residence of the in-laws of Gurlal Singh, who was out on parole and is also wanted in several cases of murder and attempt to murder.During the raid, the police exercised restraint as there was a woman and her minor child in the house. Though the accused fired around four shots at the raiding police party, the child was narrowly escaped.Besides Patti double murder case in which a gangster and a SAD worker were shot dead in June, the duo was also involved in 2.5kg gold decoity in Ludhiana last year. He was also involved in the killing of bouncer in Ranjit Avenue area last year while another man was beaten to death outside a restaurant the same year. He had also killed his sister and her mother-in-law. The police said Sekhon had confessed to around eight murders and snatching of luxury vehicles from different persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nabbed-gangster-preet-sekhon-extorted-crores-from-25-bizmen-docs-290329
30-07-2021||---||Muktsar’s Manhar Bansal tops all-India law exam||Muktsar, July 29Local lad Manhar Bansal today once again made the district proud as he got the all-India first rank in the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT), a national-level entrance exam for admissions to undergraduate and postgraduate law programmes offered by 22 National Law Universities around the country. Manhar scored 125.5 out of 150 marks.In 2019, Manhar had got the all-India first rank in the ICSE Class X exams. That time, while talking to The Tribune, Manhar had said he would first crack the CLAT and then clear the UPSC exam. “All my family members are doctors, but I want to first crack the CLAT and then clear the UPSC exam to become an IAS officer,” he had said in 2019.Dr Madan Mohan Bansal and Dr Bandna Bansal, parents of Manhar, said their son wanted to get admission in National Law University, Bengaluru. “Manhar has not just inched one step closer to his goal but also made us proud with his all-India first position for the second time,” they said.Manhar did his Class XI and XII from Delhi Public School, RK Puram, New Delhi. During his studies till Class X, Manhar always topped at the Little Flower Convent School here, said his parents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsars-manhar-bansal-tops-all-india-law-exam-290330
30-07-2021||Faridkot||3 Punjab Police inspectors depose before Kotkapura SIT||In an apparent move to complete the investigation into the police firing incident of 2015 at Kotkapura in a speedy manner, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Thursday recorded the statements of three police inspectors.The police officials include Inspector Gurwinder Singh, Inspector Abhinav Chouhan and Inspector Jatinder Singh. At the time of the incident, these officials were posted as SHOs in different police stations in Ferozepur district and were summoned to control the situation at Kotkapura on October 14, 2015.On Wednesday, the SIT had recorded the statement of 11 police officers. Sources revealed they had directions from the state government to complete the probe in a speedy manner. Another SIT, which was constituted to probe the Behbal Kalan incident, is also expected to pick up the pace of investigation in the coming days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-punjab-police-inspectors-depose-before-kotkapura-sit-290331
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Rs 445-crore water schemes cleared by NABARD for Punjab||CM mourns death of SAD ex-chief’s wifeChandigarh: CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday mourned the death of Mohinder Kaur (91), wife of former president of the SAD and late SGPC Jathedar Jagdev Singh Talwandi. She died at PGIMER on Wednesday night after a prolonged illness. — TNSMan held for remarks against panel chiefAmritsar: The police have arrested Nishan Gill from Gwalior under the IT Act for posting objectionable remarks against Punjab Women Commission’s chairperson Manisha Gulati. He was later released on bail. He was arrested from a gurdwara promises where he was putting up after a case was registered against him. — TNSSubmit passports by Aug 15 to visit Pak, says SGPCAmritsar: The SGPC has demanded passports from devotees who wish to pay obeisance at gurdwaras in Pakistan on Gurpurb. The jatha will leave in November, but the committee has initiated the visa process, under which the devotees have to submit their passports till August 15. TNSRecovered cellphones handed over to ownersFerozepur: As many as 127 mobile phones recovered by the Ferozepur police from snatchers were on Thursday handed over to their owners at an event. SSP Bhagirath Singh Meena said acting upon 185 complaints, the police launched a drive and recovered 127 mobile phones. OCTwo peddlers arrested; heroin, drug money seizedAbohar/Sriganganagar: Davinder Arora (36), a Ferozepur resident, has been arrested in connection with an NDPS case registered at the Jawahar Nagar police station in Sriganganagar on May 28. He had been absconding. In another case, Arshad Ali was nabbed with 13 gm heroin, 140 intoxicating pills and Rs 8,500 drug money. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-445-crore-water-schemes-cleared-by-nabard-for-punjab-290334
30-07-2021||---||Our 5 priority areas have started getting a push: Navjot Sidhu||Jalandhar, July 29A day after Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh asked PSPCL to revisit all one-sided PPAs signed by previous government, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Sidhu on Friday claimed that his five priority areas had started getting a push.Sidhu said this as he visited Congress Bhawan here to meet the party leaders and workers of Jalandhar and Kapurthala. Addressing the media and the gathering, he said, “Jehra sada panj-nukati priority area hai, ehde te hun boor pena shuru ho gya hai (Our efforts to get the five priority areas pushed has started bearing fruits).”He reiterated that the Punjab model on power supply was far better than the Delhi model as Punjab was perhaps the only state which was offering Rs 10,000 crore subsidy to the masses as compared to Delhi which was offering only 1,700 crore subsidy. He even mentioned that the power tariff being levied from Punjab industry was lower than that for the industry in the national capital.“Punjab is generating 30 per cent power on its own. It is buying power at higher price than it is offering to the masses but still the domestic consumer is feeling the pinch because of the wrong PPAs signed by Badals and peak time fixed charges being doled out throughout the year to the private companies. But we will get them all cancelled,” Sidhu said.He said that in times to come he will be seen less in public as he would be focusing on the task to strengthen the organisation. While he had come to listen to the party workers in Jalandhar calling in 10 workers from each Assembly segment, hundreds of workers turned up. Chaos and fights had begun but Sidhu managed to control them by his charged speech.The workers responded by coming out with one-liners and chanting slogans in his favour. They stood up on their chairs to listen to him and cheer him up.While he could not hold Assembly-level meets with the Jalandhar MLAs and leaders, Sidhu managed to do it for Kapurthala. While all six Congress MLAs of Jalandhar – Pargat Singh, Bawa Henry, Rajinder Beri, Hardev Laddi and Sushil Rinku had turned up, from Phagwara only one of the four MLAs, Balwinder Dhaliwal came up. Rana Gurjeet Singh, Sukhpal Khaira and Navtej Cheema gave the meeting a miss even as some office-bearers, including block presidents and workers, did turn up to put across their message.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/our-5-priority-areas-have-started-getting-a-push-navjot-sidhu-290079
