01-03-2021||Chandigarh||18 more COVID deaths, 635 new cases in Punjab||Punjab reported 635 new coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the infection tally to 1.83 lakh, the Health Department said.With 18 more fatalities, the toll rose to 5,850, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases also jumped from 4,632 on Sunday to 4,853. On Sunday, the state had seen 582 cases of infections.Among the new cases, Kapurthala reported 133, Hoshiarpur 93 and Ludhiana 64.A total of 394 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of those who recuperated to 1,72,106. The new cases took the tally to 182,809, the bulletin said.There are nine critical patients who are on ventilator support, while 106 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 50,13,117 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/18-more-covid-deaths-635-new-cases-in-punjab-219126
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Cabinet approves restructuring of four departments||The Punjab Cabinet on Monday approved the restructuring plans of four departments—excise and taxation, town and country planning, medical education and research and rural development and panchayats, an official statement said.The move is aimed to bring more efficiency and streamline the functioning of the departments, it said.To generate more revenue, the cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh approved the creation of 110 new posts in the taxation commissionerate, and 59 new posts in the excise commissionerate of the excise and taxation department, it said.Notably, the implementation of Goods and Services Tax (GST) has brought services under the ambit of the department and added a new feature of audit, which involves examination of records, returns and other documents maintained by GST registered people, it said.The cabinet also gave a go-ahead to the restructuring of the directorate of town and country planning.Now, there will be a separate position of director, town and country planning, who will be in-charge of planning along with licensing, regulatory and enforcement functions in the state, which was earlier under the chief administrators.The cabinet approved the transfer of 0.92 acre land of the health department to the 200-bed Max Hospital, Mohali for upgradation of health services by adding 100 more beds, it said.The health department entered into a concession agreement with Max Healthcare to transfer the said land of civil hospital, Mohali, it added.In addition to Rs 389.57 lakh as upfront fee of the land, the government would get 5 per cent of the gross revenue generated by the hospital after the addition of the new beds.The cabinet also approved to amend ‘The Punjab Regional And Town Planning and Development Act, 1995’, ‘The Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act, 1995’ and ‘The Punjab Apartment Ownership Act, 1995’.After the amendments, the promoter shall be able to give advertisement only after registration under RERA, 2016 and will be liable to disclose exact space under the common area, and shall not take more than 10 per cent of the sale price as advance money, which was earlier 25 per cent, it said.To boost the pace of infrastructure development by levying special ID fee, the cabinet gave its nod to introduce the Punjab Infrastructure (Development and Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2021 in the ongoing budget session.The cabinet also approved the transfer 507 vacant posts of rural medical officers along with other posts of contractual paramedical and class-IV of the subsidiary health centres from the department of rural development and panchayat back to the health and family welfare department. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cabinet-approves-restructuring-of-four-departments-219125
01-03-2021||New Delhi||Farmers to block KMP Expressway on Saturday: SKM leader||Protesting farmers will block the Kundli–Manesar–Palwal Expressway on March 6, a Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader said on Monday.Balbir Singh Rajewal said a call has been given to farmers camping at three Delhi border points to block the KMP Expressway from 11 am to 5 pm on Saturday.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at the Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws enacted in September last year.“We will block the KMP expressway on March 6 as part of the intensification of the ongoing protest,” Rajewal told PTI.The 136-km Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway or the western peripheral expressway was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018.It was built to decongest the ever-busy roads of Delhi, especially by reducing the number of trucks entering the national capital, thus helping to curb pollution. It provides high-speed link between northern Haryana and southern districts and gives uninterrupted high-speed link for traffic, especially commercial traffic, from Haryana to neighbouring states.Meanwhile, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha said that a joint programme of action is being worked out by it along with many central trade unions which have expressed their support and solidarity for the ongoing farmers’ movement.In a statement, the Morcha said the month of March will witness numerous Mahapanchayats across the country, including in Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, West Bengal and Odisha. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-to-block-kmp-expressway-on-saturday-skm-leader-219119
01-03-2021||PK Jaiswar||Huge quantity of ‘lahan’, illicit liquor seized in Amritsar village||Tribune News Service(Lopoke) Amritsar, March 1In an early morning crackdown, Excise and Taxation department along with Punjab police on Monday seized over 1 lakh kg of ‘lahan’ (raw material for distillation of illicit liquor) along with 1,780 litre of illicit liquor from Khiala Kalan village falling under Lopoke police station here.Eight persons, including three women were arrested during six-hour raid conducted 11 houses in the village.According to excise officials, it was a kind of ‘mini illegal distillery’ that was found running with pipes laid underground to drain the waste material generated after distillation of illicit liquor.Those arrested were identified as Kuldeep Singh, Satnam Singh, Ravinder Singh, Dharamvir Singh, Harjinder Singh, Savinder Kaur, Preeti and Simranjit Kaur.Jaspinder Singh, Deputy Commissioner, Excise, revealed that they were involved in supplying illicit liquor in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur area after filling it in polythene bags. Before carrying out the raid, a recce of the entire village was done by the informers. During the raid that commenced at 5am, the excise and police teams searched 25 houses and made huge recoveries in the 7 houses owned by the accused.“These bootleggers had constructed underground RCC pits to conceal the drums for fermentation of Lahan which was then shifted to other drums for heating and distilling operation,” he said. A pipeline was laid underground to drain the waste produced after distillation process, he added.Avtar Singh Kang, Assistant Commissioner Excise, Amritsar, revealed that this is for the first time that modern methods of distillation were was unearthed by the team. The accused used commercial gas cylinders and branded yeast for the process of huge quantity of illicit liquor. The raiding party seized 6 LPG gas cylinders from the spot.The excise and police teams seized 1.09 lakh kg lahan, 1780 litre of illicit liquor, 6 working stills, 62 drums of 200 litre capacity each, 31 plastic cans of 100 litre capacity each, 2 water tanks of 500 litres capacity, 2 plastic drums of 50 litres and 11 plastic cans of 35 litres besides tarpaulines.The Excise department has also booked two jaggery suppliers in the case also, said Kang, adding that they used to supply bulk quantity of jaggery for production of illicit liquor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/huge-quantity-of-lahan-illicit-liquor-seized-in-amritsar-village-219099
01-03-2021||GS Paul||Regular surveys are must to locate ‘genuine’ poor, says Sidhu||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 1Former Punjab minister and Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu has questioned the Centre’s roadmap for extending the benefits to the poor under the Food Security Act and streamlining the functioning of the Food Corporation of India (FCI).In a tweet, he insisted that the regular surveys and updating the data of poor strata has to be made on the lines of what was being done in case of updating the voters’ list annually.The Centre government had set up a High-Level Committee (HLC) in August 2014 with Shanta Kumar as the Chairman, six members and a special invitee to suggest restructuring or unbundling of FCI with a view to improve its operational efficiency and financial management.National Food Security Act recommended that 67 per cent people could be considered under below poverty line (BPL) and should be given benefits of subsidised essential grains under PDS (public distribution system).In a separate video message, the lawmaker has raised finger over the validity in the Shanta Kumar committee that had recommended decreasing of BPL covered under the Food Security Act from 67 per cent to 40 per cent in 2015.He emphasised that the government’s priority should be to know about the ‘genuine poor’ rather than arbitrarily decreasing the number of poor. The last survey conducted in 2011 was the basis of Shanta Kumar panel’s observations whereas the population kept on increasing in due course.A decade ago, the total population was counted to be nearly 120 crore. This implied that around 80 crore were considered under the BPL strata. “With the passage of time, the population tends to increase and consequently the number of genuine poor too have increased from 80 crore to 90 crore today, but they were never counted in the absence of fresh survey,” he said.He said that the genuineness of last man standing in the queue has to be ascertained under the good governance “It was not necessary that a BPL card holder standing as the last man in the queue deserved the benefit. Similarly, the genuine poor could have been left out and was devoid of the requisite BPL card,” he said.‘Punjab government should find solution to farm crisis’On farmers’ cause, Sidhu said the Punjab government should legislate against the farm laws that could neutralised the three contentious farm laws enacted by the Centre. He also showed uncertainty if the Punjab Governor could help achieve this goal.“The road to Delhi via The Governor Pb is shrouded with uncertainty ..... what is certain is the democratic power given to us by the people - the authority to legislate .... let us use this power to safeguard our Farmers , take our destiny in our hands !........ The Punjab Vidhan sabha must rise to the occasion and be part of the solution.....”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/regular-surveys-are-must-to-locate-genuine-poor-says-sidhu-219083
01-03-2021||New Delhi||6 states show surge in Covid cases; total national active cases reach 1,68,627||Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat have shown a surge in new Covid cases contributing to 87.25 per cent of 15,510 fresh infections reported in a day, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday.India’s total number of active Covid cases was recorded at 1,68,627, comprising 1.52 per cent of the total infections, the ministry said, highlighting five states that account for 84 per cent of the total active cases in the country.Maharashtra alone accounts for 46.39 per cent of India’s total active cases, followed by Kerala with 29.49 per cent.“A total of 15 states and union territories have registered more than 1,000 active cases. Kerala and Maharashtra are the two states with over 10,000 active cases, while the rest of the 13 states and UTs have between 1,000 and 10,000 active cases,” the ministry said.The total number of cases with the UK, South Africa and Brazil variants of SARS-CoV-2 in the country as on date has reached 213, the ministry said.A total 15,510 new cases were registered in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 8,293, followed by Kerala with 3,254 cases while Punjab has reported 579 new cases.The Centre is continuously engaging with the states and union territories manifesting higher number of active cases and those reporting a rise in the daily new Covid cases.States and UTs have been advised to maintain a continued rigorous vigil for containing the spread of Covid. Need for effective testing, comprehensive tracking, prompt isolation of positive cases and quick quarantine of close contacts are strongly emphasised, the ministry said."Eight states are displaying an upward trajectory in the daily new cases," it underlined.So far, a total of 1,43,01,266 vaccine doses have been administered to beneficiaries through 2,92,312 sessions. These include the first dose to 66,69,985 health-care workers, second dose to 24,56,191 healthcare workers and 51,75,090 frontline workers who have taken the first dose.“The next phase of Covid vaccination has commenced from Monday for those who are over 60 and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-states-show-surge-in-covid-cases-total-national-active-cases-reach-1-68-627-219053
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||No call for hike in milk prices: Samyukt Kisan Morcha||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-call-for-hike-in-milk-prices-samyukt-kisan-morcha-219037
01-03-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University daily wagers shut gates, protest over delay in renewal of contracts||Daily wager employees at Patiala’s Punjabi University on Monday did not allow employees and students to enter the campus and closed its gates in protest against the varsity's decision to delay the renewal of their work contracts.The daily wagers have been protesting for over a week as the University introduced a gap of four days at the time of the renewal of their work contract which takes place every two months.The workers resorted to throwing garbage on University roads and outside administrative blocks last week. Later, the police reached the campus to disperse the crowd.Jatinder Singh Kala, president of the daily wager sanitation workers said, “We have closed the University gates as our demands have not been met. The protest will continue throughout the day.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-university-daily-wagers-shut-gates-protest-over-delay-in-renewal-of-contracts-219016
01-03-2021||---||Jalandhar lad takes home PTC Voice of Punjab title||Jalandhar, February 28City lad Abhijeet Bhandari (19) has won the PTC Voice of Punjab (Season 11) music competition. The budding singer had in the earlier season of the show managed to grab a seat among the top-four finalists. An ardent lover of Bollywood songs, he has also been making his mark in the classical and popular Punjabi songs.A resident of Daulatpuri in Kazi Mandi, Abhijeet, came back home to a rousing welcome after participating in the show and eventually lifting the trophy.Born and brought up in a family of teachers, Abhijeet developed his interest for singing when he was very young. Seeing his father humming the tunes of songs, he started his musical ride, which he further polished in his entire school life. Though he learnt the basics of singing during school events, he said the competition in his college further taught him the minute details associated with stage presence, mic usgage, changing notes etc.A student of DAV College here, Abhijeet, had also bagged first prize in National Youth Festival, besides winning other youth festival events. He says, before participation in any reality shows, this live stage experience, boosted his confidence and gave him a recognition in Guru Nanak Dev University. To participate in the mega round of the audition, he even had to leave one of his graduation exam to attend the audition. A total of 24 budding singers got selected for the show.He won a five-year music contract with PTC and one lakh cash prize. He wants to focus on pursuing a career in music only. “I want to do playback singing in bollywood. I want to hone my skill as I want to be known as a versatile singer. For this, I have also started taling formal training in classical music,” said, Abhijeet.Apart from his family and friends, his school also celebrated his success by honouring him for his achievement. His college principal also congratulated him for his victory and awarded him with the college colour badge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-lad-takes-home-ptc-voice-of-punjab-title-218967
01-03-2021||---||Protesting farmers construct toilets at Tikri border||Jhajjar, February 28In view of the poor sanitary conditions at the Tikri border, Punjab farmers have constructed toilets near their camp site with the help of plumbers brought from their villages. Submersible pumps have been installed to meet water requirement. To store water, they have brought plastic tanks.The need for constructing toilets arose after the local authorities lifted several mobile toilets from the protest site following the January 26 tractor parade. As a result, farmers had started defecating in nearby fields, causing insanitary conditions, said Gurnail Singh from Sangrur.Insanitary conditionsThe need for constructing toilets arose after the local authorities lifted mobile toilets following the January 26 tractor parade. As a result, farmers had started defecating in nearby fields, leading to insanitary conditions. —Gurmail Singh, Sangrur farmerAvtar Singh, a farmer from Bathinda, said: “Protesters had earlier dug a pit and covered it with iron sheets. The pit stinks, forcing us to construct toilets.”Lakhvinder Singh from Muktsar said, “Farmers are in for a long haul. We have realised that the agitation would last a year or two. So we need to make arrangements for our long stay here. Women and elderly persons were facing problems in relieving themselves. With toilets constructed, they will have no problem now.”Jaspreet Singh, another farmer, said farmers would not return home without getting the three farm laws repealed. “We are planning to bring our cattle at the Tikri border for meeting the demand for milk,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesting-farmers-construct-toilets-at-tikri-border-218745
01-03-2021||---||Out on bail, 7 Punjab farmers back at Tikri||Jhajjar, February 28Seven Punjab farmers, who were arrested in connection with violence during the tractor parade on January 26 in Delhi, rejoined the agitation at the Tikri border today after getting bail. They were accorded a warm welcome by protesting farmers on reaching the main protest site.They were presented with a “siropa” (robe of honour) on the dais, while protesters raised slogans of “Kisan Ekta Zindabad” and “Jai Hind”.The seven farmers — Kulvinder, Satnam Singh, Jagshir Singh, Jaswinder Singh, Gurmel Singh and Jagpal Singh — belong to Sangrur district.“These seven farmers are heroes. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha is fighting a legal battle of farmers arrested by the Delhi Police in connection with the January 26 violence,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Buta Singh.Centre misleading usThe Centre is trying to mislead people by making false statements that youth is not supporting the agitation. The reality is that youth in large number join the protestat the Tikri border. —Buta Singh, BKU LeaderHe alleged the Centre was trying to mislead people by making false statements that youth was not supporting the agitation. “The reality is that youth in large number join the protest at the Tikri border.”Meanwhile, a meeting of the All-India Kisan Mazdoor Sanghthan held at Chhotu Ram Dharamshala in Bahadurgarh decided to organise a public meeting in every village of Jhajjar district against the three farm laws.“The meetings will be aimed at making people aware of the loopholes in the farm laws and mobilising them to join the protest,” said Anoop Singh Matanhel, state president of the sanghthan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/out-on-bail-7-punjab-farmers-back-at-tikri-218754
01-03-2021||Sukhpal Singh||Link farming with employment to stem the rot||Indian agriculture is passing through a critical phase. Farmers are facing problems related to crop production, marketing and profitability. The new farm laws may enhance farm productivity, but these are bound to change the prevailing system. The ownership farming system is prevalent in Punjab, Haryana and other states as owned land forms a major part of operational landholdings. The model of the Green Revolution (GR) improved the economy of the farmers, but later their economic condition started deteriorating, along with the depletion of natural resources and environmental degradation. Capital-intensive technologies reduced work opportunities on the farm for labour. Globalisation policies pushed farmers into debt, depeasantisation and suicide. Every day, 28 farmers/farm labourers commit suicide (according to a report of the National Crime Records Bureau) and about 2,400 leave farming in our country. In Punjab, every farmer family has an average debt of Rs 10 lakh. On an average, two farmers and one labourer have been committing suicide daily since 2000.Of the 10 lakh farming families in 1991, about 5 lakh were small ones in Punjab. In just a decade, the number of these small farming families came down to 3 lakh. Under the capital-intensive system of farming, 2 lakh families had to give up farming in the state. In contrast, the number of small farmers in India increased from about 11 crore to 12 crore during the same period.The GR model pushed many farmers out of agriculture. But it is believed that the new farm laws would push even greater number of farmers out of agriculture. What would these farmers do? It is expected that the farming population is likely to move in the same direction as during the GR period. Studies found that small farmers in Punjab were pushed out of agriculture due to crisis-induced factors such as low crop productivity, crop failure and high living costs. In contrast, some large farmers left agriculture due to growth-oriented factors and joined remunerative occupations. About 40 per cent of the marginal farmers (owning up to 2.5 acres), after leaving farming, joined the labour market. A small portion of them became farm labourers, while a large chunk commute to nearby cities for work. Similarly, 23 per cent of the small farmers (owning 2.5-5 acres) became labourers after quitting farming. The transformation of farmers into labourers is considered to be a misfortune in the socio-economic and cultural milieu of Punjab. About one-fifth of the small farmers who quit farming started their own petty occupations. About 3 per cent of the farmers started selling their vegetables or opened shops in the village. Some started earning a livelihood as mechanics or skilled workers. Around 7 per cent of the farmers started dairy or animal trading after quitting farming. None of the small farmers entered the dealer or arhtiya (commission agent) business, while some large and medium farmers went that way. Small farmers also quit farming because they got employment in the government or the private sector. Some middle and large farmers settled abroad. After leaving farming, some people sold a part or all of their land and many began to make a living by selling their land or by renting it out. Many people took up an activity after quitting farming, but failed at it and then started another activity. Even now, many people are dissatisfied with the new post-farming occupations. In such a situation, it is imperative to keep people engaged in farming.Contract farmingIn the new farm policy paradigm, contract farming under the aegis of corporate farming will be enabled with artificial intelligence, which would further reduce the demand for human resources. The condition of small-scale industries in the country and the state is deplorable. In Punjab, about 18,700 industrial units were shut down between 2007 and 2015. This phenomenon has led to an increase in unemployment as these units were mainly labour-intensive. It is believed that the new farm laws may land the peasants and other people in deep trouble and make them unemployed. In this situation, even the large farmers may be devastated by ownership farming. The market-oriented model propagates that growth can only be achieved by getting people out of farming. The National Skill Development Council suggested in 2015 that the overall development of the country could be achieved by reducing the farming population from the current 57 per cent to 38 per cent. It is being presumed that the productivity of the labour force in the agricultural sector is much lower than that of other sectors. The displaced labour force can be engaged in other areas for generating ‘surplus value’.The question arises: why is the corporate world showing keen interest in Indian agriculture? The huge farm subsidies of the developed countries reduce the costs and prices of some crops. A major scarcity of foodgrains is feared at the global level. Cereal crops are mainly grown in developing countries like India, whereas horticultural crops are predominantly cultivated in developed countries. The World Food Programme received the Nobel Peace Prize in 2020 for distributing food among 10 crore hungry people in 88 countries. This shows that there is a big role of food in the economy. That’s why corporates have been trying to gain control over agricultural production and markets.Under the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020, the oligopolistic market would be developed in which a few companies may control the food market. The higher prices of these commodities, especially of processed products, may adversely affect consumption by labourers in general and the poor in particular. Four companies — ADM, Bunge, Cargill and Dreyfus — control the bigger part of the world’s agri-business. These companies have plundered the world’s farmers and consumers through contract farming and agri-business.Market controlThe new farm policy regime is different from the GR model. While the GR model ensured control only over the farm input market, the new farm laws would allow corporates to establish control over both the farm input market and the farm output market. In the GR era, the small peasantry was eventually pushed away from agriculture. In the process, the small farmers joined as wage labourers, whereas the large ones joined lucrative occupations. But it is likely that the new farm policy would push small as well as large farmers towards wage labour.In an agrarian economy, it is important to keep people engaged in agriculture. The prospects of gainful employment in most other sectors of the Indian economy are dismal. Therefore, the emphasis should be on the promotion of cooperative/state farming. Micro and macro-level planning of crop production and consumption requirements should be prepared. The backward linkages (farm inputs) and forward linkages (processing and value addition) of agriculture should be set up in the public domain. This would generate ample employment opportunities in the rural areas. So, the need of the hour is to initiate reforms for improving the livelihood of the peasantry.The author is Principal Economist, PAU, Ludhiana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/link-farming-with-employment-to-stem-the-rot-218921
01-03-2021||Aparna Banerji||Confusion over disability criteria as Ph-2 begins today||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar/chandigarh, Feb 28Confusion prevails among persons with disability regarding the new guidelines issued for the phase-2 of the Covid vaccinaton, the registration for which begins tomorrow.Who all can get inoculated582 fresh cases in stateThe state reported 582 cases and seven deaths in the past 24 hours. As per a media bulletin, two deaths each were reported from Amritsar and Jalandhar, and one each from Ferozepur, Gurdaspur and Hoshiarpur.Amputees not coveredAmputees do not come under co-morbidity or disease category. However, an effort should be made by the government to find and reach out to those who can’t make it to a hospital on their own.—  Dr KK Talwar, Health Adviser to State govtAlong with the elderly (above 60 years of age), those with co-morbidities (above 45 to 59 years of age) have also been included in the phase-2.The criterion covered in the second phase of the Covid vaccine includes the following disabilities: Persons with disabilities due to intellectual problems, muscular dystrophy, acid attack with involvement of respiratory system, persons with disabilities having high support needs, multiple disabilities, including deaf-blindness. As per the 2011 census, there are 6.54 lakh people with disabilities in Punjab. As per the current figures of the Department of Social Security, there are 96,186 people in Punjab with disabilities who are above the age of 18 years.Disability activists have termed the guidelines confusing and exclusionary to certain sections. Disability activist Vivek Joshi, who has cerebral palsy and operates from a wheelchair, said, “Is cerebral palsy included? If a person is limbless but needs high support and has no co-morbidities, is he eligible? The guidelines leave much unanswered. My parents are elderly. It takes six months for me to heal if I get a wound. The disabled take longer to heal. Many others face similar dilemmas. There is no awareness for us. Ideally, those with locomotive disorders should have had the provision of getting vaccinated at home. Going to a vaccination centre amid Covid is in itself a huge ordeal. Many won’t turn up due to lack of a certificate.”State coordinator and executive member, disabilities, Amarjit Singh Anand said, “Many children with disabilities are much more vulnerable and immune-compromised. Barring listed co-mobidities, there are other medical conditions that the disabled suffer from. Many won’t even apply due to lack of awareness. Is there a government mechanism to reach them? All disabilities across age groups should have been included in the vulnerable section.” Anand has taken up the issue with Dr KK Talwar, health adviser to the state government. State nodal officer for Covid Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said, “The disabled who can apply for the jab shall be strictly vaccinated as per the mentioned guidelines. If a person below 60 doesn’t have a limb but he is not co-morbid, he won’t be considered. The guidelines are clear. Also, those coming to the vaccination centres are supposed to bring certificates regarding their co-morbidity or disability condition. All the people who meet guidelines shall be vaccinated. Presently, there is no mechanism to reach out to beneficiaries or for home vaccinations. Everyone shall be expected to report at the vaccination centre.”Health Minister Balbir Sidhu said pre-registration was not mandatory in this round. Those who wanted to get vaccinated could either pre-register or just walk in, Sidhu said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/confusion-over-disability-criteria-as-ph-2-begins-today-218859
01-03-2021||---||All district hospitals to have MRI, CT scan facilities: Minister||Tribune News ServicePatiala, February 28Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said all district hospitals in the state, along with some subdivisional and community health centres, would soon be equipped with MRI and CT scan facilities at a low cost (42 to 48 per cent less). He said this would further strengthen the government infrastructure under the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana.He claimed the government was out to strengthen the health sector in Punjab and had recently recruited a large number of doctors, nurses and paramedics.Sidhu was at Ghanaur today for an upgrade drive. He announced that the existing capacity of 30 beds of the CHC, Ghanaur, would increase to 50 after completion of renovation work.Apart from this, he announced that a mother and child hospital would also come up at Ghanaur.On being asked about the possibility of a second wave of Covid, Sidhu said they were prepared to tackle any situation. He said unlike other states, Punjab did not report any cases of mutation, therefore, the situation would be under control. Denying the speculation of a lockdown in view of the rising cases, he said, “If in any district there is a rise in number of positive cases, we may go for a night curfew to restrict the movement of people.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/all-district-hospitals-to-have-mri-ct-scan-facilities-minister-218860
01-03-2021||---||Two ASIs suspended for accepting Rs 10,000 in bribe||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, February 28Two police officers were suspended today after a video purportedly showing the two taking Rs 10,000 in bribe from a woman went viral on the social media.ASI Sawinder Singh, Manochahal Kalan Police Post in charge and ASI Amarjit Singh allegedly took the money for presenting a challan in court in connection with a case registered by the woman.SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said suspension orders were issued following an inquiry. A departmental inquiry would be conducted and in case the two were found guilty, they would be booked under a criminal case. The two had been booked on charges of taking bribe, he said.In the video, ASI Amarjit is purportedly seen taking Rs 10,000 from a woman, identified asHarwinder Kaur, a resident of Dial Rajputan.The complainant claimed she had got a case registered under Sections 354 (assault to outrage modesty) and 452 (trespass after preparation for hurt) of the Indian Penal Code against her husband and two others in 2019, but the police were not presenting the challan in the court.She brought the matter to the notice of the higher authorities. However, the two police officers allegedly demanded bribe for the job, she said.Asserting that there was a zero-tolerance policy on corruption, the SSP asked people to bring such matters to the notice of the higher authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-asis-suspended-for-accepting-rs-10-000-in-bribe-218861
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Shun politics of opportunism, Sunil Jakhar urges senior leaders||Hitting out at recent statements of some senior party leaders, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Sunil Jakhar castigated them for indulging in politics of opportunism at a time when every Congress worker is fighting a battle to save the idea of India under “assault from the central regime”.Join us in protesting fuel price hikeThe Punjab Congress will gherao the Governor on March 1 to raise the voice of people against sky-rocketing prices of fuel and essential commodities. Come and join us in the protest. — Sunil Jakhar, PPCC PresidentThose raising their voice against reforms in an organisation which gave them the most potent platform to evolve as leaders are doing a great disservice not only to the party but also to the country, Jakhar said in a hard-hitting statement here today.Reminding them that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had led the struggle against draconian anti-farmer legislations from Punjab, Jakhar invited them to join the politics of struggle for the common man tomorrow when the state Congress leads a protest march to gherao the Governor against spiralling prices of essential commodities.“Come and join me in the protest which would be a refresher course for you all in raising voice of the people we serve far away from the cozy environs of the Rajya Sabha galleries,” Jakhar quipped.On being asked about Kapil Sibal, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Raj Babbar and Anand Sharma’s statements, Jakhar urged all senior leaders to take up the issues of people. He disagreed with Babbar’s ‘Hum hi Congress hain’ comment, underlining the “Congress party is older than you and me” and its core philosophy has consistently been of public service only. He added such comments did not behove a senior leader like Babbar.On Azad’s statement that he has retired from the Rajya Sabha and not from active politics, Jakhar said retiring from the Upper House never means retiring from politics at all and rather politics has begun now. Responding to Sibal’s statement about the need to further strenthen the party, the PPCC chief invited him to come and join him to work for the people in the streets to make the party and the country stronger. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shun-politics-of-opportunism-sunil-jakhar-urges-senior-leaders-218862
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Facing threats, farm leaders take on social media trolls||Taking on those issuing threats and using abusive language against farmer leaders on the social media, BKU leader Manjeet Dhaner today dared the ‘right wing troll army’ to come face to face.Three prominent Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders — Balbir Singh Rajewal, Rajinder Singh Deep Singhwala and Dhaner — have been targeted recently by the trolls over the Red Fort march.While speaking at Singhu on Sunday, Dhaner said they had a long history of fighting “goons”. “So there is no question of getting scared. You (trolls) know our whereabouts at Singhu. If you have the guts, meet us face to face,” he said.Earlier, threats were issued to Rajinder Singh from rallies at Mehraj and Deep Sidhu’s village organised by Khalistan sympathisers, asking him to be “ready to face the consequences”. Similarly, Rajewal was threatened on the social media and his phone.Taking note of the threats to Rajinder Singh, the Kirti Kisan Union had said it was an attempt to damage the farmers’ movement.In a statement union’s state president Nirbhay Singh Dhudike said those attacking the leadership wanted to sabotage the movement against the three farm laws. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/facing-threats-farm-leaders-take-on-social-media-trolls-218863
01-03-2021||---||Sangrur farmers stage sit-in over land acquisition||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, February 28Opposing the alleged attempts of government authorities to acquire their land for the Delhi-Katra Expressway, the affected farmers have been staging a sit-in inside an auditorium of the Sangrur District Administrative Complex (DAC) for the past three days. Another related indefinite protest over the land acquisition has also been going on near Roshanwala village for the past two months.Nobody listening We have been compelled to stage a sit-in as officials are not willing to listen to us. The govt wants to purchase our land forcibly, which we will not allow. — Harmanpreet Singh Dicky Jeji, Protester“On February 25, officials held a meeting by calling some farmers. They did not share any information about the meeting with us. As we came to know about it, we reached here. Since then, we have been protesting here. However, no official has yet come to meet us,” said Ramandeep Singh, a member of the Delhi-Katra Expressway Kisan Sangharash Committee.On February 23, farmers from various districts participated in a state-level protest at Roshanwala village on the Sangrur-Patiala road. Refusing to give their land at the government rate and demanding higher compensation, they announced the stepping up of agitation in coming days. They said the government was offering Rs 20 lakh per acre, which was unacceptable to them.“We have been compelled to stage a sit-in as officials are not willing to listen to us. The government wants to purchase our land forcibly, which we will not allow,” said Harmanpreet Singh Dicky Jeji, the Sangrur district president of the committee.Sangrur Naib Tehsildar KK Mittal said the Sangrur administration had fixed a meeting with protesting farmers on Monday to resolve the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-farmers-stage-sit-in-over-land-acquisition-218865
01-03-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Rampant mining threatens Sutlej riverbed in Moga||Tribune News ServiceMoga, February 28Indiscriminate mining in the Sutlej riverbed in Moga district, in violation of the environmental laws, is threatening local ecology and infrastructure of the area.Contractors bound to repair embankment Contractors regularly repair the river embankment. We have security deposits of all contractors which can be forfeited in case they do not carry out repairs. — Gursimran Singh Gill, Moga mining officerScores of trucks and tractor-trailers overloaded with sand pass through the area on the kutcha roads inside the river embankment. Flouting the environmental laws, the roads have been constructed by the mining mafia for movement of heavy vehicles. At some places, these passages have also diverted the streams of water, making the area dry for easy lifting of sand with huge excavators and JCB machines.The link roads of nearby villages have also been damaged due to the movement of heavy machinery. Jaspinder Kaur Aulakh, sarpanch of Takhtuwala village located on the rive bank, said, “Hundreds of trucks and tractor-trailers move out from the riverbed every day. All trucks are overloaded with sand. The overloaded vehicles had damaged the roads of all nearby villages. Despite many complaints by the local residents, the local administration has not taken any action against the mining mafia for violation of the transportation rules and damaging the local infrastructure.”Frentic mining is going on at Sanghera, Bassian and other areas. Though the use of heavy machinery to excavate sand and gravels has been banned by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the district administration has granted permission for the JCB machines’ use at some locations allotted to the contractors by the state government. The rest of the mining operations have to be carried out manually as per the rules.Further, the mining operations are carried throughout the day even as the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests has fixed time-frame for excavation during summers from 6 am to 7 pm and in winters from 7 am to 5 pm. The excavation in rivers could be carried out maximum up to 10-ft (3 metres) depth, but sand is excavated beyond the limit at almost all mining sites. There are 20 to 30 ft craters on the riverbed due to the indiscriminate mining. The mining mafia takes advantage of the monsoon period when the mining operations come to a halt and these trenches fill up naturally with sand and water.Moga Mining Officer Gursimran Singh Gill said de-silting exercise was going on at the Adra Mann area in the Sutlej belt due to which trucks and tractor-trailers move on the kutcha road on the embankment. “We have allowed the use of heavy machinery for de-silting the river streams as per the regular practice,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rampant-mining-threatens-sutlej-riverbed-in-moga-218866
01-03-2021||---||Sow maize with pneumatic planters: Agri Dept to growers||Tribune News ServiceMoga, February 28Days after the Finance Commission announced a grant of Rs 350 crore to Punjab for crop diversification, the Department of Agriculture has begun wooing farmers to go in for maize cultivation by adopting modern technology. The maize in spring season is commonly sown in Moga, Barnala, Sangrur, Mansa, Ludhiana and many other districts of the Malwa belt.Saves water, reduces input costMaize sown with pneumatic planters saves water, reduces input cost and increases yield by about 30 quintals per acre. — Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar, Senior Agro-ScientistThe department’s experiment of sowing maize with pneumatic planters on raised-beds in the past couple of years has shown good results. Its scientists are conducting demonstrations of maize-sowing with an aim to encourage farmers to adopt crop diversification.One such demonstration was carried out at Rajoana village in Sudhaar block of Ludhiana district, last week. Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar, a senior agro-scientist who conducted the demonstration, said it’s an opportune time for sowing of maize after harvest of the potato crop in the spring season.Pitching for the adoption of modern technology in farming practices, Dr Brar said: “The planting of uniform seeds in equal spaces and depths is easier with pneumatic planter, and requires just three to five irrigations in a 100-day span as compared with 10 to 12 irrigations in normally sown crop. Ludhiana’s Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Narinder Singh Benipal said: “There are hardly any weeds seen in the pneumatic planter sown fields, which lowers input cost with no use of weedicides.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sow-maize-with-pneumatic-planters-agri-dept-to-growers-218867
01-03-2021||---||Congress MLA’s aide joins AAP||Chandigarh, February 28The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday got a shot in the arm in Punjab when Sonu Jafar, a close associate of the Congress MLA in Ajnala. Other Congress leaders Amandeep Goldy Musafir and Angrej Singh Brar joined the party in the presence of senior AAP member and Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema.Welcoming them into AAP, Cheema said due to the pro-people policies of the party, more and more people were getting encouraged to join it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-mlas-aide-joins-aap-218868
01-03-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda: Ex-councillor ‘loots’ petrol in protest||In a unique protest against the skyrocketing prices of fuel, SAD former councillor Vijay Kumar posed as a dacoit and looted petrol from a filling station here in the Parasram Nagar area on Sunday. Donning an apron carrying a picture of gas cylinder, he raised slogans against the Centre and state government, criticising them for the increased prices of commodities.“If fuel prices keep increasing like this, people would be forced to walk to carry out daily activities. The day won’t be far, when miscreants will start stealing petrol from vehicles,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-ex-councillor-loots-petrol-in-protest-218869
01-03-2021||New Delhi||Fearing arrest for backing stir, 2 army veterans move HC||Fearing arrest or implication in cases for supporting the farmers’ protests, two decorated ex-servicemen have moved the Delhi High Court for anticipatory bail.Lt Gen Satbir Singh (retd) and Group Captain VK Gandhi (retd) through their counsels Salman Khurshid and Aadil Singh Boparai have approached the HC as they have apprehensions that they might be arrested after a Delhi cop visited General Singh’s house in civil dress.Justice Mukta Gupta has ordered the police to file a status report whether the two petitioners were involved in a case.“Status report be filed after verifying from the SIT of the Crime Branch as also the police stations concerned where FIRs have been registered in relation to the farmers’ agitation, as to whether the petitioners are allegedly involved and/or required for investigation,” Justice Gupta wrote in her order. The next date of hearing is set for March 1.Both Lt Gen Singh and Group Captain Gandhi are chairman and vice-chairman, respectively, of the Indian Ex-Servicemen Movement, one of the largest organisations of ex-servicemen with 30,000 members. They had given a call to its members to participate in the farm protests at Delhi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fearing-arrest-for-backing-stir-2-army-veterans-move-hc-218870
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||SAD to corner Cong in House over loan waiver||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today said it would force the Congress government to explain why it had betrayed all sections of society in the past four years during the last Budget session which starts tomorrow.SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia said PPCC president Sunil Jakhar was “fooling people by indulging in a sham protest against the Governor’s address which had been prepared by his own government”.“We will ask the CM to explain why he betrayed the ‘annadata’ by promising loan waiver when he did not have any intention of fulfilling the promise”. He said the youth had also been backstabbed with government jobs being abolished in the last four years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-to-corner-cong-in-house-over-loan-waiver-218871
01-03-2021||Muktsar||Lakha Sidhana should join morcha: Ruldu Singh Mansa||Five days after gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana addressed a rally at Mehraj village in Bathinda, Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader Ruldu Singh Mansa, who heads the Punjab Kisan Union, today said Sidhana should become a morcha member.At a rally in Gidderbaha, he said: “In my personal opinion, if a large number of youngsters are Sidhana’s followers, he should become part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha as an organisation. But then he will have to follow the decisions of the morcha.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lakha-sidhana-should-join-morcha-ruldu-singh-mansa-218872
01-03-2021||Barnala||Barnala man held for firing||Members of an orchestra allegedly had a narrow escape after an allegedly drunk member of a marriage party opened fire on them. The police have registered a case against Malkiat Singh, who fired from his licensed pistol. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/barnala-man-held-for-firing-218873
01-03-2021||Karam Prakash||33% dip in OPD patients at Patiala's Govt Rajindra Hospital||Tribune News ServicePatiala, February 28The Covid scare continues to hit the patient count at OPDs of government hospitals. As per the data provided by the authorities of the Rajindra Hospital, the patient count in January was 20,165, which was 33 per cent lower than that in the corresponding period last year. In January 2020, the count was 30,422.The hospital authorities said people were scared to take treatment as the Covid isolation ward was located on the hospital premises. The Covid ward here is one the largest isolation wards in the state.Dr HS Rekhi, medical superintendent, Rajindra Hospital, said, “In November and December, the figures were even lower. The number of OPD patients has been increasing over time, but the overall footfall is far from normal.”On the other hand, the number of OPD patients at private clinics has doubled. A senior pediatrician at Rajindra Hospital said, “The count of patients at the OPD of the paediatrics department has gone down from 300 in the pre-Covid time to 30.”Another doctor at the hospital, said, “Fearing the spread of infection, people prefer visiting private clinics over government hospitals. Some have even discontinued their ongoing treatment at government hospitals.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/33-dip-in-opd-patients-at-patialas-govt-rajindra-hospital-218874
01-03-2021||Abohar||Vax available for 6 days a week at Abohar hospital||Taking cognisance of reports on social media, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu has directed that Covid vaccination days at the subdivisional Civil Hospital in Abohar be extended from three to six to achieve the target.Civil Surgeon Kundan Pal said six more persons would be employed from Monday onwards to ensure that child immunisation and Covid vaccination go smoothly at the same time.Earlier, citing staff crunch, nodal officer Dr Deeksha Babbar had reportedly decided to carry out Covid vaccination for three days only. Yesterday, some people had to return empty-handed as the facility was not available. Sidhu took cognisance of these reports and issued directions to the district authorities. At a meeting here, the Civil Surgeon instructed officials to carry out the vaccination on all six working days. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vax-available-for-6-days-a-week-at-abohar-hospital-218875
01-03-2021||Sangrur||Jobless breach barricade; meet on Mar 9||Jobless members of various unions from across the state under the ‘Joint Front of Unemployed’ banner today laid siege to the local residence of Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla demanding government jobs.They broke through the police barricading, but were later assured by the administration of arranging a meeting with senior government authorities on March 9.“Though the police had made elaborate security arrangements, we broke past the first barricade and reached the second one. We did not breach it as the Sangrur administration said they had fixed a meeting with senior authorities on March 9 in Chandigarh,” said Sukhwinder Singh Dhilwan, president, BEd and TET Pass Union.The union, along with four others — All Punjab 873 DPE Teachers’ Union, 646 PTI Teachers’ Union Punjab, Unemployed Art and Craft Union, Punjab and Unemployed Multipurpose Health Union, Punjab — has been staging an indefinite protest in front of the minister’s residence since December 31.The members have also been burning effigies of the Punjab Government at various villages to press for government jobs.“If the authorities fail to fulfil our demands at the March 9 meeting, we will intensify our agitation,” said Krishan Nabha, president of the PTI union. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-breach-barricade-meet-on-mar-9-218877
01-03-2021||Faridkot||A first: Free haemophilia cure at medical colleges||Punjab has become the first state in the country to provide free of cost treatment to haemophilia patients up to 13 years of age at all government medical colleges.The Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) has started the service in the three government medical colleges at Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot. As the cost of the therapy is Rs 30,000 per kg of the body weight for a year, the treatment is limited only to those patients who are up to 13 years of age and below 40 kg in body weight, said Dr Raj Bahadur, BFUHS Vice Chancellor.Haemophilia is a mostly an inherited genetic disorder that impairs the body’s ability to make blood clots, a process needed to stop bleeding, said Dr Varun Kaul, a paediatrician at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital here.A weekly dose of hemlibra, a subcutaneous solution, increases the potential of blood clot formation. But due to cost constraints, it is only being administered to children below 13 years of age who are inhibitor-positive.The state has around 450 haemophilia patients and 24 of them are inhibitor-positive. Haemophilia results in patient bleeding for a longer time after an injury, easy bruising and an increased risk of bleeding inside joints or brain. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/a-first-free-haemophilia-cure-at-medical-colleges-218878
01-03-2021||Aman Sood||Pollution control units may increase power bill in state||Tribune News ServicePatiala, February 28The already expensive power in the state can rise further. Installation of flue gas de- ulphurisation (FGD) units to control pollution at the Lehra Mohabbat thermal plant is going to add to the production cost.Plan to instal Rs150-cr systemThe PSPCL plans to install a dry FGD system at the thermal plant to cut down emissions of gases and to improve the air quality as directed by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Earlier, the PSPCL had planned to instal a wet flue gas system, but keeping in view the cost involved, it has now decided to opt for the dry system at about half the price.“Dry scrubbers have lower capital and annual costs than the wet system because they are simpler, need less water and waste disposal is less complex. The PSPCL has urged the pollution controlling authorities not to press for installation of the FDG units as thermal units are run only during the paddy season when there is less pollution. The present load factor of the Lehra Mohabbat thermal plant is around 15 per cent only,” said a senior PSPCL official.The PSPCL will have to spend more than Rs 150 crore for the system at Lehra Mohabbat. “This can also impact the revenue requirement of the PSPCL, and result in another price hike,” said VK Gupta, spokesperson, All India Power Engineers’ Federation.“The PSPCL is not going for the installation of FGD units at the Ropar thermal plant as two units have already been closed and the remaining four units are likely to be shut in the next two years or so,” said PSPCL Chief Managing Director A Venu Prasad.“To save cost, we are going for a dry FGD system at our Lehra Mohabbat plant,” he said.Experts suggest that the thermal plants in Punjab use domestic coal supply which though has high ash content, does not have sulphur. “The load factor of thermal plants is less than 15 per cent as these are run partially during the paddy season. Under such circumstances, what is the necessity of this wasteful expenditure,” they claim.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pollution-control-units-may-increase-power-bill-in-state-218879
01-03-2021||---||3 booked for youth’s murder in Fazilka||Our CorrespondentFazilka, February 28Panic spread in the border area as the body of a youth, identified as Angrej Singh (18), was recovered from the Sutlej, near Ram Singh Bhaini village. Kajal Rani, a friend of the deceased, her father Gurmit Singh and uncle Chhinder Singh have been booked under Sections 302, 201 and 34 of the IPC.Sumitra Rani, mother of the deceased, said Kajal invited her son to her residence for some work on February 25 at 8.30 pm. When he did not return home, they started searching for him.She said the body of her son was found floating in the Sutlej on Saturday evening. She alleged Kajal, her father Gurmit Singh and uncle Chhinder Singh hatched a conspiracy and killed her son, suspecting illicit relations with Kajal. The police are investigating the allegations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-booked-for-youths-murder-in-fazilka-218880
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer, trade and student unions stage protest in Chandigarh, burn PM Modi's effigy||A protest march from Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Gurdwara Sahib in Sector 34 to the BJP office in Sector 33, a call for which was given by members of civil society and various organisations, including the All-India Students Association, Revolutionary Youth Association, Punjab Kisan Union, All-India Central Council of Trade Union and the Nojawan Kisan Ekta, was not allowed by the Chandigarh police today.The Sector 34 SHO, Rajiv Kumar, said: “We have put up barricades here because there is possibility of clash if protesters agitate outside the BJP office.”The protesters burnt PM Narendra Modi’s effigy on the street. “We do not want to fight the police. We just want to be heard. On the one hand farmers’ demands are not being addressed, but on the other inflation’s skyrocketed,” said Aman Ratia of AISA.Sukhdeep Singh, grandson of BKU leader Ruldu Singh Mansa, said: “My brother Navreet Singh was shot dead and more than 200 people have died at the protest site. Yet, not a word of remorse from the PM, which is shameful.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-trade-and-student-unions-stage-protest-in-chandigarh-burn-pm-modis-effigy-218818
01-03-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Opposition to take up Ansari issue on floor of House||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 28The Opposition is all set to raise the issue of BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari, lodged in the Ropar jail, during the Budget session beginning tomorrow. Ansari’s wife reportedly resides in a rented accommodation in the vicinity of the jail as also some of his loyalists and bodyguards.Sources said upon his arrest in January 2019, two of his close “sewadars” were shifted to the Ropar jail after being arrested by the Government Railway Police for “minor” offences. They did not seek bail and remained with Ansari for months. Senior officials denied Ansari was being given special treatment inside the jail. “He can’t travel to UP as medical examination by different boards of doctors have declared him unfit,” explained a senior jail official. The spat between Punjab and UP has reached the Supreme Court with the latter alleging the Congress government in Punjab is protecting Ansari owing to his links with Congress bigwigs.Ansari claims to be a relative of former Vice-President Hamid Ansari and Mukhtar Ahmed Ansari, president of the Indian National Congress during the pre-Independence period. His son, a national-level shooter, is considered close to another shooter, whose father is a prominent Congress leader.The SAD has questioned Punjab paying Rs 50 lakh to an lawyer for contesting UP’s production application in the Supreme Court.Ansari was brought from a UP jail in January 2019 for allegedly extorting money from CEO of Mohali realtor. Since then, the UP Police has sought his production several times but Punjab refuses to oblige. Curiously, the Punjab Police did not not submit a challan against Ansari and have sought a further date for submitting the challan at least 50 times. The spat between Punjab and Uttar Pradesh over Ansari has reached the Supreme Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/opposition-to-take-up-ansari-issue-on-floor-of-house-218847
01-03-2021||---||Punjab session to be stormy affair; Cong, Opposition draw battle lines||Chandigarh, February 28The Budget session of the Punjab Assembly, which is scheduled to begin on Monday, is expected to be a stormy affair. While the SAD has decided to gherao the Vidhan Sabha over “unfulfilled” poll promises, the Congress will protest outside the Governor House over rising fuel and LPG prices.The Aam Aadmi Party too has announced to corner the ruling party over its “poor performance” in the last four years.The Congress government has been at loggerheads with the Governor over the latter’s “refusal” to forward to the President amendments passed by the House to counter the three farm laws.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has already stated that the amended legislations would again be passed as “the Constitution provides that if Bills are passed twice by the Vidhan Sabha these will have to be sent to the President”.“The ruling MLAs will maintain decorum during the Governor’s Address, but we want him to address our concerns,” said a senior party leader.PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar said: “While reaffirming its pro-farmer resolve, the Congress will try to expose the SAD over its role in passing the farm laws and AAP’s false propaganda on the matter.”SAD leader Dr Daljit Cheema alleged that Capt Amarinder Singh had failed to fulfil promises like implementation of complete farm debt waiver, unemployment allowance etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-session-to-be-stormy-affair-cong-opposition-draw-battle-lines-218848
01-03-2021||---||2 Nihangs held for attacking policemen in Paonta Sahib||Solan, February 28The Paonta Sahib police arrested two Nihangs for misbehaving and attacking traffic police at Badripur Chownk yesterday afternoon.Additional SP, Sirmaur, Babita Rana, said the police had identified the two Nihangs who were carrying swords and metal clubs. A case under Sections 353, 323 and 34 of the IPC has been registered against them.They had entered into an altercation with traffic policemen who had asked them why they were using hooter in the vehicle. One of them had even slapped the policeman and had abused him for being questioned. The duo then went towards Bangran Chownk in their car after brandishing swords and created an atmosphere of fear among residents who had gathered on the spot.The police later arrested them and they were produced before a local court today which has remanded them in two days’ police custody.They have been identified as Ludhiana resident Jasbir Singh (38) and Fatehgarh resident Sandeep Singh (30). Their act has been captured in CCTV cameras installed at the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-nihangs-held-for-attacking-policemen-in-paonta-sahib-218728
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s budget session from Monday, fireworks likely||The Budget Session of the Punjab Assembly, starting from Monday, is likely to witness fireworks, with the opposition deciding to corner the Amarinder Singh-led government over its “failure” to honour its poll promises despite completing four years of its term.The members of the House will assemble on Monday for the Punjab governor’s address and obituary references. The session will be held from March 1 to 10.The state budget for 2021-22 is proposed to be presented on March 5.Besides the state budget estimates for the next fiscal, the session will also see the presentation of the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India for the year 2018-19 (civil, commercial) and financial accounts of government of Punjab for the year 2019-20, as well as appropriation accounts for the year 2019-20.With the Punjab assembly polls due early next year, it will be the last budget of the Amarinder Singh-led government which came to power in 2017.The SAD and the AAP will question the state government for allegedly “failing” to fulfil its poll promises made before the 2017 assembly elections.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Sunday said his party will “force” the Congress-led government to explain why it had “betrayed” all sections of the society, in its last budget session.Majithia said be it farmers, farm labourers, youth, scheduled and backward castes, government employees or trade and industry, each and every section of the society had been “befooled” by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh.“We will ask the chief minister to explain why he betrayed the ‘annadaata’ by promising to waive loans taken from nationalised and private banks as well as cooperative societies and arhtiyas when he did not have any intention of fulfilling this promise,” he further said.Similarly, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will be questioning the state government for not being able to “honour” its poll promises made in 2017.AAP MLA and Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Punjab Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema said, “It has been four years since then and we have reached the final budget session and none of those promises have yet been fulfilled.AAP’s Punjab unit chief Bhagwant Mann accused the Congress-led government of “throwing all its promises into a dustbin”.“No promise has been fulfilled yet, be it jobs to every household, farm debt waiver, Rs 2,500 per month pension etc,” said Mann.Sangrur MP alleged while “mafia raj” was rampant in the state, the public was “completely neglected” by this government. “The ruling Congress threw all its promises made with the public into a dustbin,” he said.Meanwhile, the ruling Congress will ‘gherao’ Punjab Raj Bhavan on Monday in protest against “rising” fuel and cooking gas price.The SAD has also planned to ‘gherao’ Punjab Assembly on Monday after party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal addresses Akali workers at Sector 25 here.“We will march towards the Vidhan Sabha in a peaceful manner,” said SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema while alleging that the Congress party’s poll promises had turned out to be “fraud”.BJP leader Tarun Chugh said they will “expose” the Congress-led dispensation for “not keeping” its promises like farm debt waiver.“The ruling party always tried to divert attention from its failures in four years,” said Chugh. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-budget-session-from-monday-fireworks-likely-218707
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Activist Nodeep Kaur pays obeisance at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib||Labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur on Sunday visited Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib in New Delhi.The 23-year-old activist, hailing from Punjab’s Mukstar district, was honoured by the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa and General Secretary Harmeet Singh Kalka.Meanwhile, Nodeep walked out of the Karnal district jail on February 26, hours after the Punjab and Haryana High Court granted her bail.She was greeted by supporters, including the DSGMC chief.“Both me and Shiv Kumar were tortured by the Sonepat police,” she alleged.Nodeep was arrested by the Kundli police in Sonepat district on January 12 for alleged murder attempt.Claiming that the videos released by the police were edited, she said: “I will furnish the details tomorrow.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/activist-nodeep-kaur-pays-obeisance-at-gurdwara-rakab-ganj-sahib-218687
01-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Guess General Dhillon’s ‘lazy Sunday’ meal; ‘Punjabis love it’, says internet||Kanwal Jeet Singh Dhillon, the Director-General of Defence Intelligence Agency and Deputy Chief of Integrated Defence Staff, shared a “fiery idea” on the microblogging website.Dhillon shared the perfect lazy Sunday meal: “Flambé Pizza”. In the 36-second clip, the General was seen cooking the pizza himself.“Flambé Pizza A Fiery Idea For A Lazy Sunday Indulgence,” he captioned the tweet.Flambé Pizza🔥🍕A Fiery Idea For A Lazy Sunday Indulgence @AdityaRajKaul@nee_el pic.twitter.com/rYFCBhJMXe  Post this, a Twitter user wrote: “Sir, bura na manyo, baade pange lene ho tussi”, to this Dhillon wrote: “One of my best friend always says it in typically Punjabi style .... “Uppar ja ke jawab dena hai, so I don’t want to say ki phalana kamm taa keeta hi nahin”One of my best friend always says it in typically Punjabi style .... “Uppar ja ke jawab dena hai, so I don’t want to say ki phalana kamm taa keeta hi nahin”  Dhillon also wrote how he plans to try “Flambé Roasted Chicken next time.”Thank you... Will try Flambé Roasted Chicken 🍗 next time @AdityaRajKaul  Another user wrote: “That's how Punjabis like their pizza... Superb”, Dhillon responded saying, “Punjabis will find a reason to add their fav ingredients in every dish any which way .., you wanted to say that”.Reactions:Punjabis will find a reason to add their fav ingredients in every dish any which way .., you wanted to say that @swapy6 😊Ordinary Indian kitchen🥰🥰 for a general in India. Army is in the right hands   Was it old monk or teachers or vodka?😉  I never had old monk 🍕. Mast  Sir did it get fully burnt or something remained to eat🤔🤔🤔  Rum do Pizza 🍕😁  For the unversed, Dhillon’s tenure at 15 Corps began on a challenging note as within a week of his taking over in February last year, 40 CRPF men were killed in Pulwama attack.Within 100 hours of the incident, he neutralised the perpetrators of the ghastly attack. He has been lauded for ensuring maintenance of peace in the Valley after the Centre’s decision to abrogate Article 370The Defence Intelligence Agency is an organisation responsible for providing, and coordinating military intelligence for the Indian armed forces. The DIA was created in 2002 on recommendations of a Group of Ministers which looked into lapses leading to the Kargil intrusion in 1999.The 57-year-old Dhillon, who is from the 1983 batch of the Indian Military Academy, handed over the charge of 15 Corps to Lt Gen BS Raju on February 29.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/guess-general-dhillons-lazy-sunday-meal-punjabis-love-it-says-internet-218634
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||24 hours, 3 tests later, Punjab minister tests Covid-negative||Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday, only for subsequent tests to report him negative for the contagion. Randhawa was declared positive after samples of several Punjab MLAs were tested after being collected from the MLA hostel on Saturday. However, when he got tested at a private lab, the test was negative. Later, his test conducted at the PGI also reported him negative for COVID-19.All Punjab MLAs are being tested for Covid ahead of the Assembly session beginning Monday.Randhawa told The Tribune he was "surprised and shocked" at the contradictory reports."Interestingly, in the list of those tested, including Vidhan Sabha employees, it says positive against my and an employee's name. The words are written by hand. But the other results are printed."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/24-hours-3-tests-later-punjab-minister-tests-covid-negative-218614
01-03-2021||---||Nodeep Kaur joins protesters at Singhu||Sonepat, February 27Protesting farmers on Saturday observed ‘Kisan Mazdoor Ekta Diwas’ on the birth anniversary of Guru Ravidas and martyrdom day of Chandrashekhar Azad at Singhu border. A ‘nagar kirtan’ was also organised at the protest site. After being released from jail yesterday night, activist Nodeep Kaur reached Singhu border. She rejoined the protesters on Saturday.Addressing the gathering here, she said that the ongoing movement has space for everyone to contribute whether it is farmers or workers.Besides, the members of All-India Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Samiti (AIKMSS) formed a 35-km-long tractor trolley chain on Sonepat-Gohana road in support of the ongoing farmers’ protest.Ishwar Singh Dahiya, convener, AIKMSS, said that the villagers from Kheri Dahiya, Nainatatarpur, Ratangarh, Mohana, Pinana, Salarpur Majra, Joli Lath, Barauta, Damkan, Dodwam Machri, Hullaheri, Bhatgaon and other villages made a tractor-trolley chain at their village stand.The villagers protested against the three farm laws, the electricity amendment Bill 2020 and demand for the legal guarantee on MSP and raised slogans against the Centre.Besides, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha said that 14 more farmers have been released on bail from jails in Delhi. In all, 78 arrested people are out from the jails as of now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nodeep-kaur-joins-protesters-at-singhu-218506
