03-03-2021||Chandigarh||12 more coronavirus deaths in Punjab, 778 new cases; Haryana reports zero COVID-related deaths||The COVID-19 infection tally in Punjab climbed to 1,84,310 with 778 new cases reported on Wednesday while 12 more deaths pushed the toll to 5,872, according to a medical bulletin.Punjab has been seeing an upswing in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases for the past three weeks. The number of active cases also jumped from 5,198 on Tuesday to 5,593 as of now.Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar reported the maximum of 108 cases followed by Jalandhar with 96, Patiala with 80, among new cases that surfaced in the state.A total of 365 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,72,845, as per the bulletin.There are 14 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 99 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 50,69,381 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.In neighbouring Haryana, the state recorded 240 fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of infections in the state to 2,71,365, a health department bulletin said.With no coronavirus related fatality during the past 24 hours, the total COVID-19 deaths in the state remained at 3,052, according to the bulletin.Fresh cases were reported from districts, including Gurugram and Karnal, with 44 infections each.The number of active cases in the state were 1,470. The recovery rate was 98.33 percent, it stated.Meanwhile, the Union territory of Chandigarh on Wednesday reported 56 more coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 21,962, a medical bulletin stated.The death of a 79-year-old woman took the toll in the UT to 355, as per the bulletin.The number of active cases rose from 472 on Tuesday to 503 as of now, as per the bulletin.A total of 24 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 21,104, as per the bulletin.A total of 2,59,793 samples have been taken for testing so far and 2,36,870 of them tested negative while reports of 108 samples were still awaited, the bulletin stated. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/12-more-coronavirus-deaths-in-punjab-778-new-cases-haryana-reports-zero-covid-related-deaths-220098
03-03-2021||New Delhi||Mukhtar Ansari dodging judicial system, running illegal activities from Punjab jail: UP to SC||The Uttar Pradesh government Wednesday told the Supreme Court that gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari has been “dodging” the judicial system and is running his alleged illegal activities from Rupnagar district jail in Punjab where he is lodged.   While Uttar Pradesh alleged in the apex court that there is “collusion” between Ansari and Punjab Police, the Amarinder Singh government refuted these claims and raised questions over the maintainability of plea filed by the Yogi Adityanath-led government.A bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy was hearing a plea filed by the Uttar Pradesh government seeking a direction to the Punjab government and Rupnagar jail authority to immediately hand over the custody of Ansari, an MLA from Mau constituency, to district jail Banda.   Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Uttar Pradesh, told the bench that several cases are pending against Ansari in the state and in 2019, an FIR for alleged extortion was lodged in Punjab against him.He said that no charge sheet has been filed yet by the Punjab Police in the case and investigation is still going on.“He (Ansari) is dodging the judicial system,” Mehta told the bench, adding that he managed medical certificates which said that he is not permitted to travel but at the same time, Ansari had attended proceedings in other courts.“He has mocked and taken for ride the entire judicial system and the administrative system,” he said.The senior law officer said it appears like a film script as several cases were pending against him in Uttar Pradesh and suddenly, the Punjab Police lodged an FIR in 2019.Mehta said Ansari, who is lodged in Punjab jail, has not been produced before the court in Uttar Pradesh despite several orders.“I am showing the collusion between them,” the solicitor general said, adding, “He is operating and running his illegal activities from jail in Punjab”.Referring to cases pending against him in Uttar Pradesh, Mehta said that state has the power to prosecute the accused for the victims, witnesses and also the citizens and their fundamental rights gets affected if the trial gets delayed.  Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for Punjab government, questioned the maintainability of the plea filed by Uttar Pradesh and said this issue would have “far reaching consequences”.“We have nothing to do with Mukhtar Ansari. If he is a criminal, he is a criminal. The question is whether one state can file a writ petition in this court against another state in the circumstances in which Uttar Pradesh has done in this case,” Dave said.Giving an example of the case of journalist Siddique Kappan who was arrested on his way to Hathras where a young Dalit woman had died after being allegedly gang-raped, Dave said, “Can Kerala tomorrow move the Supreme Court and say that he (Kappan) is from Kerala so he be transferred to Kerala from Uttar Pradesh?”Referring to the averments of Uttar Pradesh, he said these are grievances against judicial orders in which the state of Punjab has no role whatsoever.“State of Punjab has no role in this. This writ petition is not maintainable and it cannot be entertained,” he said, adding that the jail authority has to comply with the medical records.The apex court also heard arguments on a separate plea filed by Ansari in which he has sought transfer of cases pending against him in Uttar Pradesh to Delhi.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Ansari, said the MLA is seeking transfer of cases pending against him in Uttar Pradesh to Delhi.He alleged there is a threat to Ansari’s life in Uttar Pradesh as one of the co-accused was “eliminated in encounter” by the Uttar Pradesh Police.“Government of Uttar Pradesh says I (Ansari) am lodged in Punjab jail while cases are pending in Uttar Pradesh so there is problem in the cases there. This problem will be resolve if my cases are transferred to Delhi,” Rohatgi said.“We will consider this,” the bench told Rohatgi.The Uttar Pradesh government had earlier told the apex court that the Punjab government is “shamelessly” protecting Ansari, who is lodged in Rupnagar district jail in connection with an alleged extortion case, by not sending him to Uttar Pradesh to face trial in several cases.The Punjab government had sought dismissal of plea filed by Uttar Pradesh, saying that only a “citizen” can move Supreme Court under Article 32 to claim fundamental rights and a state cannot invoke this provision.Article 32 deals with the ‘Right to Constitutional Remedies’, and gives the right to move the top court for the enforcement of the rights conferred in the Constitution.Ansari is lodged in district jail Rupnagar in Punjab since January 2019.The Uttar Pradesh government has also sought a direction to transfer the criminal proceedings and trial in the extortion case in Punjab to the special court in Allahabad.In its affidavit filed earlier in the apex court, Punjab had referred to the medical condition of Ansari and said that he had been undergoing treatment at jail hospital as well as other hospitals from time to time since January 2019.While referring to the medical condition and advice of doctors, Punjab had said that custody of Ansari “could not be handed over to the state of Uttar Pradesh due to the specific advice of the medical officers/medical board /specialists” from time to time. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mukhtar-ansari-dodging-judicial-system-running-illegal-activities-from-punjab-jail-up-to-sc-220063
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Asked to clear stand on farm laws, BJP MLA stopped from speaking in Punjab Assembly||Ruling Congress and opposition SAD members on Wednesday prevented BJP MLA Arun Narang from speaking in the Assembly, asking him to clear his stand on the Centre’s farm laws first.Narang was participating in the discussion on the Governor’s address on the third day of the Budget session of the Punjab Assembly when Congress MLA Dalvir Singh Goldy interrupted him.Goldy was joined by Congress legislators Navtej Singh Cheema and Gurkirat Singh Kotli. Some Akali Dal MLAs, including Pawan Kumar Tinu, also protested against Narang.The protesting legislators said BJP MLAs had no right to speak in the House as they had stayed away when the amendment bills to “counter” the central farm legislations were passed in the Punjab Assembly last year.Harpartap Singh Ajnala, who was at the Speaker’s chair at the time, tried to calm the situation. But as the legislators continued to protest, Ajnala asked Narang to sit down.Talking to the media later, Goldy, a legislator from Dhuri, asked why BJP MLAs should be allowed to speak when the saffron party was not listening to the farmers protesting the farm laws.Farmers mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh have been camping at Delhi’s borders, demanding a repeal of the farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for crops.The ruling Congress has backed the agitation. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asked-to-clear-stand-on-farm-laws-bjp-mla-stopped-from-speaking-in-punjab-assembly-220057
03-03-2021||Moga||Two watchmen crushed under sacks of wheat in Moga warehouse||Two watchmen were crushed under the weight of wheat sacks that fell from some rakes in a private godown leased by the state warehouse corporation on Baghapuaran-Nihalsinghwala road on the outskirts of Baghapurana town in Moga district, police said on Wednesday.Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Paramjit Singh, who was one of the first responders after the incident, said a 55-year-old man, Bhajan Singh, and his colleague, 54-year-old Baljit Singh, were the two victims.Singh said Bhajan Singh’s son Arshdeep Singh tried to call his father several times but got no response, prompting him to come down to the warehouse to look. At the warehouse, he saw the fallen sacks of wheat but no sign of his father, the policeman said. Arshdeep then tried calling his father again, and found his father lying under the bags of wheat, the policeman said.Arshdeep Singh and some other people dragged the two bodies from under the pile, and immediately took them to a hospital, which declared they were brought dead, the policeman said, adding authorities had conducted an autopsy and sent back the victims’ bodies to their families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-watchmen-crushed-under-sacks-of-wheat-in-moga-warehouse-220045
03-03-2021||---||BJP’s Dushyant Gautam calls Amarinder a ‘U-turn’ CM||New Delhi, March 3BJP general secretary and party in charge for Punjab Dushyant Gautam has called Captain Amarinder Singh a “U-turn Chief Minister”, accusing him of going back on his electoral promises and also those made as the Punjab CM on “ending VIP culture in the State”.“After making a complete U-turn on his electoral promises, the CM has now taken a U-turn on decisions he took as the CM of the State,” Gautam alleged, reminding Amarinder Singh of his statements and “contrary events” that followed.“It is shocking how Cabinet Ministers, MPs and MLAs and even IAS and IPS officers are blatantly flouting his decision. In fact, the CM  too violated his own orders on three occasions," claimed Gautam.“On April 14, 2017, the Punjab Government issued a statement, it read as following: ‘Taking another major step towards the elimination of VIP culture from the state, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh has prohibited the inclusion of names of any government functionaries, including ministers and MLAs, on foundation stones and inaugural plaques. The CM himself is not excluded from these orders, which are aimed at building a stronger connect between the government and the people by removing the VIP culture barriers’,” Gautam pointed out.“However, when on October 25, 2020, the CM laid the foundation stone for important development projects, including the first sports university of Punjab, Maharaja Bhupinder Singh Punjab Sports University, and a new bus stand in Patiala, photographs of events clearly show his name inscribed on them.“On May 30, 2019, the CM laid the foundation stone of a vegetable processing plant where again his name is inscribed. The foundation stone of Sardar Bahadur Amin Chand Soni Armed Forces Preparatory Institute in Hoshirapur’s Bajwara village (on February 3, 2021) also has his name," said Gautam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjps-dushyant-gautam-calls-amarinder-a-u-turn-cm-220033
03-03-2021||Ghazipur||Protesting farmers gear up for heat with fans, coolers at Ghazipur border||With the temperature soaring to mid-30 degrees on most days, the protesting farmers are busy shoring up their tents to fight the heat at the Ghazipur border.Chic mats, fans, coolers, fridge, dried long grass and mosquito nets have all begun to show up at the protest site.The first of the tents to fight the searing heat is the one being run under the aegis of Brahm Gyani Sant Baba Ajit Singh Hansali Saheb.The tent is adjacent to Babaji’s langar and houses eight residents. While the inner walls are lined with chic mats, fans and coolers have already been installed.“These things had to be done because it is getting hot,” said Manjinder Singh Bittu, who is from Mohali.“We have sourced most things on our own. You can see these fans are new and we got the coolers as well,” he added.Similarly, a self-help group is upgrading tents near the stage. The plastic sheets are being replaced with new ones that reduce heat inside the tents.The height of the sheets is also being increased to hang fans.“These sheets are made from khajur leaves. It keeps the temperature down. We are also increasing the height so that we can hang fans from above,” said Atmajeet Singh, a member of the self-help group.“We are also adding mosquito nets on the sides. It will keep the mosquitos out and will help in cross ventilation as well,” he added.There are also plans to install big water coolers that will be placed every 100 meters.“Don’t worry, if needed we can also install air conditioners here as well. Jab yahan ghar bana liya hai to ghar jaise mahaul bhi hona chahiye (We will replicate our homes here),” Atmajeet said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesting-farmers-gear-up-for-heat-with-fans-coolers-at-ghazipur-border-219986
03-03-2021||Balwant Garg||Delhi Police take custody of Kotkapura undertrial to probe plot to kill Kashmiri activist||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, March 3A Delhi Police team has taken custody of Prince alias Tuti, an undertrial at Central Jail here.Tuti had allegedly hired two youths of Kotkapura to kill human rights activist Sushil Pandit.Three days after arresting Sukhvinder Singh and Lakhan, both residents of Kotkapura, Delhi Police have also named Tuti as an accused in the case.Facing two criminal cases, including a murder case, Tuti is lodged in jail here. To get the production warrant of Tuti in the Delhi case, a team of Delhi Police reached the court of Judicial Magistrate First Class here and got his custody till March 16.According to Delhi Police, Sukhvinder and Lakhan had revealed during questioning that they were hired by Tuti to kill Pandit and promised Rs 10 lakh each.Two days back, the Faridkot police had recovered a mobile phone from Tuti during a search in the jail here. Delhi Police claimed that Tuti was operating from the jail using the mobile phones.Sushil Pandit hails from Kashmir and is an activist advocating the rights of Kashmiri Pandits.For the alleged planning to kill him, Delhi Police had arrested the Kotkapura youths from RK Puram with four firearms, four cartridges and a cellphone that contained a photograph of Pandit’s.Officials in Delhi Police said while they had failed to establish any rivalry between Tuti and Pandit after questioning the latter, they wanted to question Tuti to verify the disclosures made by the two regarding him and the reason for his hiring them for Pandit’s killing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delhi-police-take-custody-of-kotkapura-undertrial-to-probe-plot-to-kill-kashmiri-activist-219966
03-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Ibrahim Ali Khan shows his wild side at Punjab CM Amarinder's granddaughter’s wedding; see viral pictures||Actor Saif Ali Khan’s son Ibrahim Ali Khan attended Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s granddaughter’s wedding. Pictures of Ibrahim mingling with guests have surfaced online.Ibrahim was dressed in a black bandhgala, and was later seen in a maroon kurta for other functions. Pictures showed him posing for shutterbugs in a formal environment, and having a gala time at the party.A post shared by Viral Bhayani (@viralbhayani)  The wedding of Seherinder Kaur and Aditya Narang reportedly took place at the CM's Siswan farmhouse on Sunday.Ibrahim, like several members of his family, is expected to join the film industry as an actor.Saif made an appearance on Jacqueline Fernandez and Amanda Cerny’s podcast last year, and talked about his family, and Ibrahim's desire to become an actor.He said: “My mother’s been doing films since she was 16. She worked with Satyajit Ray a lot, and did about four or five movies with him. She was his muse, and he thought of her as the ultimate female representation of his art.”Saif continued: “My sister is kind of in the movies, my wife, my ex-wife as well... So all of us. My daughter, my elder son wants to be an actor, and I think Taimur will be an actor for sure, he’s entertaining us already.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ibrahim-ali-khan-shows-his-wild-side-at-punjab-cm-amarinders-granddaughters-wedding-see-viral-pictures-219965
03-03-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Drugs recovery: Now, cops says BJP leader’s role unclear||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 2Suspecting a drug racket being run by former BJP councillor Satish Nagar, the Ludhiana police conducted a raid at the building of the BJP leader in the Chawni mohalla on Monday night and recovered 1,29,200 intoxicant tablets.The raid was conducted after duly procuring a search warrant.The banned medicine was recovered from rooms given on rent in the building of the leader.The police division No. 4 registered a case under Sections 22-C, 25-29-61-85 under the NDPS Act against the leader Satish Nagar, his tenants Anup Kumar, Himmat and Rajinder.The police named Anoop the kingpin of smuggling and he was arrested. The accused leader Satish Nagar, who remained in police custody till late night, was released, citing his pending role verification in the smuggling network. This is despite the fact that he was made the main accused in the FIR.Today, Anoop was produced in the court and his five-day police remand was taken for interrogation.Initially, the police said the former councillor was running a drugs network and was listed as the main accused in the FIR, but now the police took a U-turn in the case, saying the BJP leader’s role was yet to be verified.ADCP Pragya Jain said Anoop and his two aides were running the smugging network and further probe was on to bust the entire supply line.When the Police Commissioner was asked the reason for releasing the BJP leader from custody, the CP said the FIR was registered on the basis of the preliminary information and the role of Satish Nagar was being scanned to know if he had any links with the recovery of the large haul of drugs.“The police cannot implicate any wrong person in a drugs case and, similarly, the police cannot let any smuggler go scot-free. The role of Satish is being verified and if there is any proof of his link with the recovery of the drugs, the police will pursue the matter. So far, the police probe found that Satish owned the building and he was not aware about his tenants running the smuggling network, “ he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drugs-recovery-now-cops-says-bjp-leaders-role-unclear-219867
03-03-2021||Amritsar||SGPC decides to set up sports academy for girls||In order to provide better opportunities to Sikh girls in the field of sports, it has been decided in the first meeting of the Directorate of Sports for Girls, constituted recently by the SGPC, to set up girls’ sports academy.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said a girls’ sports academy dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur Sahib would be set up.“To select girls for the teams of hockey, basketball and athletics in this academy, the trials will be held at Punjab Armed Police (PAP) Ground in Jalandhar on March 13 and 14,” said the SGPC president. The hockey academies for boys are already being run by the SGPC, recently recognised by Hockey India this year.She said, “In the sports academy, players would be selected in the categories of under-15 and under-17. The girls who will be selected for the academy will also be provided quality education, sports equipment, hostel, food and uniforms, etc. The best female coaches will also be provided.”Regarding the selection procedure, she said, “The final selection would be made by organising sports camps for the selected players after completion of the trials.”Apart from Bibi Jagir Kaur, sports director Bibi Rajbir Kaur, Arjuna awardee, deputy director Bibi Surjit Kaur, members of the directorate Bibi Harpreet Kaur Barnala, Sumati Kanwar, Poonam Arora, Bibi Parminder Kaur Pannu and Bibi Rajinder Kaur were also present.Bibi Jagir Kaur expressed grief over death of Prof Narinjan Singh Dhesi. The SGPC president said Prof Dhesi not only guided society through his writings but also did research in the field of Gurmat. She said Prof Narinjan Singh was a research writer whose demise is a great loss to the literary circles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-decides-to-set-up-sports-academy-for-girls-219790
03-03-2021||Question Hour ended in just 34 minutes||34-min Question hour||Relief soughtAAP MLA Meet Hayer raised the issue of PRTC employee Manjit Singh, who ferried stranded pilgrims from Hazur Sahib, and died of Covid. Initially, the government had announced Rs50 lakh relief to the family, but later denied it saying he was not a regular employee.Dhindsa seeks actionFormer Finance Minster Parminder Singh Dhindsa raised the issue of two elected councillors being denied a certificate by the Sangrur administration. He said the EC had asked the government to initiate action against the SDM concerned, but it has failed to do so.Pbi varsity discussedSale of JCT mill at Mohali, poor fiscal health of Punjabi University, suicides by debt-ridden farmers and poor arrangements at Faridkot Medical College were also discussed during Zero Hour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/34-min-question-hour-219654
03-03-2021||Sangrur||SDM to probe fire incident||23 held under NDPS ActMuktsar: The police registered 24 cases under the NDPS Act and arrested 23 persons over the past four days. Muktsar SSP D Sudarvizhi and SP(D) Rajpal Singh said around 39 kg poppy husk, 20,610 sedative pills, 1 kg opium, 21 gm heroin and 68 bottles of tranquiliser were seized during that period. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sdm-to-probe-fire-incident-219656
03-03-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Rise in mercury may affect crop yield: Experts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 2The abnormally high temperature could lead to stress in the standing wheat crop in Punjab and adversely affect its yield. This will impact the only sector in Punjab’s economy — agriculture — that has been on the upswing in the Covid-induced economic downturn.The temperature has remained around 32°C for most part of the last week, but after slight showers, the mean average temperature for the week came down to 27°C. This is still abnormally high for this time of the year when the wheat crop is at the ripening stage.Farm experts say that high temperature stress is a major environmental factor that limits yield in wheat. Every one degree increase above the mean temperature of 23°C will result in fall in wheat yield. The high temperature reported in the last week could lead to a loss in wheat yield by almost three per cent, they warn.In the ongoing rabi marketing season, the total area under wheat cultivation in the state is 35.10 lakh hectares. With an expected yield of 50.5 quintals per hectare, the state is targeting a production of 177 lakh tonnes.However, officials in the state Agriculture Department said if the temperature remained as high during this week, it would hit the production as the yield loss of seven to eight per cent could be there. It may be added that sources in the Meteorology Department say that there is no prediction of rain in the coming week. They, however, say that even if the temperature falls till March 20, the yield loss can be minimalised.Punjab’s Director Agriculture Sukhdev Singh said they were keeping a close watch on the rising temperature and had issued an advisory to farmers to irrigate their fields so that the crop does not get stressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rise-in-mercury-may-affect-crop-yield-experts-219661
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Congress, SAD battle it out in House, allege complicity over farm laws||The second day of the Punjab Budget session saw the Opposition trashing the Congress’ claim of leading from the front in opposing the three farm laws. It also cornered the treasury benches over the “unfulfilled” poll promise of loan waiver for farm labourers.Accept resignation, Nagra tells SpeakerClaiming he was the first to flag the contentious farm laws, Congress MLA Kuljit Nagra urged the Speaker to accept his resignation tendered soon after the laws were passed in Parliament.Three UP villages stop milk supplyFarmers in three Amroha villages of UP have stopped milk supply to cooperative societies in solidarity with farmers. They will also hike rate to Rs100/litre from March 6. IANSDuring a debate on the Governor’s Address, SAD and AAP legislators accused the ruling party of being complicit in passing of the farm laws by the Modi government. Congress MLAs hit back and accused the Akali Dal of taking a U-turn on the matter. Heated arguments were witnessed when Congress MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra credited Capt Amarinder Singh and himself for leading the front against the farm laws and slammed the Akalis for “not objecting” before the Bills were passed. SAD leader Sharanjit Singh Dhillon said, on objections raised by then Union Minister Harsimrat, the Centre had assured them of making the desired changes to the Bills. Nagra asked him to produce the dissent note, if any, sent by Harsimrat.SAD’s Harinder Pal Chandumajra and AAP’s Meet Hayer questioned the Congress role on the panel constituted by the Centre before passing the laws. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-sad-battle-it-out-in-house-allege-complicity-over-farm-laws-219719
03-03-2021||Jupinderjit Singh & Vijay C Roy||Hi-tech scanners to nix smuggling by jail inmates||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 2Inmates and their visitors will now find it harder to smuggle drugs, cash, weapons and mobile phones, concealed in ghee cans, flour sacks, pillows, mattresses and even fruits and veggies, into jails, with the Punjab Government set to instal hi-tech X-ray baggage scanners on the premises.Can detect mobilesThe auto-detection feature can identify explosives, SIM cards, mobiles, etc, concealed in the baggage. The older machines could not pick up banned items, making these easier to smuggle. — Kapil Bardeja, CEO, Vehant TechnologiesThe machines, equipped with artificial intelligence, will have the auto-detection feature to pick up banned substances, unlike the older ones that sound the alarm, leaving it to the guards to conduct a manual search.The new machines will flash concealed items on a screen, making these impossible to get past the security check. The indigenously built machines will replace the imported ones installed 10 years ago. “These will be 30% cheaper,” said a jail official. In the past three years, jail authorities have recovered around 2,700 mobile phones, besides drugs and cash.The machines come with features such as threat image projection, central superior console and video management for effective operation. Eighteen scanners are likely to be made operational by the month-end at central jails of Amritsar, Bathinda, Kapurthala, Faridkot, Ludhiana and Patiala, besides district jails. An IIT Delhi incubated company is executing the project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hi-tech-scanners-to-nix-smuggling-by-jail-inmates-219753
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Cultural evening at Chandigarh's PGI Chowk in support of farmers||Members of civil society, student organisations and local farmer unions today held a cultural evening at PGI Chowk in support of farmers. Many from the crowd and students of Panjab University sang songs and recited poems in solidarity with the protesting farmers.More than 100 people joined in the cultural evening. Manheer, Jagjeet Kaur Nikki, Antarpreet Singh, Sukhwinder Sukhi, Ammy Singh, Rajwant Kaur, Parmveer Singh, Ammy Gill recited their respective progressive and revolutionary poems and songs. Slogans were raised in favour of protest and against the brutality of the Modi government on farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cultural-evening-at-chandigarhs-pgi-chowk-in-support-of-farmers-219701
03-03-2021||Dera Bassi||PSPCL cuts Dera Bassi Sewa Kendra connection||Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) today cut off the electricity connection of Sewa Kendra situated near the tehsil complex here. Officials have snapped the electricity connections of more than 200 defaulting consumers in the past 10 days.The list of defaulters includes the office of Dera Bassi SDM that has an outstanding amount of nearly Rs 60 lakh.Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa said: ‘’Owing to some load division matter in the complex, there is a slight problem. We cleared Rs 20-lakh bill sometime back. This will be resolved shortly.’’A PSPCL official said the Sewa Kendra’s bill for the past one and a half years had not been paid and the arrears had piled up to about Rs 2.5 lakh. Hundreds of local residents visit the centre daily for various services as well as online payment facility.The PSPCL officials said despite repeated reminders, the Sewa Kendra officials were not paying the bill following which their power connection was cut today. It will be restored once the bill is paid, they said.For the last 10 days, the department has launched a special campaign against the defaulters. It will continue in March as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pspcl-cuts-dera-bassi-sewa-kendra-connection-219704
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Expect hotter March, April, May: IMD||The city on Tuesday recorded a maximum temperature of 27.2°C, one degree above normal, while the minimum temperature was 13.2°C, two degrees above normal. As per the forecast of the IMD released for three months, the temperature are expected to remain above normal in Chandigarh. Thus, March, April and May are expected to be hotter here. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/expect-hotter-march-april-may-imd-219717
03-03-2021||---||Punjab Government mulls reducing aid to private colleges||Chandigarh, March 2In the garb of bringing ‘Reforms in grant-in-aid policy’, the Punjab Government is planning to reduce its share of financial aid to 136 private colleges by 20 per cent.Implemented in 1979, the policy covers 136 private colleges of the state. Initially the grant was made available to a college, which came existence before 1978 within the area of Punjab and which was affiliated to Panjab University or Guru Nanak Dev University, on or before that date.Reimbursement against posts slashedThe purpose of the scheme was to fulfil the social responsibility of the state government by promoting quality higher education at a reasonable fee to the students of the state. A total of 3,312 teaching and 2,406 non-teaching posts were covered under the scheme.Now the government is not just planning to reduce the aid but also proposes to take control of the faculty recruitment system. Sources said a meeting in this regard took place last week.As per the existing norms, the college management’s chairman heads the selection committee for the recruitment of faculty. The government is planning that DPI’s nominee will chair the committee.At present, the state government reimburses 95 per cent deficit of the salary of the staff working against the sanctioned posts. The sources said it was proposed that the re-imbursement against the expenditure incurred against these newly filled posts would be limited to 75 per cent. Even the policy of 75 per cent re-imbursement would be reviewed every five years, they said.College teachers and managements are seeing the development as government backtracking from its responsibility of providing higher education. Prof Rabinder Nath Sharma said the reduction in aid would cost students dearly. “The government is withdrawing from higher education, the burden of this will be borne by the students. All stakeholders — teachers, principals and managing committees — have been excluded from the process of so-called reforms,” he said.DPI (Colleges) Paramjit Singh confirmed that the meeting had taken place, but he only attended it briefly as he was in quarantine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-mulls-reducing-aid-to-private-colleges-219642
03-03-2021||Ravneet Singh||Fund crunch hits research Punjabi University projects||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 2Paucity of funds at Punjabi University, Patiala, has pushed its employees and students to resort to frequent protests. The university now looks up to the state government for special grants to pull it out of financial slump.The university has failed to deposit the salaries of its employees on time for the last several months. As such, the university’s teachers’ association, PUTA, and non-teaching employees have been staging protests for over 150 days now. The shortage of funds has also led Class-IV employees to protest.Officials said the university’s expenditure increased over the years, but its cumulative income remained static. As of 2020-21, it faced a budget shortage of Rs 291 crore. Dr Nishan Singh Deol, president, PUTA, said, “The state grant to the university in 1991-92 was Rs 15.15 crore — 85 per cent of its budget. It was merely 15 per cent of the university’s total budget of Rs 676 crore of 2020-21. The university is in desperate need of funds to pull it out of the financial slump and the state government should provide it a special grant.”Research has also suffered a blow. Prof Lakhwinder Singh, former additional Dean, Research, said, “The university was initially established for the purpose of research and postgraduate teaching, but it now fails to allocate any grants for research. Works, including Sikhism encyclopedia, have been carried out here. Now research projects carried out at the university are either self-financed or funded by other universities.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fund-crunch-hits-research-punjabi-university-projects-219643
03-03-2021||---||Youth dies at rehab centre, kin cry foul||Moga, March 2Sukhvir Singh (26) of Langeana Nawan village died after being allegedly tortured at a private drug de-addiction centre at Charik village in the district, the police said here today.On Monday, the family members of the youth staged a protest outside the drug de-addiction centre alleging that he was brutally tortured by the owners and staff two days ago that led to his death. He was not provided medical aid, they alleged.Jaipal Singh, SHO, Charik police station, reached the spot. The deceased youth’s mother, Karamjit Kaur and sister Jasvir Kaur told the police that the owner of the drug de-addiction centre, Inderjit Singh, brought Sukhvir from their house along with a few other youth a few days ago promising to rid them of their addiction.They claimed CCTV cameras installed at the centre revealed the owner and staff there torture youths by adopting third degree methods and removing their clothes. Karamjit Kaur claimed that her son was not given medical care. Instead, he was left in the open to die.However, Inderjit Singh refuted the allegations and claimed he himself was beaten up by the inmates for which he had complained to the police. Meanwhile, a septuagenarian showed injury marks on his back. He alleged the owners and staff beat him up.No case has been registered so far. The family of the youth urged the police to take footage of CCTV cameras, which will reveal the truth about the inmates’ plight.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-dies-at-rehab-centre-kin-cry-foul-219644
03-03-2021||---||Girl ‘mauled’ to death by dogs||Bathinda, March 2A 5-year-old girl was mauled to death by stray dogs at Labour Colony, Bathinda, on Monday evening. The girl has been identified as Aditi Sarkar of West Bengal.As per the information, the girl was playing outside her hut, when she was suddenly attacked by a herd of stray dogs and badly bitten. The dogs even dragged the girl to the bushes near the colony, causing severe scratches on her body. The girl was admitted to the emergency ward of the Civil Hospital at night, where she died.The parents of the girl alleged that the girl had been murdered and the case should be probed throughly. On Tuesday morning, the board of doctors conducted postmortem of the victim’s body.Beant Singh, SI, Sadar Bathinda police station, said as per the primary investigation, it seemed a case of death due biting by dogs, but the allegations made by the family were being investigated. The exact cause of the death would be known only after the postmortem report arrived. If anything emerged in the report, the police would take an action, he said.Shyamal Sarkar, the father of the victim, alleged that her daughter did not go out of the house after 7 pm. She must have been abducted and killed by a person living nearby, because two to four days ago, there had been a quarrel with a labourer, who worked with him, he said. He demanded a fair investigation into the matter.The Sadar Bathinda police station is currently investigating the case. Doctors said the whole matter would be clarified after the postmortem report arrived.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/girl-mauled-to-death-by-dogs-219645
03-03-2021||GS Paul||Job assurance a ray of hope for Amritsar train tragedy victims’ kin||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 2Two years after the tragic incident, in which a diesel multiple unit (DMU) train had mowed down a crowd standing on the rail tracks near the Jaura railway crossing to watch Dussehra festivities, a ray of hope has emerged among the victims’ families after the state Cabinet’s approval to offer jobs to the next of victims’ kin.At least 59 persons had lost their lives in the incident that occurred on October 19, 2018.An FIR was registered against unidentified people. However, no arrests were made. Lately, a departmental action was taken against two civic officials for negligence.The Centre and the state had given an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh and Rs 5 lakh, respectively, but the affected family members had alleged that the amount could hardly secure their future. Jobs have been assured to 34 eligible family members.Deepak, who had lost his father Virender and uncle Pawan, said, “The government responded quite late. Now, with the Cabinet approval, other formalities should not take time.” Mukesh Kumar, who lost his son, was happy that his daughter Nancy would be able to take care of the family after getting a job.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/job-assurance-a-ray-of-hope-for-amritsar-train-tragedy-victims-kin-219646
03-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Robbers’ gang busted, 2 held||Ferozepur, March 2 The police today claimed to have cracked a case of robbery, within five days, in which Rs 7 Lakh were stolen from a salesman of a private company on February 25. The police have arrested two persons in this case. Bhagirath Singh Meena, SSP, said Gopal Sharma, a resident of Kot Kapura, who was working as a salesman with a private firm had come to Zira on February 25. While he was going back after collecting the payments, two motorcycle-borne youth snatched his bag containing Rs 7 lakh, receipt book, and other important documents, the SSP said  Following the incident, the police checked the CCTV footage and the accused were identified. “Two accused, identified as Gurjit Singh of Bamb village and Gursewak Singh, alias Vicky of Zira, were arrested near Kot Ise Khan village and Rs 4.7 lakh were recovered from them. The police also recovered the motorcycle and a car that they used to rob people,” said SSP. Two more accused, are absconding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/robbers-gang-busted-2-held-219647
03-03-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Rs 2-crore Banda Singh Bahadur memorial hits roadblock||Tribune News ServiceKalanaur (Gurdaspur), Mar 2The much-vaunted Banda Singh Bahadur memorial, which was to be set up on a piece of land owned by the Punjab Wakf Board, has hit a roadblock with Dubai construction magnate Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi, who is financing the prestigious project, claiming that the agreement “drafted by the board was full of anomalies”. Oberoi said he would not sign it till he was presented with an “acceptable version” of the pact.“The memorial was to be built by my social organisation ‘Sarbat-Da-Bhala’ at a cost of Rs 2 crore. It was to be a tribute to the great Sikh warrior and commander of the Khalsa Fauj. However, the proposed agreement drafted by the board is full of holes. I will not give even a single rupee if the pact is not rectified,” said Oberoi.The businessmen had donated liberally towards the construction of the nearby Kartarpur corridor. He had also spent a massive amount of money on providing PPE kits, sanitisers and masks to the Punjab Police and civil hospitals during the Covid-19 pandemic.Earlier this month, Oberoi, Gurdaspur Deputy Commissioner (DC) Mohammad Ishfaq and board officials had visited Kalanaur and finalised the site.Oberoi wanted the lease to be signed for a period of 33 years while the board said it would lease out the land for just 35 months. The businessman had agreed to pay a flat yearly rent of Rs 48,000, but the Wakf Board said there should be a 5 per cent increase every year. “This is not acceptable,” he said.Moreover, the agreement says that businessman has to construct a ‘house’ on the piece of land. A livid Oberoi said he had made it clear on numerous occasions to board officials that a monument, not a house, is to be constructed.There are other anomalies too. Oberoi said, “The agreement has been drafted in an amateurish manner.” The businessman has also asked the board to involve Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar, chairman of the District Planning Board, in the planning and execution of the monument.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-2-crore-banda-singh-bahadur-memorial-hits-roadblock-219648
03-03-2021||Archit Watts||Mukstar’s Sadi Rasoi running out of steam||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, March 2The District Red Cross Society, which had been running ‘Sadi Rasoi’ till March last year before the Covid outbreak, has now shown its inability to run the subsidised kitchen due to the paucity of funds.The Congress, in its election manifesto in 2017, had promised a decent meal for Rs 5.Though the price of a ‘thali’ was initially fixed at Rs 5, after two months, it was doubled. Now, the District Red Cross Society has sought permission from the Deputy Commissioner’s office to fix the price at Rs 20.Currently, the subsidised kitchen is shut and the needy people are requesting officials to reopen it.Sources in the district administration said there was a proposal to give ‘Sadi Rasoi’ on lease or to convert it into a restaurant.Prof Gopal Singh Makkar, secretary, District Red Cross Society, Muktsar, said, “Due to the paucity of funds, we have made a proposal to increase the price of ‘thali’ to Rs 20. Besides, we are mulling to provide a packed ‘thali’ at Rs 30. We can run ‘Sadi Rasoi’ this way only or the state government should provide some monetary support. We don’t have much sources of income and are unable to bear more losses. Even the support from philanthropists is negligible. Further, we don’t get subsidised ration.”“We have to give salaries to 12 persons, who run this kitchen. A lot of money has been spent on buying utensils, furniture, chapatti and dough-maker machines. A library hall has been converted into the kitchen,” he said. This kitchen had also won the ‘SKOCH Award’ in the past.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mukstars-sadi-rasoi-running-out-of-steam-219649
03-03-2021||Bathinda||Arms racket run from jail unearthed||The Bathinda police have busted an illegal arms racket being run by gangster Ramandeep Singh, alias Rummy Machhana, from inside the Patiala Jail.On getting inputs that Ramandeep was arranging weapons for his gang from UP, the police brought him here on production warrant and his interrogation led to seizure of four pistols. Ramandeep’s aide Jagsir Singh of Sirsa was also nabbed by the police and four pistols were seized from him.Bathinda IGP Jaskaran Singh said the police had registered a case against gangster Machhana and his four associates, while efforts were on to arrest the person supplying arms from UP.On February 16, Mandeep Singh (alias Mani), Parminder Singh (alias Gogi) and Amritpal Singh (alias Babbu) were arrested. The police seized 14 live cartridges, a 32 bore pistol and a 9 mm pistol. The trio said the weapons were provided to them by gangster Rummy Machhana. The police said 37 cases are registered against Machhana. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arms-racket-run-from-jail-unearthed-219650
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Govt launches website to deal with NRI issues||The Punjab Government has launched a website to deal with the matters related to family, property and other issues of Non-Resident Indians. The website of the Punjab State Commission for NRIs, www.nricommissionpunjab.com, was launched by NRI Affairs, Sports and Youth Services Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, here, today.Time-bound settlementSodhi said to deal with the cases of NRIs such as immigration, nationality, matrimony, inter-parental child removal, spousal maintenance, division of matrimonial property, inter-country adoptions, succession and inheritance, illegal migration, poor job conditions, tenancy of Indian property and surrogacy arrangements, the Punjab State Commission for NRIs was constituted in 2011 but due to lack of information related with the issues of NRIs, communication and exchange of required documents in the case, it was difficult to resolve the issue immediately.Hence, to bridge the gap this website has been launched.The NRI Affairs Minister said through this portal, NRIs residing in any country would be able to register their grievances along with important documents, adding that the complainant would have to register his complaint on the website as per the checklist related to the issue. Once the complaint is registered, the complainant will be given a unique number for further information or future course of action.Commission Chairman Justice Shekhar Kumar Dhawan (retd) said the complainant should be a native of Punjab or an occurrence in complaint should be Punjab-related. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-launches-website-to-deal-with-nri-issues-219651
03-03-2021||Patiala||Man consumes acid, dies||A gardener working at Punjabi University, Patiala, died on Tuesday morning after he accidentally consumed acid, taking it for a medicine.Officials at the Patiala Sadar police station said the family of the deceased, Gurpreet Singh (34), claimed he was depressed due to lack of funds as the university had failed to provide salary on time.ASI said Gurpreet was the only bread earner in the family. After he consumed acid on Monday evening, he was admitted to the Vardhman Hospital in Urban Estate here. The ASI said, “His wife Bhupinder Kaur informed us that he worked as a gardener at Punjabi University. He consumed the acid accidentally taking it for a medicine. He died on Tuesday morning.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-consumes-acid-dies-219653
03-03-2021||Karnal||Carrying sapling, Punjab youth head to Singhu||With a message of unity, a group of youth from Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib today reached Karnal. After spending some time on the NH-44, they left for Singhu.Carrying a sapling as a symbol of unity, the youth had started their journey on Monday. After having spent the night in Kurukshetra district, they entered Karnal today.“We will plant the sapling at Singhu border. We will finish our journey on Wednesday,” said Ishpreet Singh, who was part of the group. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/carrying-sapling-punjab-youth-head-to-singhu-219607
03-03-2021||---||Anti-defection issue generates heat in House||Chandigarh, March 2Even as the Secretary of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha re-laid the Punjab Legislative Assembly (Disqualification of Members on Ground of Defection) Rules, the issue of members of the Opposition parties “cosying up” to ministers and Speaker, generated a lot of heat in the House on the second day of the Budget Session today.At least four members of the House — Sukhpal Singh Khaira, Baldev Singh, Nazar Singh Manshahia and Amarjit Singh Sandoa (all elected as AAP MLAs) — are under the scanner after the first two floated their own party in 2019 and contested elections on a different party symbol, and the latter two joined the Congress.Budget likely to be presented on March 8The Business Advisory Committee on Tuesday met under the Chairmanship of Speaker Rana KP Singh and is learnt to have decided to present the Budget on March 8 and conclude the session on March 10. The minutes of Tuesday’s meeting would be tabled in Wednesday’s session.Almost two years later, the issue of their disqualification is hanging fire, and there is little hope of the issue being decided in the present term of the Vidhan Sabha, which ends in early 2022. This is because the mandatory constitutional requirement of the Punjab Legislative Assembly (Disqualification of Members on Ground of Defection) Rules to be laid in the House for 30 sittings of the House, may not be fulfilled before the next elections are announced. “Till date, the Rules have been laid for just five sittings of the House,” Shashi Lakhanpal Mishra, Secretary, Punjab Vidhan Sabha, told The Tribune.The issue of the disqualification of these MLAs came up during Zero Hour, when rebel AAP MLA Kanwar Sandhu took a jibe at his other colleagues from the AAP, saying they had brought disrepute to the House by tearing and burning the copies of Governor’s Address yesterday. This led to a strong reaction from both the AAP and Akali Dal, which said the issue of members switching sides to the ruling party was what was denting the dignity of the House.Raising the issue, SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia said, “Without taking any names, I would like to point out that some members of the House had hobnobbed with minister Bajwa (referring to Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa) and some are also in touch with you (addressing the Speaker) to leave their own party. Even this does not behove well for upholding the democratic traditions of the House. I would appeal to you (Speaker) to bring into force the Punjab Legislative Assembly (Disqualification of Members on Ground of Defection) Rules, at the earliest.”Leader of Opposition Harpal Cheema, too, demanded that the Rules be implemented at the earliest. “I have written to you several times on the issue,” the AAP leader said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anti-defection-issue-generates-heat-in-house-219630
03-03-2021||---||Allocate 2 days for farm debate: SAD||Chandigarh, March 2The legislative wing of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today requested Speaker Rana KP Singh to allocate two days for exclusive discussion on emergent issues concerning the farmers even as it demanded the Congress government announce minimum support price (MSP) for vegetables and fruits.Farmers ‘misled’ on debt reliefThe legislative wing, which handed over a representation in this regard to the Speaker, said the two-day discussion besides covering the issues of the complete farm loan waiver promise, farmer suicides and the Congress government’s failure to take up the issue of repeal of the three agricultural laws with the central government, should also spell out the way forward. The representation said one such way ahead was announcing MSP for all vegetables and fruits immediately. It said this measure would provide much needed security to vegetable and potato growers as well as kinnow growers besides others.SAD legislators, including Bikram Singh Majithia, NK Sharma, Pawan Tinu, Gurpartap Wadala,Manpreet Ayali, Harinderpal Chandumajra, Dilraj Bhundur, Kanwarjit Barkandi, Baldev Khaira and Sukhwinder Sukhi, said the state was in the midst of an agrarian crisis due the failure of Capt Amarinder Singh to keep his promise to waive all farmer loans, be it from government or private banks, cooperative societies or arhatiyas.They said the Punjab Government participated in meetings in which the three agricultural ordinances, which later took the shape of laws, were finalized, and amended the Agricultural Produce Marketing Act (APMC) in 2017, months after it came to power. They claimed Punjabis were angry over the government for not defending them against the persecution by the Delhi Police.The SAD also pointed out that other agricultural issues which needed a resolution including timely release of hundreds of crores owed to sugarcane farmers and ensuring increase of the State Assured Price on the pattern of Haryana and UP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/allocate-2-days-for-farm-debate-sad-219631
03-03-2021||Vishav Bharti||Congress, Akali MLAs in spat over ‘tainted’ past||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 2Congress and SAD MLAs today engaged in heated exchange over their “tainted” pasts during the debate on the Governor’s Address in the Assembly. The verbal spat between Congress MLA from Patti Harminder Singh Gill and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA Bikram Singh Majithia started when Gurpartap Singh Wadala raised the issue of government failing to celebrate the centenary of Nankana Sahib massacre.Replying to that, Gill said the function was organised at native village of the martyrs in Gurdaspur. However, he raised the issue of alleged support of Sunder Singh Majithia to Mahant Narayan Dass, who was the main accused of massacre of Sikhs in Nankana Sahib. He said Narayan Dass sought support from two people Maharaja Bhupinder Singh and Sunder Singh Majithia. He claimed that Maharaja Bhupinder Singh refused to extend any support; however, Majithia allegedly helped him.Oppn corners Cong over civic pollsBoth SAD and AAP MLAs tried to corner the Congress over the alleged misuse of state machinery during the recently held local bodies’ elections. SAD MLA from Muktsar Rozy Barkandi said the government registered cases against the Akali candidates. Leader of Opposition Harpal Cheema asked about the Congress’ performance in the 2016 local bodies elections.Sunder Singh was great grandfather of Bikram Majithia. In his rebuttals, Majithia alleged it was nothing but a lie and Gill was linked to notorious police officer Ajit Singh Sandhu, who was known for killing Sikh youths, including Jaswant Singh Khalra during Khalistani militancy. He further said that Gill attended bhog of Ajit Singh Sandhu as well.Responding, Gill levelled another allegation that not just Jallianwala Bagh and Nankana Sahib but Sunder Singh’s father Surat Singh Majithia also helped the British during the mutiny of 1857. Soon it became a verbal spat between Akalis and Congress. Jails Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa also raised the issue of Sunder Singh Majithia’s links with General Dyer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-akali-mlas-in-spat-over-tainted-past-219632
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Rs 200-cr scholarship fund released to colleges: Punjab FM||The issue of non-payment under the Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme to the students belong to socially disadvantaged sections of the society created a stir in the House, with the Opposition Benches demanding its immediate release.Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, however, clarified that the Rs 309 crore received from the Centre under the scheme, Rs 200 crore had already been released to the colleges.“It is only in case of colleges that indulged in fake admissions of SC students that the payment has not been released. We have warned the colleges that their affiliation will be cancelled, if they withhold the degree of any student,” he said.The issue was raised by SAD legislator Pawan Kumar Tinu, who said colleges were unwilling to release the degrees of students as their fees had not been settled because of non-release of the post-matric scholarship. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-200-cr-scholarship-fund-released-to-colleges-punjab-fm-219633
03-03-2021||Muktsar||Malout farmers protest no water supply in fields||A large number of farmers today gheraoed the office of the Soil and Water Conservation Department in Malout, claiming that department officials had not laid the underground pipeline to the fields of two farmers of Warringkhera village here.The farmers said water from the Sirhind feeder was to be supplied to the fields. “The pipeline to a large portion in the village has been laid, but the officials, acting under some political pressure, are returning the fee deposited by two farmers in 2017. We will not allow this to happen and continue our protest until justice is done,” said Gurpash Singh, president, Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan), Lambi block.Meanwhile, Inderjit Singh, SDO, Soil and Water Conservation Department, Malout, said, “The farmers are forcing us to do illegal work. We have already told them about it, but they are now just building pressure on us.” The farmers, who were blocking the gate, did not allow officials to come out of the office. Some officials of the civil administration and police held a meeting with protesting farmers. However, the protest was continuing till the filing the report. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/malout-farmers-protest-no-water-supply-in-fields-219634
03-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Against liquor unit, Fazilka villagers gherao DC office, block highway||Fazilka, March 2 Women, villagers and farmers gheraoed the office of the Deputy Commissioner here today, in protest against setting up of liquor factory in Hiranwali village of Fazilka. The women and the villagers blocked the main gate of the District Administrative Complex (DAC) for several hours, and also blocked the Fazilka-Abohar highway. Activists of BKU (Ekta-Sidhupura) and Dakaunda also participated in the agitation. Fazilka Beopar Mandal, Bar Association and Pesticides Dealers Association also announced support to the agitation. Meanwhile, four villagers, including two women ended their fast unto death after assurance from Fazilka Congress MLA Davinder Singh Ghubaya that they would get justice. Farmers Manoj Jhinjha and Davinder Saharan said the panchayat of several villages had brought the issue into notice of the district administration several times, but the administration failed to stop the construction of the unit allegedly due to pressure from higher authorities as the unit was being set up by a senior Congress leader of the area. Anil Kumar Jhinjha, sarpanch of the village, said residents of about 15 villages had been blocking the national highway near Hiranwali Maur for the past two weeks. The villagers had pleaded that toxic waste water of the unit would result in degradation of environment and sub soil water resources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/against-liquor-unit-fazilka-villagers-gherao-dc-office-block-highway-219635
03-03-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Canadian civil groups out in support of Indian farmers||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, March 2More than 100 labour, community and civil society organisations in Canada and other countries have issued joint statement in solidarity with farmers of India.The organisations include Canadian Labour Congress, Alberta Federation of Labour, British Columbia Federation of Labour, British Columbia Teachers’ Federation, Canadian Union of Public Employees, Canadian Union of Postal Workers, Manitoba Federation of Labour, National Union of Public and General Employees and many more.In the statement, they have stated that the farmers’ agitation for the repeal of the agricultural laws has become the largest and longest sustained non-violent movement in the Indian history, surpassing Mahatma Gandhi’s historic Dandi March against the abhorrent salt law of the British colonial regime.These laws were drafted without any consultation with farmers or their representatives, the farmers’ unions. The farmers have consistently opposed these laws, which go against the promises and commitments made to farmers by different governments over several decades, the statement read.For several months hundreds of thousands of farmers protesting peacefully on the borders of the national capital have faced and withstood repressive policing including water cannons, tear gas and barricades in the near freezing conditions of a Delhi winter. At least 220 farmers have died as a result of the harsh conditions, a few unfortunately by their own hands as despair overcame them.“We salute the heroism of farmers and pay homage to the departed souls. We demand that the Government of India stop vilifying the movement and criminalising the democratic rights of defenders who are part of the widespread support for it from diverse sections,” the statement added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/canadian-civil-groups-out-in-support-of-indian-farmers-219636
03-03-2021||Saurabh Malik---||High Court raps cops for ‘sorry state of affairs’||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, March 2 Rapping the Punjab Police for “a very sorry state of affairs” in a case where two women aged around 87 were beaten up, but the accused were not arrested despite lapse of about 18 months since the dismissal of their anticipatory bail pleas, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the IG, Bureau of Investigation, to remain personally present before the Bench. He has been asked to explain the total mismanagement. Directions have also been issued to the IG to elaborate upon the efforts made by the police to arrest the accused and why contempt proceedings should not be initiated for overreaching the HC order where the anticipatory bail plea of the accused stood dismissed, but the police officers were giving notices instead of arresting them. He was asked to explain why Rs 2 lakh costs be not given to the petitioner before the Bench for unnecessary harassment in the matter. Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan observed it was a clear case of causing injuries to two women, who were medico-legally examined “to support that they suffered three injuries”. The anticipatory bail of three accused was dismissed in the matter by the HC way back in 2019. But the police authorities were “protecting and not arresting them”.  Justice Sangwan took note of the state’s submission that departmental proceedings had been initiated against ASI Deepak Kumar and ASI Kulbir Singh. Besides, a third inquiry, marked by Bureau of Investigation Director to Patiala AIG was pending. Justice Sangwan asserted the first inquiry was conducted by the Ropar SSP. The second by the Ropar IG and the version given by the accused was found to be false. “A third inquiry had been ordered in gross violation of the own instructions of the Director-General of Police that repeated inquiries should not be conducted”. He ruled that final decision would not be taken by the AIG on the third inquiry. The directions came on a petition by Gurcharan Singh for action against the accused named in the FIR registered on July 5, 2019, for outraging religious feelings, wrongful restraint, criminal intimidation and other offences under various Sections of the IPC. The Bench was told that the accused were roaming freely and not being arrested. The petitioner’s counsel submitted that a respondent-accused got an FIR registered on July 7, 2020, against the petitioner. It showed that respondent-accused came to the police station for FIR’s registration. But he was not arrested in the FIR, despite dismissal of anticipatory bail application by the HC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-raps-cops-for-sorry-state-of-affairs-219637
03-03-2021||Faridkot||Sumedh Saini denied pre-arrest bail in firing case||The District and Sessions Judge, Faridkot, today denied anticipatory bail to former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini.Saini is an accused in a criminal case registered under Sections 307, 323, 324, 326, 341, 201, 218, 120-B and 34 of the IPC and Sections 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Kotkapura police station on August 7, 2018, about three years after many persons were injured in the police firing on October 14, 2015, at Kotkapura in the aftermath of sacrilege incidents at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala.Saini was chargesheeted by a special investigation team (SIT) in January this year and he was summoned by the court.Yesteday, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had allowed Saini anticipatory bail in the Behbal Kalan police firing case of 2015.The HC had directed him to appear in the Faridkot trial court by March 8 for furnishing the bail bond and completion of other formalities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sumedh-saini-denied-pre-arrest-bail-in-firing-case-219638
03-03-2021||Ropar||Ropar gets award for effective implementation of scheme||Agriculture Department officials have handed over the national award bagged by the districit for effective implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana to DC Sonali Giri here. The district got the first position in the country in the category. Chief Agriculture Officer Avtar Singh had received the award from Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on February 24 on completion of two years of the scheme on February 24. Under the scheme, annual subsidy of Rs 6,000 is given to the registered farmers in three instalments of Rs 2,000 each. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-gets-award-for-effective-implementation-of-scheme-219639
03-03-2021||---||Portal glitch hits vax drive on Day 2, only 2,769 take the jab in Punjab||Chandigarh, March 2Even on the second day of the Phase-2 of the vaccination drive, technical glitches affected the online registration portal. As a result, only 2,769 persons could be vaccinated on Tuesday.The drive was launched in the state yesterday under which vaccine was to be administered to senior citizens aged above 60 and citizens aged 45 to 59 having co-morbidities as specified by the government. On Tuesday, just 2,769 eligible persons were vaccinated. In two days, 3,838 people received the shots.730 new cases, 10 deaths reportedThe state reported 730 cases and 10 deaths in the past 24 hours. As far as deaths are concerned, Amritsar topped the chart with three deaths, followed by Gurdaspur and Jalandhar (2 each); Patiala, SAS Nagar and Ropar (1 each)Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state’s nodal officer for Covid, said the connectivity issue with the portal affected the drive on the second day consecutively. “We have taken up the matter with the Government of India. Hopefully, the situation will improve on Wednesday,” he said.In Jalandhar, around 143 persons received the first dose of the vaccine. District immunisation officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “Due to technical faults, there were problems in the registration process. Only one private hospital administered vaccinations.”At the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, 200 people, including health and frontline workers, got vaccinated on Tuesday. At least 20 private hospitals are expected to start operations tomorrow onwards.At the Abohar Civil Hospital, as many as 208 persons were vaccinated till the evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/portal-glitch-hits-vax-drive-on-day-2-only-2-769-take-the-jab-in-punjab-219640
03-03-2021||---||50-yr-old cop develops facial paralysis after Covid shot||Patiala, March 2In the second case of adverse effect following immunisation (AEFI), a policeman reported Bell’s palsy — facial paralysis — after being administered Covid vaccine here today.The cop is out of danger, but he is being monitored by a medical team. Health officials said the 50-year-old frontline worker had come to receive the first dose of the vaccine at Government Mata Kaushalya Hospital. As soon he received the vaccine, he developed Bell’s palsy. He was given steroids to reduce inflammation, said health officials.Treatment onHealth officials said the 50-year-old frontline worker had come to receive the first dose of the vaccine at Government Mata Kaushalya Hospital. After receiving the vaccine, he developed Bell’s palsy. He was given steroids to reduce inflammation and is being monitored by a medical teamBesides, an employee of the Health Department also reported minor side effects on Tuesday. However, officials said it was due to his ongoing heath issues. He had received the vaccine last week.Dr Veenu Goyal, district immunisation officer, said it was the second AEFI case.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder said, “We have informed the higher authorities regarding the case. We are constantly monitoring his health.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/50-yr-old-cop-develops-facial-paralysis-after-covid-shot-219641
03-03-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Samyukt Kisan Morcha to oppose BJP in poll-bound states||Tribune News ServicePanipat, March 2The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of the protesting farmer unions, decided to campaign against the BJP and its alliances in five poll-bound states and the morcha will start campaign from Kolkata on March 12.Besides, the SKM will block the traffic on the KMP Expressway at various points on the 100th day of protest on March 6 for five hours from 11 am to 4 pm.Balbir Singh Rajewal, Yogender Yadav, Dharmender Malik, Ramzan Chaudhary, Jogender Nain and Abhimanyu Kohar in a press conference said the morcha had finalised programmes for the next two weeks in the national general body meeting.Rajewal said the farmers’ protest was going to complete 100 days at Delhi’s border on March 6. That’s why there will be a five-hour blockade of the KMP expressway connecting various protest sites outside Delhi. This would be between 11 am and 4 pm. Toll plazas would also be stopped from collecting toll.Besides, the day would be marked by flying black flags on houses and offices to signify support to the movement and to protest against the government on March 6. The SKM also asked protesters to wear black bands on that day.The SKM would mark March 8 as Mahila Kisan Diwas. Women would manage the stages and make speeches on that day, he added.Yogender Yadav said the SKM had held a meeting with the 10 Central trade unions, who had given a call to mark March 15 as ‘anti-privitaisation day’.The morcha had decided to support the call of the trade unions by marking the day as ‘anti-coportisation day’ and appealed to farmers to join the protest near railway stations across the country on March 15, Yadav said.Yadav said it was also decided in the meeting that farmer leaders would move to the poll-bound five states — West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry — to teach a lesson to the BJP for its “anti-farmer” policies.The leaders’ delegation would start the anti-BJP campaign from Kolkatta on March 12 and then move to other election-bound states.Protester dies in accident||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/samyukt-kisan-morcha-to-oppose-bjp-in-poll-bound-states-219596
03-03-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Protesting farmers making arrangements for rising temperature||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, March 2After having braved the biting cold, farmers protesting at the Singhu border for the past three months have started making arrangements for the rising temperature. More than 20 water coolers, fans, generators and stubble sheds have been installed at the protest site, giving the indication that they are in for a long haul.Harender Lakhowal, BKUHeat no deterrentThe Centre thinks that the scorching heat will deter farmers. The Modi government is mistaken. We are up for every challenge.They passed off the winters well as geysers, firewood, blankets and quilts were made available to them by farmers’ unions and social organisations. Now with the mercury rising by the day, farmers have started making arrangements accordingly.Harender Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, BKU (Lakhowal), said: “Lakhs of farmers have been staging dharna at Delhi borders for the past three months, demanding repeal of the three farm laws, but the Centre simply ignored our demand. It thinks that the scorching heat would deter us. The Modi government is mistaken. We are up for every challenge.”Farmers have constructed permanent bathrooms at the protest site, dug up borewells and installed more than 20 RO systems.Besides, bamboo huts, generators, mosquito nets and tents with nets are being installed, Lakhowal said. “Fans, pedestal fans and coolers have been distributed among farmers. About 200 more fans will be distributed at the Singhu and Tikri borders in a couple of days.”Ranjeet Singh of Hoshiarpur said farmers would not step back until the Union Government revoked the farm laws. “We braved the bone-chilling cold wave and rain. How can summer dampen our spirits?” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesting-farmers-making-arrangements-for-rising-temperature-219598
03-03-2021||Vibha Sharma||Wheat procurement for 2021-22 season expected to rise by 9.56% to 427.363 LMT||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, March 2Estimated at 427.363 Lakh Metric Tonnes, wheat procurement for the Rabi Marketing Season (RMS) 2021-22 is expected to be 9.56 per cent more than the previous RMS, the government said here on Tuesday.Among the 12 producing states, the procurement from Punjab is expected to be 130 LMT, Haryana 80 LMT, Uttar Pradesh 55 LMT and Rajasthan 22 LMT – the states where farmers are agitating against the three Central farm laws.        The leader of the chart with 135 LMT is Madhya Pradesh, which led the group last year too with maximum procurement in the season.Meanwhile, according to the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, the procurement of rice is estimated at 119.72 LMT for the current Kharif Marketing Season 2020-21, which is 24.43 per cent more than the 96.21 LMT procured during the KMS 2019-20.The information was shared at a meeting of state Food Secretaries to discuss the arrangements for procurement of wheat during the ensuing RMS 2021-22 and rice during the KMS 2020-21.A total of 427.363 LMT wheat has been estimated for procurement during the forthcoming RMS 2021-22 which is 9.56 per cent more than the 389.93 LMT procured during RMS 2020-21, it said.Similarly, a total quantity of 119.72 LMT rice has been estimated for procurement during the forthcoming rabi crop of current KMS 2020-21, which is 24.43 per cent more than the 96.21 LMT procurement of rice  during KMS  2019-20, read the official statement.Union Minister Piyush Goyal said time had come for the Central Warehousing Corporation to increase the current capacity of 130 LMT by manifold at the earliest to meet challenges of a growing farm sector and ensuring holistic storage solutions for the farmers.Goyal was speaking at the Foundation Day of the Central Warehousing Corporation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wheat-procurement-for-2021-22-season-expected-to-rise-by-9-56-to-427-363-lmt-219567
03-03-2021||New Delhi||SKM will ask farmers in poll-bound states to defeat BJP: Outfit leaders||Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading anti-farm law protests in Delhi, will send its leaders to poll-bound states to appeal to farmers there to defeat the BJP in assembly elections, leaders of the outfit said on Tuesday.The protesting farmers will also block the KMP (Western Peripheral) Expressway on March 6 as the anti-farm law protest at Delhi borders completes 100 days. The expressway will be blocked at various points for five hours, from 11 am on March 6, SKM leader Yogendra Yadav said.He said SKM leaders will hold a public meeting in Kolkata on March 12 to appeal to the farmers of poll-bound states.SKM leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said that SKM teams will visit poll-bound states, including West Bengal and Kerala, to appeal to farmers to defeat the BJP.“We will not seek votes for any party. We will appeal to them to vote for those candidates who can defeat the BJP which has failed to address farmers’ issues,” Rajewal said at a joint press conference of SKM at Singhu border.The morcha leaders will also visit Karnataka where farmers are getting at least Rs 1,000 less than MSP on various crops, Yadav said.On Womens’ Day on March 8, women protesters will lead the protest at Delhi borders and other places across the country, Yadav said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/skm-will-ask-farmers-in-poll-bound-states-to-defeat-bjp-outfit-leaders-219544
03-03-2021||New Delhi||There is no reason why Mohali can't host IPL; Capt urges BCCI to reconsider decision||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said that he was surprised with the Board of Control for Cricket in India's (BCCI) decision to exclude Mohali as one of the venues for the upcoming Indian Premier League (IPL).He also asked the cricket board to reconsider their decision as Mohali can very well host the premier T-20 tournament by taking all safety precautions."I am surprised at the exclusion of Mohali Cricket Stadium for the upcoming IPL season. I urge and appeal to @BCCI & @IPL to reconsider their decision. There is no reason why Mohali can't host IPL and our government will make all necessary arrangements for safety against #Covid19," Captain Amarinder Singh tweeted.I am surprised at the exclusion of Mohali Cricket Stadium for the upcoming IPL season. I urge and appeal to @BCCI & @IPL to reconsider their decision. There is no reason why Mohali can't host IPL and our Government will make all necessary arrangements for safety against #Covid19.  Earlier, former India skipper and current president of Hyderabad Cricket Association, Mohammed Azharuddin had said that Hyderabad was capable of conducting the Indian Premier League (IPL) this year in a bio-secure bubble."I strongly support the appeal by @ktrtrs. Hyderabad is absolutely capable of handling and conducting @IPL as per @BCCI's directives and preparing a bio-secure bubble," Azharuddin tweeted.I strongly support the appeal by @ktrtrs. Hyderabad is absolutely capable in handling and conducting @IPL as per @BCCI’s directives and preparing a bio-secure bubble https://t.co/h3COGQnRwp  His tweet came after Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) working president KT Rama Rao made an appeal to the BCCI and IPL office bearers to include Hyderabad as one of the venues for the upcoming edition of the league."Open appeal to @BCCI and @IPL office bearers to include Hyderabad as one of the venues for upcoming IPL season. Our effective COVID containment measures are reflected in our low number of cases among all metro cities in India & we assure you of all support from the Govt," Rao said in a tweet.Open appeal to @BCCI and @IPL office bearers to include Hyderabad as one of the venues for upcoming IPL seasonOur effective COVID containment measures are reflected in our low number of cases among all metro cities in India & we assure you of all support from the Govt  Progressing from the initial idea of hosting the 2021 edition of the IPL in one city, the BCCI is exploring the option of playing the league across four to five cities. While the logistical part will need further discussion, the idea has been floated and is being discussed by the senior officials of the board.Earlier, speaking to ANI, a BCCI official in the know of developments had said the idea has indeed been discussed and while it was still early days, the 14th edition of the league could well be played in more than one city if things go as per plan.Some of the cities that have been discussed are Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, and Hyderabad among others. While the tournament is still some time away, franchises too are open to the idea of having the league in more than one city as that will help to stay flexible with an eye on the COVID-19 situation. "With multiple cities, obviously there will be individual bubbles. While we want fans from different cities to enjoy the games, the safety of the players and those involved in the league will be a priority," a BCCI official had said. ANI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/there-is-no-reason-why-mohali-cant-host-ipl-capt-urges-bcci-to-reconsider-decision-219486
03-03-2021||Vishav Bharti||Bikram Majithia, Congress MLA Harminder Gill exchange words in Punjab Vidhan Sabha||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 2Congress MLA from Patti Harminder Singh Gill and Akali Dal legislator Bikram Singh Majithia entered into a verbal duel in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha on Tuesday when Gill raised the issue of alleged support by Sunder Singh Majthia to Mahant Narain Das during the Nankana Sahib massacre.Hitting back, Majithia alleged Gill had links with police officer Ajit Singh Sandhu, "known for killing innocent Sikh youth during militancy days".The Nankana massacre took place in Nankana Sahib gurdwara on February 20, 1921, at that time a part of the British.More than 260 Sikhs were killed, including young children, by the Udasi custodian Mahant Narayan Das and his mercenaries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bikram-majithia-congress-mla-harminder-gill-exchange-words-in-punjab-vidhan-sabha-219473
