05-03-2021||---||SC collegium recommends Vikas Bahl for appointment as judge of Punjab and Haryana HC||New Delhi, March 5The Supreme Court Collegium has recommended elevation of advocate Vikas Bahl as judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.In a meeting held on March 2, the Collegium headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde also decided to recommend advocate Rahul Bharti for appointment as a judge of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court.The Collegium has recommended elevation of three lawyers—Dr. Vivek Sharan, Nidhi Patankar and Pranay Verma—as judges of Madhya Pradesh High Court.The Collegium – which also includes Justice NV Ramana and Justice RF Nariman—reiterated its earlier recommendation for elevation of Satyen Vaidya as a judge of the Himachal Pradesh High Court.It also reiterated its recommendation to elevate advocates Viju Abraham Mohammed Nias CP and Paul KK for Kerala High Court and Nagendra Ramachandra Naik for Karnataka High Court judgeship.The Collegium approved the proposal for appointment of 10 Additional Judges of Allahabad High Court as Permanent Judges. They are Justices Ali Zamin, Vipin Chandra Dixit, Shekhar Kumar Yadav, Ravi Nath Tilhari, Deepak Verma, Gautam Chowdhary, Shamim Ahmed, Dinesh Pathak, Manish Kumar and Samit Gopal.It also cleared the proposal for elevation of judicial officer A Badharudeen as Judge of the Kerala High Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-collegium-recommends-vikas-bahl-for-appointment-as-judge-of-punjab-and-haryana-hc-221033
05-03-2021||New Delhi||We are going strong: Farmer leaders as protest enters 100th day||As the farmer agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws enters its hundredth day on Saturday, union leaders have asserted that their movement is far from over, and they are “going strong”.The marathon movement has sent out a message of unity, made “farmers visible once again” and brought them back on the political landscape of the country, they said on Friday.For over three months, the three Delhi border points at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur have transformed into townships occupied by thousands of farmers from different parts of the country, mainly Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh.Rakesh Tikait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) said they are prepared to continue the protest as long as it is required.“We are completely prepared. Unless and until the government listens to us and meets our demands, we will not move from here,” Tikait, who is among the leaders at the forefront of the movement, told PTI.Despite several rounds of talks between the government and the farmer unions, the two sides have failed to reach an agreement, and the farmers have refused to budge until the three laws are repealed.Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.The protesting farmers, on the other hand, have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the “mandi” (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.While a resolution was reached on two of the four demands—rollback of rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning—in January, a decision on repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP continues to be stuck in limbo.However, according to the farmer leaders, the movement, which will complete its 100th day on Saturday, has achieved much beyond the immediate scope of the protest. It has evoked nationwide unity among farmers as well as recognised the contribution of women in farming.Talking about how the protest has made the farming community a noteworthy player in the country’s political landscape, Yogendra Yadav of Swaraj India said, “The movement has brought the farmers back on the political landscape of this country. It has made farmers visible once again. It has taught every politician a lesson — not to take ‘panga’ with the farmers.”      “People used to take farmers for granted but this movement has shown that getting into a confrontation with farmers is costly business,” the activist-political told PTI.The fight against the laws was one cause that seemed to have resonated with a large number of farmers throughout the nation, cutting across religious and caste barriers .“It has united farmers like never before. Haryana and Punjab  farmers are united. Despite deep attempts at communal mobilisation in UP, Hindu and Muslim farmers are united in this protest. Gujjars and Meenas are united in Rajasthan,” Yadav said.Kavitha Kuruganti of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) agreed and added that the movement had proven very “constructive” socially as well.“The farmers movement has to be assisted on multiple levels. There is a very important but limited agenda of securing our four demands, but beyond that is the issue of what the farmers movement has been able to achieve as larger outcomes.         “In Punjab, socially...things like substance abuse, alcoholism and so on have come down because the youth have been constructively engaged in the movement,” she said.She added that the movement had also “reinforced the identity of women farmers”.“Women farmers have been able to assert themselves and make their presence and participation felt in this movement. There has been recognition of women farmers as farmers,” she said.To mark International Women’s Day on March 8, the protesting men will hand over charge of managing the protest sites to their female counterparts.“The stage management will be taken care of by women only. Besides, the spokesperson for the farmers movement for that particular day would all be women,” said Avtar Singh Mehma of the Krantikari Kisan Union.Continuing the movement over such a long period has also not been devoid of any setbacks. One of the major setbacks that the movement faced was the January 26 tractor parade that resulted in clashes with the police.“There’s been the setback of January 26, when all farmers were portrayed as violent ‘khalistanis’ and so on. The image that was there of the protest before the 26th was intentionally maligned by the police and the government,” Kurugranthi said.She added that they have also had to “fend off multiple attacks from the government, including supplies being cut, and locals being provoked against the protestors”.Prepared for the long haul, protesting farmers at all the borders have already started gearing up to beat the Delhi summer, by equipping their trolleys with air conditioners, coolers and farmers.Arrangements for better and steady supply of water are also being made.After protesting against the new agri laws in their respective regions, farmers from Punjab and Haryana pushed towards the national capital with their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march and camped at Singhu and Tikri on November 26 last year.They were joined a few days later by farmers from UP who set up a camp at the Ghazipur border.  — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/we-are-going-strong-farmer-leaders-as-protest-enters-100th-day-221022
05-03-2021||New Delhi||Farmers’ protest internal issue of India, for it to resolve: British govt||With UK’s MPs set to debate next week the safety of farmer protesters, the British government on Friday said what happens in India has ripples in the United Kingdom and gets debated as there is a large Indian diaspora, but asserted that the farmers’ protest was India’s “internal issue” and it was for it to resolve.British lawmakers will debate the issue of press freedom and safety of protesters in India next Monday in response to an e-petition which had crossed the 1,00,000-signature threshold required for such a debate, the House of Commons Petitions Committee had confirmed earlier this week.Asked how he looks at the concerns in the UK over the farmers’ protest and if it could impact ties, the new British High Commissioner to India, Alex Ellis, said, “Your verb is the correct one. I look at it. This is an internal issue for India.” “I think the foreign secretary (Dominic Raab) said it when he was here ‘your politics is our politics’ in other words things that happen in India have ripples in the UK partly because you have such a big diaspora community in the UK, so these things get debated. Our prime minister (Boris Johnson) was asked about it actually in the Prime Minister’s Question Time,” he said at a media interaction with journalists here.“This is something we look at, but it is something for India to resolve,” said Ellis, a British strategic expert, who presented his credentials to President Ram Nath Kovind in February to take formal charge as the new UK High Commissioner to India.Asked about the debate in the UK Parliament on Monday and if the issue has been raised by India with the UK side, the British High Commissioner said the reason these things get discussed is because of the process of petition to which if there are a sufficient number of signatures, an issue can be debated in Parliament and issues related to India are quite regularly debated.“This is something that is done by Parliament, the government has to participate, it has to answer but it is the parliamentarians, as you expect, raising issues that are a concern to them in their constituencies,” the UK envoy here said.“Coming back to the point about your politics is our politics to an extent. My observation more generally is that as the Indian diaspora grows and is very successful in many countries of the world you are going to see more of this. I think that as India grows and becomes more international and ever more significant in the world, there will be more debate about Indian issues,” he said.Ellis, however, asserted that the UK government’s view on something like the farmers’ protest is that it is an internal matter of India and “we observe it, but it is for India to resolve”.Specifically asked if the Indian side has raised this issue with the UK, he did not give a direct answer and said if the UK would be debated in the Indian Parliament, “I would be interested in it”.“So If the Indian government is interested in issues like farmers’ protest being discussed in the UK Parliament, I am not surprised if there is an interest,” he said.The 90-minute debate on Monday will be held at the Westminster Hall in the Houses of Parliament complex in London and will be opened by Scottish National Party (SNP) MP and member of the Petitions Committee Martyn Day, and a minister will be deputed to respond on behalf of the UK government.The debate relates to the petition entitled ‘Urge the Indian Government to ensure safety of protesters & press freedom’, which called on the British government to make a public statement on the “#kissanprotests & press freedoms”.Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) for their crops.The government has denied allegations that it was trying to put an end to the MSP and the mandi system. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also assured farmers that the MSP would continue. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-internal-issue-of-india-for-it-to-resolve-british-govt-220994
05-03-2021||Mohali||Punjab CM gets first jab of anti-COVID vaccine, urges those eligible to get inoculated||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday took his first dose of an anti-coronavirus vaccine at the civil hospital here and appealed to all those who are eligible to get inoculated.He was administered the vaccine by auxiliary nurse and midwife Manpreet."I got my first shot of COVID-19 vaccine today. I urge all above 60 years of age or above 45 years with comorbidities to get the vaccination dose as soon as possible. We all need to come together to defeat COVID-19, and I'm sure we will," the chief minister tweeted with hashtag 'Mission Fateh'.Singh's media advisor Raveen Thukral in a tweet said, "Punjab CM got his first jab of Covid vaccine at civil hospital Mohali." According to Thukral, the chief minister, after being vaccinated, said it was painless and that he was feeling fine. He also posted a short video in which Manpreet is seen administering the vaccine to the chief minister.Singh trashed the BJP's allegation of Congress-ruled states rejecting Covaxin as "a complete lie and part of the ruling party's false and politically motivated propaganda".Categorically denying the charge regarding Covaxin, he slammed BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra's reported claim that Punjab, along with other non-BJP ruled states, had expressed doubts and refused to accept the vaccination."It was not at all true," he was quoted as saying in an official statement.An official of the Punjab Health Ministry later disclosed that the state had received 1.34 lakh Covaxin doses, of which 2,500 had already been administered.About the slow pace of vaccination in the state, the chief minister accused the media of scaremongering and urged mediapersons to spread awareness about the importance and efficacy of vaccines.Admitting that coronavirus cases were on the rise in Punjab, he said it was a matter of concern. Singh said that his government was keeping a close watch on the situation, and blamed the "casual and carefree attitude" of Punjabis for the resurgence in cases. He appealed to all people to strictly adhere to all Covid safety norms, including wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, as the coronavirus had not gone yet.I got my first shot of #Covid19 vaccine today. I urge all above 60 years of age or above 45 years with co-morbidities to get the vaccination done as soon as possible. We all need to come together to defeat #Covid19 and I’m sure we will. #MissionFateh pic.twitter.com/QmqgIP2XcD  Cabinet ministers Balbir Singh Sidhu, O P Soni and Rana Sodhi, and the chief minister's personal doctor Vijay Kumar Harjai were among those present during the vaccination of the chief minister.The central government has last week announced that everyone above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with comorbidities will be able to get COVID-19 vaccine from March 1 for free at government facilities and for a charge at many private hospitals.Citizens will be able to register and book an appointment for vaccination, anytime and anywhere, using the Co-WIN 2.0 portal or through other IT applications such as Aarogya Setu. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-gets-first-jab-of-anti-covid-vaccine-urges-those-eligible-to-get-inoculated-220973
05-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Shehnaaz Gill’s latest pictures in black-off shoulder top from Canada sets Instagram on fire; check it out||Punjabi actor Shehnaaz Gill set Instagram on fire with her latest pictures. The actress is currently in Canada honouring her work commitments. The Bigg Boss 13 runner-up looked stunning in a black off-shoulder crop top with a similar coloured bottom. The actress was seen romancing the camera as she posed for the pictures.In her no-make look, the actress posed differently in each picture.The photoshoot was probably done in her hotel room.Besides these, she also shared pictures in pyjamas’ sitting by the window. On the work front, Shehnaaz will begin shooting for her Punjabi film, Honsla Rakh, which also stars Diljit Dosanjh and Sonam Bajwa. She dropped the teaser of her much-awaited music video, Fly, which has her sharing screen space with ace rapper and singer Badshah. Apart from this, Shehnaaz will also be seen alongside Sidharth Shukla in a song, which is sung by Shreya Ghoshal and composed by Arko. This will be their third collaboration after Bhula Dunga and Shona Shona.#BhulaDunga100M trended on Twitter as the music video reached 100 million views on YouTube.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shehnaaz-gills-latest-pictures-in-black-off-shoulder-top-from-canada-sets-instagram-on-fire-check-it-out-220957
05-03-2021||Muktsar||DSP’s fake FB a/c created||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dsps-fake-fb-a-c-created-220941
05-03-2021||---||High drama in Punjab Assembly as police remove suspended Akali MLAs from House||Chandigarh, March 5A high drama was witnessed in the Punjab Assembly on Friday after Speaker Rana KP Singh suspended all Akali Dal MLAs and ordered them to stay out of the House for the remaining part of the Budget Session.The House was adjourned soon after the  ruckus.The Akali Dal MLAs, however, refused to go out and sat in the Well of the House and staged a protest.The police personnel had to plead with them to leave the House, but the MLAs refused to move and continued to raise slogans.The police had to then lift the Akali MLAs and lead them out of the House.Pawan Kumar Tinu was pushed out of the House by the police, after he again tried to enter the Vidhan Sabha.Earlier in the day, Bholath MLA and former Leader of Opposition Sukhpal Khaira raised the issue of alleged police brutality against one farmer protestor, Ranjit Singh, at Singhu border.He alleged that he was picked from the camp of farmers and taken into custody with the alleged help of the RSS and the BJP men.Meanwhile, Akali MLAs raised slogans during Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh's reply on the Governor's address and staged a walkout.  Later, AAP MLAs, also, joined them.  All MLAs stormed the Well of the House and which the House was adjourned for 15 minutes.  AAP MLAs also staged a walkout of the House, alleging connivance of the Punjab Government in the passing of the three farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-drama-in-punjab-assembly-as-police-remove-suspended-akali-mlas-from-house-220940
05-03-2021||---||‘12.5 crore people are speaking Punjabi worldwide today’||Amritsar, March 4Hailing the move to make Punjabi as a language of medium in the Civil Services Examinations, senior IAS officer, writer and member, Punjab Education Tribunal, Jaspal Singh on Thursday said the matter is a moment of pride as it shows the progress and development of our mother tongue. He said he was one of the first candidates, who chose Punjabi literature as subjects in CSE and found that Punjabi literature was a rich treasure trove of knowledge.Speaking at the seminar on ‘Punjabi Bhasha Da Gaurav’, organised on the sidelines of ongoing ‘Amritsar Literary Festival and Book Fair 2021’ at Khalsa College. “Punjabi language is passing through very promising phase where more than 12.5 crore people are today speaking the language worldwide,” he said.Deputy Commissioner, Tarn Taran, Kulwant Singh too addressed the seminar, sharing that he cleared the CSE with Punjabi as a medium and planned meticulously to get a good score for getting the top job. “The way concepts get clear and understood in mother tongue cannot be possible in any other language. One can also give the interview in their mother tongue and this move has facilitated so many aspiring civil servants,” he said, adding that we must learn more languages but biologically we are tuned to assimilate best in our own mother tongue. In another cultural presentation, an ‘Amabarsari Sath’ was organised in which top theatre personalities, including legendry singer Gurmeet Bawa, actor Jatinder Kaur, comedian Rajbir Kaur, singer Harinder Sohal, writer Deep Dawinder, Sandeep Singh, Bhupinder Sandhu took part.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/12-5-crore-people-are-speaking-punjabi-worldwide-today-220786
05-03-2021||Sangrur||Delhi-based travel agents dupe Sangrur family of Rs 28 lakh||Opium seized from jail inmateBathinda: Opium (30 gm) was seized from a jail inmate, Sanjay Thakur, a resident of Pratap Nagar, who had been accused in the case of shooting dead youth Akali leader Sukhman. Investigating officer SI Gurmeet Kaur said the accused would be interrogated by taking a warrant to ascertain the cause of presence of opium inside the jail. TNS30-gm heroin seized, 1 heldSangrur: The police at Anti Narcotic Special Cell, Malerkotla, arrested one person on Wednesday night and confiscated 30-gm heroin with Rs 4.5 lakh. Sukhdev Singh, Sub Inspector, said after seeing the police patrolling in Kila Rehmatgarh village, two persons tried to flee after throwing a packet containing heroin. "We arrested Dilshad, while his father Mohd Basheer escaped,” he said. TNS1 held for illegal miningBathinda: The Kotfatta police station has booked four persons for illegal mining sand in the fields of a farmer at Bhai Bakhtaur village in the district. A police team arrested an accused during a raided, while three others fled. The suspects used to illegally remove sand, shift it in tractor-trailers and sell it. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delhi-based-travel-agents-dupe-sangrur-family-of-rs-28-lakh-220759
05-03-2021||Parvesh Sharma---||Farmers' agitation: Sole breadwinner gone, family pleads for govt job||Tribune News Service Sangrur, March 4 After the death of sole breadwinner Shamsher Singh (45) at Delhi’s Kundli border on January 3 during the ongoing farmers’ agitation, the landless family of Lidhran village has been struggling to make ends meet. Though the government has released Rs 5 lakh financial aid to the family, lack of any source of regular income has multiplied their woes. Shamsher, who ran a dairy here, had been supporting the agitation since the start despite being landless. Apart from protesting at the Delhi border, he had been frequenting other sites, including at Sangrur and surrounding areas. “My three children, including two sons and a daughter, are studying in different classes. My husband worked hard and even contributed to the agitation from his meagre income. Since he died saving the farming community, the state government should give us a job. We do not have any other source of income,” said his wife Gurjeet Kaur. While her elder son Jagpreet Singh (21) has cleared class XII, daughter Parminder Kaur (20) is pursuing ETT and Arshdeep (18) is in class XII. Shamsher’s father Nirbhai Singh (68), who also runs a dairy in the village, has been supporting the family. “My son understood the new farm laws and the problems these could create for the community. He was committed to the cause. But his death due to cardiac arrest has come as a shock to the family,” said Nirbhai. The Sant Attar Singh Gursagar Mastuana Trust has decided to provide free education to all children of deceased farmers and has also announced help for Shamsher’s family. “The Punjab Government should at least hire a family member of those who have died during the protests. I am willing to join any post as per my eligibility,” said Jagpreet. Shamsher’s younger brother Raghuvir Singh said the state government was the only hope for the family as CM Capt Amarinder Singh had promised help to aggrieved families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-agitation-sole-breadwinner-gone-family-pleads-for-govt-job-220623
05-03-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Sons died in farmers' protest, families struggle to reconcile with loss||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, March 4It’s been nearly 100 days since farmers began their agitation on the Delhi borders. The families of young farmers who lost their lives during the stir are yet to come to terms with the loss.Farmer Jatinder Singh (22) of Fatta Maluka village in Mansa district died in a road mishap on way to Delhi.In order to show solidarity with the protesting farmers, he took his tractor-trailer and headed towards Delhi in December along with a few villagers but on the way, a Canter hit his tractor and killed him near Hisar.Sukhpal Singh, Jatinder’s father, said, “I had to go to the Delhi protest, but Jatinder told me that his friends from the village were going there so he will join them. So I dropped my plan.”He says if he had gone to Delhi that day instead of his son, the latter would have been alive.Gursewak Singh, village sarpanch, said the family was inconsolable. Jatinder had got married just a month and a half ago. “This is the worst that can happen to a newlywed couple,” he added.Jaspreet Singh (18), a resident of Chauke village, in the Maur tehsil in Bathinda, is probably one of the youngest of the casualties that took place during the farmers’ protest at the Singhu and Tikri borders.Around two months have passed since his demise but his parents are in a state of mourning and still can’t believe their son is no more.Gurmail Singh, father of Jaspreet, said, “We still don’t believe that our only son is no more. He was preparing for Army recruitment as he wanted to serve the nation. He was of the view that one member of every farmer family should participate in the protest as the laws were against the farmers.”Gurmail says they never thought that the farmer agitation would change their life forever, and now, they were left with nothing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sons-died-in-farmers-protest-families-struggle-to-reconcile-with-loss-220624
05-03-2021||Aparna Banerji||21-yr-old exhorted youth to join farmers' agitation in Delhi||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 4“Our lives have been destroyed. There is no one to help us now,” says Jagtar Singh, 61, whose 21-year-old son died during a road accident while coming back from the Singhu border.On December 16, 2020, Gurpreet Singh, a young progressive farmer from Makkowal Jabba village in Nawanshahr, died when the tractor he was driving collided with a truck near Ambala. Gurpreet’s death has left his parents and 90-year-old grandmother shattered.Planning to go to Singhu after his son returned, Jagtar has no clue who will manage his land now.It was Gurpreet who had exhorted the village youth to go to the protest site at Singhu.Jagtar says, “Gurpreet urged village youth to go to Singhu. He asked them not to worry about the tractor-trailer cost as he promised them that he would take his own.”“Gurpreet said we must take part in the agitation against the new farm laws. He said history was being made by the farmers’ protest in Delhi,” recalls Jagtar.While Jagtar’s elder son lives in Australia, the family owns just 5 acres of land and has a Rs 17-lakh pending debt.Jagtar says, “Gurpreet had got a three-year visa for Australia. He went there for three months, but returned soon. He said rather than doing hard labour there, why shouldn’t he work on his own land here. He loved Punjab.”Jagtar says, “Our house isn’t the same. My elder son was abroad and younger with me. I was happy. Now Gurpreet has left us. Who will look after the fields now? However, if the central farm laws are not revoked, we will lose our fields as well. It’s a fight for existence.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/21-yr-old-exhorted-youth-to-join-farmers-agitation-in-delhi-220625
05-03-2021||---||SC quota delay, fuel price hike rock Punjab Assembly||Chandigarh, March 4Amidst two walkouts in the Vidhan Sabha on the fourth day of the Budget Session today, the Opposition parties continued their attack on the Congress government over reservation in promotion for socially disadvantaged sections, poor public health facilities for Covid patients, and high taxes on retail fuel.The AAP was the first to stage a walkout over non-implementation of the provisions of 85th Amendment of the Constitution, which ensures benefit of reservation to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe employees in matters of promotion and subsequent seniority.Incidentally, the issue was raised by Akali MLA Baldev Singh, but Leader of Opposition Harpal Cheema took over the issue, saying though the Vidhan Sabha had endorsed it after approval by the Chief Minister and his Cabinet, the state bureaucracy was creating hurdles in the implementation.Cheema, while opening the debate during the zero hour, pointed out that the Class 3 and 4 jobs in the government were now being filled through outsourcing and the government was not implementing the formula of reservation in these outsourced appointments.In spite of assurance by Social Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, saying he would get the 85th Amendment implemented, the AAP was in no mood to relent and demanded action against officials responsible for creating hurdles in its implementation. They sought appearance of responsible officers before the Privileges Committee of the House and stormed into the well of the House, raising slogans against the government, before staging a walkout.Shortly thereafter, the Akali MLAs, who had come to the Vidhan Sabha riding bullock carts to send across the message that retail fuel prices were skyrocketing, staged a walkout on the issue. SAD legislative wing leader Sharanjit Singh Dhillon demanded an assurance from the government that it would reduce VAT on petrol and diesel immediately.When the treasury benches failed to pay heed to the demand, the SAD legislators staged a walkout. Dhillon, while speaking on the issue, said the SAD was ready to join the state government and approach the Centre to reduce the prices of petroleum products. “However, before this is done, the Congress government must come to the aid of farmers and the common man by reducing VAT on petrol and diesel.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-quota-delay-fuel-price-hike-rock-punjab-assembly-220626
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||SAD burdened state with Rs 31K-cr repayment: Jakhar||PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar today claimed complicity of the BJP, SAD and SAD (Democratic) in burdening the state with the Rs 31,000-crore food account credit. Terming it akin to a seditious act deliberately committed by the Akalis, Jakhar blamed them for agreeing to Rs 31,000-crore food account repayment when the Centre had agreed to cap the settlement at Rs 13,000 crore. Presenting a copy of the Government of India report on the issue, the senior Congress leader castigated then Finance Minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa, challenging him to come clean and explain to the people of Punjab about his political compulsions that led him to “mortgage” state’s interest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-burdened-state-with-rs-31k-cr-repayment-jakhar-220627
05-03-2021||---||Resolution passed for panel on groundwater||Chandigarh, march 4 Cutting across party lines, the Vidhan Sabha unanimously passed a resolution to form a committee of MLAs to examine and suggest means of improving the depleting groundwater. A consensus was arrived at following a discussion by members of the treasury and Opposition benches on issues related to depleting groundwater. Finance Minister Manpreet Badal said since the state government was short of funds, there was a need for the Centre to constitute a fund for agriculture research with an aim to save water. He stressed the need for crop diversification and getting out of the wheat-rice cycle. SAD MLA Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra objected to Badal’s suggestion to hand over agriculture research to the Centre, saying this would further compromise the powers of states, even as he asked the state government to take concrete steps to tackle the problem. He said there was a need to put up a strong case for allocation of more central funds for agriculture research, instead of abrogating the responsibility. The only way out was to augment the canal irrigation system in the state, he said. Rural Development Minister Tript Bajwa informed the House that the resolution adopted by the House would be implemented in letter and spirit by the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/resolution-passed-for-panel-on-groundwater-220628
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Action sought against Cong MLA Dr Raj Kumar Chabbewal for ‘lying’||SAD legislator Baldev Khaira today demanded privilege proceedings against Congress MLA Dr Raj Kumar Chabbewal for lying in the Vidhan Sabha that the 85th Amendment pertaining to extension of reservation in promotions to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe employees had been implemented in Punjab.Raising the issue during zero hour, Khaira said there was despair amongst SC/ST employees that the amendment was not being enforced in the state despite assurances. He condemned the Congress for giving lip sympathy to the Dalit community but not doing anything to ameliorate its lot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/action-sought-against-cong-mla-dr-raj-kumar-chabbewal-for-lying-220629
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab must ensure MSP on oilseeds, lentils: Navjot Sidhu||Former Cabinet Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu today “reminded” his own government to exercise its democratic power to legislate laws to ensure minimum support price (MSP) on oilseeds, lentils and other crops so as to encourage farmers get out of the “wheat-rice cycle” that get MSP from the Centre.Addressing his first formal press conference after exiting from the Cabinet in 2019, Sidhu said, “The state has enough grounds to completely deny the implementation of the ‘black’ laws in Punjab. We should make new laws to uplift the farmers.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-must-ensure-msp-on-oilseeds-lentils-navjot-sidhu-220630
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Saffron party plans house outreach in Punjab||The BJP will reach out to every household in the state in the next few months to raise awareness about the economic and national interests safeguarded by the Modi government, said Dinesh Kumar, organisational secretary of the BJP, here today.“The BJP will defeat all non-secular forces and a campaign to bring awareness about the issues addressed since the party came into power will be galvanised in the coming months,” he said. On April 6, the party would organise functions across the state, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/saffron-party-plans-house-outreach-in-punjab-220631
05-03-2021||Amritsar||SGPC’s annual budget on March 30||The general session for the proposed annual budget of the SGPC for the 2021-22 fiscal has been scheduled for March 30 at Teja Singh Samundari Hall here.The decision, among others, was taken at the meeting of the executive committee chaired by SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur today.For the convenience of farmers protesting at the Delhi borders, the SGPC has decided to set up temporary tin sheds and provide fans. The ongoing langar and moveable toilet facilities will continue to operate.The ceremonies to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur will also be held in Bangladesh, besides a series of programmes here.The SGPC chief said before the budget session, copies of the proposed budget would be sent to all members who would be asked to send suggestions. Special meetings with the members would be conducted on March 11 and 13 for open discussion on the budget. The priority areas included education, propagation of Sikh religion and better management of gurdwaras. The Covid-19 crisis had hit the footfall of devotees, impacting the income of the gurdwaras. The financial crisis is likely to affect the upcoming session budget too.Regarding jathas to Pakistan on Baisakhi, she said the Centre might allow their dispatch, but Covid vaccination would be mandatory. “We urge the Centre to open the Kartarpur corridor by making the vaccination mandatory,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpcs-annual-budget-on-march-30-220632
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Oppn alleges poor health facilities, Punjab govt hits back||The “deteriorating” public health facilities in Punjab generated a lot of debate in the Vidhan Sabha today as members of the legislative Assembly discussed the “failure” of health services during the spread of Covid-19.The issue came up for discussion when AAP MLA from Jaiton Baldev Singh Kalyan sought information from Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu about the amount incurred on Covid-affected persons in Faridkot, and the facilities provided to patients.As the Health Minister replied to the query, saying a total of Rs 7.88 crore was spent on the management of patients, MLA Baldev Singh retorted that senior doctors had little faith in government medical facilities, which was why a senior doctor had been admitted to the PGI for treatment.Sidhu said a former Akali Dal chief minister and his wife had taken treatment from private hospitals abroad, and that too on government expenses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/oppn-alleges-poor-health-facilities-punjab-govt-hits-back-220633
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||FCI: Direct payment into farmers’ accounts||The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has said it will go in for direct payment into farmers’ bank accounts for the wheat crop arriving in mandis next month.So far, the payment was credited to commission agents (arhtiyas), who further transferred it to the accounts of farmers. This year, the FCI will procure 130 lakh metric tonnes of wheat, for which it will pay over Rs 24,000 crore to farmers.However, it has made it mandatory for farmers to furnish their land record for this procurement season. A letter to this effect was sent by the FCI to the Department of Food and Supplies, Punjab, today.Though the rationale behind demanding details of land records is to account for each grain procured by the Centre and ensure no wheat from outside the state is purchased on the minimum support price (MSP), farmers and arhtiyas say it is not feasible for a state like Punjab, as almost 40% of the land has been leased out by owners to other farmers.They maintain this is another assault on the state, which is leading the charge in the protest against the Centre on the three farm laws.Talking to The Tribune, Vijay Kalra, vice-chairman, Federation of Arhtiya Association of Punjab, said the Centre’s move was aimed at punishing the state farmers and arhtiyas for the agitation on the Delhi border against the laws.“No one in Punjab will upload details of land ownership. More than 40% of land, including that owned by NRIs, has been leased out. This means, the landowner not tilling the land, but declaring its ownership will get the MSP, not the cultivator. We have no option but to go on a strike in mandis from April 1. When the procurement season starts, there will be no labour to lift the grains and no arhtiyas to help in procurement,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fci-direct-payment-into-farmers-accounts-220635
05-03-2021||---||Cabinet nod to six proposals of state Finance Commission||Chandigarh, March 4A meeting of the Cabinet chaired by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday approved several key recommendations of the 6th Punjab Finance Commission, including compensation for revenue losses on certain counts.The commission, headed by former Chief Secretary KR Lakhanpal, had submitted seven recommendations to the Governor on January 29, 2021.While six of the recommendations were approved, one relating to continuation of devolution of 4 per cent share of state taxes to local bodies for the year 2021-22 will be examined by a group of ministers. The group will comprise Finance Minister, Local Government Minister, Rural Development and Panchayats Minister and Water Supply and Sanitation Minister.Among the key recommendations accepted by the Cabinet are continuation of compensatory payments in case of loss of revenue from the abolition of octroi on power and liquor to local bodies for the year 2021-22; continuation of 16 per cent share of excise duty on IMFL and 10 per cent share on auction money from liquor vends to be devolved to the panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies.The Finance Commission, was constituted by the state under Section 3(1) of the Punjab Finance Commission for Panchayats and Municipalities Act, 1994 vide a notification on July 3, 2018.Tabling of CAG reports clearedThe Cabinet cleared the presentation of Supplementary Demands for Grants for the year 2020-21 along with CAG audit reports for the year 2018-19, in the ongoing Budget session of the Vidhan Sabha.Scholarship hiked To incentivise Class X students of government schools, the state will enhance the Dr Hargobind Khurana Scholarship amount from Rs2,500 to Rs3,000 per month. The scheme, being implemented by the School Education Department since August 1, 2013, will also now be amended to promote brilliance among students by making it applicable to those obtaining 90% marks or above instead of the earlier ceiling of 80%. Students studying in Adarsh schools run by the Punjab School Education Board will be paid the scholarship amount by the board out of its own funds.Restructuring of 4 more depts okayedThe Cabinet approved restructuring of four more departments, including the Punjab Pollution Control Board, to create employment opportunities. The departments that will be restructured in this phase are governance reforms, environment & climate change and employment generation, skills development & training.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cabinet-nod-to-six-proposals-of-state-finance-commission-220636
05-03-2021||Aman Sood||Properties worth Rs 9.93 cr of 15 POs attached in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 4In a major action against proclaimed offenders missing under various cases in Patiala, the district police have managed to attach properties and assets of 15 such accused. In many cases, accused have either been missing from India or have not joined investigations related to terrorism for the past over 30 years.While the police have attached immoveable assets worth Rs 9.93 crore of 15 accused, the process is on to identify and complete proceedings against others.Patiala SSP Vikramjeet Duggal said properties in many cases were attached as per the instructions of area magistrates under Sections 82 and 83 of the CrPC.The Patiala police said they had attached properties worth over Rs 2 crore of a fugitive who was named a suspect in terrorism-related case 33 years ago. A local court recently declared Baldev Singh, a suspect booked under the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act in 1988, a proclaimed offender and allowed police to attach his properties. “These properties include seven acres in his village Dandoa and are valued at Rs 2.17 crore,” said Duggal.Another one on the list is Kanwar Randeep Singh Kharoud, alias SK, who is involved in multiple criminal cases and runs liquor shops in Patiala. A notorious gangster, Kharoud had stirred a controversy after he joined the Congress with the backing of a Congress leader from Sanaur during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.In June 2020, sarpanch Shamsher Singh (38), who was associated with the Congress, and a resident of Sukh Ram Colony, was attacked by around 15-20 persons with iron rods and sharp weapons. Out of three bullets fired to scare Shamsher, one had pierced into his body. He was rushed to the hospital where he was declared dead.SK Kharoud and Jatinder Shergill were among the accused in the case. Immovable assets worth Rs 1.20 crore of these two accused, who were wanted in an FIR lodged at the Anaj Mandi police station and declared POs, were attached following directions of court.Similarly, immovable assets worth Rs 25 lakh of another accused declared PO by the court in an FIR lodged at the Patran police station were also attached a few days ago.“I have summoned all old case files in which POs have been avoiding arrest or court proceedings or have jumped parole,” said Duggal.‘Terrorist, gangster’ on list||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/properties-worth-rs-9-93-cr-of-15-pos-attached-in-patiala-220637
05-03-2021||---||Court stays Sumedh Saini’s arrest||Chandigarh, March 4 The Punjab and Haryana High Court today stayed the arrest of Punjab’s former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in the Kotkapura police firing case. Taking up the bail plea, Justice Avneesh Jhingan of the High Court also put the State of Punjab on notice. Justice Jhingan made it clear Saini would not be arrested till the next date of hearing in the matter. Saini, though senior counsel APS Deol and Himmat Singh Deol, was seeking anticipatory bail in the FIR registered at the Kotkapura city police station on August 7, 2018, for attempt to murder, causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means, disappearance of evidence and other offences under Sections 307, 326, 324, 323, 341, 201, 218, 120-B, 34, 148 and 149 of the IPC and provisions of the Arms Act.  The case will now come up for further hearing on March 22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/court-stays-sumedh-sainis-arrest-220638
05-03-2021||Ropar||Guard suspended over felling of khair trees near Nangal||Locals have raised the alarm about illegal uprooting of khair trees from the reserve forest area, near Nangal. The forest area is on the ‘shamlat’ land of Swamipur village, but the local panchayat has not taken any action against the offenders.Village sarpanch Shobhit Rana said he was aware of the theft in the forest area. However, it was difficult to keep a check on the vast expanse, he said. He confirmed that he did not bring the theft of trees into the notice of the forest department and the police. The district forest officer, Amit Chauhan, initiated an inquiry and suspended the forest guard, Narinderpreet Singh. He wrote to the higher authorities to take appropriate action against the block-level officer, Gurjeet Singh.As per complainant Satish Kumar, nearly 400 acres of ‘shamlat’ land of the village is under forest cover and felling of trees in this area without permission of the authorities is prohibited under Section 4 and 5 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act. He alleged some unidentified people had started felling the trees in this forest last month, following which he informed the local forest department officials. However, nothing was done in this regard, he said.His calls to the district forest officer and the forest range officer on February 4 also proved of no use and the felling of trees continued, he claimed.The district forest officer said he had sent a team of officials to investigate the case and till today 70 trees had been uprooted illegally.He said the local kanungo and patwari were also asked to reach the spot to demarcate the land, but they refused to provide the revenue record. “The team will resume counting of such trees tomorrow,” said the officer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/guard-suspended-over-felling-of-khair-trees-near-nangal-220639
05-03-2021||Saurabh Malik||High Court prohibits instruction to probe officers against arresting accused||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 4In a significant judgment that will change the way the police carry out probes, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the Punjab Director-General of Police and the Director, Bureau of Investigation, to ensure putting in place a “foolproof system” for ordering subsequent/further investigation. The High Court also prohibited issuance of instruction to the investigating officers (IOs) against arresting the accused during investigations.Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan ruled that a report on the status of investigation from the Senior Superintendent of Police/Commissioner of Police of the district concerned was a must before transferring investigation or ordering further probe, on a complaint/FIR, at the instance of either the complainant or the accused. Directions were also issued for passing a reasoned order by a senior police officer in case subsequent or further investigation was to be ordered.Justice Sangwan also ruled that senior police officers could not issue instructions to the investigating officers against arresting an accused. “A very strange practice is noticed in a number of cases that under the garb of an inquiry after the registration of an FIR, the investigating officers are directed by senior police officers not to arrest a suspect, despite his anticipatory bail being dismissed by the court of law… No such instructions can be issued and investigating officers cannot be directed not to arrest an accused on this pretext,” he said.Justice Sangwan also ruled that initial or subsequent inquiries could not be ordered after the registration of the FIR. The investigation can only be transferred. An inquiry could be conducted only in case of pre-registration of an FIR in view of the judgment in the case of “Lalita Kumari versus the State of UP and others”.Justice Sangwan asserted that it was a well-settled law as held by the Supreme Court in a number of cases that the power for further investigation was with a magistrate under the provisions of the CrPC. For re-investigation or its transfer, a party could approach the High Court.He asserted: “It is worth noticing that there is no provision in the CrPC to order an inquiry/second inquiry after the registration of FIR as only investigation/further investigation or re-investigation can be done. An inquiry can be done only in case of pre-registration of FIR as per direction of Court under Section 156, CrPC, or under Section 154, CrPC.”Fixing the matter for the first week of May, Justice Sangwan directed the filing of a fresh affidavit by the DGP/Director, Bureau of Investigation, on compliance of instructions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-prohibits-instruction-to-probe-officers-against-arresting-accused-220640
05-03-2021||Patiala||Micro-containment zones in Patiala||A block of Pratap Nagar and the Deep Nagar area near Tripuri here have been turned into micro-containment zones, which will remain inaccessible for 10 days.Health Department officials said the district reported 91 cases in a single day on Tuesday, 78 on Wednesday and another 64 cases on Thursday. Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said clusters of cases — eight from the D-block area of Pratap Nagar and five from Deep Nagar — were reported. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/micro-containment-zones-in-patiala-220641
05-03-2021||---||1K new cases, 15 deaths in 24 hrs in Punjab||Chandigarh, March 4Amid a fresh spike in Covid cases, Punjab is one of the worst-affected states. It is among the five states that are contributing to almost 85 per cent of the total cases.Also read: As per the Union Health Ministry, Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat witnessed a rise in active cases during the same time period.Spike after 2 monthsPunjab reported 1,074 cases and 15 deaths in the last 24 hours. As far as deaths are concerned, Jalandhar topped the list with five deaths, followed by Hoshiarpur with four, Ludhiana three, Patiala, SBS Nagar and Kapurthala one death each. It is almost after a gap of two months that the state reported such a large number of cases in a single day.Punjab’s total active caseload has reached 6,264. It has witnessed a three-fold increase as compared to the cases in January, when it came down to 2,000.As far as the vaccination drive is concerned, on Thursday, 6,691 people above 60 years of age and above 45 years of age with co-morbidities were vaccinated with the first dose. So far, in the past four days, a total of total 13,641 have been vaccinated from the same category.Sangrur: Twentytwo more persons have tested positive for Covid-19 in Sangrur and two in Barnala. The health authorities have been conducting tests.As per details, there are three cases from Dhuri block, one from Kauhrian, five from Sherpur, six from Sangrur, one from Longowal, one from Bhawanigarh, one from Amargarh, two from Ahemdgarh and two from Malerkotla.In Barnala district, one person has tested positive from Barnala city and one from Mehal Kalan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1k-new-cases-15-deaths-in-24-hrs-in-punjab-220642
05-03-2021||Abohar||Abohar MC told to de-seal SBI office||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Thursday directed the Abohar Municipal Corporation to de-seal the State Bank of India main branch office building that had been sealed on Monday reportedly due to default in payment of long-pending rent dues that the MC had assessed at about Rs 1 crore.As per the copy of the orders passed by the Bench of Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa, the pleadings by the bank reportedly indicated that an order was passed by the SDM-cum-Collector, Abohar, on December 15, 2020, pursuant to an application moved by the MC, directing eviction of the bank from the premises under the provisions of the Punjab Public Premises and Land (Eviction and Rent Recovery) Act, 1973. The petitioner-bank preferred an appeal in January 2021, along with an application seeking stay.The appellate authority — Deputy Commissioner, Fazilka — has not taken up the appeal as also the application for stay, as he did not hold court. On the other hand, Municipal Corporation, Abohar, has proceeded further and sealed the premises.Keeping in view the interest of customers, the municipal corporation has been directed to de-seal the premises. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-mc-told-to-de-seal-sbi-office-220644
05-03-2021||Sonepat||Labour activist Shiv Kumar released from Sonepat jail||Labour activist Shiv Kumar, an associate of activist Nodeep Kaur, on Thursday got bail in an attempt-to-murder case, which was registered on January 12. He was released from the Sonepat district jail in the evening.Earlier, he had got bail in two extortion cases on Wednesday.Nodeep Kaur case: Dalit activist Shiv Kumar's medical report reveals 2 fractures, broken toenail bedsManjinder Singh Sirsa, president, Delhi Shiromani Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) and labour activist Nodeep Kaur were also present during his release.Advocate Jatinder Kumar, counsel for the Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan activist Shiv Kumar said the bail plea of Shiv Kumar in FIR number 25, dated January 12, was filed in the Sessions Court on March 2 and was allowed on Thursday.“The court of Sessions Judge YS Rathore in the order said the co-accused, namely Nodeep Kaur, whose case is identical to that of applicant, has been released on bail by the Hon’ble High Court vide order dated 26.02.2021 in CRM-M No.7398 of 2021. In these circumstances, the applicant (Shiv Kumar) is thus entitled to be released on bail on the ground of parity.” Advocate Jatinder Kumar said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/labour-activist-shiv-kumar-released-from-sonepat-jail-220665
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||100 days farm stir: Farmers hold their ground, but no solution in sight||It has been 100 days for the farmers — of being on the road, of blood and sweat and death, of hopelessness and of nearly giving up, of reviving the flailing agitation and standing their ground.It has been 100 days of an unending struggle that began against the Centre’s three farm laws on November 26 and an equal number of days of having held fort at the Singhu and Tikri borders between Haryana and Delhi despite the barriers that divide.Protesters block MLA’s entryJind: Farmers on Thursday sealed the entry points of their Bhana Brahman village to bar the entry of Ramniwas Surjakhera, JJP MLA from Narwana. They stayed put on roads till the evening. Sources say the MLA was scheduled to reach the village at 11 am. Because of the protest, he delayed his visit. He reached the village at 5.30 pm after the protesters had left the venue in the evening. TNSTo the farmers, all this is progress even though their goal of getting the three laws repealed remains a far cry. The chips might be down, they may be faltering as they grapple with uncertainty but they are sure that the agitation would go on.“We have not been able to arrive at any substantive plan when it comes to taking the agitation forward. We are holding mahapanchayats, mobilising support, blocking roads, but the Centre doesn’t seem to care. We are repeating what we have already done and we don’t have a plan right now. This, however, does not mean that we will not come up with a strategy soon,” says Haryana’s farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni.While he admits that the advent of summer would mean dwindling numbers at the protest sites at the two borders where farmers are living in trolleys and gearing up for the heat, Punjab farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal terms this a part of the plan.“The morcha which has turned 100 days old will continue. We have already urged villages to send one member from every family to keep the protest site alive and vibrant. With the harvesting season approaching, we want only representative groups of farmers as we need hands on the field,” Rajewal claims.He adds they are moving in a systematic manner since this is going to be a long drawn battle.On its achievements in the past three months, the leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) are unanimous — it has shown that a long-drawn peaceful agitation against the BJP-led Narendra Modi government is possible, that the divisive policies of the government to fractionalise people along caste lines and culture stand defeated and the brotherhood in villages and the states of Punjab and Haryana stands restored.As winter turns to spring turns to summer, the farmers are preparing for the long haul and all of them want the talks with the Centre to resume. In the absence of a dialogue, there can be no headway, no scope of a middle path, only silence as the fault lines get deeper and the “borders” are fortified further.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/100-days-farm-stir-farmers-hold-their-ground-but-no-solution-in-sight-220619
05-03-2021||---||Punjab, 5 other states fuel surge in Covid cases||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, March 4Punjab, Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Karnataka continue to report a surge in daily new Covid-19 cases, accounting for 85.51 per cent of fresh cases, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.Maharashtra reported the highest daily new cases at 9,855. This is the highest number recorded in the state since October 19, when 10,259 new cases were reported. Kerala saw 2,765 new cases and Punjab 1,074.The active caseload surged to 1,73,413 after an addition of 17,407 cases over the past 24 hours. “Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh are showing a rise in active cases. On the other hand, Kerala, UP, Jharkhand, Bihar and Assam have shown a reduction,” the ministry said. Punjab saw the second highest daily rise in active cases (395) after Maharashtra (3,254).The number of people with new virus strain from the UK, South Africa and Brazil rose to 242 today, amid concerns of further rise in mutation cases. Stressing speedy vaccination, the Health Ministry said India-made Covaxin had shown effectiveness against the new variants.Among senior leaders who took the first doses of the vaccine today included former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, his wife Gursharan Kaur, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chauhan.Overall 1.77 crore vaccine doses have been administered till Thursday morning. These include 2,18,939 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific comorbidities and 14,95,016 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years. On the 47th day of the vaccination drive, nearly 11 lakh vaccine doses were given.In good news, 23 states and UTs have not reported any Covid deaths in 24 hours. These include Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, J&K, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Puducherry, Assam, Lakshadweep, Nagaland, Sikkim, Ladakh, Tripura, Manipur, Mizoram, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh.Give priority to elderly in pvt hospitals, says SCThe Supreme Court has ordered that elderly be given priority in admission to private hospitals amid the pandemic. A Bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, which had on December 4 ordered government hospitals to give priority in admissions and treatment to the elderly, modified its order to include private hospitals in view of the vulnerability of the elderly.10 teachers, 76 pupils test +ve in JalandharAt least 76 students and 10 teachers of eight government and private schools tested positive for the virus in Jalandhar on Thursday.Also read: 15 deaths, 1,074 new cases in Punjab||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-5-other-states-fuel-surge-in-covid-cases-220567
05-03-2021||Vishav Bharti||Punjab debt to double in five years: CAG||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 4Punjab’s financial crisis is set to worsen with the public debt likely to reach Rs 3.73 lakh crore by 2024-25, according to the latest report of the Comptroller & Auditor General of India.As per projections made by the CAG using Semilog Linear Regression model, the state’s public debt will be Rs 3,73,988 crore by 2024-25, which is more than double the public debt of Rs 1,79,130 crore as on March 31, 2019.The debt swelled around four times in the past 10 years. It was around Rs 40,000 crore when the SAD-BJP alliance came to power in the state in 2006-07. A decade later, when they lost elections in 2016-17, the debt stood around Rs 1,53,773 crore.Even the Congress rule over the past four years could not bring economy back on track. Between 2016-17 and 2018-19, the state saw the debt go up by around Rs 25,500 crore. For the past many years, the state has been repaying its earlier borrowings utilising around 73 per cent of its new borrowings.After meeting various liabilities, the state was generally left with only 5-10 per cent of its borrowings to be utilised for capital expenditure during 2014-19.The situation is likely to worsen in future. Debts of around Rs 43,377 crore will become due for repayment over the next three years.The CAG pointed out that the power subsidy being given to the agriculture sector was one of the main reasons behind the state’s poor economic condition. During 2018-19, power subsidy stood at Rs 8,435 crore, registering an increase of Rs 1,857 crore (28 per cent) over the previous year amount of Rs 6,578 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-debt-to-double-in-five-years-cag-220568
05-03-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Farmers gear up for show of strength on March 8||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 4Despite the death of 300 farmers since they shifted their agitation to the Delhi border on November 26 last year, protests have not lost steam. Besides the permanent camps at the Delhi border, Punjab is also witnessing massive gatherings all over the state.The next major step will be the “dharnas” at various protest sites on the Delhi border, particularly Singhu and Tikri, on March 8.An elaborate plan is being made to observe International Women’s Day as an occasion to force the withdrawal of “draconian anti-farmer laws”.President of the Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal) Balbir Singh Rajewal put the figure of the dead at over 300. BKU (Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said about 250 persons had died due to different reasons, including cold, heart attacks and road accidents, during this period. “We got busy with other activities during our ongoing struggle, so we were not able to maintain a proper record of the deaths. We will surely do that,” he added.Collective decisionAll unions have decided to hold protests on International Women’s Day to show that even women stood with us against anti-farmer laws. —Balbir Singh Rajewal, BKU (Rajewal) chiefFollowing massive gatherings at Jagraon and Barnala “kisan mahapanchatays” recently, farmer unions have chalked out elaborate programmes to carry forward their protests at other places. Confirming the March 8 programme, Rajewal said, “All unions have decided to hold protests on International Women’s Day to show that even women stood with us against the anti-farmer laws. This will be preceded by blocking the KMP Highway on March 6 for five hours (11 am to 4 pm).”BKU district president Shingara Singh Mann said, “The government was trying its best to show that the farmers’ struggle was losing steam. It has, however, failed miserably in its propaganda. They are threatening our volunteers in various ways, including arrests. Even the celebrities supporting us have not been spared.”Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said, “We may be seen as a separate group during the agitation. However, we are fighting for the same cause. Our eighth ‘jatha’ is leaving for the Delhi border. We will participate in the programme on March 8.”Pandher said, “We will hold a rally at Shahkot Mandi in Jalandhar, another one at Kapurthala on March 14 and at Ferozepur on March 15. The government has underestimated our dedication to the cause. We will fight till the end.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-gear-up-for-show-of-strength-on-march-8-220570
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 15 more deaths, 1,074 new cases in Punjab||Punjab on Thursday reported over 1,000 new coronavirus cases and 15 more fatalities, according to a medical bulletin.With 1,074 fresh cases, the infection tally climbed to 1,85,381, while the 15 deaths pushed the toll to 5,887 in the state.Punjab has been seeing a rise in number of fresh COVID-19 cases for nearly four weeks.The number of active cases also increased from 5,593 on Wednesday to 6,264, according to health bulletin data.Among the new cases, Jalandhar reported the highest of 242 cases, SBS Nagar 147, Hoshiarpur 115, Mohali 111 and Ludhiana 106.A total of 385 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,73,230.There are 14 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 94 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 50,97,802 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state.  PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-15-more-deaths-1-074-new-cases-in-punjab-220534
05-03-2021||Ruchika M. Khanna||Wheat procurement: FCI to credit payment directly to farmers’ bank accounts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 4Food Corporation of India has issued directions that it will go in for direct payment to farmers’ bank account for the wheat crop that will come in the mandis next month.The practice as of now is to credit the payment to the agents, who in turn transfer it in the accounts of farmers.The corporation will be procuring 130 lakh metric tonnes of wheat in this year, and over Rs 24,000 crore is to be paid for the farmers for this.A letter to this effect has been sent by the FCI to the department of Food and Supplies, Punjab, today. The letter also says that information of the land records of farmers is a must for this procurement season.Though the government rationale behind demanding the details of land records is to account for each grain procured by the Government of India, and ensure that no wheat from outside the state is purchased on the Minimum Support Price, farmers and commission agents say that it is not practical for a state like Punjab, as almost 40 per cent of land has been leased out by owners to other farmers.They maintain that this is another assault on the state, which is leading the charge in the protest against the Centre on the three farm laws.Talking to The Tribune, Vijay Kalra, vice chairman of Federation of Arhtiya Association of Punjab, says these steps are being taken by the Centre to punish the state’s farmers and arhtiyas for the farmers stir on the borders of Delhi, against the three farm laws.“No one in Punjab will be uploading the details of the land ownership. More than 40 per cent of land, including lands owned by NRIs, is leased out. Land owners not tilling land, but giving their ownership will mean that the MSP goes to the owner, not cultivator. We have no option but to go for a strike in mandis from April 1. When the procurement season starts, there will be no labour to lift the grains and no arhtiyas to help in procurement. We will join the farmers and stage sit-in dharnas in mandis,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wheat-procurement-fci-to-credit-payment-directly-to-farmers-bank-accounts-220530
05-03-2021||New Delhi||Oz warns of deportation post attacks on Sikhs||The Australian Government has threatened deportations following four attacks on the Sikh community ahead of the March 15 roundtable in Australian Parliament to highlight concerns about Delhi’s heavy-handedness and suppression of dissent in dealing with the farmers’ legitimate demands.Also read: Sikhs targeted in Sydney amid growing disagreement within Indian community over farming laws: ReportIt all started with a pro-farm Bill rally billed as “Tiranga Yatra” followed by another that provocatively stopped in front of a gurdwara. In both cases, the organisers and members of the Sikh community traded charges of intimidation. In the next two incidents, there was no doubt about the targeted community. In one instance, a Sikh youth was chased on the streets and in the latest incident, a group of Sikh men fled a gang, who smashed their car with bats and hammers while they were still inside. The police has promised to “come down as hard as we need to” but Amar Singh of Turbans for Australia said: “They are targeting our community.” The Australian Alliance Against Hate and Violence has held a press conference on the threat that Hindu far-right extremism poses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/oz-warns-of-deportation-post-attacks-on-sikhs-220517
05-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Watch Farooq Abdullah shake a leg at Amarinder Singh’s granddaughter’s wedding||A video of National Conference veteran Farooq Abdullah shaking a leg at the wedding of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s granddaughter is the latest from the high-profile wedding to set the internet buzzing.The video shows Abdullah, the 83-year-old former chief minister of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, break into a jig to a live performance of the Bollywood song ‘Aajkal Tere Mere Pyar Ke Charche’.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s granddaughter Seherinder Kaur married Delhi businessman Aaditya Narang at the politician’s Siswan farmhouse. Seherinder, the daughter of Amarinder Singh’s son Raninder Singh, married Aditya Narang, the son of Delhi-based businessman Devin Narang, at a ceremony on Sunday.      From @capt_amarinder's grand daughter's marriage. @JKNC_ president dancing to tunes of "Aajkal tere mere pyar ke charche" pic.twitter.com/KUTsnaXdnc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/watch-farooq-abdullah-shake-a-leg-at-amarinder-singhs-granddaughters-wedding-220505
05-03-2021||New Delhi||HC asks UP police to give X-Ray, post-mortem report of dead farmer to their Delhi counterparts||The Delhi High Court Thursday directed the Uttar Pradesh police to provide original X-Ray plate and video of post mortem of the 25-year-old farmer, who died after his tractor overturned during the tractor rally on Republic Day.Justice Yogesh Khanna said let both the original documents be handed over to the official of Delhi Police on March 5 at 2 pm and they shall be retained by the investigating officer in safe custody.The high court was hearing a plea by deceased Navreet Singh’s grandfather—Hardeep Singh—claiming that the victim suffered gunshot injuries to his head. His post mortem was conducted at Rampur district hospital in Uttar Pradesh.However, both the Delhi and Uttar Pradesh Police claimed before the court that Navreet did not suffer any gunshot wounds.Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi Police, told the court that though they have requested the Uttar Pradesh Police to give original X-Ray plate and post mortem video but the officials of Rampur police and hospital denied the same, unless ordered by the court.Advocate Garima Prashad, representing the Uttar Pradesh Police and the CMO of the hospital, said they do not have X-Ray report and they only have the X-Ray plate and the post mortem report which they are willing to handover to the Delhi Police on the date and time fixed by the court.She said the original post mortem and inquest reports have already been handed over to the Delhi Police.Advocate Vrinda Grover, representing the petitioner, sought a copy of the X-Ray report and post mortem and inquest reports.As Mehra stated that they have no objection in giving those documents to the petitioner, the high court said, “let the needful be done” and listed the matter for further hearing on March 17.Grover also said once the original X-Ray plate is received from the Uttar Pradesh Police, the court can ask AIIMS or any other forensic department to prepare a report out of the X-Ray plate for their perusal.Delhi Police had earlier said according to the post-mortem report, the young farmer died due to a head injury as a result of the accident and all his injuries were possible in a road accident.The petition, also filed through advocate Soutik Banerjee, has sought a court-monitored SIT probe into the death of the young farmer.The Delhi Police, also represented by advocate Chaitanya Gosain, has relied upon the footage collected from CCTV cameras located at the site—Deen Dayal Upadhyay marg—where the young farmer died and said that he was driving the tractor at high speed and the vehicle overturned after hitting the barricades.The Delhi Police agreed to show the footage to the petitioner’s counsel.It had said that the footage also shows that the police personnel were running away for safety from the speeding tractor and that none of them fired upon the vehicle or the driver.The Delhi Police have also said CCTV footage further indicates that the protesters did not take the injured Navreet Singh to any nearby hospital and instead they attacked the ambulances that reached the site after hearing about the accident.It had said the protesters instead of taking him to the hospital immediately, kept his body on the road for five hours and then spread rumours that he was killed in police firing.The Uttar Pradesh police, in its status report, had stated that no FIR has been registered by it in connection with the death as claimed by the petitioner.The petitioner’s counsel had earlier contended that the way Delhi Police has conducted itself in the matter “does not inspire a shred of confidence”.It had argued that this indicated that the victim lost control of the tractor and it overturned as he was shot by the police personnel.According to the police, the man had died as his tractor overturned at ITO where many farmers participating in the parade had reached from the Ghazipur border after taking a detour of the pre-agreed route for the march.The police had claimed that the man was driving the tractor and he came under the vehicle as it overturned. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-asks-up-police-to-give-x-ray-post-mortem-report-of-dead-farmer-to-their-delhi-counterparts-220474
05-03-2021||---||Navjot Sidhu again corners Amarinder govt, wants fresh laws to counter central farm Bills||Chandigarh, March 4Days after upping his ante against his own government over alleged squandering of public money my mafias, former Cabinet Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday again cornered the ruling party on the need to bring new legislations to ensure minimum support price on oilseeds and lentils to encourage farmers to get out of the wheat-rice cycle that get MSP from the Centre.Avoiding replies on his recent statement questioning performance of his own government, Sidhu, addressing the media almost two years after he resigned from the Cabinet, said he had come to talk only on the central agriculture laws and the ways to bail out farmers of the farm crisis.Asked why such laws were not being brought by his own government, he said he would raise the issue in the CLP meeting whenever it was called. He said he could talk remaining within the party decorum.Sidhu said he had been raising the issue on public platform, be it mining or other issues. But the statements should be seen in right perspective, he said.The cricketer-turned-politician said the state could very well defy the laws being forced on the state by the Centre, violating the federal rights enshrined in the Constitution.Sidhu said there was need to support farmers in creating storage facilty to counter the corporate onslaught by the Centre. Once farmers had storage capacity, they would be in a position to negotiate the price of their crops. In this way, the farmers could be saved from the onslaught of corporates.He said the government was spending hefty amount on purchase of cereals. “Why can’t we give MSP on this. The Haryana government is procuring oilseeds and selling oil out of that. We too can do so,” he said.“The farmers are ready for organic farming but at least someone should come forward to support them,” he said, adding that the state should also amend the cooperative laws and allow farmers to run the same and not the bureaucrats.Sidhu said there was need for MNREGA like minimum support income for farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-again-corners-amarinder-govt-wants-fresh-laws-to-counter-central-farm-bills-220425
05-03-2021||New Delhi||Punjab, 5 other states account for over 85 per cent of fresh Covid cases||Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Karnataka continue to report a surge in daily new Covid cases, accounting for 85.51 per cent of fresh cases, the Union Health ministry said on Thursday.A total of 17,407 new infections have been registered in a day.Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 9,855. This is the highest number recorded in the state since October 18 when 10,259 new cases were reported.It is followed by Kerala with 2,765 while Punjab reported 772 new cases. The total number of cases with the UK, South Africa and Brazil variants of SARS-CoV-2 in the country as on date has reached 242, the ministry said.India's total Covid active caseload has reached 1,73,413 comprising 1.55 per cent of India's total cases."Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh are showing a rise in active cases," the ministry said.Showcasing the change in active cases for states and UTs in a span of 24 hours, the ministry said Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar and Assam witnessed a reduction in the active cases in 24 hours.However, Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat displayed a rise in active cases during the same time period, it said.India's cumulative recovered cases are following a steadily rising trajectory and have surged to 1,08,26,075.More than 1.66 crore vaccine doses have been administered through 3,23,064 sessions, as per the provisional report till Thursday 7 am.These include 67,90,808 health care workers (HCWs 1st dose), 28,72,725 HCWs (2nd dose), 58,03,856 front line workers (FLWs 1st dose) and 4,202 FLWs (2nd Dose), 1,43,759 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st dose) and 10,00,698 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years.As on day 47 of the vaccination drive (March 3), nearly 10 lakh vaccine doses were given. Of these, 8,31,590 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 10,849 sessions for 1st dose (HCWs and FLWs) and 1,62,862 HCWs and FLWs received 2nd dose of vaccine.Besides, 89 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours.Six states account for 88.76 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (42). Kerala follows with 15 daily deaths and Punjab reported 12 deaths in the last 24 hours.Twenty-three states and UTs have not reported any Covid deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Puducherry, Assam, Lakshadweep, Nagaland, Sikkim, Ladakh, Tripura, Andaman Nicobar Islands, Manipur, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Arunachal Pradesh. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-5-other-states-account-for-over-85-per-cent-of-fresh-covid-cases-220418
05-03-2021||London||UK MPs to debate press freedom, safety of protesters in India next week||British lawmakers will debate the issue of press freedom and safety of protesters in India next Monday in response to an e-petition which had crossed the 100,000-signature threshold required for such a debate, the House of Commons Petitions Committee confirmed on Wednesday.The 90-minute debate will be held at Westminster Hall in the Houses of Parliament complex in London and will be opened by Scottish National Party (SNP) MP and member of the Petitions Committee Martyn Day, and a minister will be deputed to respond on behalf of the UK government.The debate relates to the petition entitled ‘Urge the Indian Government to ensure safety of protesters & press freedom’, which called on the British government to make a public statement on the “#kissanprotests & press freedoms”.Read also: Canadian civil groups out in support of Indian farmersNext week, the issue will come up for debate and is expected to involve backbench MPs who have been vocal on the issue of farmers’ protests in India, including Opposition Labour MP Tanmanjit Singh Dhesi.India has emphasised that the protests by farmers must be seen in the context of India’s democratic ethos and polity and the Ministry of External Affairs said that some vested interest groups have tried to mobilise international support against the country.“Before rushing to comment on such matters, we would urge that the facts be ascertained, and a proper understanding of the issues at hand be undertaken,” the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement last month.Thousands of farmers have been camping at several Delhi border points since November last year, demanding the government to repeal three farm laws and provide them legal guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. Multiple rounds of talks between the government and farmer unions have not been able to resolve the deadlock.“Media freedom and the right to protest are essential to robust democracies such as the UK and India. Governments have the power to enforce law and order if a protest crosses the line into illegality,” the UK government had said in its written response to the petition last month.The response, necessitated after any e-petition on the Parliament website crosses the 10,000-signature mark, noted that the British government is conscious of the level of concern regarding the farmers’ protests in India and appreciates that there are “strong feelings” in Britain towards the issue as many British citizens have family ties to farming communities in India.“We understand that the Government of India has held several rounds of talks with farmers’ unions, and that in January the Supreme Court put three farming laws on hold and designated an expert committee to scrutinise the laws,” according to UK government statement.“The UK government will continue to follow the farmers’ protests closely. We respect that agricultural reforms are a matter for India, and will continue to champion human rights globally,” it adds.Last month, the Indian High Commission in London had issued an open letter to another Labour MP, Claudia Webbe, after her several interventions over the issue on social media.The letter, accompanied by a detailed fact sheet, read: “It is emphasised that the reforms, intended to protect and empower farmers in India are based on inputs from experts and recommendations by Committees that have analysed the specific challenges of the agricultural sector in India over the last 20 years.“The efforts continue – but Government of India is more than aware of efforts by vested interests abroad to fuel the protests through misinformation and incendiary assertions that are not helpful in progressing the dialogue between the protesters and government or addressing the issues through the democratic processes that our people have traditionally relied on.”The Indian government last week said it has shown utmost respect for protests by farmers and has remained engaged in dialogue with them to address their concerns. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/uk-mps-to-debate-press-freedom-safety-of-protesters-in-india-next-week-220043
