06-03-2021||Chandigarh||12 more Covid deaths, 1,179 new cases recorded in Punjab||The COVID-19 death toll in Punjab rose to 5,910 on Saturday with 12 more fatalities, while 1,179 new cases pushed the infection count to 1,87,348, a medical bulletin issued here said.Punjab has been witnessing a surge in the number of daily COVID-19 cases for nearly four weeks.The number of active cases also jumped to 7,164 on Saturday from 6,661 the previous day, it said.Read also: Night curfew imposed in four Punjab districts to tackle coronavirusOf the new cases, SBS Nagar reported the maximum 156 cases, followed by 154 from Jalandhar, 146 from Ludhiana and 137 from Hoshiarpur.A total of 644 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the overall recoveries to 1,74,274, as per bulletin.There are 20 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 131 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 51,59,683 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.Meanwhile, Chandigarh also witnessed a surge in new cases on Saturday with 122 more people getting infected.With this, the infection count has risen to 22,238, according to a medical bulletin.No COVID-related fatality was reported on Saturday. The death toll stands at 355, as per bulletin.The number of active cases rose from 587 on Friday to 675 on Saturday, it said.A total of 34 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the overall recoveries to 21,208, the bulletin said.A total of 2,65,479 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 2,42,276 have tested negative while reports of 138 samples were awaited, it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/12-more-covid-deaths-1-179-new-cases-recorded-in-punjab-221555
06-03-2021||---||Punjab chief secretary reviews preparedness for second wave of Covid-19 pandemic||Chandigarh, March 6In order to effectively manage the second wave of the Pandemic Covid-19 in Punjab state and to break the chain of transmission, a high-level meeting was chaired here today by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, wherein the Deputy Commissioners, Police Chiefs and key officers of other stakeholder departments like health and medical education were present.Chief Secretary reviewed the preparedness for the second wave of pandemic with each district along with their status of the vaccination.She said “the second wave of the disease has already started and all DCs and Police Chiefs must ensure that large gatherings like marriages, religious events and social functions should be restricted as per the guidelines of the Government and COVID monitors should be deputed at marriage palaces and other places of gatherings”.Vini Mahajan also emphasised upon the detailed assessment of Health Care Facilities to effectively combat the second wave. She asked the officers to quickly undertake an analysis of positivity rate in towns, where elections were held recently, to assess the impact of crowding at these places.She added that as the overall positivity rate in schools is low, hence there is no need to close the schools.The Chief Secretary expressed concern that number of cases and positivity rate has increased in the last two weeks in the state and 9 districts of Punjab have shown higher number of cases in last two weeks with markedly increased case positivity rate.She exhorted that a major thrust needs to be given on awareness regarding COVID Appropriate Behaviors among the community.Hussan Lal, Principal Secretary (Health) shared the data about some super spreader events like marriages, social gatherings and offices resulting in greater exposure and increased positivity. He informed that 2,38,367 persons have already been given first dose of COVID-19 vaccine with no major adverse events following immunisation. He also appraised the Chief Secretary regarding a model which predicts huge surge in number of cases starting mid-March to 3,000 cases per day by end of March.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-chief-secretary-reviews-preparedness-for-second-wave-of-covid-19-pandemic-221518
06-03-2021||---||EcoSikh plants 303 forests in name of Guru Nanak in two years||Chandigarh, March 6EcoSikh on Saturday announced the completion of 303 forests consisting of 1,67,000 trees planted across India.The plantation of the Guru Nanak Sacred Forests started in collaboration with Afforestt two years ago as part of EcoSikh’s goal of planting 1 million trees in honour of Guru Nanak’s 550th birth-anniversary, according to EcoSikh officials.Rajwant Singh, global president of EcoSikh, said, “We are very pleased that 167,000 trees have been planted in these sacred forests so far and 99% of them have survived and are thriving. This way of paying tribute to Guru Nanak will have a long-lasting positive impact on future generations. These sacred forests are conserving and restoring the biodiversity of Punjab and other parts of India. This is a collective and a solid step to fight climate change.”He added, “EcoSikh has also established its first nursery of indigenous trees of Punjab and we are grateful to Sajjan Precision Castings in Sahnewal for hosting this initiative. This has helped our forest plantations tremendously.”EcoSikh president Supreet Kaur said, “Over 55 native and rare forest trees species of Punjab have been conserved under this project.”The panelists also launched a video teaser, ‘How to create a Sacred Forest in Punjab’ a free online tutorial, which will uplift the vision of the youth of the state.EcoSikh is celebrating the 11th annual Sikh environment day on March 14. This was started by the organisation to mark the Gurta-gaddi Diwas (enthronement day) of the 7th Sikh Guru, Guru Har Rai.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ecosikh-plants-303-forests-in-name-of-guru-nanak-in-two-years-221516
06-03-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder subverting peace with farmers:  BJP||Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma said on Saturday that the Amarinder Singh government was instigating farmers to keep the pot boiling instead of finding a resolution to the deadlock over the controversial agriculture laws.Reacting to the Vidhan Sabha resolution on farmers adopted on Saturday, Sharma said the chief minister, by bringing such resolutions time and again, was misleading farmers and instead of helping the Centre resolve the differences with farmers was trying to complicate the issue and create a wrong impression.“This has led to creating a disturbing law and order situation in the state and has brought the state on the edge,” said Sharma.He said after having failed to do anything to improve the plight of farmers in Punjab, the Amarinder government was supporting and instigating farmers' protest.Sharma said the Amarinder government had been instigating farmers against the bills right from day one and has lent support to the disruptive elements in the garb of supporting farmers.The BJP leader suggested that the chief minister work for the development of Punjab instead of creating an unnecessarily disturbing law and order situation to spread fear and terror in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-subverting-peace-with-farmers%C2%A0-bjp-221505
06-03-2021||New Delhi||Ready for talks, but mere modifications in farm laws not acceptable: Rajewal||On completion of 100 days of the farmers' stir, Punjab's Balbir Singh Rajewal on Saturday said the farmers are ready for the next round of dialogue with the Central government, but they will not accept the three contentious farm laws with modifications.Speaking from the Western Peripheral Expressway in Kundli in Haryana, where the farmers organised a blockade from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. in a bid to intensify their protest, Rajewal said this protest is just a "symbolic" one against the government on these farm laws and it will become "bigger"."This is a symbolic protest. It will become bigger... We are ready for talks if government invites us (farmer leaders). But our demand is the same. We want withdrawal of the three farm laws. We will not accept the modification in these laws," Rajewal said while speaking to IANS.The 77-year-old farmer leader, who has been leading the current agitation against the Narendra Modi government's farm laws along with other key farmer leaders, said that the farmers' strategy is to add more states in the demonstration which completed 100 days on Saturday.Rajewal, the leader of his own BKU faction, is credited with having drafted the constitution of the BKU. His vast experience and in-depth knowledge of agriculture in Punjab has made him the 'think tank' of this agitation.Hundreds of vehicles were stopped as protesting farmers blocked the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway to mark the completion of 100 days of their agitation at the Delhi borders.The call for blocking the KMP Expressway was given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting farmer unions spearheading the agitation against the agriculture-related legislations. The 136-km KMP Expressway is also known as the Western Peripheral Expressway.Thousands of farmers are sitting on the Delhi borders since November 26 last year against the three farm laws enacted in September 2020 during the Monsoon Session of Parliament. The farmers say they are "black laws" and "anti-farmer".IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ready-for-talks-but-mere-modifications-in-farm-laws-not-acceptable-rajewal-221487
06-03-2021||Chandigarh||Night curfew imposed in four Punjab districts to tackle coronavirus||A night curfew was imposed in Punjab’s four districts from Saturday to tackle a recent surge in coronavirus cases.The orders came after Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan and Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta held a meeting to review the coronavirus situation with all DCs, district police chiefs and civil surgeons through a video conferencing. The districts where the night curfew has been imposed are Jalandhar, SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala.Read also: Centre rushes high-level teams to Punjab, Maharashtra amid rapid surge in Covid-19 cases12 more Covid deaths, 1,179 new cases recorded in PunjabThe night curfew will remain in place in the districts from 11 pm to 5 am.Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori had earlier in the day said the order will be effective from Saturday till further directions.However, there will be relaxation for workers or staff working in factories which run on 24-hour shifts and also in cases of medical emergency. These orders will not be applicable on people returning after travelling in buses, trains or flights.  The chief secretary in a tweet has urged people to get themselves vaccinated and to continue to follow the COVID-appropriate behavior.Last month, the Punjab government had authorised deputy commissioners (DCs) to impose the night curfew in coronavirus hotspots if needed.  Punjab has been witnessing a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases for nearly four weeks.Jalandhar reported 242 cases on Thursday, 134 cases on Friday and 154 on Saturday, promoting the district authorities to take this decision.Jalandhar is at the second spot in terms of coronavirus cases after Ludhiana. It has so far reported 22,410 COVID-19 cases.There are a total of 926 active cases in Jalandhar as of now, according to a medical bulletin.SBS Nagar, Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur on Saturday reported 156, 85 and 137 cases, respectively.Punjab on Saturday reported 1,179 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the infection tally to 187,348 cases. Twelve more deaths took the fatality count to 5,910.Punjab is among the five states that have been asked by the Centre to refocus on strict surveillance, containment and RT-PCR testing to check the growing number of cases. The other four states are Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh.Earlier, health officials had ascribed the upswing in the number of cases to non-adherence of COVID-19 safety guidelines like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing by people.  Earlier, the state government had lifted the night curfew from January 1 because of a decline in coronavirus cases. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/night-curfew-imposed-in-four-punjab-districts%C2%A0to-tackle-coronavirus-221485
06-03-2021||Patiala||14 teachers, 6 students test COVID positive at Patiala; results of 100s awaited; 4 schools shut||14 teachers and six students tested positive for the deadly disease on Saturday afternoon here. However, the result of hundreds of other students and teachers are still awaited. As an increase in coronavirus cases is witnessed, the Health Department has ordered to close some cluster schools for the next 48 hours. Positive cases were reported from these schools: Government High School Bhanra, government Meritorious School, Government High School Drauli, Government primary and High school, Saidkheri. Besides positive cases were also reported from two private schools: Mukat Public School Rajpura and Buddha Dal Public School Samana.Notable, Government High School in Factory area had reported 12 positive cases on Friday. Patiala Health Department revealed that they have already ramped up testing, and started contact tracing of positive patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/14-teachers-6-students-test-covid-positive-at-patiala-results-of-100s-awaited-4-schools-shut-221477
06-03-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Following scuffle, Ludhiana man kills neighbour's 2 sons, then kills self||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 6Following a scuffle with a neighbour, a man killed the neighbour’s two sons and later committed suicide at Rajiv Gandhi Colony in Focal Point here on Saturday.The man used to stalk the mother of the boys owing to which their father had a scuffle with the accused which led to the killings.Additional DCP Rupinder Kaur Sra said as per initial investigation, Shalinder Kumar committed suicide after murdering the boys.The boys have been identified as Rajnish (8) and Manish (6), sons of Shiv Shankar Tiwari, originally from UP’s Bahraich.Both the accused and the victims' family lived in a migrants’ vehra. The incident took place around 11.30 am.According to information, Shailender had been stalking the woman for the past two to three days. On Friday, her husband had complained to the vehra owner. Following this, the accused threatened revenge.On Saturday, on finding the boys alone in the room the accused took them to his room. “The accused slit the throats of the boys and later hanged himself from the ceiling fan. Neighbours sounded the police,” the Additional DCP said.Accused Shalinder had been living with his uncle at the vehra for the past two years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/following-scuffle-ludhiana-man-kills-neighbours-2-sons-then-kills-self-221465
06-03-2021||Fatehpur (UP)||Abducted 3-year-old UP girl rescued from Punjab’s Jalandhar||A three-year-old girl who was abducted from a locality here was rescued from Jalandhar in Punjab, police said on Saturday.The girl’s aunt and her boyfriend were arrested in this connection, they added.Girl’s aunt Nishu Dwivedi (20) had abducted the child on Tuesday and went to her boyfriend who was living in Jalandhar, Fatehpur SP Satpal Antil said.A police surveillance team reached Jalandhar on Friday and safely rescued the girl, he said.Nishu and her boyfriend Navdeep Singh alias Ginni (25) were arrested, Antil added.During interrogation, Nishu told the police that she had run away from the house to marry her boyfriend and had taken the child along so that both she and her boyfriend could stay in a hotel as husband and wife without inviting any attention, the SP said.She said she had no intention to harm the child, he added.The girl was handed over to her family, he said.Nishu and Navdeep would be produced in the court on Saturday, Antil said.The girl’s father is a teacher, the police said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abducted-3-year-old-up-girl-rescued-from-punjabs-jalandhar-221449
06-03-2021||Chandigarh/Delhi||Was just a trial, says Rakesh Tikait as farmers' blockade of KMP Expressway ends||As farmers' blockade of the six-lane Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway came to an end on Saturday evening, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait warned of intensifying such measures unless the Centre heeded to their demands of repealing the controversial agriculture laws.  "Like Delhi borders, KMP can also be blocked completely. Today was a trial for five hours," he said. Farmers blocked some parts of the highway as a mark of 100 days of their protest at Delhi's borders on Sunday.  The road blockade began at 11 am and continued till 4 pm.Farmers have pitched tents at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, since November in an attempt to pressure the central government into repealing three laws ---the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesters have held several rounds of talks with the central government with no headway. Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a joint front of 32 farmers' unions that have been spearheading the protests, had called a 5-hour blockade of the 136-km Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway,  also known as the western peripheral Expressway, on Saturday. Protesters said they would only allow emergency vehicles to pass during those five hours. Released from Sonepat jail, Dalit activist Shiv Kumar says was thrashed by cops dailyThe 53-km Manesar-Palwal section was inaugurated by Union Minister Nitin Gadkari in 2016 and the 83-km Kundli-Manesar section was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018.Won’t hesitate to take produce to Parliament: BKU leader Rakesh TikaitFarmers holding black flags and wearing black armbands and some women protesters with black ‘dupattas’ shouted slogans against the BJP-led government for not acceding to their demands.Protesters in Sonipat and Jhajjar districts and some other places brought their tractor-trolleys and other vehicles and parked them in the middle of the KMP Expressway in some stretches.The Haryana Police had made arrangements for traffic diversions and deployed adequate personnel.Protesting farmers squatted on the expressway and criticised the Narendra Modi government for not withdrawing the farm legislation, which they called “black laws”.“Our agitation against the three farm laws will continue unless the Centre withdraws these laws. We will not step back,” said a protester in Sonipat.Farmers held a protest at the KMP Expressway near Mandothi village in Jhajjar district. Some people from nearby villages joined them.“We are holding our protest in a peaceful manner,” said a farmer, adding that they were also observing “black day” on Saturday.Protesting farmers said the government should withdraw these laws.Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, while addressing a gathering on the KMP Expressway, asked the Modi government to withdraw these laws.This agitation will certainly put pressure on the central government, he said.Farmers claimed that their five-hour protest remained peaceful.Sonipat Superintendent of Police Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said arrangements were made for traffic diversions.Heavy vehicles were diverted from Panipat and others from Ganaur to Delhi, said officials.Traffic was also diverted from Murthal via Sonipat city to Narela and Bawana and from Bahadurgarh to Baghpat, they said.Officials said traffic resumed at KMP expressway after famers lifted their blockade at 4 pm.In Palwal district also, farmers staged a ‘dharna’.At some places in Haryana, farmers even put up black flags atop roof of their houses as a mark of their protest against the government for not withdrawing the farm laws.Also read:The KMP Expressway was built to decongest the ever-busy roads of Delhi, especially by reducing the number of trucks entering the national capital, thus helping to curb pollution.It provides a high-speed link between northern and southern Haryana districts and gives an uninterrupted high-speed link for traffic, especially commercial traffic, from Haryana to neighbouring states.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the three laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.What next?As plains of North India brace for scorching summers and the harvesting season begins, farmers made it clear that they would not turn back until their demands are met.“After completing 100 days of an unparalleled sit-in at the Delhi’ borders, unions will unveil the next agenda and programme for coming days on March 11,” Jagmohan Singh Patiala, general secretary of BKU (Dakaunada), said. The aim is to expand the movement to other parts of the country, including poll-bound West Bengal and, also States like Madhya Pradesh Karnataka and Odisha, added BKU general secretary Yudhvir Singh.Senior leaders say despite “many hurdles posed by the government and its agencies, the movement is going strong and is set to become bigger”. However, the underlying message for BJP’s political rivals is that this does not mean all support for them.  Patiala said the organisations will coordinate with BJP’s rival parties to make this clear to them.“We are apolitical, we want to make it clear to the Opposition parties as well,” he said. Rajewal said the protest is a “symbolic” and will become “bigger”.“We are ready for talks if government invites us (farmer leaders). But our demand remains the same. We want the withdrawal of the three farm laws. We will not accept the modification in the laws,” said Rajewal, president of BKU Rajewal,  who has been leading the talks of farmer unions with the central government.    Unions are also planning meetings, panchayats and mahapanchayats in other states and other areas, but at a distance from the current dharna sites at the Delhi borders. Yudhvir Singh said the movement has got tremendous support from across the country and it is now timefor farmers in other states like Odisha and Karnataka to register it physically.“For 100 days farmers have been camping at the Delhi borders in bitter cold, many have also died. But the government’s attitude has not just been disappointing but also shameful. We have no other option but to take the movement to other states and ensure our physical presence there. We will do whatever it takes to show our ‘nararzgi’ (anger),” he said. Singh said the movement has got a very good response from Rajasthan and they are considering a panchayat in Jaipur on the birth anniversary of Shaheed Bhagat Singh.“We will hold meetings/panchayats in Bengal on March 12, 13, and 14, Madhya Pradesh on March 14 and 15, Odisha on March 19, and Karnataka on March 20, 21, and 22. The movement is no longer limited to dharnas. If we want, we can collect a huge crowd on Delhi borders in one hour, but that is not the only aim now,” he said. — With agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/was-just-a-trial-says-rakesh-tikait-as-farmers-blockade-of-kmp-expressway-ends-221437
06-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Shehnaaz Gill breaks silence on acid attack threats, morphed videos of her: ‘It is getting me sympathy’||Former Bigg Boss contestant Shehnaaz Gill revealed that she is unfazed by the acid attack threats and the morphed videos of her that were circulated online.The actress said that the “negativity is backfiring, and only turning into positivity for her”. She adds that these things are only making fans love her more.In conversation with Bollywood Hungama, Shehnaaz said that she is not scared of the threats or doctored videos. “I want to congratulate those who are doing these things. It is not affecting me, but I think it is getting me sympathy. People are loving me more,” she said in Hindi.“People do not realise that if they say something negative about someone, it turns into positivity for the person they are speaking badly about because they get sympathy,” she added.Shehnaaz, who was the second runner-up of Bigg Boss 13, has featured in a number of music videos since the show came to an end.Currently, Shehnaaz is in Canada, where is shooting for a film titled ‘Honsla Rakh’, alongside Diljit Dosanjh and Sonam Bajwa. It is scheduled to hit theatres on Dussehra (October 15) this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shehnaaz-gill-breaks-silence-on-acid-attack-threats-morphed-videos-of-her-it-is-getting-me-sympathy-221428
06-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Kapil Sharma's ‘little rockstar’ Anayra dances to Honey Singh’s song Jingle Bell; don’t miss it||Comedian Kapil Sharma shared an adorable video of his daughter Anayra dancing to the beats of Jingle Bell. The Kapil Sharma Show host—who is currently on paternity leave as he welcomed his second baby wife Ginni Chatrath last month—was a proud daddy and called his girl “a little rockstar”.Kapil and Ginni welcomed their son in February.Anarya was grooving to rapper Yo Yo Honey Singh’s Jingle Bell rendition. The show is expected to return after a break in a refurbished format.Kapil might be on a break from the small screen, but he is all set to make his digital debut with a Netflix special.And now check out the viral video of baby Anayra shared by a fan page:A post shared by Kapil Sharma Universe (@kapil_sharmauniverse)Earlier, talking about his association with Netflix, Kapil had said in an interview, “2020 has been a bumpy ride for everyone around the world and my motive is to make people forget their worries and welcome this new year with love, laughter and positivity. I always wanted to be on Netflix but I didn’t have their number (laughs). I cannot wait to share more details with my fans soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kapil-sharmas-little-rockstar-anayra-dances-to-honey-singhs-song-jingle-bell-dont-miss-it-221427
06-03-2021||Ravneet Singh||Delhi Police summon Punjab farmer who had died in December for January 26 violence||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 6In a bizarre case, the crime branch of Delhi Police has summoned a farmer, who died on December 31, to join an investigation for the January 26 violence.As a matter of fact, the three brothers named in the notice were never associated with the farmers' protest, says the family.Bhupinder Singh, son of Surjit Singh (88) said, his father and brothers, Jagir Singh and Gurcharan Singh, were never a part of the farmer's protest.Women protesters on their way to Gurdwara Rakabganj refuse to remove ‘flags’, detainedA two-year-old was also held"Jagir Singh, who had died at the age of 90 on December 31, was bedridden for last one year due to old age. He was a farmer and landowner all his life, but never participated in the protest."Singh said his father Surjit Singh, and his younger brother Gurcharan Singh also did not participate in the protest over the three farm Bills."My father is 86 years old and suffers from age-related issues. He lives at our village, Neholka of Kurali. His brother Gurcharan Singh, who is a retired government teacher, lives in the city and is no longer associated with farming now,” he said adding, "We received the notice on February 24 and were shocked as we did not know how to deal with the matter. We contacted the legal team of Samyukt Kissan Morcha. They have assured us all possible help."He said they also want the Punjab government to help them and other people facing such notices.Buta Singh Burjgill, state president, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta), said the Delhi Police have sent such notices to many other people who have died much before January 26."They are creating a fear and are also sending notices to people on the basis of registration numbers of vehicles that came for langar sewa or other services in the protest. We have told people not to go to the crime branch directly but contact our legal team instead."Opinion: How the police let down Delhi riot victims||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delhi-police-summon-punjab-farmer-who-had-died-in-december-for-january-26-violence-221425
06-03-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Released from Sonepat jail, Dalit activist Shiv Kumar says was thrashed by cops daily||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 5After the sessions court at Sonepat granted bail to labour rights activist Shiv Kumar (24) on Thursday in an attempt-to-murder case on the “grounds of parity”, he arrived at the PGI today after his release from the jail. He was earlier granted bail in two cases of rioting and extortion on Wednesday.Also read: Dalit activist Shiv Kumar's medical report reveals 2 fractures, broken toenail bedsAt the hospital, after doctor’s consultation, an X-ray was performed on him, the reports of which will be out on Saturday, said his friend Jasminder, who accompanied Shiv’s father Rajbir and another friend Ankit. Joined by some members of the Students for Society (SFS), Panjab University’s student organisation, the trio marched straight to Panjab University, outside the VC’s office where members of PURSA staged a hunger protest.Of police ‘brutality’Shiv Kumar, president of the Mazdoor Adhikaar Sangathan, sat on a chair, with plaster on his right leg, and narrated the tales of brutality meted out to him at the Kundli Police Station. “From January 16 to January 23, I was beaten up every day at least three times daily for a minimum of one hour. The cops would ask me where the organisation’s getting funds from,” he said.Shiv tailed the memories of his arrest from the Kundli border. “I was at the washroom near a KFC outlet at Kundli. Safai karamchaaris asked me to get out. Some four or five people, dressed as civils, put a cloth on my face, pointed two pistols at me and asked me to walk with them. I screamed for help, but in vain. After walking a while, they asked me to sit me in a car. At that time, I got to know they were police,” he said.“They drove me to a police station, Staff One behind Purani Kachairi near Gur Mandi in Sonipat. There, they removed my clothes, at beat me up brutally, like an animal. My hands were tied. They hit my feet. My toes were bleeding. Then, they hit my hands in the same way. Cops would get tired, but the beating wouldn’t stop. Pattey maarey hai, stretch khol dena, koladi pherna, chappal maarna.... one of the cops even spit on my face. This is how they tortured me for three hours. Then I was asked to walk, while my feet bled,” he said.The police, said Shiv, would not allow him to talk to his parents despite repeated requests. “I gained strength from Bhagat Singh. He was beaten up too. Also, a comrade’s words gave me support, he would say: ‘pair toot jaye, honsala nahi tootna chahiye’,” Said Shiv.The police has slapped charges of extortion on Shiv, but that, says, Shiv is absolutely baseless. “I feel it was a backlash of labourers siding with farmers on the ground level. We maintain a diary and have helped a minimum of 300 labourers with their salaries amounting to some Rs5 Lakh. I’ve been part of the sangathan and its founding member since 2018,” he adds.‘Sleepless nights’Shiv still gets sleepless nights thinking about the days he spent in jail. “I was presented in court on January 23 at night, somewhere between 10 pm and midnight, while others were presented during daytime. I was locked up in the car and the IO and another police officer spoke to the judge. They came with remand orders. I was then left at the Kundli police station for 10 days. There, I was mentally harassed and verbally abused even though they didn’t beat me up during the remand time,” he said.Shiv still wonders why other people who were jailed with him, one arrested for peddling heroine, other for theft or robbery, weren’t beaten up as much as he was?. “They we’re asking me the same question. But I didn’t have any answer. On knowing about me even they’d support me,” He said. Kumar said, he would be leaving for Tikri and then Singhu tomorrow. Today, he also visited protesters at Matka Chownk and Sector 37 traffic lights.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/released-from-sonepat-jail-dalit-activist-shiv-kumar-says-was-thrashed-by-cops-daily-221321
06-03-2021||---||Jalandhar declared safest city in Punjab||Jalandhar, March 5The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has ranked Jalandhar city at 32nd position among 62 cities in the country with a population of less than one million in the ‘Ease of Living Index 2020’.The city secured 52.18 points and is the only one from Punjab to figure in this category. The city scored 100 and 96 points in safety and security categories.Editorial: Misleading liveabilityNeed to ensure holistic, sustainable development of citiesJalandhar Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said its’s a proud moment for us and our responsibility has increased to serve the people of the city. “We will continue working at the same pace and won’t rest till the city becomes the safest in the entire country,” he said.Also read:The city scored 50.6 in terms of quality of life, while Ludhiana scored 57.36 and tops the state in this category. Jalandhar city scored a dismal 5 points in recreation and nil in green building category. It got 90 points for survey under the housing and shelter category.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-declared-safest-city-in-punjab-221152
06-03-2021||Rupinder Singh Brar||Remembering ‘Father of Sikh Encyclopedia’ — Prof Harbans Singh||Popular perceptions being what they are, scholarship is not something that comes easily to mind when one considers the Sikh community. Yet, the community has produced some notable historians who not only left behind rich literary legacies, but exemplified in their personal lives what it meant to be a scholar sage. For example, in the 17th century, it was Bhai Gurdas, in the 18th Bhai Mani Singh, in the 19th it was Bhai Kahan Singh Nabha and Bhai Vir Singh and in the 20th, several names come to mind. Prominent among them is Professor Harbans Singh, whose birth centenary falls on March 6.Born in the village of Kotha Guru in Bathinda district, Prof Harbans Singh rubbed shoulders with intellectual giants like Wilfred Cantwell Smith of Harvard, yet carried himself with such casual grace that he left a lasting impression on all whom he met. Said a Canadian scholar once, "To know such a person is to emerge a bigger, better person oneself.”An embodiment of Nanakian virtue, his best lessons were delivered not through seminars or books but through example. When SGPC president Gurcharan Singh Tohra, together with Parkash Singh Badal, honoured him with a cheque for Rs 25,000, not a small amount in those days, he refused to accept any money, insisting that it be used for promoting Sikh studies instead.A prodigious mind, his first major university appointment came as head of the department even before he was quite 23. His heart, however, lay in scholarship, not administration. In 1966, he produced his first major work in English, a definitive biography of Guru Gobind Singh. Not only was the book translated into most Indian languages, its Sanskrit translation won the coveted Sahitya Akademi award. Three years later, he produced a biography of Guru Nanak. It was another major achievement. The Times Literary Supplement, London, called the book, ‘Guru Nanak and the Origins of the Sikh Faith’, “the best short study of Guru Nanak’s life, and an outstanding example of modern Sikh scholarship”.More similar works followed. He travelled extensively, lecturing in Japan, Belgium, the Netherlands, England, Ireland, and the USA. Most men would rest comfortably upon such laurels, but not him. In 1972, he set out to produce an encyclopedia of Sikhism. It was an unbelievably ambitious goal, even for him. There were many sceptics. Wrote Khushwant Singh, “I do not know where he will find 4,000 contributors who have the discipline required to write factual, accurate and unbiased pieces in the exact number of words prescribed.”Undaunted, Harbans Singh created a team of writers and researchers around him. He painstakingly collected and reviewed every paper, artifact, and bit of data, then edited and reduced all information into concise entries. Months turned to years and years to decades as the work stretched into the late 1990s, and yet he toiled away doggedly. Impressed, the academic and the lay communities finally took notice. Guru Nanak Dev University awarded him an honorary doctorate. The SGPC bestowed upon him a special award. By now, even Khushwant Singh had become an admirer. “A start has been made at Patiala to produce the Encyclopedia of Sikhism,” he wrote. “Harbans Singh… its editor-in-chief, is the right man for the job. How many professors are there who turn down offers of Vice-Chancellorships? Harbans Singh refused one that was offered to him on a platter.”It was true, but by then the Professor had sacrificed much more than a prestigious post in his magnificent obsession. Despite suffering a paralytic stroke and losing his loving wife, he slogge d on relentlessly. He breathed his last on May 30, 1998, literally days after completing his monumental work. He was gone but his legacy was secure. Later that year, the Prime Minister himself would release four volumes.Recognitions continued posthumously. In 1999, he was awarded the ‘Order of the Khalsa’ by the community and later still Punjabi University created a full-fledged Department in his name. However, the highest homage came from another, more familiar source. In 2019, another historian, Prof Nikky Guninder Kaur Singh, his daughter, came out with a book on Guru Nanak — a fitting tribute to a worthy father.The writer is a practising physician in Yuba City, California||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/remembering-father-of-sikh-encyclopedia-%E2%80%94-prof-harbans-singh-221091
06-03-2021||---||Smugglers running drug biz from jails, says Amritsar district’s top cop||Amritsar, March 5A week-long drive against drug peddlers launched by the city police have led to the seizure of nearly 3-kg heroin.The investigations carried out in these cases revealed that the drug rackets were being run by the smugglers lodged in different jails.Dr SS Gill, Police Commissioner During the week-long drive, the city police arrested 47 persons, besides eight proclaimed offenders wanted in drug peddling. A total 2.81 kg of heroin, 1.2-kg opium and 6,349 sedative pills, besides Rs 1.12 lakh drug money were confiscated during the period.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Investigations) Mukhinder Singh Bhullar said during the week long drive, the city police arrested 47 persons besides eight proclaimed offenders wanted in drug peddling.A total 2.81 kg of heroin, 1.2-kg opium and 6,349 sedative pills besides Rs 1.12 lakh drug money were confiscated during the period.Among the prominent smugglers nabbed by the police, included Lovepreet Singh, alias Prince alias Ganja of Guru Nanak Colony, Shiva Nashy of Gawan Mandi, Didar Singh of Gumtala Road, Simran Singh, alias Bagga of Fullarwal in Gurdaspur, Shamsher Singh of Gumanpura, Kanwaljot Singh of Tungpai, Batala Road, Varinder, alias Shelly of Chheharta, Seema of Ishwar Nagar, Germanjit Singh of Gohalwarh village in Tarn Taran and Yadwinder Singh Taju of Mohkampura.The Police Commissioner said the police were in the process of identifying the properties of as many as 60 proclaimed offenders in various drug-related cases.Following verifications, these properties would be frozen as per the procedure.Bhullar said that one of the proclaimed offenders identified as Jatinder Kumar of the Krishna Nagar area here, was hiding in Jammu and Kashmir over the past five years. “His preliminary interrogation revealed his connection with Pakistan-based smugglers across the international border. He along with his Pakistan-based accomplices were trying to push in drugs and sell the same in J&K,” he said.The interrogation of these drug peddlers held in past week had links with notorious smugglers lodged in various jails. These smugglers, having links with Pakistani smugglers, were running their networks from jail with impunity. These smugglers (lodged in jails) would be brought into custody for further detailed investigations, he added.Meanwhile, the Special Task Force also seized 1.455 kg of heroin and arrested nine alleged drug peddlers during the week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/smugglers-running-drug-biz-from-jails-says-amritsar-districts-top-cop-221079
06-03-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Expired RCs of commercial vehicles valid till March 31||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 5The validity of expired documents such as registration and fitness certificates, permit, etc. for autorickshaws, minibuses, taxis and other light goods vehicles has been extended till March 31.The extension is valid for documents which expired on February 1, 2020. This information was given by Transport Minister Razia Sultana in reply to a question in the Assembly.Raising a question regarding unfulfilled government promises, Congress MLA Avtar Henry (Junior) said, “The government had failed to give the stipend of at least Rs 2,500 per month to beneficiaries of the old age, widow, dependent children and divyang pension as promised in the party’s manifesto during the 2017 elections. Minister Aruna Chaudhary said, “a proposal for increasing the pension in all categories has been forwarded to the Finance Department.” The list of beneficiaries includes: old age (16.42 lakh), widows (4.53 lakh), dependents (1.57 lakh) and divyang (2.02 lakh).In reply to a question by MLA HS Chandumajra on distribution of smartphones among students, Sports and Youth Services Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi said, “The government has distributed 1.74 lakh smart phones among plus two students. This year, we expect to distribute phones among 2.15 lakh students.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/expired-rcs-of-commercial-vehicles-valid-till-march-31-221098
06-03-2021||---||Hold judicial probe into R-Day incident: Samyukt Kisan Morcha||Chandigarh, March 5The legal panel of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) today demanded a judicial inquiry into the violence that occurred on January 26 in the national capital.The panel alleged a peaceful ‘kisan parade’ was disrupted and the route blocked under a deep-rooted conspiracy hatched by the Delhi Police at the insistence of the central government.At a press conference, members of the legal panel, led by Prem Singh Bhangu and Raminder Singh Patiala, condemned the tactics adopted by the Delhi Police to create terror among the farmers.They demanded immediate release of farmers lodged in different Delhi jails and withdrawal of cases registered against farm leaders and other protesters under various offences, including Sections 307, 395 and 397, Indian Penal Code.They sought scrapping of notices issued to hundreds of farmers in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand asking them to join investigation, alleging the intent was to implicate them in false cases.Bhangu claimed more than 20 FIRs had been registered against suspected and unidentified persons in which the police intended to involve innocent persons by issuing notices. The legal panel called upon farmers not to join investigation or respond to the notices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hold-judicial-probe-into-r-day-incident-samyukt-kisan-morcha-221099
06-03-2021||---||Police ‘brutality’ against protesters echoes in Punjab Vidhan Sabha||Chandigarh, March 5The issue of alleged police brutality against farm protesters during the Delhi agitation echoed in the Vidhan Sabha today. MLAs from various parties, including the Congress, SAD and AAP, pointed out alleged brutality against Nodeep Kaur, Shiv Kumar and Ranjit Singh.SAD’s Bikram Singh Majithia demanded institution of a House committee to look into the “torture” of human rights activists and “insult” to articles of faith. He demanded passing of a resolution condemning the Haryana Government and Delhi Jails Minister Satyendra Jain.Taking up the issue during zero hour, Majithia said it was outrageous that the Sonepat police “tortured” activists, including Nodeep Kaur and Shiv Kumar. He said Nodeep had claimed how both Kumar and she had been tortured by the Sonepat police and later “mistreated” in the Delhi jail.Majithia pointed out that articles of faith of Sikh youth, arrested in connection with the January 26 incidents, had been insulted at the Tihar jail, and AAP minister Jain was directly responsible for it.He said law officers of Delhi Government’s Advocate General office had gone on to oppose the bail applications of the youth. The House Committee should also look into barbarity inflicted on Sikh youth Ranjit Singh by the Delhi Police at the Singhu border, he added. Former Leader of the Opposition Sukhpal Singh Khaira too raised the issue, alleging Ranjit was picked up from a farmers’ camp and taken into custody with help of RSS and BJP men.SAD’s Pawan Kumar Tinu demanded compensation for farmers and labourers who died during the protest, besides government jobs for their children and waiver of loans. Congress MLA Angad Singh said legal help should be extended through the Advocate General’s office to those arrested on January 26.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/police-brutality-against-protesters-echoes-in-punjab-vidhan-sabha-221100
06-03-2021||Chandigarh||‘Lal Lakir’ Bill to be tabled in this session||The Punjab Cabinet today gave a go-ahead to introduce the Punjab Abadi Deh (Record of Right) Bill, 2021, in the ongoing Budget session.The move will help the state government compile the record of rights of properties within the ‘Lal Lakir’ in the villages for implementing the Mission Lal Lakir and also to deal with the issues arising out of the rights accruing out of these properties. Besides, this legislation would facilitate villagers or owners to monetise their property and avail benefits provided by government institutions.Besides, the Cabinet accorded approval to amend Section 2 of the Punjab Village Common Land (Regulation) Act, 1961, to safeguard the vacant land within Abadi Deh or ‘Lal Lakir’ or Gorah Deh from illegal encroachment.In a bid to eliminate red-tape and promote effective administration of public affairs, the Cabinet also okayed the Punjab Anti-Red Tape Bill to be tabled in the ongoing Budget session for enactment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lal-lakir-bill-to-be-tabled-in-this-session-221102
06-03-2021||Chandigarh||SAD backed farm laws, backtracked later: Capt Amarinder||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today expressed confidence that the people of the state would not be carried away by the “false promises” of some leaders detached from “Punjab and Punjabiyat” and would repose confidence in his transparent government.In his Motion of Thanks to the Governor’s Address, the CM said his was a “people’s government” that would strive for a “Kaamyaab and Khushaal Punjab”.Summing up the outcomes of his government’s policies, he reiterated the benefits delivered to farmers, consumers as a result of free/subsidised power, as well as debt relief to farmers and farm workers.Lauding the role of farmers in ensuring successful procurement during the pandemic, the CM said Rs 62,000 crore had been paid to farmers for the two crops procured during this period. Around 10 lakh farmers had come to the mandis to sell their produce, he said.Pointing out that SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had initially accused his government of misleading the farmers, and claimed the farm laws were in favour of the farmers, the CM said it was later that Sukhbir backtracked to oppose the legislations.He read out from an extract of a letter of June 25, 2020, in which Sukhbir had backed the farm laws, emphasising “there is nothing in these ordinances which is either against the federal structure or against the farmers”.The Akalis supported the resolution moved by his government in the Vidhan Sabha against the central laws and even went to the Governor to submit it before taking a U-turn, he said. Capt Amarinder recalled that Union ministers Hardeep Puri and Som Prakash had stated that MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal was part of the Cabinet meeting that approved the farm ordinances.He appealed to the Centre to withdraw all cases and notices against the agitating farmers. He introduced a resolution calling for repeal of the farm laws. The resolution, which was later passed unanimously by the House, expressed the angst of the members against the “unresponsive attitude” of the Centre. It demanded the unconditional withdrawal of the laws and to continue with the existing system of MSP-based procurement.Targeting BJP leaders over their statements against farmers, the CM asserted Punjab farmers were not anti-nationals but were the same patriotic people who laid down their lives at Galwan valley to protect India’s integrity. — TNSPower perks to continue in stateThe CM announced that free power to farmers and subsidised power to the industry will continue, as will the 200 free units of power to SC/BPL/BC households and freedom fighters in the state Enforcement Directorate to curb miningThe CM announced constitution of an Enforcement Directorate, Mining, under the command of a senior police officer with adequate police force at his command to eliminate illegal mining||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-backed-farm-laws-backtracked-later-capt-amarinder-221103
06-03-2021||Amritsar||Farmer unions to appeal for BJP’s boycott in poll||Farmer unions have given a call to sensitise people to boycott BJP candidates in the forthcoming Assembly elections. This was disclosed by Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, here, today while dispatching the eighth convoy of tractor-trailers from the Amritsar Golden Gate to Delhi.The group included farmers from Jandiala, Beas and other adjoining places. Pandher said the farm unions had never participated in elections before but this time amid the ongoing struggle, farmers in the states going to Assembly elections would urge people to boycott BJP candidates. He said the struggle would continue till the farm laws were repealed. Union leaders rubbished the Centre’s claim that farmers were withdrawing from the protests.Another farmer, Gurbachan Singh Chabba, said this was the eighth jatha which left for Delhi. On March 20, another jatha will be dispatched. “The jathas would stay at Delhi borders for next 22 days,” he said. Keeping in view the hot weather conditions ahead, trailers are being designed accordingly with nets around them to keep flies and mosquitoes awat. Provision for fan, coolers and lights were made inside the trailers. — TNSFans for protestersEx-servicemen on Friday donated fans to protect farmers from the scorching heat. Ex-serviceman Harjit Singh said they were standing with the farmers as firmly as they did while protecting the nation during the service.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-unions-to-appeal-for-bjps-boycott-in-poll-221104
06-03-2021||---||BJP leaders Vijay Sampla, Shwait Malik face farmers’ ire in Amritsar||Amritsar, March 5Former MP Vijay Sampla, Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik and other BJP leaders faced the wrath of farmers during their visit here today.Raising anti-BJP slogans, the protesters tried to intercept Sampla at the Circuit House and later during his visit at the Ram Tirath temple. The same group tried to confront Malik at the Amritsar Railway Station where he went to review a project. Harjeet Singh Jheeta of the Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee claimed some of their colleagues received injuries when vehicles of leaders hit them. Nonetheless, the police detained six to eight farmers for a few hours before releasing them with no complaint registered against them.Sampla had paid his maiden visit to Amritsar after assuming charge as Chairperson of the National Commission of Scheduled Castes. He paid obeisance at the Golden Temple, Durgiana Mandir and Ram Tirath.Sampla said 67,000 cases stood pending with the commission and it would be his priority to clear them. He said the commission would soon launch an online portal for listening to the grievances and facilitating easy access to the commission that deals with the issues of social harassment, government injustice, violation of SC/ST Act, etc.Later, he held a joint meeting with senior police officers. Sampla took details of various welfare schemes being run by the government. Speaking on the post-matric scheme, he said no government or private college could refuse admission to a child under the scheme nor could it deny the degree of a student on the basis of non-payment of scholarship grant. On the issue of safai karamcharis, he said under no circumstances should a worker be forced to enter a sewerage septic tank. If he has to enter a tank, all safety measures must be taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-leaders-vijay-sampla-shwait-malik-face-farmers-ire-in-amritsar-221105
06-03-2021||Muktsar||BKU holds  rally to  honour deceased farmers’ families||The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur) today held a “Kisan Sanmaan Rally” at the grain market of Doda village in the Gidderbaha Assembly segment here.Union’s state president Jagjit Singh Dallewal appealed to the farmers to reach Delhi in large numbers. demanding the repeal of three farm laws, he said the farmers would definitely win their peaceful fight against the central government.He said a majority of the MLAs and MPs from the state were unaware of even the Swaminathan report. During the rally, Dallewal honoured the families of farmers who died while lodging protest at Delhi borders and those who went to jail or reached Delhi on bicycles or marched on foot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bku-holds-rally-to-honour-deceased-farmers-families-221106
06-03-2021||Abohar||Protesters shut down telecom firm’s office in Sriganganagar||A group of farmers today forced the shutdown of an office of a private telecom company at Sriganganagar. Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) activists said a mall was also closed and its online delivery operations were stopped.Members of farmer unions also staged sit-ins outside fuel stations, a mall and an office of a particular group. Kisan Sangharsh Samiti district president Amar Singh Bishnoi said: “When a tractor march was organised in the city recently, officials of the telecom company here had called the police to thwart the protest. That is why today a dharna was organised to close the office.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesters-shut-down-telecom-firms-office-in-sriganganagar-221107
06-03-2021||Vishav Bharti||CAG: Punjab shying away from spending on health, education||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 5The state seems to be shirking its responsibility on health and education as there has been a consistent decline in Punjab’s spending in both sectors.As per a report tabled in the Vidhan Sabha today, it was found that the government’s spending on education declined by more than two per cent and 0.63 per cent on health between 2014-15 and 2018-19.The spending on education fell from 15.25 per cent of the aggregate expenditure in 2014-15 to 12.99 per cent in 2018-19. In the same time, the health sector saw aggregate expenditure falling from 4.73 per cent to 4.10 per cent.The report found that Punjab’s spending in both sectors was much lower than the other states. “Increased priority to development expenditure results in better human and physical asset formation which has the potential of further increasing the growth prospects of the state. In Punjab, the ratio of development and aggregate expenditure has been lower than the average of general category states (GCS). The share of development spending in the aggregate expenditure is 50.24 per cent, which is below the GCS average of 67.04 per cent.Apart from education and health, Punjab’s performance in other sectors was also poor than other states. Punjab’s ratio of capital and aggregate expenditure was far below the GCS average from 2014-15 to 2018-19. It declined from the already low level of 6.24 per cent in 2014-15 to 3.05 per cent in 2018-19.However, the state government’s aggregate expenditure as proportion of the GSDP increased from 14.08 per cent in 2014-15 to 15.17 per cent in 2018-19 whereas for the GCS, it increased from 15.99 per cent to 16.05 per cent during the same period.“The government may consider according a higher priority to asset creation by increasing capital expenditure and raising the outlay on social services, education and health for enhancing the level of human development,” the CAG observed.Negligible capital expenditureCapital expenditure facilitates asset creation and generates opportunities for higher growth. The ratio of capital and aggregate expenditure was far below the GCS average. The GCS average increased from 14.02 per cent in 2014-15 to 14.28 per cent in 2018-19. However, the ratio declined in Punjab from 6.24 per cent in 2014-15 to 3.05 per cent in 2018-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cag-punjab-shying-away-from-spending-on-health-education-221108
06-03-2021||Vijay C Roy||‘Delay in plan for land bank impacted growth’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 5Non-formulation of a timely plan for the creation of land bank, as envisaged in the Industrial Policy-2009, by the Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation Limited, impacted the pace of industrial growth in the state, according to the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) report. It is a well-known fact that land scarcity is a major impediment in attracting investment in the state.During 2017-18 to 2018-19, the industrial growth rate in the state declined to 5.80 per cent from 6 per cent, while share of manufacturing sector showed a decline in growth rate from 5.90 per cent to 5.60 per cent.According to the report, of the total 42 IFPs (industrial focal points) as on March 31, 2019, only three were initiated during the past 10 years i.e. after March 2009. For these three IFPs, the Punjab Government transferred 114.04 acres to the corporation during August 2013 to May 2015 for industrial purposes.The corporation finally took a decision in August 2017 for the creation of land bank, eight years after the Industrial Policy, and identified 2,868 acres in December 2019 for procurement, which was yet to be done as on June 2020.“This non-formulation of timely plan for creation of land bank will result in not meeting the requirement of industrial land for existing as well as upcoming investors, thereby impacting the pace of industrial growth in the state, says the report. The industrial policy envisaged creation of land bank for relocation of existing industries and development of new industrial areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delay-in-plan-for-land-bank-impacted-growth-221109
06-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Thieves take away ATM with Rs 18.88L||Fatehgarh Sahib, March 5In a crime straight out of a movie, a gang of thieves took away an automated teller machine (ATM) containing Rs 18.88 lakh in cash belonging to SBI’s Sirhind branch on the Sirhind-Chandigarh road today.The theft occurred in the wee hours near octroi No. 4 and the police came to know about the crime in the morning. The ATM is located a stone’s throw away from the Sirhind Mandi police chowki, raising a question mark on the security arrangements in the town.DSP (Investigation) Raghbir Singh visited the spot and called in fingerprint experts. He said as per the CCTV footage, the thieves struck around 3 am and pulled out the machine using ropes tied to a vehicle.They loaded the ATM onto their vehicle and sped away. He said the police had started an investigation and teams had been sent to various districts to nab the suspects.Branch manager Sanjeev Kumar said as per the bank records, Rs 18.88 lakh in cash was present in the ATM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/thieves-take-away-atm-with-rs-18-88l-221110
06-03-2021||Patiala||Department awaits report on virus mutation||In the wake of a resurgence in Covid cases, the Health Department is awaiting test results of around 450 samples which had been sent to a lab in Delhi to ascertain virus mutation in the state.Dr Rajesh Bhasker, state nodal officer for Covid, said they had sent the samples to the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIP), New Delhi, for genome sequencing to ascertain any virus mutation in the state.As they had not received any report so far, they couldn’t confirm whether the virus mutated or not, Dr Bhasker added. He said, “Last week, we wrote a letter to the IGIB to give us pending reports at the earliest. There is a huge rise in the number of positive cases in seven cities, including Jalandhar, Patiala, Ludhiana and Nawanshahr.”Apart from resurgence, many cases of reinfection are also being reported, thereby raising the suspicion of a new variant. A 46-year-old Excise and Taxation Officer (ETO) — a Covid-19 survivor of July last year — again tested positive on February 28. The ETO is said to have exhibited different symptoms from the earlier one. Health experts say reinfections seemed to suggest that virus might have adapted to avoid the antibodies. However, Dr Bhasker said only a few such cases had been reported so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/department-awaits-report-on-virus-mutation-221111
06-03-2021||---||Covid curbs to continue: Punjab CM||Chandigarh, March 5Underlining the need to continue Covid-appropriate behaviour, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today made it clear that restrictions in the state will continue, while ensuring minimum loss to livelihood to the residents of the state.Pointing to the state’s success in managing and containing the pandemic, the Chief Minister said in the Vidhan Sabha that a year after the pandemic broke out, he could say with satisfaction that “we have done well, thanks to the hard work of all health and frontline workers, district and police administration, NGOs, local representatives, and above all, the people.”Categorically denying the charge on Covaxin, the Chief Minister slammed BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra's claim that Punjab, along with other Opposition-ruled states, had expressed doubts and refused to accept the vaccination. It was not at all true, he added.818 fresh casesThe state reported 818 cases and 11 deaths in the past 24 hours. In the district-wise breakup, Jalandhar and Patiala reported three deaths each; followed by SAS Nagar with two deaths; Ropar, Amritsar and Gurdaspur reported one death each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-curbs-to-continue-punjab-cm-221112
06-03-2021||Balwant Garg||No funds for four months, schools stop mid-day meals||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, March 5For four months now, 19,680 state government schools have not received money for the mid-day meal scheme.Spending from their own pockets or buying ration on credit to feed 16,88,769 students in primary and elementary schools, the teachers in some schools have stopped providing mid-day meals.After getting a supply of wheat and rice from food procurement agencies, the schools get cooking cost at the rate of Rs 4.97 per student for primary classes and Rs 7.45 for upper primary classes per student from the state government. The cooking cost under the scheme involves purchase of oil, pulses, vegetables and condiments. Under the national programme, 60 per cent of the cooking cost is shared by the Centre and 40 per cent by the state.Outstanding dues of teachers in lieu of the scheme towards the school Education Department is over Rs 100 crore, said Prem Chawla, state leader of the Joint Teachers’ Front.The Education Department attributes the delay in payment to non-release of funds by the state Finance Department. Sources in the School Education Department said the bills were submitted to the Finance Department in the last week of October 2020 but the funds had not been released so far.Maninder Kaur, Deputy District Education Officer (elementary), Faridkot, said there was a problem of funds from October onwards, but the Education Department had started streamlining things and the funds would be released to the schools in the coming days.In 412 schools in Faridkot, total 43,791 students are served meals under the scheme. The outstanding dues of these schools as cooking cost are over Rs 2 crore in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-funds-for-four-months-schools-stop-mid-day-meals-221113
06-03-2021||New Delhi||DSGMC seeks FIR against Kangana for ‘defaming’ Sikhs||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) today said it had filed a complaint against actor Kangana Ranaut seeking registration of an FIR for allegedly defaming the Sikh community along with promoting enmity between different groups on the grounds of religion and race.The complaint filed in the court of the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate at the Patiala House Court seeks action under Section 156 (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, saying the social media posts of the actor intended to outrage religious sentiments.This also tantamount to making statements conducing to public mischief under Sections 153A, 153B, 295A and 505(1)(b) of the IPC, it added. DSGMC chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa tweeted that the case was listed for March 10. The complaint said Ranaut had an ulterior motive to defame the Sikh community on social media platforms by inciting hate towards it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dsgmc-seeks-fir-against-kangana-for-defaming-sikhs-221114
06-03-2021||---||9 illegal stills busted in Amritsar, 11 held||Amritsar, March 5In an early morning raid, the Ajnala police made a huge haul of illicit liquor and ‘lahan’ (raw material mixed for distillation of illicit liquor) from Lakhuwal village here on Friday, busting nine illegal stills and arresting 11 persons, including two women.During the five-hour operation, the police seized 461 litre illicit liquor, 58,200 kg ‘lahan’, 41 drums, six LPG cylinders, 10 tarpaulins, besides 22 kg poppy husk plants.Those arrested were identified as Rajan Singh, Avtar Singh, Radha, Paramjit Kaur, Abhi, Shamsher Singh, Sonu, Sandeep Singh, David Masih, Sunny and his father Amar Singh, all residents of Lakhuwal village. Four of their accomplices, however, fled the scene.SSP (Amritsar Rural) Dhruv Dahiya said raids were on to nab those on the run. He said the facility was akin to a “mini-distillery”, where the suspects were distilling huge quantities of illicit liquor. He said interrogation of the suspects was on to ascertain their links.The village falls under Ajnala constituency represented by Congress MLA Harpartap Ajnala. This is the second major seizure in the past five days.Earlier, the Excise and Taxation Department in a joint operation with the Punjab Police had seized over 1 lakh kg ‘lahan’ along with 1,780 litre illicit liquor from Khiala Kalan village falling under the Lopoke police station here on Monday.The village falls under Rajasansi constituency represented by Cabinet minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria.Eight persons, including three women, were arrested during the six-hour raid conducted on 11 houses in the village.According to excise officials, pipes were laid to drain the waste material generated during distillation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/9-illegal-stills-busted-in-amritsar-11-held-221115
06-03-2021||Patiala||Act on complaints: MP Preneet Kaur, women panel to cops||Manisha Gulati, chairperson, Punjab State Women Commission, and MP Preneet Kaur, while reviewing police functioning in 11 districts, exhorted the personnel to ensure speedy disposal of complaints. A special Lok Adalat was held to dispose off the complaints lodged with the commission. As many as 42 grievances were taken up during the Lok Adalat.Gulati reviewed the functioning of the police in relation to women’s issues and efforts being taken to curb physical abuse of women and girls at schools, colleges, universities and public places.She said the commission would keep a close eye on the performance of police stations, especially women police stations and take action against negligent police officials.“Efforts should be made to settle marital disputes amicably and if possible, the grievances raised by female counterpart should not be brought to the notice of male counterpart, so that the family could be reunited through counselling,” she said. She emphasised the need of counselling for girls before marriage, and education of boys to build harmony in families.Preneet Kaur said the state had taken initiatives for empowerment of women by providing 33 per cent jobs to girls and 50 per cent reservation in local and panchayat elections. “We expect with better coordination between the commission and the police, women’s issues will be resolved expeditiously,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/act-on-complaints-mp-preneet-kaur-women-panel-to-cops-221116
06-03-2021||Our Correspondent||‘Veer naris’ honoured at Military Station||Abohar, March 5As a part of the 50th anniversary celebrations of India’s victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war, ‘veer naris’ were honoured by the Army during a function held at the Military Station today.They were honoured in the presence of former servicemen. A ‘victory torch march’ was also organised. Children participated in ‘run for fun’.Four ‘vijay mashals’ have been sent to different parts of the country that would return to Delhi after completing the year-long tour. One of the ‘mashals’ was given a rousing reception recently at the Major Surinder Prasad Memorial, located near the alma mater of the 1965 war hero, who was was awarded the Vir Chakra posthumously.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/veer-naris-honoured-at-military-station-221117
06-03-2021||Abohar||Four days after being sealed, SBI office reopens in Abohar||The main branch office of the State Bank of India in the old grain market resumed work, as a team of the Municipal Corporation (MC), led by tax superintendent Vikram Dhuria, removed the seals put on the gates due to non-payment of rent dues. The customers thronged the complex for transactions.During the ongoing dispute, the MC had also declared the bank building unsafe. The building was constructed in 1939 at the anaj mandi (grain market) to facilitate work by the state-owned Imperial Bank that was renamed as State Bank of India after the Independence. The grain market was shifted to a new complex on the outskirts of Abohar, a few years back. Last year, due to heavy rain, water had reportedly entered the basement of the SBI building. The bank management has initiated proceedings for search of a new building now.The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Thursday directed the MC to de-seal the SBI main branch office building that had been sealed on Monday reportedly due to default in payment of long-pending rent dues that the MC had assessed at about Rs 1 crore.As per the copy of the orders passed by the Bench of Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa, the pleadings by the bank reportedly indicated that an order was passed by the SDM-cum-Collector, Abohar, on December 15, 2020, pursuant to an application moved by the MC, directing eviction of the bank from the premises under the provisions of the Punjab Public Premises and Land (Eviction and Rent Recovery) Act, 1973. The petitioner-bank preferred an appeal in January 2021, along with an application seeking stay.The appellate authority — Deputy Commissioner, Fazilka — has not taken up the appeal as also the application for stay, as he did not hold court. On the other hand, MC, Abohar, had proceeded further and sealed the premises. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-days-after-being-sealed-sbi-office-reopens-in-abohar-221118
06-03-2021||Faridkot||3 Dera Sacha Sauda men booked on court directions||The police have registered a criminal case against three Dera Sacha Sauda followers at the Bajakhana police station in Faridkot.Harish Dhuri, Pardeep Kaler and Sandeep Bareta, all central committee members of the dera, have been booked under Section 174A on the directions of a judicial court here.All these office-bearers in the dera are accused in connection with the theft of a ‘bir’ of Guru Granth Sahib from a gurdwara in Burj Jawahar Singh Wala on June 1, 2015.As per the investigation by a special investigation team of the police probing the sacrilege cases, the accused, along with dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim, were part of a conspiracy in the theft of the ‘bir’, which led to Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura police firing incidents.In January this year, the court had declared all these accused proclaimed offenders in the sacrilege case.As they failed to appear before the court, the latter directed the police to book them under Section 174A of the IPC. The court also directed the police to procure the list of all properties in the name of the accused so that these could be attached to procure their appearance before the court. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-dera-sacha-sauda-men-booked-on-court-directions-221119
06-03-2021||---||Funds not utilised, MP Harsimrat Badal pulls up officials||Bathinda, March 5Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal today slammed the Bathinda district administration for not utilising funds allocated as a Member of Parliament for various development and social welfare works.Speaking to mediapersons here after heading the district development and monitoring committee (DISHA) meeting, where she pulled up officials for not performing their duties diligently, the MP said it was unfortunate the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) funds allocated for ration for the poor, pension, assistance to pregnant women and other development works had not been utilised by the administration.She said during her tenure as MP from 2014 to 2019, funds amounting to Rs 1 crore allocated to Bathinda were returned unutilised.“They still haven't used the funds for works allocated during the 16th Lok Sabha, while I have allocated funds under the 17th Lok Sabha.”The Bathinda MP said the district administration was depriving people of both development and welfare. The administration was not aware of central schemes such asRs 10,000 assistance to ‘rehriwalas’ (street vendors), she claimed.She urged the administration to complete waterworks projects in villages and recruit safai workers for hospitals.Rs1 cr returnedThe MP said during her tenure from 2014 to 2019, funds amounting to Rs1 crore allocated to Bathinda during the 16th Lok Sabha were returned unutilised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/funds-not-utilised-mp-harsimrat-badal-pulls-up-officials-221120
06-03-2021||Abohar||Abohar MC bans sale of drinks in plastic bottles||The Municipal Corporation has decided to ban the sale of beverages such as Pepsi, Coca Cola, Mazza, Kinley and Aquafina drinks in plastic bottles, within the limits of the city from March 13.Abhijeet Kaplish, ADC-cum-Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, said the action had been taken under the Plastic Management Rules-2016, as the cess imposed by the MC had not been paid by these companies. The cess was imposed to facilitate disposal of plastic waste in the city. The MC had imposed cess on sale of plastic-packed goods in the city on October 29, 2020. The Plastic Management Rules-2016 empower the local government to levy cess on disposal of such plastic waste. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-mc-bans-sale-of-drinks-in-plastic-bottles-221121
06-03-2021||Muktsar||Fresh guidelines for schools||To increase student enrolment for 2021-22 academic session, the school Education Department has directed all government school heads to make posters, videos, short films, theme songs, hoardings, digital prospectus and public announcements highlighting the salient features of their institutes.In a letter issued, it is stated that due to the department’s campaign of ‘each one, bring one’ for the 2020-21 session, the student enrolment had increased 15 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fresh-guidelines-for-schools-221122
06-03-2021||---||Won’t hesitate to take produce to Parliament, says BKU leader Rakesh Tikait||Jhajjar, March 5Reacting to the Union Government's statement that farmers will be able to sell their produce anywhere in the country once the three laws are implemented, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait on Friday said the growers would not hesitate in taking their produce to Parliament where the MSP was fixed.He was addressing mediapersons at the Dhansa border here. Tikait said the growers were ready for a long haul to get the three farm laws repealed.Tikait said the future of farmers could not be decided by sitting in plush houses in Delhi. Before the implementation of any farm-related law, the government should hold a discussion with farmers, he added.On the other hand, BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni, who reached the Tikri protest site today, clarified that any call to intensify the agitation would be taken by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha. “At present, there is no plan to march towards Delhi,” said Charuni, on being asked about Tikait’s remark that farmers would go to Delhi to sell their produce at the MSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-hesitate-to-take-produce-to-parliament-says-bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-221245
06-03-2021||Solan||16 of Baru Sahib Eternal University test +ve||Alarm bells have rung at the Baru Sahib-based Eternal University after 16 persons tested positive for Covid-19 today. The university recently resumed classes and students are coming from other states too.Meanwhile, Sirmaur district today registered as many as 24 cases, including three from the Dolanji monastery, two from Rajgarh and three from Paonta Sahib.Sirmaur DC RK Pruthi said the university authorities had been directed to ensure that students and staff were staggered during lunch, classes and other occasions. Those coming from outside should undergo an RT-PCR test and all Covid safety norms should be adhered to. He said the monastry authorities had also been directed to ensure testing of those coming from outside. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/16-of-baru-sahib-eternal-university-test-ve-221198
06-03-2021||Saurabh Malik||Bootleggers outpace portly Punjab cops, High Court orders training||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 5Bootleggers are faster than the cops in Punjab. In 1,727 FIRs registered under the Excise Act, the accused, including the elderly, managed to outpace the overweight cops and flee from the spot, raising questions about their physical fitness.In an attempt to ensure that their fitness levels are up in the long run, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed imparting of training under medical supervision to both men and women cops.To begin with, the training was directed to be imparted to cops below 40 years of age. Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan asked the Director, Bureau of Investigation, to file an affidavit. He was asked to seek a report from all Senior Superintendents of Police (SSPs) in the districts regarding the actual physical fitness training imparted to the overweight police officials, who could not run to catch the suspects in such cases.Justice Sangwan also asked the Director to depose about the procedure established for taking action against the SHO or the investigating officer concerned in case a suspect succeeded in running away from the spot in cases under the Excise Act the or NDPS Act. Details were also sought of the action taken in all such matters.Justice Sangwan made it clear that the affidavit, along with photographs and videos, should clearly bring out the actual physical training to keep the overweight police officials physically fit.Justice Sangwan said some explanation had been furnished based on information sought from police officials, but that did not reflect anything about the actual action taken to improve the physical fitness of the police officials deputed on such duties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bootleggers-outpace-portly-punjab-cops-high-court-orders-training-221202
06-03-2021||New Delhi||Supreme Court Collegium for Vikas Bahl as Punjab & Haryana High Court Judge||The Supreme Court Collegium has recommended elevation of advocate Vikas Bahl as Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.In a meeting held on March 2, the Collegium headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde also decided to recommend advocate Rahul Bharti for appointment as a Judge of the Jammu and Kashmir HC. The Collegium has recommended elevation of three lawyers — Dr Vivek Sharan, Nidhi Patankar and Pranay Verma — as judges of the Madhya Pradesh HC.The Collegium, which also includes Justice NV Ramana and Justice RF Nariman, reiterated its earlier recommendation for elevation of Satyen Vaidya as a judge of the Himachal Pradesh High Court. It also reiterated its recommendation to elevate advocates Viju Abraham Mohammed Nias CP and Paul KK for Kerala HC and Nagendra Ramachandra Naik for Karnataka HC. It approved the proposal for appointment of 10 Additional Judges of Allahabad High Court as Permanent Judges.They are Justices Ali Zamin, Vipin Chandra Dixit, Shekhar Kumar Yadav, Ravi Nath Tilhari, Deepak Verma, Gautam Chowdhary, Shamim Ahmed, Dinesh Pathak, Manish Kumar and Samit Gopal. It also cleared elevation of judicial officer A Badharudeen as Kerala HC Judge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/supreme-court-collegium-for-vikas-bahl-as-punjab-haryana-high-court-judge-221195
06-03-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||After protests, walkout,10 Akali legislators suspended from Punjab Vidhan Sabha||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 5Ten SAD MLAs were today suspended from the Vidhan Sabha for the remaining duration of the Budget session for “repeatedly disrupting the proceedings of the House”.The MLAs led by their legislative party leader Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, disrupted the House proceedings on four occasions today, forcing Speaker Rana KP Singh to suspend them for the remaining session. The provocation for the suspension was the protest and walkout by the Akali MLAs when Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh named SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and Harsimrat Kaur Badal for justifying farm laws when the Centre had initially brought the ordinances in this regard.SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia said both the Congress president and her son were absent from Parliament when the farm laws were passed. This led to chaos and all efforts by the Speaker to reason with the Akali MLAs failed, following which the Speaker suspended the MLAs.They, however, chose not to leave the House. After the adjournment, the MLAs staged a sit-in inside the House. The marshals and watch and ward staff first pleaded with the MLAs to leave the House. Upon refusal of MLAs, they forcibly removed them.MLA Pawan Kumar Tinu tried to enter the House again and was immediately dragged out by the staff.The Akali MLAs had been repeatedly protesting in the well of the House, disrupting the CM from concluding the debate on Governor’s Address. They had also protested against the high power tariff and staged a walkout.Later, AAP MLAs had a heated discussion with the members of the treasury benches, alleging connivance of the Congress with the Centre in shaping the three farm laws. They claimed that the CM was part of the group formed by the Niti Aayog, where the laws were first discussed.Denying this, the CM said they had not been called for the first meeting. However, Leader of Opposition Harpal Cheema said Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and a retired IAS officer had participated in the discussions.Manpreet said they attended the second meeting, but had objected to the Bills. He tabled the minutes of both the meetings.Oppn legislators interrupt cm during reply to guv’s address When CM Capt Amarinder Singh began his reply to the Governor’s Address, AAP MLAs disrupted his speech. Akali MLAs also objected to the CM’s claim that civic polls were peaceful Legislators from both parties stormed into the well of the House and raised slogans against the government. This had also forced the Speaker to adjourn the House for 15 minutes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-protests-walkout-10-akali-legislators-suspended-from-punjab-vidhan-sabha-221177
06-03-2021||---||Punjab sees steepest 1-day surge in over a month||New Delhi, March 5India’s total caseload remained above 1.7 lakh for the third day and recorded a sharp rise on account of steep surge in six states, including Punjab and Haryana.Overall, active cases reached 1,76,319 today with the present load making up 1.58 per cent of the total cases.Even as 1.9 crore vaccine doses were administered nationally as of today and nearly 10 lakh doses were given in the past 24 hours, Maharashtra, Punjab, Haryana, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi reported high daily new cases in the last 24 hours. These states contributed 84.44 per cent (16,838) of the fresh cases.Maharashtra continued to report the highest daily new cases at 8,998. It was followed by Kerala with 2,616, while Punjab reported 1,071 new cases. Punjab’s daily rise was the steepest in more than a month.So far as active cases go, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal showed a reduction in the last 24 hours, while Maharashtra, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi and Gujarat displayed a rise in the active cases during the same time period.India’s Covid-19 tally has climbed to 1,11,73,761, while the number of patients who have recuperated from the disease has reached 1,08,39,894. Toll stands at 1,57,548 after 113 deaths in 24 hours.16 of HP varsity +veSolan: Sixteen persons at Eternal University in Baru Sahib tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. The university recently resumed classes and students are coming from other states too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sees-steepest-1-day-surge-in-over-a-month-221158
06-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||‘Even Dharam ji was no less’: Hema Malini says her father tried to stop her, Dharmendra from being together||Veteran actress Hema Malini will grace the Indian Idol 12 sets this weekend. Previews of the episode were shared by makers, where the ‘Sholay’ actress was seen sharing lots of interesting stories from her six decade long career, as well as her love story with actor Dharmendra.Talking about the time she was dating Dharmendra, she revealed while they were filming a song together, unexpectedly Hema Malini’s father accompanied her for the shoot, to ensure that she would not spend time with Dharmendra alone.“Usually my mother or my aunt used to accompany me on shoots but during the shoot of one of the songs my father accompanied me as he was worried that me and Dharam ji shouldn’t spend some time alone as he knew we were friends. I remember this when we used to travel in a car my father used to immediately sit next to me but even Dharam ji was no less he used to sit in the next seat,” she said.Despite this, the veteran actress was also seen dancing to her classic number. After the performance on ‘Dream Girl’ and ‘Tere Chehre Mein Jaadu Hai’, contestant Danish Khan requested Hema Malini to dance with him.We're so excited to welcome the gorgeous Hema Malini! Are you excited too? Tell us in the comments and don't forget to watch the Dream Girl on #HemaMaliniSpecial #IndianIdol2020 this Sunday at 8 PM, only on Sony TV pic.twitter.com/ZyypVkBp2x  She said: “Danish, your performance is so amazing that it has surely attracted me towards the stage to perform with you.”Later the performance on the song Dream Girl was praised by everyone present on the sets.Danish said: “It was a fascinating moment for me to perform with the Hema Ma’am. This is an unforgettable moment of my life and I would like to thank Indian Idol Platform who had given me so many opportunities to explore myself.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/even-dharam-ji-was-no-less-hema-malini-says-her-father-tried-to-stop-her-dharmendra-from-being-together-220950
