07-03-2021||Chandigarh||17 Covid deaths, 1,051 new cases in Punjab||Seventeen more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Sunday as 1,051 fresh cases surfaced, pushing the state’s infection count to 188,391, according to a medical bulletin.So far, the disease has claimed 5,927 lives in the state. The number of active cases also increased from 7,164 on Saturday to 7,497 on Sunday.SBS Nagar reported the maximum 157 cases, followed by Jalandhar (131), Kapurthala (117), Ludhiana (108) and Amritsar (102).Meanwhile, 693 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 1,74,967, the bulletin said.There are 14 patients who are on ventilator while 143 are on oxygen support, the bulletin added.Punjab has seen a spurt in virus cases in recent days.On Saturday, a night curfew was imposed in four districts of the state to tackle the coronavirus spread.The districts where the curfew was imposed were Jalandhar, SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/17-covid-deaths-1-051-new-cases-in-punjab-221977
07-03-2021||Patiala||Board conducts post-mortem of Belarusian coach Nikolai at Patiala's Rajindra Hospital||A board of doctors on Sunday conducted the post-mortem of Nikolai Snesarev—a long and middle distance running national athletics coach from Belarus—at Government Rajindra Hospital here.The doctors have already handed over the body to Patiala police after the post-mortem examination.Nikolai Snesarev was found dead in his room at National Institute of Sports (NIS) Patiala, on Friday evening.The board, constituted by the office of Government Medical College to conduct post-mortem, included one doctor from the pathology department, and two forensic medicine experts from the department of forensic medicine and toxicology.As per the mortuary sources, samples of viscera have been kept for further chemical and histopathological examination.Besides, no physical marks were there on the body of the 72-year-old coach.Meanwhile, the sources informed that Snesarev had tested negative for the coronavirus.Dr DS Bhullar, in-charge of the mortuary of Rajindra Hospital informed that embalming to preserve and transportation of the body was done by the department of Anatomy of the medical college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/board-conducts-post-mortem-of-belarusian-coach-nikolai-at-patialas-rajindra-hospital-221972
07-03-2021||---||Patiala police cane charges protesters marching to Capt Amarinder’s residence; many injured||Patiala, March 7Patiala Police on Sunday cane charged members of the Punjab and UT Mulazam Sangarsh Morcha near the Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s residence.The police had to use force when the protesters tried to force their way to the Chief Minister’s residence.Besides, many union leaders were detained by the police and taken to police stations outside the city.After holding a sit-in outside the PSPCL office, the protesters took their protest towards the Chief Minister residence. However, heavy police, deployed at YPS Chowk, stopped them from marching ahead.After a minor scuffle broke out between the police and the protesters, the police resorted to lathi charge. Over a dozen protesters received injuries. One of the union members is also believed to have suffered a fracture on his hand.The members of the morcha were out on the streets for their long-pending demands —disbursement of DA instalments of government employees, introduction of old pension scheme, regularisation of contractual employees, implementation of the sixth pay commission report and minimum wages for ASHA facilitators and midday meal workers.Davinder Punia, convener, Punjab and UT Mulazam Sangarsh Morcha, said: “Lathi charge on women is the government’s gift to them on International Women’s Day. The government has backtracked almost on all their pre-poll promises.”Another protester said: “The government has failed to provide jobs to youth and are out to abolish the already existing posts in various departments, including the Department of Education, as well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-police-cane-charges-protesters-marching-to-capt-amarinders-residence-many-injured-221971
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder orders immediate action on 7-point Agenda 2022||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday directed all state departments to move aggressively for the realisation of the 7-point ‘Agenda 2022’ unveiled by him recently.The agenda, aimed at ensuring total protection of people and their properties in an environment of peaceful co-existence conducive to saving the lives and livelihood of all Punjabis against all odds, is centred around citizen welfare through a holistic focus on overarching development of the state, an official statement said.The overarching goal of the agenda is to ensure the development of a “Kaamyab & Kushal Punjab”, it said.“With a record-breaking 84.6 per cent of the manifesto commitments already accomplished and the promise of fulfilling the remaining in the next one year, the CM directed all ministries and departments to move aggressively and proactively to push for the realisation of the 7-point Agenda 2022,” the statement said.The futuristic agenda is designed to meet the aspirations of the people of Punjab, Singh had announced in the Vidhan Sabha on Friday.The Punjab assembly polls are due for early next year. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-orders-immediate-action-on-7-point-agenda-2022-221963
07-03-2021||New Delhi||Six states, including Punjab and Maharashtra, reporting high daily COVID-19 cases||Six states including Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab and Gujarat are reporting high daily COVID-19 cases, accounting for 84.71 per cent of the 18,711 new cases, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday.  Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 10,187. It is followed by Kerala with 2,791 while Punjab reported 1,159 new cases.      The Centre is continuously engaging with the states and UTs reporting higher caseload of active cases and those showing a rise in the daily new COVID cases, the ministry said.It has deputed high-level teams to Maharashtra and Punjab, that are showing steep increase in the daily new cases.The other states reporting high daily COVID-19 cases are Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.Eight states are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, the ministry highlighted.India’s total COVID-9 active cases increased to 1.84 lakh (1,84,523) which now consists of 1.65 per cent of the total infections.According to the data, 100 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours.Six states account for 87 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (47). Kerala follows with 16 daily deaths. Punjab reported 12 deaths.In the past two weeks, 10 states have not reported any COVID-19 deaths while 12 states reported between 1 and 10 deaths.Nineteen states and UTs have not reported any COVID-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours. These are Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Chandigarh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Odisha, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Sikkim, Lakshadweep, Ladakh (UT), Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Tripura, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh.More than 2 crore vaccine doses have been administered through 3,39,145 sessions, as per the provisional report till Sunday 7 am.These include 69,82,637 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have been administered the 1st dose, 35,42,123 HCWs who have been given the 2nd dose, 65,85,752 frontline workers (FLWs) who have taken the 1st dose and 2,11,918 FLWs (2nd Dose), 4,76,041 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st Dose) and 31,23,873 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years.As on Day-50 of the vaccination drive (6th March), more than 14 lakh vaccine doses were given.  Out of which, 11,71,673 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 17,654 sessions for 1st dose (HCWs and FLWs) and 2,53,020 HCWs and FLWs received 2nd dose of vaccine.The 11,71,673 beneficiaries include 7,45,639 aged over 60 and 1,29,295 aged 45 to 60 with comorbidities. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/six-states-including-punjab-and-maharashtra-reporting-high-daily-covid-19-cases-221912
07-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Punjabi singer Sunanda Sharma teams up with Nawazuddin Siddiqui for B Praak’s latest project ‘Baarish Ki Jaaye’||Composer B Praak has announced a new project with Punjabi singer Sunanda Sharma and Bollywood actor Nawazuddin Siddiqui. This project marks their first collaboration.The makers have released the poster of ‘Baarish Ki Jaaye’.Earlier, B Praak shared on his Instagram story, and shared: “6 PM DO TAKE A SCREENSHOT OF MY STORY AND POST WHEN THE POSTER IS OUT BHAT PROUD WALI BAAT HAI FOR OUR INDUSTRY SPLY PUNJAB INDUSTRY.”A post shared by Nawazuddin Siddiqui (@nawazuddin._siddiqui)  The poster was shared by Desi Melodies on their Instagram account.A post shared by 𝑆𝑢𝑛𝑎𝑛𝑑𝑎 𝑆ℎ𝑎𝑟𝑚𝑎 ਸੁਨੰਦਾ ਸ਼ਰਮਾਂ (@sunanda_ss)  A post shared by B PRAAK(HIS HIGHNESS) (@bpraak)  The poster revealed that the superhit duo Jaani and B Praak will collaborate once again, and Arvindr Khaira will direct the music video.A post shared by DM ( Desi Melodies ) (@desimelodies)  The release date of “Baarish Ki Jaaye” is not announced yet, but the poster hinted in March.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-singer-sunanda-sharma-teams-up-with-nawazuddin-siddiqui-for-b-praaks-latest-project-baarish-ki-jaaye-221882
07-03-2021||Seema Sachdeva||Women-oriented songs usher in winds of change in Punjabi music||The sangeet ceremony has just begun. Grannies and aunties are singing Punjabi folk songs — tappe and boliyaan — but everyone is eagerly waiting to hit the dance floor. No sooner does the DJ start, the dance floor begins to buzz with activity, setting the mood for the evening. From the young to the old, all start grooving to foot-tapping, catchy Punjabi numbers. One song that is currently being played on request again and again is ‘Titliaan’:“Main Ohde Piche Maraan Jag JaandaOh Ni Par Mere Layi MardaKade Ess Phool Te Kade Oss Phool TeYaar Mera Titliaan Warga”Sung by Afsana Khan, the song has been written by Jaani and is picturised on Harrdy Sandhu and Sargun Mehta. In the song, the girl rues that the man she loves is not faithful to her. At 52 crore views, this song has become one of the fastest 500 million views on YouTube since its release in last November.Interestingly, its success has inspired a male version, sung by Harrdy Sandhu and Jaani. Arguably, it is one of the few Punjabi songs that has a woman’s perspective at its core. In a male-dominated Punjabi music industry, this song is proof that winds of change have started blowing.And it is not just the songs, singer Afsana Khan says the Punjabi music industry has changed much since she first started singing in 2012. “Women singers today are getting much more respect. Earlier, there was a lot of negativity around female singers. But today their acceptance has increased as many more songs are being written from the point of view of women,” she adds.According to music critic Sapan Manchanda, “Women have been at the centre of songs forever, but the portrayal has more or less been limited to promoting patriarchal stereotypes or objectifying them. From our literature to songs, the woman has been shown as helpless, dependent or untrustworthy. The songs today are showing stronger women who are coming out on their own.”Woman is the new protagonist in Punjabi songs. This portrayal may not always be positive, nevertheless it ensures that her voice is being heard, loud and clear. No longer the helpless damsel in distress, she comes across as a strong individual who is articulate about her thoughts. Many such examples can be seen in the present Punjabi non-film music industry, which is pegged at more than Rs700 crore.For instance, Mankirat Aulakh and Nimrat Khaira’s ‘Vail’ begins with a girl calling her police officer mother on phone to release her boyfriend, who has been arrested for creating a ruckus. Later, she comes to the police station and forcefully gets him out. The song ends on a happy note when she tells her mother that all this was merely a prank she and her lover had played on her. The boy, by the way, turns out to be a police officer who gets posted in her mother’s police station. Far-fetched it is, but the song shows the changing face of woman in Punjabi songs. Besides the daughter who openly claims her love for a guy to her mother, the portrayal of the mother as a police officer speaks volumes about the new standards these songs are setting, both in lyrics as well as the storyline.Another number that has been garnering views is Baani Sandhu’s ‘8 Parche’. In the song, the girl is not just fine with the cases that have been registered against her lover, she also doesn’t mind picking up the gun herself towards the end of the song to save him.Then there are sensitively portrayed songs. One such example is Amrinder Gill’s ‘Aaban De Deson’, which is a tribute to the hardworking Indian girls abroad.What is common in all these songs is that the women are conscious of the choices they are making — both good as well as bad.Lyricist Jaani, who claims that 80 per cent of his songs are written from the point of view of women, says, “Punjabi music industry is evolving, and so are its songs. The focus of Punjabi songs is moving away from guns and weapons. One cannot remain oblivious of the fact that the role of women today is being redefined.”Jatinder Singh, Assistant Professor, Government College, Chandigarh, who writes on music, sees this change more as a result of education — both formal as well as informal. “The new crop of singers entering the music industry is mostly well educated. Many like Nimrat Khaira, Ranjit Bawa, Sartaaj, Guru Randhawa, etc. are post-graduates. The kind of songs they are bringing in reflect their education and sensibilities. Similarly, singers like Neha Kakkar, Afsana Khan, Nooran Sisters, Gurlez Akhtar come from families that practise music. Thus, their grooming puts their music in a different league altogether,” he says.“The success of such songs will help to expand the market for women singers everywhere — digitally, in live performances as well as on stage. Also, as women vocalists gain popularity, their capability to dictate lyrics, portraying the strength of women, increases. They get the freedom to express what they feel easily,” says Gunbir Sidhu, managing director of White Hill Music.No doubt brazenly sexist and lewd lyrics of songs like Honey Singh’s ‘Makhna’do come up occasionally but these are now becoming an aberration. Many such songs are drawing the ire of those who feel there is a need to change the perception about women. Manisha Gulati, chairperson of the Punjab Women’s Commission, filed a case against Honey Singh and T-Series against the lyrics of ‘Makhna’. Though she faced much trolling, not just from men but from women as well, she feels it is important that a beginning should be made.And a beginning has been made. Not just with the lyrics of Punjabi songs, but also with the storyline as well as for women singers who are the real beneficiaries of this trend. This is a much-needed change in the industry which has already been rewriting the rules of music world over.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/women-oriented-songs-usher-in-winds-of-change-in-punjabi-music-221770
07-03-2021||PK Jaiswar||Despite paying cow cess, bovine care remains in a state of mess||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 6Though many departments under the Punjab Government have been collecting huge funds in the name of cow cess, plight of stray cows is still dismal in the holy city. The recent two incidents bear testimony to this fact.The anti-crime and animal protection group, an NGO, today, rescued a cow that had fallen in a drain near Bhagtanwala here. An activist of the association, Dev Panday found the bovine after hearing her ‘cries’.He immediately sounded an alert and with the help of local people, members of his NGO and Municipal Corporation employees pulled her out of the drain.“The area has a number of dairies but nobody owns the cattle,” said Dr Rohan Mehra, chairman of the NGO, while adding that the cow had apparently fallen in the drain a couple of days ago and was even unable to stand. It was in poor health due to this.This is not the sole incident. Around nine days ago, a cow was hit by a vehicle near the Circuit House chowk. When the members of the association reached the spot after getting information, they found a 12-digit tag punched in its ear. Dr Rohan said they immediately informed the Animal Husbandry Department about this. However, till now, the department failed to trace the ownership of the cow.Dr Amarjit Singh, deputy director, animal husbandry, said a probe was immediately marked to senior veterinary officer to trace the ownership. Investigations revealed that the tag does not belong to Amritsar district.“Amritsar district has only six tags of the same series but the tag on the injured cow does not belong to here. The tag was issued in first phase in 2018-19 but it was not uploaded on the web portal of the department and therefore could not be traced,” he pointed out.Dr Rohan said if the tag was issued, it would have been in the records and it is impossible that the department could not trace the ownership of the cow. “If the department is willing, it can trace the ownership,” he said this, while adding that the police should also first register an FIR in this connection.Civic authorities said only one or two departments were depositing its share of cow cess while several other departments of Punjab Government failed to release its share for the past several years. Due to insufficient recovery, the welfare of stray cows and animals is suffering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-paying-cow-cess-bovine-care-remains-in-a-state-of-mess-221754
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh ensuring farm protest continues: BJP||State BJP president Ashwani Sharma today alleged the Capt Amarinder Singh government instead of helping find resolution to the farmers’ protest was taking instigative steps to keep the pot boiling in Punjab.Reacting to the Vidhan Sabha resolution on the farm laws, Sharma said the Chief Minister, by brining such resolutions time and again, was misleading farmers. Instead of helping the Centre resolve the differences with farmers, he was trying to complicate the issue and create a wrong impression, he added.“This has created a law and order situation and brought the state on the edge,” said Sharma.He said after having failed to do anything to improve the plight of farmers in Punjab, the state government was supporting and instigating farmers' protest. He said the government had been instigating farmers against the laws right from day one and has lent support to the disruptive elements in the garb of supporting farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-ensuring-farm-protest-continues-bjp-221707
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala's Girls Multipurpose School adjudged ‘best’ in state||Government Girls Multipurpose Senior Secondary School, Model Town, Patiala, has been ranked number one among all government senior secondary schools in the state.The second rank was secured by GGSS, Railway Mandi, Hoshiarpur, while the third spot was bagged by GSSS (Boys), Jamsher, Jalandhar. A total of 1,849 senior secondary schools and 1,727 high schools were selected for the evaluation.Government High School, Ghoghra, Hoshiarpur, has topped the high school category. GHS, Hirawali, got the third place, while GHS, Mauli Baidwan, Mohali, remained second. The evaluation was carried out on the basis of overall performance in academics, sports and extra-curricular activities, condition of the campus, plantation, activities like quizzes and debates and participation in social welfare activities. Special grades for imparting education during the pandemic were given.Balbir Singh, principal of Patiala school, said: “All classes in our school are equipped with projectors. We have also introduced Educare app for study material, guide books and sample papers with solutions.” Jaspreet Kaur, principal, GHS, Ghoghra, said: “Our staff, locals and NGOs joined hands to help the school excel.”Krishan Kumar, Secretary, School Education, said: “The ranking process has been introduced to encourage the schools to perform better. The dedication shown by the department officials and teachers is commendable.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patialas-girls-multipurpose-school-adjudged-best-in-state-221633
07-03-2021||Chandigarh/New Delhi||Night curfew in 4 Punjab districts; Centre rushes high-level teams||With Punjab witnessing a steady rise in Covid cases over the past two weeks, a night curfew was imposed in four Doaba districts of Jalandhar, SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala on Saturday.Read alsoThe development came on a day the Centre rushed high-level teams to Punjab and Maharashtra and told eight states witnessing high Covid positivity rate, including Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, to escalate testing and tracking.63 hotspot dists — 15 in Haryana, 9 HimachalSixtythree districts in eight states and UTs — 15 in Haryana, 10 each in Andhra Pradesh and Odisha, nine each in Himachal Pradesh and Delhi, seven in Uttarakhand, two in Goa and one in Chandigarh — have been reporting high positivity and high daily active cases.As India’s daily new infections reached 18,327 for the first time since January, Punjab contributed 1,179 fresh cases, taking the state’s tally to 1,87,348 cases. The state also saw 12 more deaths, which took its fatality count to 5,910.The night curfew orders were issued after Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan and Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta held a meeting to review the Covid situation with all DCs, district police chiefs and civil surgeons through a video-conference.The curfew will remain in place from 11 pm to 5 am, though there will be relaxation for workers or staff working in factories that run on 24-hour shifts and also in cases of medical emergency. The orders will not be applicable on people returning after travelling in buses, trains or flights.Last month, the Punjab Government had authorised DCs to impose the night curfew in Covid hotspots, if needed.The Punjab team is led by SK Singh, Director, National Centre for Disease Control. “The teams will visit the states immediately and go to hotspot areas to ascertain further reasons for the surge. They will also brief the Chief Secretary and Secretary (health) on their observations and flag remedial measures,” the government said. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka continued to see a rise in daily cases, taking the active caseload nationally to 1,80,304 today. The active cases have remained above 1.70 lakh for the fourth day and crossed 1.80 lakh for the first time since December last. The daily deaths also remained above 100 (108) for the second day today.In a virtual conference with health secretaries of these eight states, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan advised aggressive testing, tracking and treating. He asked the states to follow at least 20 contacts of every positive case. The states were asked to speed up vaccination and raise the share of RT-PCR tests in districts dependent on high levels of antigen testing.Meanwhile, the teams that recently returned from Maharashtra and Punjab have flagged inappropriate Covid behaviour due to lack of fear of disease, pandemic fatigue; miss-outs (due to false negative antigen reports), super-spreaders; enhanced aggregations due to recent gram panchayat and local body elections and marriage season as principal factors behind the surge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/night-curfew-in-4-punjab-districts-centre-rushes-high-level-teams-221600
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||Rising debt big worry for Punjab govt||As Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal gets ready to present the last Budget of the government on Monday, the most worrisome factor will be the state’s unsustainable debt burden, with the outstanding debt set to hit Rs 2.60 lakh crore, with an additional Rs 12,000 crore borrowing allowed in 2020-21 because of a Covid-induced economic meltdown.Also read: Punjab debt to double in five years: CAGIn the past four years, the state’s outstanding debt has increased by over Rs 77,000 crore, with almost Rs 30,000 crore of debt being accumulated in the present financial year itself. With the state having a population of 2.7 million, the per capita public debt in the state is as high as Rs 96,000. The state’s debt to GSDP ratio will also remain much above the prescribed limit of 30 per cent, and will also remain the highest in the country.This being the last Budget to be presented by the Congress government, one can expect the tradition of announcement of many sops. While employees and pensioners can expect a bonanza with Rs 7,000 crore being set aside for the implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission, the Budget will have sufficient outlays for the agriculture sector (for debt waiver scheme), youth and in public education and health. With the state’s revenue receipts still hovering at 63 per cent of the targeted revenue of Rs 88,004.31 crore, the government is relying on a revenue deficit grant of Rs 9,000 crore to be received from the Centre’s Finance Commission and an additional borrowing limit of 2 per cent of GSDP (Rs 12,000 crore) allowed in the current fiscal. Though this additional borrowing will bail out the government and allow it to fulfil its political compulsions in the election year, it will only further add to the state’s debt burden and increase interest repayments in the years to follow.Figures available with The Tribune from the Reserve Bank of India show that the percentage of total outstanding liabilities to GSDP was 40 per cent last year, which is the worst in the country in comparison to other states.Though it was 42.80 per cent in 2016-17, during the last year of the previous Akali-BJP government, and the ratio had come down. The rise in the actual debt is, however, phenomenal. The interest payment alone on this huge public debt this year is around Rs 19,075 crore. This means that 21.6 per cent of the state’s total income this year is going only for the payment of interest.Dr Lakhwinder Singh, eminent economist, says the more worrisome issue is the repayment of rate of interest on this debt, which was the highest among Indian states in proportion of the state’s revenue receipts. “This is a big constraint on spending from the revenue account for economic and social services,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rising-debt-big-worry-for-punjab-govt-221605
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||CAG report bares Punjab CM’s inability to govern, says AAP||The recent Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) report, tabled in the Punjab Assembly on Friday, suggests Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s inability to govern the state, the AAP has said. In a statement, senior party leader and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said as per the report, spending on education had decreased by 2% and health by 0.63% under the Congress regime. “It clearly shows the government does not feel education and health of its people is a priority,” he added. Cheema said besides education and health, the government was spending little on development. Taking a dig at the Congress government, Cheema said Captain Amarinder had made tall promises before coming to power, but his performance over the years had been abysmal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cag-report-bares-punjab-cms-inability-to-govern-says-aap-221606
07-03-2021||Moga||Moga Pungrain suffered Rs 1.67-cr loss due to ‘poor management’||The Moga district unit of the Punjab State Grains Procurement Corporation Limited (Pungrain) suffered an interest burden of Rs 1.67 crore because it did not undertake timely verification of excess deductions made by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) towards the cost of gunny bags and interest incurred between 2014 and 2017.The Pungrain is engaged in foodgrain procurement operations for central pool on behalf of the FCI, Government of India.The procured grains (wheat and paddy) are collected and stored in gunny bags for delivery to the central agency. For execution of its operations, the Pungrain obtains and extends gunny bags on loan to the central agency.A recent audit of Moga district unit of the Pungrain revealed that it took 56,18,739 gunny bags on loan between 2014 and 2017 from the Food Corporation of India but these were not returned to the central agency.The Food Corporation of India, therefore, deducted Rs 66.76 crore from September to December 2017 from the financial claims of the Pungrain, which included Rs 28.51 crore towards the cost of gunny bags, Rs 1.72 crore for value added tax (VAT) and Rs 36.53 crore for interest on cost of the gunny bags.However, the interest cost of Rs 36.53 crore once again included in the cost of gunny bags which is Rs 28.51 crore. On being pointed out on July 4, 2018, by the audit department, the district office of Pungrain raised the claim with the Food Corporation of India and got the wrong inclusion of the cost of gunny bags of Rs 28.51 crore rectified, after which the FCI refunded the amount to the Pungrain.But the blockage of funds due to excess deductions made by the FCI cost the Pungrain an avoidable interest burden of Rs 1.42 crore. Overall, the mismanagement of delayed verifications of deductions on account of cost of gunny bags and interest imposed resulted into financial losses of Rs 1.67 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-pungrain-suffered-rs-1-67-cr-loss-due-to-poor-management-221607
07-03-2021||Muktsar||Back Kejriwal to weaken Modi: Bhagwant Mann||AAP state president-cum- Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann today said “to weaken Narendra Modi, people will have to make Arvind Kejriwal stronger and support him”. Mann was in Gidderbaha sub-division here to mobilise support for AAP’s ‘Kisan Mahasammelan’ to be held in Moga district on March 21.Mann said, “Kejriwal has proved thrice in Delhi that he can shake Modi.” He further said the election manifesto should be declared a legal document.“An authority should be set up at the Centre to register the manifesto of all political parties. This will allow voters to file a case against any party for not fulfilling its promises,” said Mann.The AAP state president added the hiring of Prashant Kishor as principal adviser to the CM had put an extra burden on the state’s exchequer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/back-kejriwal-to-weaken-modi-bhagwant-mann-221608
07-03-2021||---||Farm laws: Where is the priority for needy? Sidhu to Centre||Amritsar, March 6Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu continued his attack on the Union Government for not rolling back the three farm laws by posting two messages and a video on his Twitter handle on Saturday.In a message, he stated: “Where is the priority for the needy majority... only a preference for a few favourites!! Link daily wages to inflation and ease financial burden of farmers by giving better income to labour... honour merit, give direct income support to 36% Dalits, who own only 2% of agricultural land.”Earlier, he had posted a couplet: “Tere wadon ka tu jane (only you know of your promises), mera wahi irada hai (my intention is the same), jis din sans tutegi, us din aas tutegi (hope will die with life).”Through a video message, the cricketer-turned-politician said Punjabis had given maximum sacrifice during the freedom struggle and the green revolution. Now, their services were no longer required so they were not taken on board before taking the decision on the farm laws.He said the agreements being signed with corporate houses were linked to inflation. However, the same facility was not extended to daily wagers and farmers. Sidhu had been lending support to the farmers’ agitation since it started.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-laws-where-is-the-priority-for-needy-sidhu-to-centre-221610
07-03-2021||Ravneet Singh---||Dead farmer summoned to join R-Day violence probe!||Tribune News Service Patiala, March 6 The crime branch of Delhi Police has summoned a farmer who died on December 31, 2020, to join the investigation into the January 26 violence. In fact, the three brothers named in the notice were never associated with the ongoing farmers’ protest, claims the farmer’s family. Deceased Jagir Singh’s nephew Bhupinder Singh said his father Surjit Singh (88) and another uncle, Gurcharan Singh, were never part of the protest. “Jagir Singh, who had died at the age of 90 on December 31, was bedridden for the past one year due to old age. He was a farmer and landowner all his life but never participated in the protest,” claimed Bhupinder. “My father suffers from age-related issues. He lives at Neholka village of Kurali. His brother Gurcharan Singh, who is a retired government teacher, lives in the city and is no longer associated with farming now”, he said, urging the Punjab Government to help them and other people facing such notices. Jaspal Singh, a retired government employee and husband of village sarpanch, said: “Jagir Singh is no more, while the other two are aged and are not in a position to go to protest sites. They did not participate in the protest.” Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Dakaunda) state president Buta Singh Burjgill said the Delhi Police had sent such notices to many other people who had died much before January 26.  “They are creating fear by sending notices to people on the basis of registration number of vehicles that came for langar sewa or other services in the protest. We have told people not to go to the crime branch directly but contact our legal team instead,” Burjgill said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dead-farmer-summoned-to-join-r-day-violence-probe-221611
07-03-2021||---||Akali activists gherao Muktsar SSP’s house||Muktsar, March 6SAD activists led by local MLA Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi today gheraoed the SSP’s residence, alleging that policemen were harassing and detaining party activists in connection with the MC poll violence case.Rozy said the police last night detained former Muktsar municipal council chief Harpal Singh Bedi’s brother, some relatives and employees. He further alleged the cops were harassing the family members of Rupinder Batra and Tek Chand Batra as well.Meanwhile, some family members of Bedi alleged the cops were acting at the behest of Congress leaders.Later, Rozy Barkandi met SSP D Sudarvizhi and claimed she had assured that those detained would be released soon. Thereafter, the Akalis lifted their protest and Barkandi went to the police station. Muktsar City police station SHO Mohan Lal said some people were brought to the police station for investigation and they had been released.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akali-activists-gherao-muktsar-ssps-house-221612
07-03-2021||Praful Chander Nagpal---||Shortage of gunny bags hits custom milling in state||Fazilka, March 6 The custom milling of paddy has virtually come to a standstill in Punjab due to the shortage of gunny bags.  Official sources said the procurement agencies had failed to provide gunny bags to the rice millers as a result of which they had stopped production of rice from the parmal variety of paddy. The variety  is supplied by the agencies to the millers for the central pool.  “The millers have not been provided empty gunny bags in the state for the past week as a result of which they have been forced to stop production. They are not supposed to mill paddy in the absence of gunny bags,” said Amit Chintu Thatai, a miller of Jalalabad. The sources said only 56 per cent paddy had been shelled and supplied by Fazilka millers for the central pool so far. They said millers were to contribute a total 2,16,000 metric tonnes of rice, but they had been able to deliver only 1,20,000 MT. Before they could mill the remaining balance, the supply of gunny bags fell short.  Arun Dhuria, president, Rice Millers’’ Association, Fazilka, demanded that the gunny bags should be provided immediately as they had been incurring huge losses on account of payment to employees, labourers, power bills and recurring expenses.  Fazilka district has 55 mills. The millers said huge stocks of paddy had been lying on the mill premises and it was necessary to liquidate these without further delay to prevent damage and shortage.  A delegation of rice millers also presented a memorandum to Gurpreet Singh Kang, District Food and Supplies Controller, Fazilka, in this regard. Kang said the gunny bags were in a short supply from West Bengal and the government was coming out with a new policy of supplying old bags soon to meet the requirement of millers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shortage-of-gunny-bags-hits-custom-milling-in-state-221613
07-03-2021||---||Muktsar villagers protest irregular power supply||Muktsar, March 6 A large number of farmers today protested outside the power grid in Peori village, saying they were not getting adequate power supply for tubewells.  A farmer, Jasveer Singh, said they were getting power for just about four hours against promised supply for eight hours for tubewells.  PSPCL executive engineer Harish Gothwal said: “The SDO has been sent to the spot to meet the farmers and resolve the issue.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-villagers-protest-irregular-power-supply-221614
07-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Four surrender in activist Vijay Jindal attack case||Abohar, March 6Four of the 20 suspects surrendered before the police in Sriganganagar after representatives of various political and social organisations mounted pressure on the administration to nab the miscreants who had allegedly attacked prominent trader and social activist Vijay Jindal on Monday in his office.His family had threatened to stage a sit-in outside a building that had allegedly become a hub of indecent activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-surrender-in-activist-vijay-jindal-attack-case-221615
07-03-2021||---||Punjab may see 3K Covid cases per day by month-end: Govt||Chandigarh, March 6Over the next three weeks, the number of Covid cases may touch 3,000 a day. The fact came to the fore during a meeting held today under the chairmanship of Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan.In order to effectively manage the second wave of Covid-19 in Punjab and to break the chain of transmission, a high-level meeting was chaired by Vini Mahajan, wherein the deputy commissioners, police chiefs and key officials of other stakeholder departments like health and medical education were present. 1,179 fresh casesThe state reported 1,179 cases and 12 deaths in the past 24 hours. In the district-wise break of cases, Jalandhar topped the list with three deaths, followed by Ludhiana and Patiala (two deaths each), and SBS Nagar, Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Ferozepur and Hoshiarpur (one death each).During the meeting, Principal Secretary, Health, Hussan Lal apprised the Chief Secretary of a model which predicted a huge surge in the number of cases starting mid-March with 3,000 cases per day by the end of it. At present, the state is getting around 1,000 cases per day.Hussan Lal presented the current status of Covid trends. He shared the data about some super-spreader events like marriages, social gatherings and offices resulting in greater exposure and increased positivity. He informed that 2, 38,367 persons had already been given first dose of Covid vaccine with no major adverse events following immunisation.The Chief Secretary reviewed the preparedness for the second wave of the pandemic with each district along with the status of the vaccination.She said the second wave of the disease had started and all DCs and police chiefs must ensure that large gatherings like marriages, religious events and social functions be restricted as per the guidelines of the government.Mahajan also emphasised detailed assessment of healthcare facilities to effectively combat the second wave. She asked the officials to quickly undertake an analysis of positivity rate in towns, where elections were held recently, to assess the impact of crowding at these places. She said as the overall positivity rate in schools was low, there was no need to close them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-may-see-3k-covid-cases-per-day-by-month-end-govt-221616
07-03-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Railways may outsource Amritsar station’s non-core functions||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 6The Ministry of Railways is likely to outsource non-core functions of the Amritsar Railway station (ARS) to the Indian Railway Station Development Corporation (IRSDC).Sources in the Railways said handing over of the passenger facility management to the IRSDC could take place in the first phase during a visit of Ashutosh Gangal, General Manager of the Northern Railway, at the station on March 12.According to sources, in order to bring homogeneity among passenger-oriented facilities such as parking, cleanliness of the railway station, shops, vends, trolleys and others may be handed over to the IRSDC, which, in turn, could hand over these to private concern in near future. So far, the Railways handles all departments at the ARS, including train operations, station management, wagons, cleanliness, tracks, civil work, electrical (general), traction distribution (which is also called overhead equipment wing), finance, personnel and commercial traffic, which further has two wings: Commercial and operations.Amid the ongoing farmers’ protest at Delhi borders, any such move of the department may cause a big concern. Railways officials are reluctant to disclose anything on the matter. Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) Rajesh Aggarwal expressed ignorance over any such move by the Baroda House, where the Railways is headquartered in Delhi. He said efforts were underway to elevate the present infrastructure of the ARS to an airport-like experience.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/railways-may-outsource-amritsar-stations-non-core-functions-221617
07-03-2021||Sangrur||Jobless to organise rally in Sangrur on March 21||Jobless members of five different organisations under the banner of ‘Joint Front of Unemployed’ have announced organising a state-level rally at Sangrur on March 21 against the Punjab Government over the joblessness in the state.  “We have been repeatedly meeting all senior authorities of the government, but none is paying any heed to our demands. We have been staging several protests across the state against the claims of the government,” said Harjinder Singh Jhunir, a leader of front. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-to-organise-rally-in-sangrur-on-march-21-221618
07-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Ferozepur-Chandigarh Express back on track from March 9||Ferozepur, March 6The Ferozepur-Chandigarh Express Special will resume operations almost a year after it was discontinued due to the Covid pandemic.Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) Rajesh Kumar Aggarwal said: “The train will resume operations from March 9 between Ferozepur Cantonment and Mohali railway stations. It will leave Ferozepur at 5 am and reach Chandigarh at 9.45 am. On its return journey, the train will leave Chandigarh at 5.35 pm and reach Ferozepur at 10.25 pm.”Timings revisedOn the way, the train would halt at Talwandi, Moga, Jagraon, Ludhiana, Samrala and New Morinda, he added.Residents of this border town had been demanding a change in timings of the train. Earlier, it used to leave Ferozepur at 7 am and reach Chandigarh at 11.45 am.“It was difficult for those who wanted to return the same day after completing their work. Hundreds of people have to visit the state capital regularly, but due to late timings, they had to opt for the road transport, which was very costly. With the revision of timings, the demand of border residents has been fulfilled,” said MLA Parminder Singh Pinki, claiming he had taken up the matter with the higher authorities of the Railways. The train was formally flagged off in February 2015 on the demand of residents of the border region. The train was sanctioned in the 2014 Railway Budget.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ferozepur-chandigarh-express-back-on-track-from-march-9-221619
07-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||BSF shoots Pak intruder||Abohar, March 6 The Border Security Force (BSF) gunned down a Pakistan intruder along the International Border in the Sriganganagar-Anoopgarh sector on Friday night. Sources said efforts were on to hand over the body of the suspect to the Pakistan authorities. The Pakistan Rangers agreed to a flag meeting with the BSF late in the evening but the outcome was awaited. Plum pieces, orange peel, empty yolk and a Rs 10 (Pakistan currency) were found on the 35-year-old suspect, who seemed mentally unstable. The sources said around 7.30 pm yesterday, the suspect was spotted around 500 metres from the Kailash outpost. He entered the Indian territory illegally. Two BSF personnel stationed near pillar No. 368/1 confronted the suspect, but he did not respond, prompting the troops to fire seven rounds. The body was later found 700 metres inside the Indian territory from the border. Senior BSF officers reached the outpost soon after the incident. After midnight, the body was shifted to the Government Hospital at Anoopgarh. A post-mortem was conducted on Saturday. Based on a report by the Deputy Commandant of BSF battalion, a case of infiltration had been registered. Anoopgarh police station in charge Surinder Punia said the body had been kept at the mortuary and BSF officials were trying to hand over it to the Pakistan Rangers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-shoots-pak-intruder-221621
07-03-2021||Bathinda||Three phones seized from Bathinda jail||Security arrangements at the Bathinda Central Jail have come under the scanner following the recovery of three mobile phones, a charger, a bluetooth device, an Internet dongle, three air phones, a data cable, five bundles of ‘bidis’ and 46 packets of intoxicant (‘jarda’) from five prisoners.Assistant Superintendent of Jail Binder Singh has lodged a complaint with the Cantt police station in this regard. Investigation officer ASI Binder Singh said: “We have registered a case against five jail inmates. In the complaint, it is stated that during a checking by the jail authorities, headed by CRPF Assistant Commandant Nandini Sharma, in security block No. 1 on February 27 night, phones, intoxicants and other material were recovered from five inmates.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-phones-seized-from-bathinda-jail-221622
07-03-2021||Sangrur||ASI booked for graft, hunt on||Police teams are conducting raids to arrest the Chotian police post in charge after two FIRs were registered against him by the Vigilance Bureau (VB) and the Lehra police.Vigilance Inspector Sudarshan Kumar Saini said on March 2, Chotiyan police post in charge Hardeep Singh had recovered some poppy husk from Dallu Singh in Haryau village and took him to the police post.“Later, the ASI allegedly demanded Rs 50,000 from Dallu to set him free and a deal was struck for Rs 40,000. Dallu approached the Vigilance and we laid a trap on March 4, but the ASI fled after taking Rs 36,000 from the complainant. We seized four boxes of liquor and 900-gm poppy husk from his temporary residence,” said Saini.He said they had registered an FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act and were conducting raids to arrest the officer. The Vigilance has informed the Lehra police about the recovery of liquor and poppy husk from the ASI’s residence.Sub-Inspector Gurcharn Singh from the Lehra police station said they had registered an FIR against the Chotiyan police post in charge. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asi-booked-for-graft-hunt-on-221623
07-03-2021||Ravinder Saini||Commuters join farmers' protest on KMP eway||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, March 6Farmers from Punjab and Haryana displayed a show of unity and bonhomie during the massive blockade at the KMP Expressway near Mandothi village in the district today. They worked in tandem in managing traffic and serving langar, while blocking both sides of the highway peacefully.Virender Hooda, farmer leaderBonhomie & unityBrotherhood between Punjab and Haryana farmers is the backbone of this stir. Punjab is discharging the duty of an elder brother, while Haryana is executing its directions properly.They requested the drivers and cleaners of commercial vehicles stuck in the blockade to join the protesters on the expressway. Moved, many drivers parked their vehicles on the roadside and joined the protest in solidarity with the farmers.It was the third such protest by the farmers in the past one month after “chakka jam” on February 6 and ‘rail roko’ on February 18 to mount pressure on the Central Government to get the three farm laws repealed.Sudesh Goyat, activis Women powerThe presence of women is a proof that the protest is going strong. We have been supporting the stir from the beginning and will not return home until the laws are repealed.The two protests in February were led by Haryana farmers, but today’s protest was led by farmers of both states. “Brotherhood between Punjab and Haryana farmers is the backbone of this agitation. Punjab is discharging the duty of an elder brother by leading the agitation, while Haryana is executing the elder brother’s directions and making all necessary arrangements,” said farmer leader Virender Hooda.Among the protesters were women from Punjab and Haryana in large numbers. Those from Haryana wore black attires and carried black flags, while Punjab women donned yellow “dupattas”. They raised the slogan of “Kisan Ekta Zindabad”.Sudesh Goyat, a woman activist from Hisar, said: “The presence of women from Punjab and Haryana is a proof that the protest is going strong. We have been supporting the agitation from the beginning and will not return home until the three farm laws are repealed. There is no let-up. We all are determined”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/commuters-join-farmers-protest-on-kmp-eway-221564
