10-03-2021||---||SC refuses to entertain Punjab firm’s plea against farm law protesters||New Delhi, March 10The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to entertain a Punjab-based company’s plea for a direction to the Centre and the Punjab government to remove the “anarchists masquerading as protestors” who disrupted its business.SM Logistics & Warehousing Co. Pvt. Ltd alleged that the protesters occupied its warehouses in the name of protests against the three farm laws.A Bench led by Justice UU Lalit said the company can move the Punjab and Haryana High Court in three days for the relief. It also gave liberty to the petitioner to amend its petition and make the protesting organisations/groups as parties and the High Court should consider the matter at the earliest.The petitioner claimed that its warehouse was used for storing goods of three companies—Adani Wilmar Ltd, Capital Foods Pvt Ltd and Technova Imaging Systems Pvt. Ltd.—in temperature controlled environment and it has not been able to access its place of business since February 19.It wondered how a corporate entity could seek enforcement of a fundamental right. “It’s a law and it’s settled. You have to have someone else as co-petitioner. It may be an officer bearer or shareholder. Company is corporate entity and legal body by itself. You have to have someone else,” it said.The petitioner’s counsel said, “We don’t know who these people are. They keep changing. These are unscrupulous people and not even real protesters sitting at protest. My client tried to talk to these groups but they refused to move and they are not allowing me access to my property.”The bench said it can’t pass orders without hearing the protesters. It also sought to know if he had made any representation to the district administration. The counsel said the representations didn’t elicit any response.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-refuses-to-entertain-punjab-firms-plea-against-farm-law-protesters-223346
10-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Shehnaaz Gill’s street style look will make heads turn; Punjabi star shares pictures from Canada||The Bigg Boss star Shehnaaz Gill is currently in Canada for her latest Punjabi project. The actress will be next seen in ‘Honsla Rakh’ alongside Diljit Dosanjh and Sonam Bajwa.The diva is quite active on social media. Shehnaaz has once again left her Instagram family wanting more. Sharing pictures of her new street-style, the actress looks chic in her blue denim, black top and bag.Quickly jumping on the comment section, her fans dropped several fire and heart emojis.A post shared by Shehnaaz Gill (@shehnaazgill)Recently, Shehnaaz' song with Badshah also released and received rave reviews from her fans. The actress is seen in a completely different avatar in the video.Earlier, in an Instagram Live session, Shehnaaz had revealed that it was her dream to work with Badshah and Diljit, which had now come true."It was my dream to work with Badshah and Diljit from the Punjabi industry. I had asked for these two wishes from God and both have been fulfilled. Now I don't have any wishes except Bollywood," she was heard saying.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shehnaaz-gills-street-style-look-will-make-heads-turn-punjabi-star-shares-pictures-from-canada-223339
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Neha Kakkar teams up with Rubina Dilaik, Abhinav Shukla for new project; shares first-look||Singer Neha Kakker took to Instagram on Wednesday, to share the first look of celebrity couple Rubina Dilaik and Abhinav Shukla's new music video Marjaneya.The news was also shared by Rubina and Abhinav on their Instagram profiles. The music video will release on March 18.In the first look, Abhinav sports a blue and pink printed shirt with cream shorts, while Rubina stuns in an orange bikini top and sarong skirt.Neha wrote on Wednesday: "Ahem ahem... Ladies and Ladies I assure you, you're all gonna love this one! #Marjaneya." "Super excited to announce our #first feat @ashukla09 in @nehakakkar 's #marjaneya," Rubina posted.A post shared by Neha Kakkar (Mrs. Singh) (@nehakakkar)  Abhinav wrote: "Your Punjabi munda in Marjaneya ,with @rubinadilaik..... @nehakakkar @babbu11111 @desimusicfactory @anshul300 @raghav.sharma.14661 @iamrajatnagpal @irajanbir."The couple was last seen in the show Bigg Boss 14. Rubina walked away with the trophy a few weeks back. — IANSA post shared by Rubina Dilaik (@rubinadilaik)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/neha-kakkar-teams-up-with-rubina-dilaik-abhinav-shukla-for-new-project-shares-first-look-223278
10-03-2021||New Delhi||Hackers hit Indians with ransomware supporting farmers||In a unique way to support protesting farmers in India, cyber criminals have launched a new ransomware attack in the country that does not ask for money but justice for the community, conveying a message that no data will be recovered until the demands of the farmers are met, a new report revealed on Wednesday.The ransomware is designed to target entities connected with farmers’ protests in India, with the hacker group titled Khalsa Cyber Fauj reported to be leading this attack in the country.Quick Heal Security Labs, the threat research and response division of global cybersecurity firm Quick Heal Technologies, said it has discovered the ransomware named as “Sarbloh”, which is being distributed through malicious word documents via emails, containing a political message supporting the farmers’ community.“The latest Sarbloh ransomware that appears to be working in the favour of farmers without any monetary grains is a testimony to their growing attack abilities,” said Himanshu Dubey, Director, Quick Heal Security Labs.Surprisingly, threat actors through this new attack technique are infecting user devices by encrypting their files without asking for a ransom, which is usually the key objective of any ransomware.“Khalsa Cyber Fauj is using military-grade encryption on system files to turn them useless,” the company mentioned.The news came as apart from intensifying the agitation at Delhi’s borders, farmers are now trying to strengthen the stir against the Union farm laws on social media platforms as well.Farmers have been protesting against the various newly enacted Union farm laws since November 26, 2020, at various borders of the national Capital.“Threat actors have constantly demonstrated innovation through their evolving attack strategies. We will continue to analyse the threat environment and deploy safety measures for our users,” said Dubey.The company advised users not to download any attachment that comes from unknown emails and messages.“Avoid clicking on unverified links and those found in spam email. Besides, practice backing up the data so that it can be recovered in case of compromise, and keep updating antivirus solutions to stay protected,” the company said. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hackers-hit-indians-with-ransomware-supporting-farmers-223268
10-03-2021||Patiala||Govt fails to clear pending dues, concession of free travel for women, college students, may put PRTC in tight spot||The government’s concession of free travel in government-run buses for women and the students studying in government colleges, across the state, is likely to put Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) in a tight spot.Reason: PRTC has not got its reimbursement of other concessions on time, and is said to have got around Rs 146 crores outstanding towards the government until December, last year.They said the outstanding amount is likely to be increased by Rs 25 crore by the end of next quarter, which ends on March 31.Notably, the government is already giving free bus travel under various categories such as for cancer patients, freedom fighters, Punjab police personnel, women above age 60 years, and many more.Currently, the average daily income of PRTC is estimated around Rs 1.25 crore, however, a major share of this income, around Rs 1.10 crore, goes to salary, pension and daily diesel expenditure.Therefore, any additional burden of free travel is going to put the PRTC in a tight spot, which is if the government fails to expedite its reimbursement process. Moreover, PRTC faced financial losses during the COVID lockdown and had already sought relief from the government, however, nothing was granted.Nirmal Singh Dhaliwal, general secretary, All India Trade Union Congress, and former PRTC employee, said: “We don’t object to any social welfare scheme, however, the government should ensure that it reimburses the payment – timely.”Nitish Singla, Additional Managing Director, PRTC, said: “Though things will be clear after notification will be issued, however, the government has allocated a separate budget for this. Sometimes, there has been a delay in the reimbursement, however, we do get the payments from the government.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-fails-to-clear-pending-dues-concession-of-free-travel-for-women-college-students-may-put-prtc-in-tight-spot-223266
10-03-2021||---||38 cases registered after violence in Delhi on January 26, minister informs Parliament||New Delhi, March 10The government on Wednesday said Delhi Police had registered 38 cases against people, including foreigners, following the January 26 violence in the capital during the farmers’ protests.Responding to a written question in Parliament, Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said the police had informed them that no road had been dug up at the city’s borders in view of the agitation, but security had been strengthened in the national capital.“Delhi Police have informed that 38 cases have been registered against the persons, including foreigners, who violated various legal provisions, including cyber crime, recently in Delhi, while protesting in the name of farm laws,” the minister said.Reddy said Delhi Police had informed that the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha broke barricades on Republic Day in violation of the permission granted for taking out a tractor parade on a mutually accepted route. He said the protestors proceeded towards central Delhi despite being stopped at other barricades inside the city and broke those barricades as well.In view of this experience, and the manner in which the protesting farmers used tractors as weapons for breaking the barricades and injuring policemen, the barricades at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border were strengthened to prevent a repeat of the conduct displayed on January 26, the minister said.To alleviate the hardships caused to the commuting public due to the activities of the protestors, arrangements had been made to provide alternative routes to them, the minister said, adding that to ensure law and order and smooth movement of traffic at the borders adequate forces had been deployed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/38-cases-registered-after-violence-in-delhi-on-january-26-minister-informs-parliament-223262
10-03-2021||Tarn Taran||KMSC seeks withdrawal of cases against farmers||On the second day of the ‘Pakka Morcha’ launched by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, outside the District Administrative Complex (DAC), the agitating workers staged dharna in the middle of the National Highways No. 54 on Tuesday and blocked normal traffic for two hours.District president Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra and state leader Sawinder Singh Chutala were among others, who addressed the demonstrators on the occasion. They said the Congress leaders were victimising their political opponents by registering fake cases against them on a very large scale. They said the organisation had been demanding the withdrawal of criminal cases registered against the farmers’ leaders. They said the officials in the meetings held previously had assured to take back the cases, but now the police had started presenting challans in the courts. The leaders warned that the organisation would fight till justice was not served to them. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kmsc-seeks-withdrawal-of-cases-against-farmers-223129
10-03-2021||Ambika Sharma||Baru Sahib: Covid cases at Akal Academy rise to 76||Tribune News ServiceSolan, March 9Baru Sahib-based Akal Academy and two buildings in its precincts at Lana Bhalta village in Sirmaur district have been declared containment zones after 76 nursing students tested positive this week. As many as 32 females in the age group of 17 to 23 tested positive today.Deputy Commissioner (DC), Sirmaur, Dr RK Pruthi, said the ACN hostel, isolation ward in Akal Charitable Hospital as well as the hospital and two adjoining buildings in Lana Bhalta village were declared containment zones today.“Violations in social distancing norms have been observed in the institute and those who had come with RAT-negative test reports tested positive here in RT-PCR. All students are being tested to ensure that the infection is contained,” informed the DC.The adjoining labour colony and two more adjoining buildings have been declared buffer zones in a bid to contain the further spread of the virus in Baru Sahib. These zones would be cordoned off and no person residing in these areas would be permitted to assemble or congregate and would have to remain indoors expect for emergencies.The administration has also banned the organisation of all functions, meetings, workshops, community events etc. All shops, expect chemist shops and those providing essential services, have been permitted to operate with door-to-door provision of essential commodities being made available.Regular sanitisation will be undertaken and the Chief Medical Officer will station health teams to monitor the health of the people in the said area.Violations will be dealt with legally and the Disaster Management Act has also been invoked.The sudden surge in Covid cases has once again rung alarm bells among the authorities and they were once again in a state of high alert. There were 86 active cases in the district till last evening which was the second highest in the state after Kangra district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/baru-sahib-covid-cases-at-akal-academy-rise-to-76-223153
10-03-2021||Ajay Joshi||Day after girls’ escape, Joint Director Social Security visits Jalandhar's Gandhi Vanita Ashram||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 9A day after 45 inmates attempted escape from Gandhi Vanita Ashram Children Home, Vinni Bhullar, Joint Director, Social Security, visited the ashram and ordered for a detailed inquiry into the matter.Sources revealed that the superintendent of the home could face a departmental action and a transfer as the girls managed to leave the home on Monday evening.Earlier story: 45 girls escape from Gandhi Vanita AshramThe officials, including the joint director and district programme officer (DPO), interacted with the girls on Tuesday.The home mainly houses girls who are placed under the protection of the ashram during ongoing court cases. The inmates alleged that they were not being released even though they had attained 18 years of age. Besides, the girls also complained of improper food being served to them inside the home.While the cops, after tracing the girls who went missing yesterday, said 45 girls had left the home, DPO Gurvinder Singh Randhawa clarified that 37 of them tried to escape in the presence of heavy security.“Soon after the matter was probed, the girls told us that they were not being released from the home. Besides, they didn’t intend to leave the home, instead they wanted to protest outside the district court complex to lay stress about their release. After verifying the documents of all girls, it was also learnt that of 83 girls in the home, only four were 18 or above 18. To this, the girls cited that their parents have reduced their age in the documents. However, the department follows a detailed procedure before the girls can be released. In this regard, Chief Judicial Magistrate have also been apprised of the mater,” Randhawa said.Moreover, as the girls insisted that they have turned adults and they could no longer be kept in the ashram, the officials on Tuesday also initiated proceedings to release the girls who were not minors.An inquiry report in the matter will also be submitted to the Deputy Commissioner shortly, the DPO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-after-girls-escape-joint-director-social-security-visits-jalandhars-gandhi-vanita-ashram-223131
10-03-2021||New Delhi/Jalandhar||ED raids Sukhpal Singh Khaira, others in drugs, fake passport cases||Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials today raided several premises of rebel AAP MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira, his family members and some jailed convicts under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in Punjab and Delhi in connection with the 2015 Fazilka narcotics trafficking case and an alleged fake passport case.Bid to gag my voiceIt is an attempt to gag my voice. I have not done anything wrong. — Sukhpal Singh Khaira, Rebel AAP MLASearches echo in houseIn the Assembly, rebel SAD MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa called it “political intimidation”. Cong minister Charanjit Singh Channi sought a resolution to “condemn” the action. PTI Besides Khaira’s Chandigarh residence, the ED officials, led by Deputy Director Neha Yadav, searched nine places in Punjab and two in Delhi, including the house of Khaira’s son-in-law Inderveer Singh Johal, officials said. The searches began early in the morning and continued late into the night. In Punjab, searches were conducted at Khaira’s ancestral Ramgarh village in Bholath (Kapurthala), his personal assistant’s house in Kapurthala, and residences of three persons, including Rajwinder Kaur, and Bikker Singh (both from Kapurthala) and Harminder Kaur (Jalandhar), who are reportedly suspects in the fake passport case.According to ED officials, the Bholath MLA allegedly had links with “the drugs racket convicts and fake passport racketeers”. The officials said the action was being carried out against the MLA and others to gather more evidence to take forward the probe in the two cases.The officials said the action pertains to the 2015 Fazilka (Punjab) drugs smuggling case, in which 1,800 gm heroin, 24 gold biscuits, two weapons, 26 cartridges and two Pakistan SIM cards were seized from a gang of international smugglers by security agencies. An ED official said searches on Khaira’s premises were linked the drugs case.The central agency had recently filed a case under the PMLA in this connection following an FIR lodged by the Punjab Police. “The drugs were smuggled through the Pakistan border and one of the kingpins is in the UK. Khaira was actively aiding and supporting the gang of international smugglers and enjoying the proceeds of crime,” the ED alleged, adding a few of the convicts of the drugs case, currently lodged in jail, were also searched and questioned.The officials identified them as Gurdev Singh, Manjit Singh, Harbans Singh and Subhash Chander, all residents of Fazilka district.During the search operations, the team could recover incriminating documents and digital devices, the officials said. The firebrand leader, who switched from the Congress to AAP before floating the Punjab Ekta Party in 2019, had recently taken up the case of suspicious death of farmer Navreet Singh on January 26 during the farm protests. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ed-raids-sukhpal-singh-khaira-others-in-drugs-fake-passport-cases-223043
10-03-2021||Sangrur||Youth murdered||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-murdered-222941
10-03-2021||Sangrur||Cellphones found in jail||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cellphones-found-in-jail-222942
10-03-2021||---||Man killed in road mishap||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-killed-in-road-mishap-222943
10-03-2021||Faridkot||ASI arrested on extortion charge in Faridkot||The police in Kotkapura have arrested an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of the Muktsar police for his alleged involvement in an extortion racket.The racket kingpin is allegedly a Canada-based son of ASI Shamsher Singh. The accused has been booked under Sections 387 and 506 of the IPC. The ASI allegedly used to recce potential victims and then passed on that information to his son Satinder Singh, alias Goldy Brar..Satinder would then make WhatsApp calls or send text messages to extort money. According to the FIR registered by the Kotkapura police, the father-son duo had also involved some relatives in the racket.In the latest case, the accused had made an extortion call to a Kotkapura chemist demanding Rs 25 lakh. The CIA wing of the Faridkot police has already obtained two-day remand of Shamsher Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asi-arrested-on-extortion-charge-in-faridkot-222926
10-03-2021||---||Anandpur Sahib: Ex-SHO booked for not registering plaint||Anandpur Sahib, March 9A year after a cop allegedly refused to register an FIR in a minor’s rape case, the local police on Tuesday booked him under Section 166 A of the IPC at the same police station he was heading at the time of the incident.Anandpur Sahib DSP Raminder Singh Kahlon said following the directions of a local court, a case under Section 166 A of the IPC had been registered against former SHO Bharat Bhushan.On March 16 last year, a 14-year-old girl was allegedly raped at a guest house in Anandpur Sahib, following which her mother approached the police to register a complaint.However, the victim’s mother alleged that instead of arresting the accused, a policeman gave her Rs 15,000 and told her to return home. She brought the matter to the notice of DSP Devinder Singh, who indicted the SHO and recommended departmental action against him on April 28.While no action was taken against Bharat Bhushan by the district police, a court in Anandpur Sahib, in its orders dated March 8, asked the police to register an FIR against the former SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anandpur-sahib-ex-sho-booked-for-not-registering-plaint-222927
10-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Six school students hurt in accident on Abohar-Malout road||Abohar, March 9Six students on way to a government school were injured as a tempo reportedly hit them near Balluana village, 10km from here, on the Abohar-Malout stretch of the national highway today. Two of them were referred to a Faridkot hospital for treatment.DSP (Rural) Avtar Singh said a case had been registered against the tempo driver. All possible help would be extended to the victims, he added.Nisha and Ranjana, students of Government School, Balluana, said they were walking on the roadside when a tempo coming from behind hit them.Raj Kumar (12), Priyanka (8), Nisha (6), Ranjana (14), Nimbita (11) and Khushi (9) were brought to the hospital by some villagers. Raj Kumar and Priyanka were later referred to Faridkot.All children belong to farm labourers’ families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/six-school-students-hurt-in-accident-on-abohar-malout-road-222928
10-03-2021||---||Anganwari workers protest at Finance Minister’s office in Bathinda||Bathinda, March 9The Bathinda police today had a tough time in controlling Anganwari workers, who reached outside Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s office to stage a protest in Bathinda on Tuesday.The situation turned tense as protesters reached outside the Manpreet’s office at a time when a langar was organized by him in remembrance of his mother. The police had to use mild force to control the protesters who were raising slogans.Budget copies burntabohar: Members of the All Punjab Anganwari Mulazim Union, led by block president Gurwant Kaur, burnt copies of the state Budget and raised slogans against the state government on Tuesday. They were protesting against non-hike in their honorarium. — OC.Led by Anganwadi workers state president Hargobind Kaur, the protesters were disappointed with the Budget presented by Manpreet yesterday. They today reached the Finance Minister’s office to gehrao it. As they tried to burn his effigy Congress workers stopped them.Anganwari workers accused policemen of molestation and claimed there was no policewoman police at the spot. They also announced to gehrao the SSP’s office tomorrow.Earlier in the morning, Anganwadi workers gathered at Ambedkar Park and started a march towards Manpreet’s office. However, they were stopped by the police at some distance from the office. An argument ensued between them and workers broke through the barrier.Hargobind Kaur said workers had been voicing their demands and issues for a long time, but the government was ignoring them. He said nothing was given to the employees even in the Budget and there was anger in them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anganwari-workers-protest-at-finance-ministers-office-in-bathinda-222935
10-03-2021||Abohar||Heroin seized||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heroin-seized-222937
10-03-2021||Sangrur||Book officials for tree felling: Sangrur residents||Axing of fully grown trees in the Patiala gate area by some PWD officials “without” the permission of the Nagar Council has drawn flak from residents.They have sought the registration of an FIR against the officials for damaging the green cover of the city. According to information, some trees on the opposite side of Kali Mata Temple in the Patiala gate area have been axed in the past few days. However, the PWD officials said the step had been taken for road widening. “The road is already wide and has pavements on both sides,” said advocate Dasvir Singh Dalee.Residents have announced to launch an agitation against the PWD officials and Sangrur administration if the authorities failed to take any action. “Several fully grown trees have been cut in the city for road projects. However, no plantation drive has ever been carried out after that. PWD officials are misusing government money to lay unnecessary interlocking tiles and damaging the environment.,” said Avtar Ealwal, an AAP leader. Executive Officer (EO), Nagar Council, Ramesh Kumar said although they had handed over the Patiala gate road work to the PWD, the latter should have taken permission before axing the trees.However, SDO, PWD, Ajay Garg said since the Nagar Council had issued them a no-objection certificate for the road widening, there was no need to take permission again. “If Nagar Council officials have any doubts, we are ready to clarify. We have already deposited Rs 1.89 lakh in treasury as per the assessment of the forest department,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/book-officials-for-tree-felling-sangrur-residents-222922
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||HC to examine if deportation can be ordered without hearing||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday stayed the deportation of an Indian by birth, but citizen of another country. The Bench, in the process, made clear its intent to examine whether expulsion for “overstaying” could be ordered without hearing on the ground that his Indian citizenship stood automatically terminated.The direction by the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh came on a petition by Jugraj Singh and his wife against the Union of India and other respondents. His counsel submitted the petitioner contacted a travel agent two decades ago to go to the USA, but was duped and sent to Kenya. As he was forced to reside in Kenya, he had to apply for Kenyan citizenship and passport. It was issued to him with validity up to December 21, 2019. Thereafter, he visited India a number of times as he wanted to retain his original Indian nationality.He entered India in February 2015 with a view to return permanently and was residing with his family since then. But his Indian citizenship stood automatically terminated following the grant of Kenyan citizenship.His counsel added Indian citizenship was required to be restored as the petitioner was born in India and was permanent resident of Ferozepur district. He approached the Foreigners Regional Registration Officer, Bureau of Immigration, with a representation. But reply was not received. On January 18, the Ferozepur police served a notice asking him to leave India as he was considered an overstaying foreigner. He was, as such, likely to be deported.The counsel added the action would be violative of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution as opportunity of hearing was not afforded before the decision. Section 9(2) of the Citizenship Act, did, envisage opportunity of hearing before decision.Accepting the notice, the counsel for the Union and other respondents submitted she would seek instructions and find out about the petitioner’s antecedents. Before parting, the Bench gave her the liberty to seek instructions from the intelligence agencies, if necessary. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-to-examine-if-deportation-can-be-ordered-without-hearing-222923
10-03-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court questions false implication in matrimonial dispute||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 9In an unprecedented order liable to send across a stern message to the police and prosecution against false implication of people in matrimonial disputes, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that they were liable to furnish an explanation for their actions.Making it clear that the court could travel beyond just the quashing of FIRs in such matters and take the police and the prosecution to task, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan has asked the Faridkot Senior Superintendent of Police, the Deputy District Attorney (Legal) and the investigating officer to file separate affidavits as to how offence was made out against the husband’s cousin in the dispute.“It is made clear that if the affidavits are not filed by the next date of hearing, they will be burdened with a cost of Rs 1 lakh each to be paid to the petitioner,” Justice Sangwan asserted, adding coercive action would not be taken against the petitioner.The matter was brought to Justice Sangwan’s notice after the petitioner-woman filed a petition for quashing an FIR dated October 15, 2020, registered at the Faridkot City police station, for subjecting a married woman to cruelty, criminal breach of trust and criminal intimidation under Sections 406, 498A and 506 of the IPC. Her counsel submitted that the petitioner, daughter of the husband’s maternal aunt, had no role to play. The only reason given for the FIR registration was that the accused persons did not come when a notice was given to them by the investigating officer. So, the registration of an FIR against the accused, including petitioner, was recommended.The counsel added even the opinion given by Faridkot Deputy District Attorney (Legal) Amit Goklani did not reflect application of judicial mind. As such, the petitioner was falsely implicated in the present FIR. The counsel added the lengthy complaint/FIR, apparently drafted by a lawyer, did not contain allegation of interference in the matrimonial affair of the complainant. The only allegation was that some gift was given to the petitioner at the time of marriage. But it could not be termed as “istridhan” in view of a Supreme Court judgment. The case will now come up in May second week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-questions-false-implication-in-matrimonial-dispute-222924
10-03-2021||---||Murder case: KCF ex-ultra sent to 3-day police custody||Moga, March 9The police today registered a criminal case under Sections 302, 307, 148, 149 and 120B of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against former Khalistan Commando Force (KCF) militant Gurinder Singh Ghali, his wife Karamjit Kaur, Jagdeep Singh alias Jagga, Pal Singh, Gurjit Singh, Mandeep Singh, Ashoka and at least five other persons hailing from Bathinda district at the Kot-ise-Khan police station in Moga district, SHO Lakhwinder Singh said.Gurinder Singh Ghali, along with his accomplices, allegedly shot dead his sister-in-law Harwinder Kaur, who along with her husband Karanjit Singh, was coming from Amritsar to appear in a local court in connection with a case filed by Ghali against them.The SHO said Ghali was produced before a judicial court on Tuesday evening. The court sent him to three-day police custody for further investigation. “We will now interrogate the accused to find out from where he got the weapon to commit the crime,” the SHO added.In reply to a question, the SHO said the persons who accompanied Ghali to commit the crime were yet to be arrested. “We will also ask Ghali to reveal the names of unidentified persons and addresses of the persons who helped him in the crime,” the SHO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/murder-case-kcf-ex-ultra-sent-to-3-day-police-custody-222925
10-03-2021||Vishav Bharti||For fair polls, use ballot paper: Punjab MLAs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 9MLAs from across the parties in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha today demanded a resolution that no election in the state should take place on electronic voting machines.The issue was raised during the Call Attention by the Lok Insaaf Party’s MLA from Ludhiana Simarjeet Singh Bains, when he said his call attention on EVMs was rejected by the Speaker citing lack of jurisdiction of the state Assembly. He said Under Article 328 of the Constitution, the state government had the right to decide whether it wanted Assembly elections to be conducted via ballot paper or EVM. He said the Seventh Schedule of Constitution gave that right to states.Technology can be manipulatedEvery technology, including EVMs, can be manipulated. If election doesn’t take place on EVMs, the BJP can’t win even a single seat in Punjab. — Navjot Singh Sidhu, Congress leaderBains said using same provisions, the Speaker of the Maharashtra state Assembly had asked the government to bring a Bill to reintroduce ballot papers in elections in Maharshtra. Following that other MLAs joined the issue and supported Bains. Breaking his silence in the Punjab Assembly after a gap of almost two years, former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu said various first world countries had already rejected the use of EVMs. He said with EVMs, people’s power to elect their representatives was snatched. He called it the biggest attack on democracy. He said the BJP government had compromised every institution of the country.Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema also said it had been established that EVMs could be tempered with. He said their party had already raised the issue in Delhi. In Punjab, he said even children knew that EVMs were fraud and the system should come to an end. He also demanded resolution of the House against EVMs.Agreeing to the demand, Shiromani Akali Dal MLA Sharnjeet Dhillon said the BJP government in The Centre was capable of doing anything to remain in power. AAP MLA Kanwar Sandhu said whatever Navjot Singh Sidhu had said about the system of EVMs concluded the whole issue.When contacted, State Election Commissioner Dr S Karuna Raju expressed inability to comment on the issue as he said he was unaware of the development in the Punjab Assembly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/for-fair-polls-use-ballot-paper-punjab-mlas-222912
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Grant to civic bodies of Punjab linked to property tax from next fiscal||From the next fiscal (2021-2022), the grant-in-aid to civic bodies will be linked to the recovery of property tax.The recommendations of the 6th Punjab Finance Commission were tabled in the Vidhan Sabha on Tuesday. The civic bodies have reported only 63 per cent collection of the targeted property tax and that too from 38 per cent of the total taxable properties in the state for 2019-2020. While the recovery from residential properties is 40 per cent, from commercial and industrial properties it’s 70 per cent.Accepted proposals of Finance panelCompensatory payment (for the loss of revenue due to abolition of octroi on power and liquor) to local bodies to continue besides the share in net profit of state’s own tax receiptContinuation of 16% share in excise duty on IMFL and beer and 10% share in auction from liquor vends and 4% share in the state’s net own tax revenue for 2020-21With 45.7 per cent recovery rate, Amritsar registered the lowest collection followed by Patiala (57.74).As per the action taken report on the recommendations, the share of devolution of the grant-in-aid will be linked to implementation of the model property tax (being developed by Local Government Department). The civic bodies shall have to achieve annual buoyancy, at least equivalent to the annual growth in the nominal GDP of the state in the year.A Group of Ministers, comprising the Finance Minister, Local Government Minister, Rural Development Minister, and Water Supply and Sanitation, would recommend distribution of the grant-in-aid to civic bodies. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/grant-to-civic-bodies-of-punjab-linked-to-property-tax-from-next-fiscal-222913
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Issue of less relief for land acquisition echoes in House||The issue of inadequate compensation for land being acquired for the Jammu-Katra Expressway echoed in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha on Tuesday. Members across party lines demanded a special session of the House or a resolution on the issue.The matter was raised by Simarjeet Singh Bains of the Lok Insaaf Party. Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said the Centre was acquiring arable land of Punjab farmers for the Jammu-Katra Expressway.Eight Bills passedEight Bills were passed on Tuesday, which included the Amity University Punjab Bill, the Indian Partnership (Punjab Amendments) Bill, the Punjab Bureau of Investment Promotion (Amendment) Bill, 2021, the Prisons (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2021, the Punjab Cooperative Societies (Amendment), the Punjab Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (Amendment) Bill, the Punjab Excise (Amendment) Bill and the Punjab Education (Posting of Teachers in Disadvantageout Area) Bill.“These farmers are dependent on their land for livelihood. However, the government is offering inadequate compensation for acquisition, leading to a resentment among people,” said the MLAs.Earlier, they issued a notice to draw the attention of the House to the matter and to raise the compensation, but the Speaker rejected it. AAP MLAs accused the Speaker of not taking the issue seriously.SAD MLA NK Sharma and Technical Education Minister Charanjit Singh Channi also supported Bain’s demand.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said that there were a number of instances, wherein roads were built in the middle of fertile land and a farmer’s land was divided into two parts.He demanded that the House should call a special session or pass a resolution to address the issue.Giving an assurance in this regard, senior-most minister Brahm Mohindra said that issue would be discussed with the Chief Minister and the government would intervene wherever required. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/issue-of-less-relief-for-land-acquisition-echoes-in-house-222914
10-03-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Cong MLAs target own government, Oppn picks holes in Budget||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 9Embarassing their own government in the Vidhan Sabha during the Budget debate, at least two MLAs from the treasury benches today accused it of not being able to deal with various “mafias” that have continued to call the shots.Ajnala MLA Harpartap Singh Ajnala and Amargarh legislator Surjit Singh Dhiman raised the issue of free availability of drugs in the state, prevalence of mafias and poor public facilities in their constituencies. Though the Opposition parties too raised similar issues, it was the questions from treasury benches that caused discomfort among ministers in the House.Interestingly, as Dhiman continued his tirade against his own government, his mike went silent … to resume only when he said the Budget proposals were praiseworthy.Development eludes border areasDevelopment has eluded the border areas. Schools there do not have enough teachers. In the evening, people in rural areas along the border can be seen looking for intoxicants. Harpartap Singh Ajnala, Ajnala MLAHealth Facilities in villages deplorable Public facilities in rural areas, especially in the healthcare sector, are deplorable… mafias are prevalent and our government needs to buckle up to fight them, especially the drug mafia. Surjit Singh Dhiman, Amargarh MLAOpening his party’s discussion on the Budget, SAD legislator Bikram Singh Majithia accused Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal of fudging figures. He said the state government had tried to hide the fact that they had taken a loan of Rs 8,360 crore, which would actually take the state’s debt to Rs 2.61 lakh crore.“A lot of proposals announced yesterday — law university, medical colleges and skill university — have already been announced in previous Budgets but nothing has been done on ground. The Hara Tractor Scheme and Apni Gaddi, Apna Rozgar Scheme seem to have been quietly buried,” he said, amid repeated interruptions from the treasury benches.The Finance Minister said a loan of Rs 8,360 crore was availed by the state to get the GST compensation and the Centre was paying its interest. Majithia countered this, saying the loan would still stand in the books of the state government.“You say the economy has been hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic, then how has the GSDP grown in your Budget figures? The fact is that the state’s debt to GSDP ratio has increased; social sector spending decreased and capital expenditure has come down,” he said.Former Finance Minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa said he was dismayed by the revenue deficit which continues to rise. “The debt is increasing and the rate of economic growth has come down from 8 per cent two years ago to 3.98 per cent now. Little efforts are being made to increase the revenue receipts. The main focus of the government should be on improving the higher education and healthcare facilities, while bringing new excise and mining policies,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-mlas-target-own-government-oppn-picks-holes-in-budget-222915
10-03-2021||---||No change in teachers’ probation period: Vijay Inder Singla||Chandigarh, March 9The Punjab Education (Posting of Teachers in Disadvantageous Area) Bill, 2021, passed in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha attracted objection from the Opposition over increasing the probation period of newly recruited teachers, during the Budget session today.Citing the Bill passed in the House, the Opposition said the probation period had been increased from three years to four years.However, Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla in a statement issued later termed the Opposition’s charge totally baseless.He said the School Education Department had not at all increased the probation period of newly recruited teachers from three to four years. The minister said rather, the department was quite sympathetic towards the genuine problems of the teachers, which was quite evident from the fact that the 3,582 teachers recruited in border areas were allowed to apply for transfer after two years of service.The minister said by passing the new Bill, the Education Department would offer postings to newly recruited teachers near their homes as apart from the border districts several other educational blocks were included in the educationally disadvantageous area.He added that these educational blocks would be the areas where 20 per cent or more posts of teachers remained vacant during the recruitment year and would be reviewed every year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-change-in-teachers-probation-period-vijay-inder-singla-222916
10-03-2021||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu, Charanjit Channi have House in splits||Chandigarh, March 9Among the MLAs who took a dig at Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA Bikram Singh Majithia while he spoke on the Budget, his bete-noire and Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu reacted the sharpest and had the House in splits with his witty comments.In reaction to a couplet recited by Majithia, seeking answers to the unfulfilled promises by the Congress government; Sidhu, almost jumped from his seat and asked him to explain how he himself acquired eight luxury SUVs from owning just one MUV; how the luxury hotel in New Chandigarh was built; and how the fleet of buses increased from two to 1,600. To this, Majithia reacted: “I am glad, main suttee hoye jaga te”.Technical Education Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who was cornered by Majithia during the Akali-BJP government in 2016, as the then leader of Opposition, was the first one to take on Majithia.When the SAD leader tried to taunt the treasury benches over their election slogan in 2017 elections, Channi said Punjab wanted to know how the fleet of buses increased from 100 to 1,100. He even said nobody would be able to stop the Congress ki “vikas ki gaddi”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-charanjit-channi-have-house-in-splits-222917
10-03-2021||New Delhi||Can’t change leadership in poll year: Ashwani||Former Union Minister Ashwani Kumar on Tuesday said it was too late in the day to mull leadership changes in Punjab and the Congress must start focusing on ways to strengthen the organisation by taking all sections along.“It is too late to contemplate leadership change either at the government or party level considering we are in the election year. That said, this remains the prerogative of the Congress high command. It is critically important for the state leadership to give a sense of genuine participation to all tested party persons in the power structure. The Hindus and Dalits should also not feel like they are distant second runners,” Kumar said amid speculation over organisational changes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cant-change-leadership-in-poll-year-ashwani-222918
10-03-2021||GS Paul||Budget fails to impress farming community in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 9The Budget allocation for the ‘crop loan waiver scheme’, a flagship programme of the Congress government, and crop diversification has failed to enthuse farmers who have been protesting the central agricultural laws for over three months.Under the new scheme, ‘Kamyaab Kisan, Khushaal Punjab’, worth Rs 3,780 crore, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal announced to improve the income of farmers and spared Rs 1,712 crore in which the loan of Rs 1,186 crore of 1.13 lakh farmers and Rs 526 crore of landless farm workers will be waived. The Budget also proposed Rs 200 crore for crop diversification programme.Dr Satnam Singh Ajnala, president, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, sees the Budget devoid of practicality.“The relief incentive of Rs 1,712 crore would hardly be of any solace to the debt-ridden farmers. It was a ‘Chunaavi Budget’. The implementation of relief will be in July-August and the election code of conduct is expected by November. So, it is nothing but a ‘lollypop’ offered by the state government,” he said.Harjit Singh Jheeta, press secretary, Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee, said instead of debt relief, the government should have assured the minimum support price (MSP).“Neither the Centre nor the state government has ever taken an initiative on the MSP. Before the last Assembly elections, Capt Amarinder Singh had vowed that the farmers’ debt would be the liability of the Congress if voted to power. But after assuming office, the government remained silent for four years, except making announcements during the last leg of its tenure,” he said.He further said no concrete policy was ever framed for diversification and improving the water table. “If today, the government assures MSP on crops, other than the traditional wheat and paddy, scores of farmers would voluntarily adopt diversification,” he said.Satnam Singh Pandher, general secretary, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee said: “No efforts have been made to redress the basic grievances of the farming community. The farmers are reeling under debt and ending life by suicide. Their children have bleak future. The farmers who till the land beyond the Indo-Pak border fencing cry for getting incentives regularly from the Centre.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/budget-fails-to-impress-farming-community-in-punjab-222919
10-03-2021||Nitin Jain||Super-spreader events led to Covid spike in Punjab: Govt||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 9At a wedding function of a family from Amritsar in Delhi, 20 members turned Covid-positive out of 35 tested. At a Ludhiana school, 45 were found infected out of 750 tested. At a funeral in Mohali, eight members of a family turned positive out of 15 tested.These were some of the super-spreader events that led to a spike in Covid cases in Punjab, which is among the six states accounting for over 86 per cent of the total caseload in the country for the past few days, the government has confirmed.109-yr-old gets jabAbohar: Har Kaur (109) was among 6,496 elderly persons who were inoculated at 85 centres in Sriganganagar district on Monday. She was administered the first dose of the Covid vaccine at the Public Health Centre, Banda Colony. — OCThe gatherings at wedding parties, schools, offices, banks, funerals and containment zones are among the major contributors behind the spread of the infection in the state, information compiled by the state Health Department has revealed. Another major contributor to the caseload is the population above 50 years, which accounted for maximum 31.4 per cent of the total positive cases reported between February 22 and 28. The second most vulnerable is the 26-40 age group that showed 25.5 per cent infections in the last week of February. The safest age group is less than five years that recorded only 0.5 per cent cases while children in the 5-14 age group reported 5.6 per cent infections, 15 to 20 years 12 per cent and those between 21 and 25 years of age showed 6.8 per cent cases between February 22 and 28.Ludhiana was among the nine districts in the state reporting a high incidence of Covid, figures revealed.While Jalandhar recorded maximum 684 Covid cases with 3.48 per cent positivity rate, Nawanshahr stood second with 625 infections and 8.96 per cent positivity rate in the week between February 26 and March 4. The state Health Department foresees a sharp spurt in Covid cases in this month. “With the current growth rate, the total cases in the state will touch 40,000-mark by the end of March,” said Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Hussan Lal, adding that the daily cases would double to 2,000 by March 15 and three times to 3,000 per day by March 22. He said the department was fully equipped to tackle the situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/super-spreader-events-led-to-covid-spike-in-punjab-govt-222920
10-03-2021||---||Strict norms in place for Hola Mohalla||Anandpur Sahib, March 9Keeping in view the surge in Covid cases, the district administration has decided to implement strict guidelines for those attending the six-day Hola Mohalla festival, which begins from March 24 at Kiratpur Sahib and Anandpur Sahib.Besides, the district administration would appeal to devotees to celebrate the festival only at the local level. Over two million people visit Kiratpur Sahib and Anandpur Sahib during the annual festival. Last year, panic gripped the region when Baldev Singh, a kirtani-cum-preacher, died of Covid after taking part in the Hola Mohalla event.Ropar Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri said while screening of all visitors would be done on entry points, it would be ensured that everyone wore a face mask all the time.RT-PCR test would be mandatory for those who would come to stay at hotels, serais and tent city during festival, she said.The Deputy Commissioner said the area would be divided into 11 sectors, where mobile testing teams would be deployed.354 staff nurses get job lettersChandigarh: Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Tuesday handed over appointment letters to 354 staff nurses and six pharmacy officials. The remaining candidates would get appointment letters soon, he said in a statement. Director, Health Services (Family Welfare), Dr Andesh Kang welcomed the newly appointed staff. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/strict-norms-in-place-for-hola-mohalla-222921
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Watch Punjab Assembly proceedings live from next session||In response to Aam Aadmi Party legislator Kanwar Sandhu’s question that complete proceedings of the Vidhan Sabha should be live telecast, Speaker Rana KP Singh said it would be done from the next session.The AAP legislator had raised the issue in the House saying the Assembly telecast the Governor’s Address live, but did not do the same for the debate on the address. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/watch-punjab-assembly-proceedings-live-from-next-session-222940
10-03-2021||Vishav Bharti||Support in Punjab Assembly for Sukhpal Khaira; MLAs call for resolution against ED||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 9The issue of ED raid at MLA Sukhpal Khaira's house echoed in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha on Tuesday.Rebel SAD MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa said Khaira was being targeted for raising the issue related to farmers. He demanded House resolution condemning the ED raids.Also read: ED searches Punjab MLA Sukhpal Khaira’s Chandigarh house, other premisesDhindsa said Khaira had been criticising the Centre on the issue of farm laws.Technical Education Minister Charanjit Singh Channi supported Dhindsa saying the raids were a fallout of Khaira's support to the farmers' agitation. He said the "way the CBI had been taught a lesson by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh", the ED should also be tackled in a similar manner in Punjab.He demanded a House resolution condemning the ED raid on Khaira's house.Kharar MLA Kanwar Sandhu said the ED raid on Khaira's house amounted to interfering in the House's functioning. He also demanded a resolution against the ED.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/support-in-punjab-assembly-for-sukhpal-khaira-mlas-call-for-resolution-against-ed-222788
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||ED searches Punjab MLA Sukhpal Khaira’s Chandigarh house, other premises||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) raided the premises of Punjab MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira and a few others on Tuesday in connection with a money-laundering case linked to narcotics trafficking and the creation of an alleged fake passport, officials said.The team arrived from Delhi.ED sleuths also carried out searches at his Sector 5 residence in Chandigarh, and nine places in Punjab and two in Delhi—including the house of his son-in-law, Inderveer Singh Johal.The agency alleged that Khaira (56), the MLA from Bholath in Kapurthala district, is an “associate” of the drugs racket convicts and fake passport racketeers.Wearing a T-shirt and track pants, Khaira came out of his residence for a few seconds and told the reporters that he had “not done anything wrong”, adding that the ED sleuths arrived at his house around 7:30 am.The case pertains to the probe in the 2015 Fazilka (Punjab) drugs-smuggling case, in which 1,800 grams of heroin, 24 gold biscuits, two weapons, 26 live cartridges and two Pakistani SIM cards were seized from a gang of international drug smugglers by security agencies.The central agency recently filed a PMLA case in connection with the case, which was first lodged by the Punjab Police.“The drugs were smuggled through the India-Pakistan border and one of the kingpins of the syndicate is in the UK.“Sukhpal Singh Khaira was actively aiding and supporting the gang of international smugglers and enjoying the proceeds of crime,” the ED has alleged.Some of the convicts in the Fazilka drugs case, currently lodged in jail, were also searched and questioned, the agency said.They were identified as Gurdev Singh, Manjit Singh, Harbans Singh and Subhash Chander, all residents of Fazilka district.Three people allegedly involved in the fake passport racket—Harminder Kaur (Jalandhar resident), Rajwinder Kaur (Kapurthala) and Bikker Singh (Kapurthala)—were also searched.“Incriminating documents and digital devices have been seized,” an ED officer said.Also read: Support in Punjab Assembly for Sukhpal Khaira; MLAs call for resolution against EDKhaira had floated a political party in 2019, Punjab Ekta Party. The new outfit had also established its units abroad.Besides, Khaira has been vociferously taking up the issue of the suspicious death of farmer Navreet Singh, who died on January 26 during the farmers' protest. — With Agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ed-searches-punjab-mla-sukhpal-khairas-chandigarh-house-other-premises-222766
10-03-2021||New Delhi||India summons British envoy over discussion on agriculture reforms in UK Parliament||India made its extreme displeasure known over the Monday evening debate on farm bills in British Parliament by summoning the British High Commissioner Alexander Ellis to the South Block.Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla conveyed to Ellis strong opposition to the “unwarranted and tendentious discussion on agricultural reforms in India in the British Parliament”.Also read: UK to raise concerns on farm stir with Modi governmentThe Foreign Secretary made clear that this represented a gross interference in the politics of another democratic country and advised that British MPs should refrain from practising vote bank politics bymisrepresenting events, especially in relation to another fellow democracy”, according to a MEA statement.On Monday, responding to a two-hour debate in the Westminster Hall of the House of Commons, UK Minister of State Nigel Adams had said some issues of concern to London will be on the agenda at all high-level UK-India interactions including an upcoming one between PMs Boris Johnson and Narendra Modi.During the two-hour debate, barring backbencher Theresa Villiers, none of the other dozen MPs were in sympathy with the Indian Government’s position. The Indian High Commission in London had reacted immediately by dismissing the debate as “without substantiation or facts” and “casting aspersions on the largest functioning democracy in the world and its institutions”.The British Minister of State had said, “Where we have serious and specific concerns, we will raise them directly with the Indian Government, as would be expected of a friend and neighbour. Candid discussions are an important part of our mature and wide-ranging relationship with the Indian Government”.Indicating that it did not concur with the application of force and other measures on the farmers’ stir, the Minister said, “We look to the Indian Government to uphold the freedoms and rights guaranteed to the Indian people by the constitution and by the international instruments to which India is party”.Labour and Scottish Nationalist Party stalwarts such as Jeremy Corbyn, Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, Martyn Day and Stephen Kinnock were joined in their criticism of New Delhi’s handling of farmers’ protests by MPs from across parties including Khalid Mehmood, Nadia Whittome, Paul Bristow, Pat McFadden, Virendra Sharma, Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, Layla Moran, Seema Malhotra, John McDonell and Brendon O’Hara.The Indian High Commission described their observations over farmers’ protest as “a false narrative” even though it had tried to inform all concerned about the issues raised in the petition. The e-petition that the High Commission was referring to was initiated by a local councilor. It quickly garnered over one lakh signatures that made the topic eligible for a debate.The High Commission also dismissed claims of affinity with India by some MPs. “When aspersions are cast on India by anyone, irrespective of their claims of friendship and love for India or domestic political compulsions, there is a need to set the record straight,” it stated in a statement.The British Minister was noncommittal on the demand by a MP to impose sanctions on officials who committed serious human rights violations or abuses. “It is not appropriate to speculate on who may be designated under the regime in future, as to do so could very well reduce their impact,” said Adams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/india-summons-british-envoy-over-discussion-on-agriculture-reforms-in-uk-parliament-222759
10-03-2021||New Delhi||UK to raise concerns on farm stir with Modi government||The UK Government said it would directly raise “serious and specific concerns” over human rights and freedom to peaceful protests with the Indian Government, especially when Prime Minister Boris Johnson meets PM Narendra Modi on several occasions during the year.Also read: India summons British envoy over discussion on agriculture reforms in UK ParliamentResponding to a discussion in parliament on issues relating to Press freedom and safety of protesters in India in which all dozen speakers, barring one, criticised New Delhi for its handling of farmers’ protests, the UK Government’s Minister of State for Asia Nigel Adams said London had also asked New Delhi to permit Amnesty International to function since it has an important role in a democracy.Also read: India condemns UK lawmakers’ debate on farmers’ stirThe UK Government conceded that India’s handling of the protests had caused alarm. At the same time, it said agriculture policy is a domestic matter for the Indian Government.MPs Khalid Mehmood, Teresa Villiers, Virendra Sharma, Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, Naz Shah, Layla Moran, Seema Malhotra, John McDonell and Brendon O’Hara were among those who sought accountability.Car-borne youths fire shots at SinghuFour youths in a car bearing Chandigarh number allegedly fired shots into the air after a brawl at langar over water at Singhu on Sunday night. No one was injured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/uk-to-raise-concerns-on-farm-stir-with-modi-government-222591
