12-03-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 34 more deaths, over 1,400 new cases in Punjab||The COVID-19 pandemic claimed 34 more lives in Punjab on Friday, raising the death toll due to the disease to 6,030 in the state.The infection count too climbed to 1,94,753 with 1,414 fresh coronavirus cases reported in the state, a medical bulletin said.The number of active cases also increased from 10,069 on Thursday to 10,452 on Friday.A total of 991 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,78,271, the bulletin said.Punjab on Friday had 23 critical patients who were on ventilator support while 222 were on oxygen support, it said.A total of 53,13,932 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported 135 more new cases of infection, taking its count to 22,832, a medical bulletin of Chandigarh Administration said.No infection-related death was reported in the past twenty-four hours from Chandigarh. The toll stands at 357, the bulletin said.The number of active cases in Chandigarh rose from 859 on Thursday to 936 on Friday, it added.A total of 58 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 21,539, as per bulletin.A total of 2,74,991 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 2,51,187 tested negative while reports of 70 samples were awaited, as per the bulletin. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-34-more-deaths-over-1-400-new-cases-in-punjab-224239
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Vietnam envoy seeks better business ties with Punjab, Haryana||Vietnam Ambassador to India, Pham Sanh Chau, on Friday sought increased cooperation with industries and the travel community based in Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.Both Punjab and Haryana have emerged as significant markets sharing economic and touristic potential with Vietnam, he told the media here.“Punjab is a key hub for textile-based industries, including yarn, readymade garments and hosiery, pharmaceutical and agricultural products, whose exports feature Vietnam among India’s top 15 trading partners in 2019,” he said.“Vietnam is also an ideal honeymoon destination for couples in the region and fast becoming popular as a perfect destination to celebrate dream weddings.”Chau said: “We aspire to forge a positive relationship between India and Vietnam across a wide number of sectors. From developing Indian business interests in Vietnam to working closely with travel agencies in northern India to  boost tourism, we work to create a favourable image of Vietnam by developing economic and touristic activities in the region.”In contrast to other ASEAN economies, Vietnam has succeeded in keeping the coronavirus under control.Vietnam has till date reported 1,300 coronavirus cases, keeping the economic impact of the outbreak to a minimum.“Today (post-coronavirus), Vietnam is looking at becoming Southeast Asia’s single economic success with the country rising to fourth in nominal GDP in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) this year, surpassing Singapore  and Malaysia and gaining on the Philippines (IMF). Rising exports have also helped to drive growth, as companies relocate production from China,” said the Ambassador.Vietnam has also surpassed its regional rivals Indonesia and Thailand and is the EU’s second-most important trading partner in ASEAN.The European Union-Vietnam Free Trade Agreement (EVFTA) is the second FTA between the EU and an ASEAN country, after Singapore. Vietnam is the second country to sign trade and investment agreements in the region, he added.Since Punjab, together with Haryana is a major hub of SMEs encompassing industries that include food processing, tractors and auto components, agro-based parts, bicycle and bicycle parts, sports goods, light engineering goods, metal and alloys, chemical products and textiles, they become good trading partners to Vietnam. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vietnam-envoy-seeks-better-business-ties-with-punjab-haryana-224209
12-03-2021||Ludhiana||21 students, 5 teachers among Ludhiana’s 163 new COVID-19 cases||Ludhiana authorities have announced new restrictions—night curfew between 11 pm and 5 am—that will begin on Friday night.Ludhiana also recorded six new deaths in the last 24 hours. The district’s infection tally now stands at 32,956—a number that includes 4,500 people who are not from the district but tested positive here. Death toll now stands at 1,572—525 of whom are people from outside the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/21-students-5-teachers-among-ludhianas-163-new-covid-19-cases-224201
12-03-2021||Amritsar||Train services resume in Amritsar after farmers end 169-day-long dharna||Train services resume in Amritsar after farm union on Thursday suspended 169-day long ‘dharna’ on tracks ahead of the wheat harvest season.“Dharna at Jandiala Guru Railway Station suspended for the time being and passenger trains operational now,” the Deputy Commissioner (DC) of Amritsar, Gurpreet Singh Khaira said while speaking to ANI.A group of farmers was squatting on railway tracks near Amritsar to protest against the Centre’s farm laws.Farmers have been protesting at the different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the three newly enacted farm laws—Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. — ANI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/train-services-resume-in-amritsar-after-farmers-end-169-day-long-dharna-224178
12-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Neha Kakkar sings at wedding, hubby Rohanpreet Singh dances to her tune; Vindu Dara Singh says, ‘rab ne bana di Jodi’||Neha Kakkar and Rohanpreet Singh recently attended a wedding which was graced by Vindu Dara Singh as well.The Television actor shared a video where the 32-year-old singer was heard signing her hit number ‘La la La’, and her husband Rohanpreet Singh was seen enjoying her performance.He also dances to her tunes.Neha was seen wearing a gorgeous black ruffle saree while Rohanpreet looked dashing in a purple velvet suit.“God bless this rab ne bana di Jodi @nehakakkar & @rohanpreetsingh,” wrote Vindu Dara Singh.A post shared by Vindu dara Singh (@vindusingh)  A post shared by Vindu dara Singh (@vindusingh)  A post shared by Vindu dara Singh (@vindusingh)  On the work front, Neha is currently a judge on the reality singing show Indian Idol 12 along with Vishal Dadlani and Himesh Reshammiya.Her brother Tony and she are also collaborating with Bigg Boss 14 contestants on music videos. She is set to release her new single ‘Marjaneya’ with Bigg Boss 14 winner Rubina Dilaik and her husband Abhinav Shukla.Last year in October, Neha tied the knot with her long-time friend Rohanpreet in a lavish ceremony in Delhi. The wedding was graced by several Pollywood celebs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/neha-kakkar-sings-at-wedding-hubby-rohanpreet-singh-dances-to-her-tune-vindu-dara-singh-says-rab-ne-bana-di-jodi-224176
12-03-2021||---||Night curfew in Mohali and Fatehgarh Sahib districts from tonight||Chandigarh, March 12In view of the increasing Covid cases, the Punjab government has decided to impose night curfew in Mohali and Fatehgarh Sahib from March 12.Also read: 18 more die in Punjab as nation witnesses 23,285 fresh Covid infectionsThe curfew will be effective from the night of March 12 from 11 pm to 5 am till further orders.Punjab has been witnessing a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases for nearly four weeks.The govt has also imposed night curfew in districts, including Jalandhar, Nawanshahr, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala, Ludhiana and Patiala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/night-curfew-in-mohali-and-fatehgarh-sahib-districts-from-tonight-224167
12-03-2021||---||FIR against DSP for 'thrashing' guard at Patiala mayor's house||Patiala, March 12A case has been registered against a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) for allegedly thrashing a security  guard posted at Patiala Mayor's official residence.The accused DSP, Hardeep Singh, has been booked under Section 452, 323 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code.It has been learnt that the DSP allegedly thrashed the guard, after being "attacked by Mayor’s dog", which led to an altercation.  The incident allegedly took place inside the official residence of Mayor Sanjeev Sharma.The complainant, Harcharan Singh, alleged that the DSP was in an inebriated state.Following the incident, the DSP was taken to emergency ward of Government Rajindra Hospital where he reportedly created a ruckus .The Patiala police said they had registered the case and started the investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fir-against-dsp-for-thrashing-guard-at-patiala-mayors-house-224166
12-03-2021||New Delhi||18 more die in Punjab as nation witnesses 23,285 fresh Covid infections||India recorded 23,285 cases of coronavirus infection in a day, the highest in around 78 days, taking the total tally of Covid cases to 1,13,08,846, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday.The death toll increased to 1,58,306 with 117 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.The total active caseload increased to 1,97,237, which now comprises 1.74 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has dropped to 96.86 per cent.On December 24, 24,712 new infections were reported in a span of 24 hours.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to1,09,53,303, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.4 per cent, the data stated.According to the ICMR, 22,49,98,638 samples have been tested up to March 11 with 7,40,345 samples being tested on Thursday. The new fatalities include 57 from Maharashtra, 18 from Punjab and 13 from Kerala.A total of 1,58,306 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 52,667 from Maharashtra, followed by 12,535 from Tamil Nadu, 12,381 from Karnataka, 10,934 from Delhi, 10,286 from West Bengal, 8,741 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,179 from Andhra Pradesh. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/18-more-die-in-punjab-as-nation-witnesses-23-285-fresh-covid-infections-224149
12-03-2021||---||SGPC ex-official Bikkar Singh Channu dies||Muktsar, March 12SGPC member Bikkar Singh Channu passed away late Thursday night. He was not keeping well for the past few weeks.Some SAD leaders said that Bikkar was admitted to a private hospital in Bathinda district, but died while being shifted to a multi-specialty hospital in Mohali on Thursday night.Bikkar, aged about 54 years, earlier served as junior vice-president of the SGPC.He was the president of SAD's Muktsar district SC wing.Besides, he was SAD's in-charge of some villages in former CM Parkash Singh Badal's Lambi Assembly constituency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-ex-official-bikkar-singh-channu-dies-224146
12-03-2021||The British changed the face of the city by constructing various edifices||Amritsar's colonial buildings: An English lesson||During the British rule, the city witnessed significant growth, in terms of infrastructure. Large buildings were constructed inside the walled city and outside from the Circular Road. Immediately after taking over the city, the British started raising European style of architecture. They demolished gates and boundary wall constructed by Maharaja Ranjit Singh. Three years after annexation of Punjab, they constructed mission school in Bazaar Kaserian in 1852. About a decade later, the Clock Tower (Ghanta Ghar) was erected in the north of Darbar Sahib. It was later removed after opposition from Sikhs.St. Paul’s Church (1853)It was an elite church meant for the British officers and soldiers near Rialto Chowk. Its building is still intact and also one of the tourist attractions.DC office (1876)In 1859, Amritsar became the Commissioner’s headquarter and heads of various departments shifted here. The district court complex was constructed in 1876 in the triangle-formed Sialkot Road and cantonment. The main building of the DC office is being renovated and would be preserved.Bhai Vir Singh’s residence (1930)Residence of eminent Punjabi poet, novelist and scholar Bhai Vir Singh Niwas is located on Lawrence Road. The house was constructed when planned localities were developed on both sides of the Lawrence Road. As of today, the house has been converted into a museum-cum-library. The Lawrence Road is also named after the poet.Christ Church (Bait-Al Massih) 1852It is located adjacent to Ram Bagh Gate and constructed in 1864. The church was for native Christians as British used to visit other church on the Court Road. The church was expanded in 1866, 1875, and then 1880 to accommodate more visitors. It was attacked in 1919 before Jallianwala Bagh massacre.Government Medical College (1920)Government Medical College was established as Medical School in Lahore in 1864. It was later relocated to Amritsar in 1920. The triangle formed between the Circular Road and Majitha Road was allotted to the Medical School, hostel and principal’s lodge. The building of principal’s office building was completed in 1943. The principal’s lodge is being renovated.Victoria Jubilee Hospital (1891)The municipality of Amritsar erected this hospital during the year of the reign of the Empress Victoria in November 1891. Later, Civil Hospital, Maternity Hospital (1924) and Skin Hospital were also constructed on the same premises. A major portion of the hospital has been leased to a private firm, which is constructing a hotel on the site.Town Hall (1863)The first European style building, which exists in all commonwealth courtiers, constructed in 1863-64. It acted as nucleus around which the other buildings meant for administrative purposes were constructed. The statue of Queen Victoria in pure white marble was established in front of the building (Malkabutt Chowk) in April 1887, which was removed by the government in 1970. The Municipal Committee office was remained in the Town Hall building till 2016, before shifting to a new site at Ranjit Avenue. The Municipal Library is still in the same building. A large portion of building is handed over to Partition Museum and rest is being renovated to establish ‘Food Street’.Hall Bazaar (1875)It was the first broad carpeted road from Town Hall to Hall Gate constructed by the British. The area belonged to a jail, but shifted outside the wall in 1875. The shopping centre has been developed on both sides of the road. The bazaar grew up as an elite market and still is centre of attraction for tourists. The state government has been renovating the facades of shops to maintain its old glory.Circuit House (1863)It was constructed in 1863 near the post office building. It was near railway station, which was constructed in 1859.Chali Khuh (forty wells) 1940The British government dug 40 wells in the east of the city in 1904 and later converted these into tubewells for direct supply to the distribution system for tap water supply. Amritsar municipality got an advance loan from the Central Government in 1902 for the waterworks in the city. It was the first time, when the city residents got tap water supply. The Chali Khuh project became functional in 1904 but the supply was scanty and could not satisfy the need of half of the people. A lot of efforts were made, like in 1918-19 some tubewells were added to improve the capacity. It has been restored under the National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY). The government has spent Rs5 crore on the project with an objective to attract tourists but failed to implement the plan.Railway Station Bhagtanwala (1907)The railway line was constructed in 1907 by the North-Western State Railway with a station outside Bhagtanwala Gate in South. It used to act as chief loading and unloading centre of grains. Grain market and several agro-based factories established around the station.Alexandra School (1878)The school was founded in 1878 for the education of girls. Initially, daughters of British and upper strata of native Christians could study but later it was opened to all. The first girl, who matriculated from Punjab, was from this school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsars-colonial-buildings-an-english-lesson-224140
12-03-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Two outsiders mistaken for ‘terrorists’ make Pathankot cops sweat||Tribune News ServicePathankot, March 11The Pathankot cops were stretched to the limits for the last three days during which they conducted an intensive three-day and night search operation after some residents claimed to have sighted two terrorists.On late Tuesday evening, the police control room got a call claiming that “two suspicious looking backpackers” were seen making their way to the Pathankot Air Force Station which, in any case, is a high-security area.SSP Gulneet Singh Khurana was informed about the development. He immediately formed half a dozen teams, all of which were positioned at strategic places near the air base. The people who had made the call to the control room were contacted and more information about the ‘suspicious characters’ was ferreted out. The operation was kept under wraps as the cops did not want to trigger panic and rumours for it could have acted as an impediment.Khurana said he had called off the search on Thursday morning after identifying the ‘suspicious people’. They turned out to be residents from Jammu who were visiting the city to collect money for some religious activity they wanted to perform back home.“I congratulate the local residents for the alacrity with which they acted in informing us. As things stand, they were not terrorists but ordinary people who had lost their way. They actually had come to Pathankot for the first time. During the operation we had secured all the vital installations, including the ammunition dump, air base and the army cantonment. The operation was called off in the morning,” said the SSP.An officer said they were not in a position to take risks keeping in view the fact that the Jammu-based people were said to be moving towards the air station. Khurana added that a watch was also being kept on the villages located near the border.Past horrors||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-outsiders-mistaken-for-terrorists-make-pathankot-cops-sweat-224129
12-03-2021||---||41 more Covid cases at Baru Sahib Eternal University||Solan, March 11As many as 41 fresh Covid cases were reported in Eternal University at Baru Sahib in Sirmaur district today, taking the tally in the institute to 117.Students asymptomaticDeputy Commissioner, Sirmaur, RK Pruthi, said the sampling of all nursing students was completed on Thursday. The fresh cases comprise students aged 17 to 22 years. Meanwhile, nine students have recovered after the completion of their 10-day isolation period.The health authorities are keeping a strict watch on Covid cases on the campus with sanitisation being undertaken thrice a day. All students were served food in hostel rooms in a bid to contain the spread of virus.Chief Medical Officer, Sirmaur, Dr KK Prashar, said as many as 50 samples were taken today and the reports of 30 taken on Wednesday would be received on Friday. Most of the patients were asymptomatic and very few girls reported minor symptoms like cough and cold. The infection was also confined to a particular pocket in the hostel which had spread after the arrival of a girl from outside.The district reported the highest number of cases in the state and it also has the highest number of 164 active cases now. This sudden surge in the Covid cases has alerted the district administration which has deputed medical teams to ensure that all safety and health norms were adhered to strictly.92 found +ve in stateWith 92 positive cases being reported today, the total number of Covid cases in the state reached 59,439. However, no fatality was reported in the last 24 hours.The highest number of cases was reported in Solan (41), followed by Una (15), Kangra (13), Solan (12), Shimla (4), Hamirpur (3), Mandi (2) and Bilaspur and Kullu one case each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/41-more-covid-cases-at-baru-sahib-eternal-university-224037
12-03-2021||Chamba||2 Nakodar, Chamba residents awarded 11-yr jail||Sessions Judge Rajesh Tomar yesterday sentenced Ram Singh, a resident of Madali village in Nakodar tehsil of Jalandhar district, and Sanju, a resident of Simmi village in Salooni tehsil of Chamba district, to a rigorous imprisonment of 11 years and also imposed a fine of Rs 1.10 lakh each under Section 20 of the NDPS Act for carrying 3.18 kg of charas.In case of default in the payment of fine, the convicts shall further undergo an imprisonment of one year each.On November 21, 2017, the police while managing traffic at the Tunnuhatti checkpoint on the Chamba-Pathankot national highway arrested Ram Singh and Sanju with 3.18 kg of charas. — OC0||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-nakodar-chamba-residents-awarded-11-yr-jail-224042
12-03-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab House passes Bill to cut red tape, erring officials to face axe||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 11Aimed at eliminating red tape and promoting efficient delivery of services, the Punjab Assembly has passed the Punjab Anti-Red Tape Bill, 2021.The law will enable the government to impose a fine of up to Rs 50,000 on the official concerned for delay in service delivery. It also provides for disciplinary action, including dismissal from service.A government functionary said the Act was aimed at improving the delivery of services. It contains provision to reduce cost and burden of compliance on citizens through simplified and trust-based procedures.There will, however, be no lawsuit, prosecution or legal proceedings against the government or its authorities.The law mandates the departments to reduce the burden of compliance by at least 50 per cent within six months of implementing the Act. It would be mandatory to make services online within one year. The offices would be required to put up boards at the entrance, giving details of officials responsible for each task, time to complete the process and prescribed fee.Pay for laxity||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-house-passes-bill-to-cut-red-tape-erring-officials-to-face-axe-223988
12-03-2021||New Delhi||Bittu is Cong LS leader for this Parliament session||Congress president Sonia Gandhi today gave temporary charge of the post of party’s Lok Sabha leader to Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu.Bittu will discharge the role for the ongoing Budget session. The appointment came after Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the incumbent leader of the Congress in the LS, had to leave for campaigning in Bengal. Bittu recently sat on a dharna at Jantar Mantar over farm laws. The role is seen as a reward for Bittu. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bittu-is-cong-ls-leader-for-this-parliament-session-223990
12-03-2021||New Delhi||Plot to kill Budha Dal Nihang Sikh faction head foiled||The Delhi Police today claimed to have foiled two murders, including a plot to kill a faction head of one of the largest Nihang Sikh jathebandis, with the arrest of two men.The Special Cell said Malkit Singh, alias Jujhar Singh, and Bhupinder Singh, were apprehended from Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh and two pistols and 20 cartridges recovered from them.2007 Patiala firing case linkThey also planned to eliminate an eyewitness in a 2010 murder case in which Malkit, currently out on parole, and his mother Jasbir Kaur had been handed down life term.“On March 6, information was received that a life convict in a murder case, currently out on parole, along with his friend is coming from Madhya Pradesh with illegal firearms and intends to commit a big crime. A raid was conducted and two persons — Malkit and Bhupinder — were apprehended near Beri Wala Bagh, Shalimar Bagh, Delhi. A pistol along with 16 live cartridges was recovered from Malkit, and a pistol and four cartridges were seized from Bhupinder. A case under provisions of the Arms Act has been registered at the Special Cell police station, Delhi,” it said.The two planned to execute the killings during the Hola Mohalla celebrations later this month. They had sourced the arms from an arms supplier, Jyoti, from Burhanpur (Madhya Pradesh).A decade ago, Malkit’s father Baldev Singh was replaced as the granthi of Gurdwara Jaimal Singh, Rab da Kutta, Lal Bagh, Azadpur, over his involvement in Patiala’s Banta Singh Bagichi firing incident in which four Nihang Sikhs were murdered.Thereafter, Malkit, his mother and two sewadars — Sukhpal Singh and Ranjit Singh — kidnapped the new granthi, Lakhwinder Singh, and murdered him. All four were sentenced to life imprisonment.In 2017, the 27-year-old was involved in the murder of four persons belonging to Budha Dal (Balbir Singh) in Muktsar over a property dispute. The same year, he was arrested for conspiring to kill a sewadar, Pyara Singh, of Balwangarh Sahib Gurdwara, Fatehgarh Sahib.“…he has revealed that he wanted revenge from the head of one faction of Nihang Sikh Budha Dal as he felt the head is responsible for keeping him and his family members in jail. There is also dispute over possession/heading of jathebandi and Malkit wanted someone else of his favour to head the jathebandi,” the Special Cell said.“He also wanted to eliminate one of his neighbours, a witness in the murder case of granthi Lakhwinder Singh, in which he and his mother Jasbir Kaur have been convicted with life imprisonment,” it further added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/plot-to-kill-budha-dal-nihang-sikh-faction-head-foiled-223809
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Live-in relationship deeds not morally acceptable: High Court||Marriages may be made in heaven, but live-in relationship deeds are being solemnised in “presence of witnesses” by “male” and “female” partners with clauses that enable the signatories to terminate the charter after giving a month’s notice. The documents, making it clear that the relationship is not ‘marital’, also give the partners the right to approach a competent court of law for its implementation, if any of the parties backs out of the deed.‘Misuse of the process of law’Live-in relationship deeds have failed to find favour with the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Ruling that the terms and conditions in the deeds were a “misuse of the process of law”, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan has asserted “it cannot be morally accepted in society”.But such deeds have failed to find favour with the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Ruling that the terms and conditions in the deeds were a “misuse of the process of law”, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan has asserted “it cannot be morally accepted in society”.The “new concept of contractual live-in-relationship” was brought to Justice Sangwan’s notice after an 18-year-old girl and 19-year-old boy filed a petition seeking protection of life and liberty. Their counsel told Justice Sangwan’s Bench that certain terms and conditions had been settled by way of mutual consent in the “deed of live-in relationship” executed between the petitioners.Justice Sangwan observed the deed made it clear that both parties had agreed to fully cooperate with each other without any dispute or issues and would not claim anything against each other. In the end, it was stated that the parties agreed to solemnise marriage on attaining marriageable age.Appearing before Justice Sangwan’s Bench, the state counsel submitted that Section 26 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, provided that an agreement in restraint of marriage was void. As such, it could not be enforced as per Section 14 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963.Even otherwise, the petitioner “male partner” was not competent to perform marriage under the provisions of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. He was not even competent to have a live-in relationship with the petitioner “woman partner” as he had not attained the age of marriage. After hearing the arguments, Justice Sangwan dismissed the petition while asserting that the court did not find merit in the matter. The clauses, especially stating that it is not a ‘marital relationship’, were nothing but abuse of the legal process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/live-in-relationship-deeds-not-morally-acceptable-high-court-223810
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Cong, SAD to blame for PSPCL mess: AAP||Reacting to a recent Supreme Court judgment ordering Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to release dues of Rs 1,070 crore with Rs 680 crore interest to two independent power producers, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today said the conventional parties in Punjab had bankrupted the PSPCL. In a statement issued from the party headquarters, senior leader and MLA Aman Arora said the Congress and SAD-BJP combine had put the institution on the brink of bankruptcy. Arora said the PSPCL collects electricity bills from people but does not pay them to the companies. Millions of rupees were due to the private companies, offices and houses of the political leaders of these parties but no government had taken any step to collect the bills. — TNSSeal hospitals accused of fraud: CheemaReacting to the ‘scam’ being perpetrated by private hospitals in the name of Ayushman Bharat scheme, Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema asked the Punjab Government to reveal the names of political leaders involved in these cases. He said the hospitals which had committed such scams should be sealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-sad-to-blame-for-pspcl-mess-aap-223812
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu meets DGP over meagre perks for cops||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu has called upon DGP Dinkar Gupta to voice the concerns of Punjab Police personnel regarding the meagre “ration money allowance” of Rs 3 per day being paid to Punjab Armed Police and Indian Reserve Battalion of the police.Sidhu, who gave a letter to the DGP, said the allowance was crucial to fulfilling the daily nutrition requirement.“The grossly meagre amount undermines the daily sweat and toil of our cops,” said the former minister, adding cops in the IB and Delhi Police got an allowance of Rs 117.29 per day (non gazetted combatised central armed police forces) while it was Rs 234.58 per day for all ranks three services, Army, Navy and Air force. Sidhu raised the issue after having learnt of the grievance shared with him by police personnel on duty at Punjab Vidhan Sabha on March 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-meets-dgp-over-meagre-perks-for-cops-223818
12-03-2021||Bathinda||Hotels, restaurants jack up prices as LPG gets dearer||For those who prefer eating out, this is not an appetising news. The rising inflation has forced restaurants and fast food joints to increase prices or tweak their menus.“It is a double whammy for the hospitality sector as the industry was already in crisis and fighting for survival due to the lockdown. A 25 per cent hike in all materials supplied by vendors has forced hoteliers to hike prices by 15 per cent. Many have already done it and some are set to do it as they don’t have any choice but to pass on the burden to customers,” Punjab Hotel and Restaurant Association president Satish Arora said.“We have not got any support from the Union or state governments. More than 3,000 eating joints and restaurants have closed since the lockdown and many are struggling to survive,” he said.He claimed corporate hotel bookings were still low, so hotels were mostly banking on their restaurant business.The high petrol and diesel prices were followed by a hike in LPG rates. Cooking oil is being sold between Rs 130 and Rs 140 per litre. Ashwani Malhotra, owner of Rasoi Restaurant, Bathinda, said, “Due to a spike in LPG and fuel prices, all grocery items have become expensive. If we don’t raise our prices, we will be facing losses as there is just 20 per cent margin in the food industry.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hotels-restaurants-jack-up-prices-as-lpg-gets-dearer-223819
12-03-2021||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||Ahead of 2022 elections, new alignments in Akali Dal unit||As a war of words erupted between former SAD minister Adesh Partap Singh Kairon and former party MLA Virsa Singh Valtoha recently, holding of meetings in Patti and Khemkaran constituencies by them is being watched closely in political circles across the state.Fissures in CongFissures are also being seen in the local unit of the Congress. Party MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki is representing Khadoor Sahib, but there are other aspirants also for the 2022 poll. He is not on a good equation with the Khadoor Sahib MP. Sikki was conspicuous by his absence during the Lok Sabha poll as well.This has led to new alignments in the SAD’s district unit on the Tarn Taran and Khadoor Sahib seats. Kairon had represented the Patti constituency four times consecutively since 1997, while Valtoha remained two-time MLA from Khemkaran (Bhikhiwind).While addressing meetings at a few villages of the Khemkaran constituency on Wednesday, Kairon said one member of his family had decided to contest from the Khemkaran seat in the 2022 elections.He said the decision was taken during a family meeting. He has covered more than 15 villages of the Khemkaran constituency in the past three days.Gurmukh Singh Ghulla, Kairon’s political secretary, said the Khemkaran constituency had been divided into 14 circles for which Rachhpal Singh Punian was nominated as the president. The family had formed the Kairon Youth Group to launch political activities in the area.During the past 10-year rule of the SAD-BJP, Kairon’s wife Parneet Kaur had remained active in the constituency in the absence of her husband. Kairon’s younger brother, Gurpartap Singh Kairon, too, was seen active. These two family members are considered as the possible candidates. Meanwhile, Valtoha said on Thursday that he was not taking Kairon’s activity seriously. He called the meetings by Kairon in Khemkaran as a “flop show”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ahead-of-2022-elections-new-alignments-in-akali-dal-unit-223820
12-03-2021||Muktsar||Sukhbir meets workers to chalk out poll strategy||In view of the upcoming state elections, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal today started holding meetings in villages with party activists at his Badal village residence here.He met party activists from 21 villages in the Lambi Assembly segment. Notably, Sukhbir has earlier held Assembly constituency-wise meetings with activists from Malout, Abohar, Jaito and some other areas.A senior SAD leader said, “The morale of workers is upbeat after the recent municipal elections despite the fact that these were held in an undemocratic way. The cops and civil administration supported the Congress nominees. In some areas, even the votes of dead people were polled,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-meets-workers-to-chalk-out-poll-strategy-223821
12-03-2021||New Delhi||Budget bundle of false promises: Shwait Malik||Senior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik has hit out at the Punjab Government claiming the state Budget for financial year 2021-22 only contained false promises to fool people.Launching a personal attack on Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the BJP leader termed him a “kumbhakaran” who kept on sleeping for four years of his tenure, and now “he has brought a Budget which betrayed the public by making false promises of Rs 1.68 lakh crore in the election year”.“The people of Punjab neither got jobs as promised to 70 lakh families nor did the unemployed get an allowance of Rs 2,500,” Malik said, adding that all these promises were made in the Congress’ 2017 manifesto, which was released in the presence of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh.The BJP leader said even the last four Budgets were nothing but a “pack of lies”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/budget-bundle-of-false-promises-shwait-malik-223822
12-03-2021||Bathinda||Don’t force Powercom staff to switch to Reliance Jio: Farm unions||The state Powercom’s move to convert mobile phone SIM cards of their officials and employees from their current operator Vodafone to Reliance Jio has not gone down well among farmer unions who have alleged that the move exposed the state government’s anti-farmer stance.Leaders of the BKU (Ugrahan) and Punjab Kisan Union among other unions said the Punjab Government had been making “towering claims” of supporting farmers’ stir against the three agricultural laws but it had decided to use SIM cards of Jio against whom farmers have been holding protests for months now. Talking to The Tribune, Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, general secretary, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), said, “The state government has been making statements in support of the farmers’ agitation to gain political mileage out of it but the reality is different. Though we welcome that it stood by the movement till now, we vehemently oppose its decision to switch mobile network of Powercom employees to Jio.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-force-powercom-staff-to-switch-to-reliance-jio-farm-unions-223823
12-03-2021||Jalandhar||Bumper potato crop brings cheer to Doaba farmers||In a big relief to Doaba farmers, favourable weather conditions and lesser rain have led to a bumper potato crop this year, fetching them a price of Rs 7.5 to Rs 8 per kg in the market.Harvesting is over and farmers are now engaged in packaging. While some crop has gone to the states of Karnataka and West Bengal, the remaining is being used in Punjab itself.For the time being, farmers intend to sell out only 10-15 per cent of the crop in the market. The remaining will be kept in cold stores and is likely to be taken out in September when it will fetch them even a better price.Horticulture Development Officer Paramjit Singh said there was an increase of 1.5 lakh metric tonne of production this year. “While the last year’s production of potato in Punjab was 28 lakh metric tonne, this time it has touched 29.5 lakh metric tonne. There has been a 2 per cent increase in the area under potato cultivation this year, with the total being 1.07 lakh hectare,” he said.Phillaur-based potato farmer Jagat Gill Thamanwal said, “Owing to favourable weather conditions and no disease outbreak, my production per hectare went up 10 per cent. I cultivate potato on 100 acres of land and my crop has gone to the markets of Gujarat,UP and West Bengal.”A member of the Jalandhar Potato Growers’ Association, who uses aeroponics technique of growing potatoes, he added, “Though we got a reasonable price this time, I feel that even the cost of production has gone up.”Harjinder Singh, a farmer from Kapurthala, said, “I had grown pukhraj potato on 95 acres. I got a production of 150 quintal per acre this time, which is quite good. I am also happy with the price of Rs 7.5 to Rs 8 per kg that my crop is fetching in mandis.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bumper-potato-crop-brings-cheer-to-doaba-farmers-223825
12-03-2021||Ropar/Fatehgarh Sahib||Schools emerge as new hotspots in Punjab||The number of Covid cases has started surging in schools across the state, but the government seems to be unperturbed by the situation.A total of 25 students and two teachers of Government Senior Secondary School (Boys) at Amloh in Fatehgarh Sahib district tested positive on Thursday. In Ropar district, 11 students at Kathera village, near Nangal, were found infected on Wednesday.1,309 cases, 18 deathsThe state reported 1,309 fresh Covid cases and 18 deaths in the past 24 hours. Hoshiarpur remains the worst-affected district with eight deaths, followed by Jalandhar (5), Amritsar and Ludhiana (2 each) and Patiala (1).The authorities have ordered the closure of the school for two days and collection of samples of students and staff members as per the Health Department’s guidelines.Earlier on Tuesday, three students and five teachers were found Covid-positive at Lodhipur village near Anandpur Sahib in Ropar. More than 50 students have contracted infection in the district in the last fortnight.Contact testing at all-time high of 32%The contact testing of Covid patients has touched an all-time high in the state. From an average of 10% to 12% since December, the testing has gone up by almost three times to 32% as on March 4, the official figures suggest. The random sampling has also been ramped up to trace and isolate the positive cases. Nawanshahr topped the state by achieving 144% sampling target in February. TNSRopar District Education Officer (Secondary) RK Khosla said the number of positive cases among students and staff members had been increasing by the day.Ropar District Education Officer (Elementary) Jarnail Singh, who was also found Covid-positive a few days ago, said seven students, five of them from the same school in Ropar town, were found infected recently.Ropar Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri said they had ordered sampling in all schools. Till now, nearly 11,000 students and staff members have been tested to check further spread.On the other hand, the Punjab School Education Department has issued instructions for conducting essay, painting and declamation contests in schools in connection with the 75th Independence Day. These instructions have been issued in the context of events starting across the country under the theme ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’ 75 weeks before the 75th Independence Day to be celebrated next year.At a meeting last week, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan had said that as the overall positivity rate in schools was low, there was no need to shut the institutions. She stated that teachers should be encouraged to get themselves tested and the eligible ones should be inoculated on priority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/schools-emerge-as-new-hotspots-in-punjab-223826
12-03-2021||Amritsar||Pakistan invites Sikh devotees for Baisakhi celebrations||The Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) has sent an invitation letter to the SGPC for Baisakhi celebrations.Confirming this, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said a group of Sikh devotees would be sent to Pakistan on April 12.11-day ItineraryRegarding the programme, PSGPC president Satwant Singh said the main function would be held at Gurdwara Sri Panja Sahib at Hasan Abdal on April 14. Apart from this, the pilgrims would be able to visit other shrines in Pakistan on different days before returning on April 22.Earlier this week, a meeting was held between officials of the PSGPC and the Evacuee Trust Property Board to review arrangements.Bibi Jagir Kaur said in the wake of the Covid outbreak, the pilgrims would have to follow the guidelines issued by the Health Department.She said some passports had already reached the SGPC office. “These will be sent to the Union Government and the next course of action will be taken after its decision. The jatha members will be inoculated too,” she said.Chief secretary, SGPC, Harjinder Singh Dhami said preparations were underway for sending the jatha to Pakistan.According to the 11-day programme, the jatha will leave for Pakistan by road on April 12. The main function will be held at Gurdwara Sri Panja Sahib on April 14.The devotees will visit Sri Nankana Sahib on April 15, Gurdwara Sacha Sauda on April 16, Gurdwara Dehra Sahib, Lahore, on April 17-18, Gurdwara Sri Kartarpur Sahib on April 19 and Gurdwara Sri Rodi Sahib, Eminabad, on April 20.The jatha would reach Gurdwara Dehra Sahib, Lahore, on April 21 and return India on April 22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pakistan-invites-sikh-devotees-for-baisakhi-celebrations-223845
12-03-2021||Muktsar||Former Muktsar MLA Sukhdarshan Singh Marar on ventilator support||Former Muktsar MLA Sukhdarshan Singh Marar, an SGPC member, who tested positive for Covid-19 a few days ago, has been put on ventilator support at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot.An aide of Marar said his condition was critical, but stable. Marar, a resident of Madahar Kalan village here, became an Independent MLA in 2002 by defeating former CM Harcharan Singh Brar of the Congress. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-muktsar-mla-sukhdarshan-singh-marar-on-ventilator-support-223851
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Asst JE held for taking bribe||The VB on Thursday nabbed an assistant JE, PSPCL, red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 20,000.An official spokesperson for the VB said Assistant JE Jaspal Singh, posted at PSPCL’s Cheema sub-division, Sangrur, had been arrested on the complaint of Malkiat Singh of Barnala district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asst-je-held-for-taking-bribe-223855
12-03-2021||Amritsar||Luxurious hospitality in offing for officials||Decks have been cleared for the state government’s multi-crore project of transforming the British era Amritsar Circuit House complex into a four-star luxury facility.The old heritage structure of the original Circuit House, which comprises eight rooms, will remain intact but will be renovated in a modern way.Conceived in 2015Optional facilities include retail shopping or branded showrooms, speciality restaurants, a gym, a health club or spa, jacuzzi for VVIP suits, specific commercial area for various exhibitions, underground car parking and a swimming pool.Spread over 3.94 acres, the project worth Rs 23 crore was conceptualised in 2015 and expected to be executed by October 2018. The structure was partially built by investing around Rs 11 crore, but the government backed out only to rope in private players to complete and operate it under the public private partnership model. The project is set to be completed within 18 months.There will be a provision of 70 rooms in the complex. Of these, 15 rooms and two VVIP suites will be kept reserved for guests of the government or the competent authority and the room tariff of these will be determined by the government. Tariff of the rest 53 rooms will be at the disposal of the concessionaire firm.The maintenance, operation and service will be the liability of the hired firm. A 50 per cent discount on food can be availed by government guests. The Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) has allotted the work on the build-operate-transfer (BOT) mode to a firm, M/S Chaman Lal and Sons, in consortium with M/S Sarovar Hotels Pvt Ltd.As per official documents, the firm in its quote had offered to pay Rs 1.05 crore concession fee for the first year of operations to grab the bid. The fee will be revised by 5 per cent every year till the tenure of the agreement ends after 30 years.Amid concerns over the sanctity of the heritage Circuit House structure, located adjacent to the new structure, PIDB assistant general manager Davinder Bajaj said its upkeep and preservation would be the liability of the firm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/luxurious-hospitality-in-offing-for-officials-223867
12-03-2021||Ferozepur||Multipurpose hall opens in Ferozepur||A multipurpose hall, ‘Parmarth Bhawan’, was inaugurated by MLA Parminder Singh Pinki today, in the presence of representatives from various NGOs.Ashok Gupta, a social worker, said the money spent on the construction of the hall had been come from donations, with the MLA pitching in with Rs 20 lakh. “We got support from local philanthropists, who provided construction material and other equipment required to build the hall. An estimated Rs 3 crore has been spent on it,” he said.Sohal Lal Gakhar, an advocate, said there was a dire need for such a hall there, as for events such as ‘bhog’ ceremonies, religious or social congregations, residents had to either go to the cantonment area or make arrangements elsewhere. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/multipurpose-hall-opens-in-ferozepur-223868
12-03-2021||Fazilka||Workers protest illegal sand mining in Fazilka||Activists of the General Reta Workers Union staged a protest over illegal sand mining here today.District general secretary of the union Subeg Singh and block president Hoshiar Singh said a sand mafia was active along the Sutlaj in Mahatam Nagar and Miani Basti areas and was involved in excavating sand worth crores of rupees in connivance with officials.The union leaders alleged they recently got two sand-laden tractor-trailers confiscated but these were released by the police without initiating suitable action. They burnt the effigy of police officials outside the Fazilka sadar police station. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/workers-protest-illegal-sand-mining-in-fazilka-223869
12-03-2021||Pathankot||Balancing act for Pathankot Cong MLA in picking mayoral candidates||Pathankot Congress MLA Amit Vij has his hands full in trying to select the “right candidate with right credential with right caste” for the top three posts of Mayor, senior deputy Mayor and deputy Mayor.The Congress has won 36 of the 50 wards. All eyes are now on the lawmaker as he remains busy in consulting various stakeholders before giving his final stamp of approval.Insiders say Vij, a Khatri, is walking a tightrope as balancing the caste equations in this Hindu-dominated city has always been a dicey affair. The choice has narrowed down to five-time winner Panna Lal Bhatia and Gaurav Wadhera, both Khatris. “If seniority is the barometer, then Bhatia wins. If loyalty is the rule, then Wadhera will be the choice. But the problem for the MLA is that he cannot give the top two posts to people of the same caste. Here comes into play the candidature of first-time councillor Nitin Mahajan Laddi. He belongs to the politically powerful Mahajan community which has nearly 35,000 votes in the Assembly seat. With elections due early next year, Vij will not like to disappoint the Mahajans at any cost,” said a councillor.The fact that Nitin won from a ward that includes the residence of state BJP president Ashwani Sharma too is not being overlooked. “He won by a margin of 1,150 votes which is considered to be an impressive one as far as the MC polls are concerned. Moreover, the BJP candidate had the full backing of Sharma following which Nitin’s win is seen as a big one,” said a councillor.All three, Bhatia, Mahajan and Wadhera, are considered to be close to the MLA. There are ample indications that all three top posts — Mayor, senior deputy Mayor and deputy Mayor — will be bagged by the legislator’s men. However, as for yet, nothing is being finalised as the MLA is still busy trying figuring out “the right man with the right caste.” However, Vij refused to comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/balancing-act-for-pathankot-cong-mla-in-picking-mayoral-candidates-223870
12-03-2021||Sangrur||Protest in Sangrur||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protest-in-sangrur-223871
12-03-2021||Fazilka||Three held with 1-kg heroin||Man held for extortionFatehgarh Sahib: The police nabbed a man who extorted money from the parents of a missing boy on the pretext of giving them information about him. The boy's body was recovered from Bhakra Canal. The police have recovered the phone and the money extorted by the man.SSP Amneet Kondal said on March 5, Gurjit Singh, a resident of Sarana village, filed a complaint that his son Navjot had gone missing. Sandeep Singh, a resident of Bathinda, extorted money from them on the pretext of giving them information about the boy. OCFraud case against womanSangrur: A local youth alleged he spent Rs 30 lakh to send his wife to Canada for studies, but after landing there, she refused to fulfil the mandatory formalities for spouse visa for him. The police have registered a case. Gurjiwan Singh alleged he had spent the money to send his wife, Prabhjot Kaur, to Canada. “However, Prabhjot has not completed the required formalities for Gurjiwan, so we have registered a fraud case. Our investigations are on,” said Jagdev Singh, munshi of the Lehra police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-held-with-1-kg-heroin-223872
12-03-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Badal tests positive for Covid||Chandigarh, March 12Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Badal tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. The minister took to social media to confirm that he is coronavirus positive.I would like to inform everyone that I have tested positive for COVID and I will be in quarantine for the next coming...His Facebook post reads:  "I would like to inform everyone that I have tested positive for COVID and I will be in quarantine for the next coming days.I got myself tested before the session and then again immediately after the session. Before the session, I tested negative. After the session, I have tested positive.Anyone who has been in contact with me please for your and your family’s safety get tested."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-finance-minister-manpreet-badal-tests-positive-for-covid-223790
12-03-2021|| Chandigarh||Congress MLA dares BJP minister Hardeep Puri to notice Harsimrat Badal to vacate ministers’ bungalow||Congress MLA Raja Warring has dared Union Minister Hardeep Puri to send notice to Harsimrat Badal to vacate ministers' bungalow and allot her the one she was entitled to as Member of Parliament.Taking a dig at BJP, while tagging Prime Minister Narender Modi, warring tweeted: “As HarsimratBadal is no longer a Minister, when will Shri HardeepSPuri send her a notice to vacate the Bungalow allotted to her & allot her one se is eligible for?  Unless of course Mrs Badal and Akali Dal still are a part of BJP Govt on the sly”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-mla-dares-bjp-minister-hardeep-puri-to-notice-harsimrat-badal-to-vacate-ministers-bungalow-223778
12-03-2021||Amritsar||Farmers withdraw dharna on rail tracks near Amritsar after 169 days||A group of farmers squatting on railway tracks near here to protest the Centre’s new farm laws withdrew their agitation on Thursday after 169 days, as suspension of trains caused losses to them and traders.Savinder Singh, a leader of the Kissan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee which had been spearheading the stir, said they decided to withdraw the rail blockade at Devidaspura on the Amritsar-Delhi route after a meeting of all protesting farmer unions.Devidaspur near Jandiala station is about 25 km from Amritsar railway station.“Farmers were blocking only passenger trains, but the Centre decided to stop goods trains as well which caused huge losses to farmers, traders and industrialists. In the light of current circumstances, farmers have unanimously resolved to end the stir here,” he said.Officials said that with the farmers ending their stir here, normal movement of trains will resume within a couple of days. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-withdraw-dharna-on-rail-tracks-near-amritsar-after-169-days-223745
12-03-2021||New Delhi||Daily new COVID-19 cases in Punjab rose 4.5 times in 1 month||Active COVID-19 cases in India rose from a low of 1.35 lakh on February 12 to a high of 1.89 lakh on Thursday, with Maharashtra, Punjab and Kerala mainly fuelling the burden.The daily new cases in Punjab grew 4.5 times between February 11 and March 11. The cases rose from 2,112 to 9,402.Likewise, Maharashtra witnessed a rise from 36,917 daily cases on February 11 to 10,0240 cases on March 11.The government on Thursday said, that India has seen active cases as high as 10 lakh on September 18 last, and the COVID-19 situation nationally was overall in control except in six states with eight of India’s ten highest active case burden districts in Maharashtra and one each in Kerala and Karnataka.The government is also closely watching Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, and Gujarat as case surges here remain on tipping point. In Madhya Pradesh daily cases have risen from 1951 on February 11 to 3915 on March 11.“Haryana, Gujarat, and Madhya Pradesh are at a tipping point, and yet to go to a surge but looking at early signs of surge we have had three meetings with these states, and asked them to improve testing, tracking abs treatment besides adhering to COVID-19 appropriate behaviours”.Haryana witnessed a rise of 824 to 2,440 cases in a month while Gujarat from 1,800 to 3,529.The vaccination speed is satisfactory, said the government, adding that with 71 per cent vaccinations of 2.53 crore doses were so far delivered at government facilities.India is second only to the US in terms of speed and scale of the inoculation.As of March 9, Today (March 9) US had delivered 9.36 crore doses followed by India 2.43 and UK 2.37 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/daily-new-covid-19-cases-in-punjab-rose-4-5-times-in-1-month-223741
12-03-2021||New Delhi||Ravneet Singh Bittu to be Congress LS leader this Parliament session||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday gave temporary charge of the position of Lok Sabha leader to Ludhiana Member of Parliament Ravneet Singh Bittu.Bittu will discharge the role for the ongoing budget session of parliament.The appointment came on Thursday after Adhir Ranjan Chowdhry, leader of Congress in Lok Sabha, had to leave for campaigning in the upcoming state elections.Bittu is party’s chief whip in Lok Sabha.With Deputy leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Gaurav Gogoi also busy with Assam polls, Bittu would have to lead party’s strategy in the lower house where legislative business remains held up due to opposition’s demands to suspend all work and discuss fuel price rise first.Bittu is a three-time Member of Parliament.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ravneet-singh-bittu-to-be-congress-ls-leader-this-parliament-session-223722
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Devotees throng temples on Mahashivratri in Punjab and Haryana; story in pictures||A large number of devotees on Thursday thronged temples across Punjab and Haryana, including Chandigarh, on the occasion of Mahashivratri.The devotees thronged the temples since early morning to offer prayers and perform special ‘pujas’.Lord Shiva temples were decorated for the occasion.The famous Saketri temple, near here, was bedecked for the celebrations.Panchkula: Devotees pay worship on the occasion of Maha Shivratri at Saketri Shiv temple on Thursday. Tribune Photo: Ravi KumarPunjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar have extended greetings to the people on the sacred occasion of Mahashivratri. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/devotees-throng-temples-on-mahashivratri-in-punjab-and-haryana-story-in-pictures-223710
12-03-2021||---||Delhi Police foil plot to kill faction head of Nihang Sikh Buddha Dal||New Delhi, March 11Delhi Police claim to have foiled a plot to kill a faction head of a Nihang Sikh jathebandi.The Special Cell said Malkit Singh alias Jujhar Singh and Bhupinder Singh were arrested from Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh and two pistols and 20 cartridges were seized from them.They also intended to eliminate a-witness in a 2010 murder case in which Malkit, currently out on parole, and his mother Jasbir Kaur got life imprisonment.“On March 6, a tip-off was received that a convict in a murder case, who is currently on parole, along with his friend, is coming from Madhya Pradesh with illegal firearms and intends to commit a crime. A raid was conducted and Malkit and Bhupinder were arrested from near Beri Wala Bagh, Shalimar Bagh, Delhi, and a pistol with 16 cartridges was recovered from Malkit and a pistol with four cartridges was recovered from Bhupinder. A case under the Arms Act was registered,” the Special Cell said.The duo was planning to execute the murders during the Holla Mohalla celebrations later this month. Malkit and Bhupinder sourced the arms from an arms supplier named Jyoti in Madhya Pradesh.Malkit’s first brush with the law took place a decade ago after his father Baldev Singh was replaced as the granthi of Gurdwara Jaimal Singh, Lal Bagh, Azadpur, for his involvement in Patiala’s Banta Singh Bagichi firing incident where four Nihang Sikhs were killed.Thereafter, Malkit, his mother and sewadars Sukhpal Singh and Ranjit Singh kidnapped the new granthi Lakhwinder Singh and murdered him. All four were sentenced to life imprisonment.In 2017, the 27-year-old was involved in killing of four people belonging to Buddha Dal Balbir Singh in Muktsar over a property dispute. The same year, he was arrested for his involvement in a conspiracy to kill a sewadar, Pyara Singh, Balwangarh Sahib gurdwara, Fatehgarh Sahib.“He has revealed that he wanted revenge from the head of one faction of Nihang Sikh Buddha Dal as he felt that the latter is responsible for keeping him and his mother in jail. There is also a dispute over the possession/heading of the jathebandi as Malkit wanted someone else to head the jathebandi,” the Special Cell said.“He also wanted to eliminate one of his neighbours, who was witness in the murder case of the granthi, in which he and his mother were convicted,” it added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delhi-police-foil-plot-to-kill-faction-head-of-nihang-sikh-buddha-dal-223689
