15-03-2021||New Delhi||Haryana Rajya Sabha MP Lt General Vats appeals to soldierly magnanimity of Capt Amarinder Singh||BJP MP in Rajya Sabha from Haryana Lt General (retd) Dr DP Vats on Monday appealed to the inherent virtues of “benevolence and magnanimity” of a military veteran in Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in allowing Haryana’s share of rivers’ waters.Taking part in a discussion on the working of Jal Shakti Ministry in Rajya Sabha, Lt General Vats said that although commissions and the Supreme Court have upheld the cause of Haryana with regard to its share of 3.5 MAF of rivers’ waters through SYL from Punjab, the state was not receiving the same.A lot many issues between Haryana and Punjab are unsettled, including the state capital.He said that after Haryana was carved out of Punjab in 1966, it did not have any river allocated to it.However, bulk of the allocated share of Haryana’s share of waters flow into the seas.He said that the waters to be drawn vide SYL to Haryana are to cater to the southern region of the state, which is a home of the ex-servicemen.He referred to iconic Major Shaitan Singh of Kumao Regiment, who led a successful counter to the aggression of the Chinese Army during 1962 Sino-India conflict at Rezang La pass along LAC at the expense of his life, was a native of the Ahirwal belt in south Haryana.It is often the case that mortal remains of soldiers from the region often return draped in Tricolour.“The Punjab government is headed by a military veteran. I hope that  in the tradition of benevolence and large-heartedness of a soldier, he would facilitate the flow of Haryana’s share of waters.”He was critical of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for speaking in forked tongue on the issue of SYL and Haryana’s share of waters from Punjab.Without naming the Delhi chief minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal, he said the former is a native of Haryana.However, during elections in Punjab he says Haryana has no share.But in Delhi, he accuses Haryana of not providing water to Delhi, Lt General Vats added.He further said that AAP indulges in double standards with regard to Haryana’s interest on the water issue even though two of its sitting three Rajya Sabha MPs are natives of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/haryana-rajya-sabha-mp-lt-general-vats-appeals-to-soldierly-magnanimity-of-capt-amarinder-singh-225618
15-03-2021||New Delhi||Farmers’ protest: HC asks authorities to consider representation to remove barriers on Delhi borders||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the authorities to treat as representation a plea seeking direction to remove barricading on various routes connecting the neighbouring states with the national capital due to the over 3-month long farmers’ protest against the new agri laws passed by the Centre.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh disposed of the petition and asked the authorities, including the Centre, Delhi government and Delhi Police, to decide the representation in accordance with the law, rules, regulations and government policy applicable to the facts of the case.Petitioner Himanshu Kaushik, a practicing advocate, sought to remove unnecessary barricading and obstructions on various routes which have been blocked due to the protesters’ presence there.The plea sought direction to make separate lanes and routes for heavy vehicles and also direct the authorities concerned to allow free movement of vehicles for public convenience.It also sought to direct the administration to deploy efficient manpower on the alternative routes/ routes suffering from heavy congestion on peak hours.The pleas said from the very beginning of the protest on November 26, 2020, the protesters are haggling over the law which has created a sombre environment in the capital and the adjacent cities.It said Delhi’s seven borders—Singhu, Auchandi, Lampur, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh, Tikri, Jharoda are disturbed and the traffic in the national capital its bordering areas continue to remain affected due to the farmers’ protest.“The Ghazipur border on NH-24 is closed for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi due to Farmer’s protest. People are advised to avoid NH-24 for coming to Delhi and use Apsara/ Bhopra/ DND for coming to Delhi. The Chilla border on Noida Link road is closed for traffic from Noida to Delhi due to protest near Gautam Budh Nagar. People are advised to avoid Noida Link road for coming to Delhi and use DND,” it said.The plea added that the scenario is becoming worst and in order to protect the right of peaceful protest of farmers, the right of free movement throughout the territory of India under the Constitution is being violated since the day the protest has started.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over three months now against the three laws—the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-hc-asks-authorities-to-consider-representation-to-remove-barriers-on-delhi-borders-225613
15-03-2021||Amarkot (Tarn Taran)||Badal names Valtoha as SAD candidate from Khemkaran||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday announced the candidature of former chief parliamentary secretary Virsa Singh Valtoha from the Khemkaran constituency for the 2022 Punjab Assembly polls. The announcement came a day after Badal had said that he would contest from Jalalabad constituency. The polls are due early next year. The Shiromani Akali Dal president was addressing a gathering on the occasion of the second ‘Punjab Mange Jawab’ (Punjab seeks answer) rally held here. Attacking the chief minister for presiding over the “worst” administration in the history of the state, the SAD president asked Amarinder Singh to tell Punjabis why he allegedly defrauded them with “false” promises.Badal said the chief minister will have to tell people why he swore a “false” oath in the name of the holy Gutka Sahib (religious book) that he would waive all loans of farmers after forming the government in the state.“Punjabis want answers for the alleged fraud committed on them by the chief minister who while promising jobs to the youth also got forms signed from them and issued affidavits promising the same,” he said. Badal asked the chief minister to reveal “one thing” that he had done for the people and the state in the last four years.“Tell us one road, power grid or college you have made,” he said, adding that the situation was such that even the holy city of Amritsar was falling in disrepair and the Virasat-e-Marg was not being maintained.Similarly, the promised compensation of Rs 10,000 per acre to farmers ploughing land beyond the barbed wire fence was not honoured, he claimed.Badal praised Akali leader Valtoha for keeping the party flag flying in the constituency despite “extreme repression unleashed by Congress legislator Sukhhpal Bhullar”.Former minister and SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia said the people of Khemkaran had given a befitting answer to Bhullar who had threatened to lodge cases against people attending the rally. Majithia alleged that the Congress-led government was burdening the people with fresh taxes.He said the prices of petroleum products in Punjab were among the highest in the country because of the “huge” value added tax imposed on them by the state government. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/badal-names-valtoha-as-sad-candidate-from-khemkaran-225608
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||78% Covid-19 cases reported late in Punjab: Health minister||Owing to surge in cases of Covid-19 and higher case fatality ratio (CFR), Punjab Health Minister Balbir Sidhu on Monday instructed all civil surgeons to motivate the severe patients for early treatment at government facilities.Expressing concern over the symptomatic people failing to report at healthcare facilities, he said as per the death review by the state Health Department, 77.9 per cent cases came for treatment with severe symptoms at a late stage, a major cause of higher CFR.He said it was the responsibility of all residents that if anyone feels symptoms of Covid-19, he or she should not delay seeking treatment.Sharing the details of positive cases and mortality in urban and rural populations, the minister said 71.40 per cent cases have been confirmed from the urban population, while only 28.60 per cent cases from the rural population from January to February.While the deaths in urban areas were 45.50 per cent, it was 54.50 per cent in rural areas.He said it was also a matter of concern that more than 80 per cent of deaths were elders.He said 31.70 per cent of deaths were reported in patients aged between 61-70 years; 31.50 per cent above 70 years and 20.30 per cent from 51 to 60 years. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/78-covid-19-cases-reported-late-in-punjab-health-minister-225596
15-03-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University students rue non-functional lifts, low quality food in hostels, hold protest||Students of the University College of Engineering, Punjabi University on Monday shut the department gates and started a protest over low-quality food, lack of proper drinking water and non-functional lifts in the multi-storey hostel buildings.The students said they had submitted a representation with the University officials on March 8 but nothing came of it.Sandeep Kaur, a University student associated with Punjab Radical Students Union (PRSU) on the campus said, "The students of the UCOE department staying at three adjacent hostels had submitted a representation to the University administration demanding facilities including functional lifts along with proper drinking water and food. The University had demanded a week to find a solution to the issues. Now they have started a protest after the time passed."The students said they were not being provided clean drinking water while the quality of food was bad. They said their hostels—Mai Bhago hostel, Bebe nanki hostel and Baba Banda Singh bahadur hostel—are multi-storey buildings but lifts there are non-functional, due to which they are faced with issues climbing down and up the hostel stairs. "The same is with the department hostels", they said and demanded that the University find solutions to their issues.The students blocked the entry to their department and continued their protest till the afternoon when the copy was being written.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-university-students-rue-non-functional-lifts-low-quality-food-in-hostels-hold-protest-225518
15-03-2021||Patiala||Patiala ADC tests positive for coronavirus; had received first dose of vaccine||Patiala Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) on Monday tested positive for coronavirus. Patiala Health Department said Dr Preeti Yadav tested positive after her husband had tested positive a few days ago. She had received the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine.Yadav had already been home isolated, said the health department.Patiala has been witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases and the Urban areas of the district are the worse hit.Confirming the development, District Epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh said, "ADC Preeti Yadav tested positive, however, she is asymptomatic. She has been home isolated."He said that the total count of positive cases has risen to 18, 596 in Patiala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-adc-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-had-received-first-dose-of-vaccine-225507
15-03-2021||Los Angeles||Lilly Singh wears 'I stand with farmers' mask at Grammys red carpet; see viral pic||Indo-Canadian YouTube star and late-night talk show host Lilly Singh sported a "I stand with farmers" mask at the red carpet of 2021 Grammy Awards to reiterate her support to the ongoing farmers agitation in India. The 32-year-old social media personality took to Twitter and posted a picture of herself from the 63rd edition of the Grammy Awards.Singh wrote that since there's intense media spotlight on the red carpet, this was the perfect opportunity to show her solidarity with farmers."I know red carpet/award show pictures always get the most coverage, so here you go media. Feel free to run with it. #IStandWithFarmers #GRAMMYs," she captioned the photograph.I know red carpet/award show pictures always get the most coverage, so here you go media. Feel free to run with it ✊🏽 #IStandWithFarmers #GRAMMYs pic.twitter.com/hTM0zpXoIT  Singh had previously thanked pop star Rihanna for supporting Indian farmers who have been protesting for over three months against the three contentious agri laws.Rihanna's tweet in February had triggered a wave of support for the protesting farmers by a number of global personalities, activists and politicians."Thank you so much @rihanna. This is a humanity issue! #IStandWithFarmers and this narrative is tired," Singh had written.Yes! Thank you so much @rihanna. This is a humanity issue! #IStandWithFarmers and this narrative is TIRED. ❤️ https://t.co/H0h5EM7mNWSwedish teen climate activist Greta Thunberg, Hollywood veteran actor Susan Sarandon, Meena Harris, an American lawyer and niece of US Vice President Kamala Harris, actor Amanda Cerni, singers Jay Sean, Dr Zeus and former adult star Mia Khalifa have also supported the protesting farmers.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at the Delhi border points— Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur—for over three months, demanding the repeal of farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lilly-singh-wears-i-stand-with-farmers-mask-at-grammys-red-carpet-see-viral-pic-225503
15-03-2021||---||Taking theatre route to breath new life into dying folk culture||Amritsar, March 14Putting indigenous theatre forms of Punjab such as nakkaals, bhands and genres like saang (a form of satirical dialogue) on the mainstream culturescape, Khalsa College’s Department of Theatre has been working with its students on the revival of folk theatre through research-based programmes as well as live productions.In its recent theatrical productions, the department has focused on presenting folk forms through modern themes, while its theory curriculum focuses on charting out road for revival strategies.Devinder Singh, head of Theatre Department, Khalsa College, says that keeping the folk theatre relevant is the biggest challenge. “Just like Bengal’s yatra theatre and UP’s nautanki, our folk theatre genres such as saangh, or mimicry and transition theatre such as behrupiye or nakkaals do not get much attention or visibility in the mainstream cultural landscape. There are so many sub-genres of folk theatre such as the tamasha that is performed in between giddha or saang that is done in Haryana that finds its roots in Punjab. Lack of modern theatrical platforms in rural belt meant that all these folk forms have been kept alive, though barely, in villages of Punjab. But if it needs revival, mainstream theatre devices will have to be employed to raise them to a bigger platform,” he said.He says that the folk theatre forms of Punjab need similar approach of theatre revival like that in Maharashtra, Assam or Bengal. “Their folk theatre has gone international because they managed to strike a balance between modern themes and originality of folk theatre. Though, in Punjab, bhands have managed to gain some visibility it has failed to transform their lives.”Emannual Singh, one of the teachers, at the Theatre Department of Khalsa College, and a noted theatre director, had recently presented a play Kade Daade Diyan, Kade Potte Diyan, that used kavishri as one of the narrative tools. Similarly, the department’s another presentation, a play titled Vismaad, presents Gurbani in form of absurd theatre. Vismaad was recently staged at the Singhu border and we have done 15-16 shows of the play in several cities in the past two years, except for 2020. Revival will only happen when these forms find their place on the stage, in productions that have large audience and commercial prospects,” said Devinder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/taking-theatre-route-to-breath-new-life-into-dying-folk-culture-225417
15-03-2021||TKA Nair & RS Ghuman||Wean farmers off wheat, paddy with incentives||THE seeds of the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the farm laws were, ironically, sown with the advent of the Green Revolution in Punjab, and subsequently in Haryana and Western UP, in the 1960s and 1970s. The wheat-paddy crop rotation assiduously promoted by the Central and state governments through robust institutional support, public-funded R&D in high-yielding varieties of seeds, assured irrigation and subsidised fertilisers, ably backed by field-level extension services and the initiative of Punjabi farmers made the Green Revolution a great success, paving the way for ensuring the food security of the country. The Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime and the procurement policy of the government, together with free electricity, sustained the boom and Punjab was rightly hailed as the ‘Bread Basket of India’.Regrettably, the consequences of the Green Revolution have been a mixed bag for the state and its economy. The highly water-intensive paddy crop was not indigenous to Punjab and its widespread cultivation necessitated intense exploitation of groundwater sources. Flood irrigation and application of chemical fertilisers incentivised by government policies aimed at enhancing production severely damaged soil and its fertility over the years. With higher and higher exploitation of groundwater, the water table in the paddy-growing areas of the state has gone down alarmingly. On account of the fear of the wrath of the farmers’ organisations and competitive vote-bank politics, successive state governments have found it impossible to do away with free power for agriculture that costs the exchequer over Rs 6,200 crore annually, crippling the finances of the state. Over the years, the productivity of wheat and paddy flattened and resulted in stagnating income for the farmers in spite of the MSP. The end of the halcyon days of the wheat-paddy crop regime is looming large, leaving farmers unsure whether agriculture can sustain their livelihood in future.No bolt from the blueThe current crisis in agriculture is not a bolt from the blue. As early as the 1980s, serious doubts about the viability of the wheat-paddy cropping pattern had surfaced, evident from the constitution of the Johl Committees (I and II) in 1986 and 2002. The Johl Committees realised the unsustainability of the wheat-paddy cropping pattern and recommended a series of measures for restructuring and diversifying agriculture, the most significant of which was shifting 20 per cent of the area under agriculture to non-paddy crops. The committees also emphasised that commitment of the Central and state governments in terms of technological, institutional and assured price support for alternative crops was critical for achieving the desired objective. As later events proved, neither the Central nor the state governments nor the farmers realised fully the seriousness and urgency of the simmering crisis and ‘business as usual’ was allowed to continue with sporadic annual debates about the quantum of MSP without addressing the core issues arising out of overexploitation of water, declining productivity of soil and the increasing cost of production and diminishing returns.The three laws which have earned the wrath of the farming community, especially in the Punjab-Haryana-Western UP belt, are a serious attempt at reforming the agriculture sector, which was long overdue, and open it up for free market forces. But it has misfired for many reasons. The laws do not address the main concerns of the farmers: to be assured of remunerative returns for their crops. The Centre’s unwillingness to give statutory protection to MSP is the critical stumbling block in the way of resolving the ongoing agitation.Evolve modus vivendiProlonging the stir indefinitely is neither in the interests of the farmers nor of the country at large. Given the assurances of the government about the continuance of MSP and its decision to keep the farm laws in abeyance, it should be possible to evolve a modus vivendi to end the impasse and carry forward the much-needed reforms agenda through a transparent consultative process. Doubling farmers’ income within a given time frame and operationalising the statutory MSP for all 23 crops which are covered under the MSP regime through appropriate procurement mechanisms of the Central and state governments and the private trade should be the twin pillars of an overarching Central legislation which should provide for state-specific enactment to suit local conditions and requirements, especially as agriculture is on the State list and marketing of agri-produce on the Concurrent list.That continuation of MSP in its current form is not a panacea for rejuvenating agriculture and promoting the interests of farmers is beyond doubt. Perpetuating the operation of the MSP regime for wheat and paddy is not only unsustainable but also disastrous, especially for Punjab, its farmers and its agrarian economy. Punjab would turn into a desert at the current rate of exploitation of groundwater. Farmers must realise the ground reality and the state and Central governments must help them move out of the vicious cycle of wheat-paddy cropping.Given the current level of farming technology and practices, promoting horticulture, oilseeds and pulses, for which the agro-climatic conditions of Punjab are suitable, is a viable alternative. These are not only less water-intensive but also essential for meeting the increasing requirements of nutritional security. At the same time, the increased local production of these crops would save considerable outflow of foreign exchange needed for importing them. Central and state governments should commit themselves to providing the required infrastructure, R&D support and institutional mechanisms, including market intervention, for the operationalisation of MSP for sufficiently incentivising the farmers to opt for the new cropping pattern.As its farmers have been the worst-hit on account of unsustainable wheat-paddy crop rotation and the ongoing agitation, Punjab could consider taking the lead in facilitating the process.Nair is a former Chief Secy of Punjab; Ghuman is Professor of Economics, CRRID, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wean-farmers-off-wheat-paddy-with-incentives-225445
15-03-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||FCI to tighten foodgrain procurement norms||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 14In another setback for the state, the Food Corporation of India is proposing the revision of the specifications for foodgrain procurement, making the rules tighter by introducing changes in quality control as suggested by “some private players”.Food panel recommendations for…WHEATPADDYRICEThe proposals, among other things, include reducing the limit of moisture content in wheat from present 14 per cent to 12 per cent, reducing the incorporated semi-damaged grains in procured grains from four per cent to two per cent, and reducing the prevalence of shrivelled and broken grains from six to four per cent.For paddy purchase, too, the specifications have been changed and strict quality control proposed with reduction in moisture content (from 17-16 per cent); reduction in permissible foreign matter; a two per cent reduction in permissible limit of damaged and discoloured grains among others.The proposals, for uniform specifications of foodgrain for procurement under central pool, also mention that from now on there can be no prevalence of other foodgrain in wheat (generally during storage, other grains tend to get mixed) against two per cent allowed to date; no weeviled grains will be purchased and grains have to be purchased by the Centre with zero live infestation.Procurement of wheat begins in Punjab from April 1 and 130 lakh metric tonne of wheat is targeted for government purchase.Though apparently the Centre’s insistence on stricter quality control norms is targeted at ensuring good quality purchase for public distribution and for ensuring its export worthiness, the move is being seen by policymakers, farmers and government officials as yet another attack on the state, whose farmers have been at the forefront of the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws.“Suddenly, norms are being tightened for foodgrain procurement from Punjab. Some of these rules are not feasible. Introducing the new quality control norms now, when the crop is just a month away from being harvested, is an indication that the Centre (through FCI) is shying away from purchasing grains, something the farmers have been protesting all along. Generally, there are rains near harvest time, which lead to higher moisture content. By reducing the existing limit of moisture content allowed in wheat, the government will find that a large amount of wheat is unsuitable for purchase. Where will the farmer go?” asks Jagmohan Singh Patiala, general secretary of BKU Dakaunda.Recently, the Centre had issued instructions making it mandatory for all farmers to give details of land ownership to get MSP for wheat. This, too, has generated heat in the state where almost 45 per cent of land holdings are leased out by farmers to other cultivators.Punjab Food and Supply Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu told The Tribune that this was an indication that FCI wanted to run away from purchasing grains. “FCI has been slowly reducing the grain purchase over the past few years. I will meet the Union Food Minister this week to resolve these issues,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fci-to-tighten-foodgrain-procurement-norms-225333
15-03-2021||---||Covid-19: 20 more die in Punjab; night curfew in Muktsar||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 14As Covid cases continue to surge, yet another district — Muktsar — was brought under night curfew by the authorities today.Chief secy holds review meetingChief Secretary Vini Mahajan on Sunday held a meeting with deputy commissioners, police chiefs and other officials to review the emergency measures. Mahajan asked the deputy commissioners and civil surgeons to advise the private hospitals falling under their jurisdiction to increase their Covid bed capacity. She said the labs must maintain the testing of around 28,000 to 30,000 samples per day.As many as 1,501 new cases were reported in Punjab and 20 persons succumbed to the contagion today. Seven deaths were reported in Jalandhar alone, four in Patiala, three in Sangrur, two each in Hoshiarpur and Tarn Taran and one each in Mohali and Kapurthala.At least three districts — Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Patiala — are nearing the 200 mark in daily cases reported today while Mohali crossed the mark with 211 cases in the past 24 hours. Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur and Amritsar reported 141, 158 and 110 cases, respectively. The total number of active cases in the state now stands at 11,550, with 29 of these being critical and on ventilator support. The total deaths reported to date are 6,072.In all, 66,478 healthcare and frontline workers have received the second dose of Covid vaccine while 94,267 persons over 60 and over 45 years of age with Covid morbidities have received the first dose of the vaccine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-20-more-die-in-punjab-night-curfew-in-muktsar-225335
15-03-2021||---||Shahkot DSP succumbs to Covid-19||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 14Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Varinderpal Singh (52) of the Punjab Police died of Covid-19 today. He was posted in the Shahkot division.The DSP had been on ventilator support for the past one month and succumbed to the virus at 3.48 am at a private Ludhiana hospital. Varinderpal had taken charge at Shahkot in July last year. He was earlier posted at Barnala and was promoted to the DSP rank in 2019.Shahkot SHO Sub-Inspector Surinder Kumar said: “Varinderpal Singh tested positive for the virus on February 8 after he developed mild fever. He was subsequently admitted to the hospital. Following multiple-organ failure, he was put on ventilator support. Doctors told the family his lungs couldn’t recover.” The DSP’s two gunmen were also infected in the first week of February.He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter, who is married and settled in Canada. He was cremated at Sarabha Nagar in Ludhiana in the afternoon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shahkot-dsp-succumbs-to-covid-19-225336
15-03-2021||PK Jaiswar||Doctor shot at as groups clash in Amritsar hospital||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 14A doctor was injured when a group of armed men attacked two persons at the local civil hospital late on Saturday night.Emergency medical officer Dr Bhavneet Singh sustained a bullet injury in the thigh and after first aid he was rushed to a private hospital.Medical services suspended across state for 2 hrs todayAs per information, Rahul Nagi and his brother Madan Nagi had a dispute with one Sunny Sahota at Luv Kush Nagar locality in Putlighar following a minor altercation.According to the police, Sunny, along with his accomplices Gattu, Gaain, Raj Kumar Raju and their four unidentified friends, clashed with Rahul and Madan, who were hit in the head, while their mother was also allegedly manhandled.After some time, Sunny and his friends returned to the spot and allegedly fired gunshots at Rahul, who escaped narrowly. A complaint was lodged at the Cantonment police station following which a case was registered against the accused.The police then sent Rahul and his brother to the Civil Hospital for treatment and medical examination report. However, Raju, Vijay Pardhan, Aman, Gattu, Sunny, Barinder Singh and six unidentified accomplices reached the emergency room and started quarrelling with Rahul.Sunny started firing randomly and a bullet hit Dr Bhavneet, who along with security persons, tried to intervene. After Dr Bhavneet was injured, the accused fled the spot.Deputy Commissioner of Police Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said teams were formed and raids were conducted to nab the assailants. “Three persons — Aman, Vijay Pardah and Barinder Singh — have been nabbed,” he said, adding that armed policemen would now guard the emergency ward of the hospital.Meanwhile, concerned over the safety of the staff, the Employees Welfare Association barred medico legal report cases and issuing of no-injury certificates. They alleged that earlier, too, similar incidents were reported and the police had been informed. They had urged the police to install a permanent police post in the hospital but to no avail.“On March 4, several persons had misbehaved with Dr Manpreet Kaur over issuing of a medico legal report. A complaint was also lodged but no action was taken,” said association president Dr Rakesh Sharma. The association members said no medico legal cases would be taken up until a permanent police post was established on the hospital premises.The IMA condemned the incident and demanded immediate arrest of the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doctor-shot-at-as-groups-clash-in-amritsar-hospital-225338
15-03-2021||---||Movement ‘restricted’, Vijay Sampla questions cops||Chandigarh, March 14National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) Chairman Vijay Sampla today questioned the role of the police over his movement being “restricted on roads on the pretext of the farmer agitation.”Doing NCSC dutyAs the NCSC Chairman, I am not engaged in any political activity. This is a constitutional post... they are stopping me from doing my duty for the welfare of Dalits. — Vijay Sampla, NCSC ChairmanAlleging his vehicle was being stopped and he was being denied entry at several places, Sampla said: “As the NCSC Chairman, I am not engaged in any political activity. This is a constitutional post for welfare of the SCs. I am only moving around to interact with the people associated with my office. They are stopping me from doing my duty for the welfare of Dalits. I have been stopped at many places, including Golden Temple and Balmiki Tirth Sthal, Amritsar. Today, I was stopped at Balachaur.”“When some persons block my way the police force keeps looking on. I am sending a letter to the DGP,” he said, adding “Punjab has approximately 5,000 cases of SCs out of which approximately 3,000 pertain to atrocities on them. These are all being taken up afresh”.He also spoke about the state government not playing the desired role in settling the scholarship issue of the SC/ST students in schools and colleges. “No institute can stop their degree or classes. It is the responsibility of the state to work out the desired mechanism to ensure the continuity of their classes and payment of the dues. The state government, often, does not pay the dues to all departments on time but the works go on,” he said.We would soon launch a portal for lodging direct complaints on the commission website with a facility for audio, video or messaging, Sampla added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/movement-restricted-vijay-sampla-questions-cops-225339
15-03-2021||Moga||Bhagwant Mann: Capt Amarinder Singh, Badals have mortgaged Punjab||Scoffing at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Lok Sabha MP from Sangrur and AAP leader Bhagwant Mann today accused the PM of trying to sell ancestral lands of farmers to corporate houses by framing “pro-capitalist” policies that would lead the nation to bankruptcy and social unrest.Passed APMC actThey unanimously passed the APMC Amendment Act that privatised markets of vegetables and fruits.—  Bhagwant Mann, AAP MPAddressing gatherings at Samadhbhai, Samalsar and other locations in Moga district to garner support for the party’s March 21 ‘kisan mahapanchayat’, Mann took on the Punjab leadership, accusing CM Capt Amarinder Singh and the Akalis, particularly the Badal family, of never supporting the farmers’ cause. The CM and Akalis had always worked together against farmers’ interests, he said.“They unanimously passed the APMC Amendment Act that privatised the markets of vegetables and fruits,” he said. Mann said the Bills were the basis for the enactment of the central farm laws. With farmers up in arms, they were now trying to portray themselves as pro-farmer, he said. Calling the CM and Badals ‘businessmen’, Mann accused them of mortgaging the state to private players for vested monetary benefits. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-capt-amarinder-singh-badals-have-mortgaged-punjab-225341
15-03-2021||Fazilka||Will contest from Jalalabad: Sukhbir Badal||With less than a year left for the state Assembly elections, the SAD today sounded the poll bugle by organising a rally in Jalalabad.Addressing a gathering at the Jalalabad grain market, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal asked the gathering whom they would like to see as their representative, Sukhbir, shouted party workers in one voice. In response, Sukhbir said he was going to announce the first candidate of the SAD in Punjab and that was Sukhbir from Jalalabad.He said he would end the alleged atrocities of the Congress. Violence had erupted in the tehsil complex in Jalalabad during the filing of nomination of MC polls.He vowed to slash the power bills to half and offer MSP on vegetables, fruits and milk. He also assured arhtiyas of the continuation of the commission to them even if the Centre abolished the mandi system. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-contest-from-jalalabad-sukhbir-badal-225342
15-03-2021||Sangrur||Minor boys paraded with hands tied, probe under way||After a video of four minor boys allegedly caught in a theft case by Banbhauri residents being paraded in Bhasaur village with hands tied at the back went viral, the police have started an investigation.The residents of both villages have denied having tied the hands of the boys. Surinderpal Singh, husband of Banbhauri sarpanch Baldev Kaur, said: “The four accused had stolen some items from a religious place of our village. After identifying them on a CCTV camera, the villagers brought them to our village on March 10. Later, we handed them over to the Bhasaur village panchayat but we did not tie their hands.”Though the theft allegedly took place during the intervening night of March 9 and 10 at a religious place of Banbhauri village, residents handed over the minor boys to the Bhasaur panchayat on March 10. “We did not tie their hands as they were already tied when we reached Banbhauri village to take the minors to our village. We had saved the boys from the wrath of the crowd, but some unidentified persons uploaded the video on the social media to defame our village,” said Bhasaur village sarpanch Gurnam Singh. Dhuri DSP Parmjit Singh said he came to know about the incident on Sunday. “We will verify the case and take appropriate action,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minor-boys-paraded-with-hands-tied-probe-under-way-225343
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhpal Khaira seeks FIR against ED teams for Covid ‘violations’||In a complaint to the Kapurthala SSP and Chandigarh SSP, Punjab Ekta Party founder Sukhpal Khaira sought registration of FIR against the Enforcement Directorate officials who raided his premises on March 9 “without following Covid protocol”.“As a result of this gross negligence on the part of the ED officials, my PSO, ASI Onkar Singh, has tested positive for Covid,” he said.Khaira added a team comprising 25-30 policemen checked hundreds of items at his home, including cupboards, drawers, suitcases, etc, and also used his office computer for multiple hours. “No member of the raiding team took necessary precautions as required under the Covid-19 norms, including wearing masks, gloves and maintaining social distance,” he said.He said no member of the team produced mandatory negative test certificates before commencement of the raid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhpal-khaira-seeks-fir-against-ed-teams-for-covid-violations-225344
15-03-2021||---||2 held for devotee’s murder on Golden Temple premises||Amritsar, March 14Hours after a devotee died on consuming ‘parsad’ allegedly offered by two men on the Golden Temple premises, the police today nabbed the suspects in connection with the case.They were identified as Bittu of Batala and Gurdas Singh of Quadian in Gurdaspur. According to the police, they were members of a gang that targeted people at religious places, especially in Himachal Pradesh and Punjab.Five-member gangPayara Singh, a resident of Kalanaur, Gurdaspur, had died at the Golden Temple complex after he consumed a ‘laddu’ laced with a poisonous substance.He along with his wife Surjit Kaur had come to pay obeisance at Darbar Sahib on Friday evening. She said after paying obeisance, they sat in the ‘parikarma’ when two persons befriended them. They identified themselves as Bittu and Gurdas Singh from Batala.The two offered them a ‘laddu’ as ‘parsad’. On consuming it, her husband went to the washroom where his condition deteriorated. The two allegedly followed him and took away his phone and a ring.Harjit Singh Dhaliwal, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, said after analysing the CCTV footage at the complex, the police zeroed in on the two. The police recovered the ring, mobile phone, ‘laddus’ as well as a powder, suspected to be poison, from their possession.Preliminary probe suggested the five-member gang was active at different religious places. He said the three others belonged to Ludhiana and raids were on to nab them. He said their sole motive was to rob Payara.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-held-for-devotees-murder-on-golden-temple-premises-225345
15-03-2021||Mansa||Farmers' protest: Now, ‘non-cooperation’ on unions’ agenda||Citing prolonged obdurate stance of the central government over the repeal of three agricultural laws, farmer leaders have hinted at starting a ‘non-cooperation movement’ in the coming days.‘Repeal three agricultural laws’ If the three black laws are not repealed, we will be forced to start a movement on the lines of the non-cooperation movement started during the British rule. — Ruldu Singh Mansa, President, Punjab Kisan UnionRuldu Singh Mansa, president, Punjab Kisan Union, during his address at Nangal Khurd village in Mansa, said farm unions were deciding upon starting a non-cooperation movement on the lines during the British rule in our country and would boycott all schemes, policies and new reforms by the union government. Mansa said preparations to that effect have already been put in place.“It’s time that we devise a new plan to take this movement to the next level… the obdurate stance of the Centre wouldn’t be tolerated for long,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-now-non-cooperation-on-unions-agenda-225346
15-03-2021||Amritsar||BKU performs ‘ardas’ for success of farmers' agitation’s||Devotees paid obeisance at the Golden Temple with the commencement of the Nanakshahi year, which is dedicated to the 400th Parkash Purab of Guru Teg Bahadur, on Sunday.A group of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Doaba), on behalf of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, performed ‘ardas’ at the Akal Takht for the victory of the farmers’ agitation against three agricultural laws.Satnam Singh, member, BKU (Doaba) said: “The holy occasion was an opportunity to reiterate the resolve to impress upon the government to roll back the farm laws. The movement has proved that the mass agitation can be run against the one-sided polices of governments.”He said in no way the ongoing movement had weakened as the farmers were canvassing against the BJP even in those states where elections were underway.Meanwhile, Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and SGPC President Bibi Jagir Kaur congratulated the Sikh sangat on the new year and asked them to lead life as per the gurmat.Meanwhile, special gurmat programmes were held to mark the occasion. Giani Jagtar Singh, head granthi, Golden Temple, in his address during the gurmat programme at the Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall said the gurmat ideology was an enlightened path to resolve the differences of the present consumerism-oriented world.During the gurmat programme, a book, “Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib Sangeet Darpan”, written by Kartar Singh, Director, Gurmat Sangeet Academy, was also released. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bku-performs-ardas-for-success-of-farmers-agitations-225347
15-03-2021||sangrur||Sangrur residents to move NGT against axing of trees||The city of gardens on Sunday witnessed an unprecedented congregation to mourn the “massacre” of full grown trees by the Public Works Department. People have decided to move the National Green Tribunal (NGT) for a strict action against officials who were involved in axing of trees without permission.“Though PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla is our local MLA, his officers have done vinash (destruction) in the name of vikas (development). The ruthless axing of hundreds of trees from all roads and lack of plantation has badly damaged the green cover. We have decided to knock the NGT’s doors,” said Jasinder Sekhon, an environmental activist.Locals converged near local Mata Mahakali Temple from where roadside trees have been axed and observed one-minute silence.“Development should be done with planning, but trees are being felled in Sangrur city without any rationale. Officials are not supreme, but unfortunately they are behaving as they are and not listening to anyone,” said Brig Rajsher Singh Grewal (retd).Besides locals, members of various political parties and people from other cities joined the congregation to express their solidarity. Col Inderpal Singh Punia (retd), son of deceased Air Vice Marshal Gurdial Singh Punia, AVSM, also specially came to his native city with family members.“In the name of development, we cannot allow the ruining of our environment. We would announce our agitation plan soo,” said Avtar Ealwal, senior AAP leader. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-residents-to-move-ngt-against-axing-of-trees-225348
15-03-2021||Saurabh Malik||New regional chemical lab to come up at Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 14In a move liable to expedite the testing of liquor and other samples, the Punjab Government is opening a new regional chemical laboratory at Jalandhar. So far, the state has only one “chemical examiner laboratory” at Kharar to analyse excise samples, in addition to viscera and blood alcohol samples. Of the 14 sanctioned posts of analyst, six are vacant.Will come under Kharar facilityInformation in this regard, furnished before the Punjab and Haryana High Court, is significant as criminal trials in drugs and liquor cases are known to get delayed in the absence of a chemical examination report.Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan has already asserted a year’s wait in some cases is not uncommon. “It is a matter of fact that the trials before courts, either under the NDPS Act or Excise Act, are delayed on account of awaiting the FSL report for a long time and in some cases, it takes about a year in receipt of report from the FSL,” Justice Sangwan asserted during a hearing.Taking note of the submissions on setting up of a new laboratory, Justice Sangwan directed the filing of an additional affidavit by State Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Home Affairs and Justice, and the DGP, on completing the process.Justice Sangwan, during the course of hearing, was told the new laboratory would be under the chemical examiner laboratory at Kharar. As many as 21 posts had been sanctioned. The analysts were being hired on an outsource basis and the process to fill the vacant posts on a regular basis was on.Justice Sangwan was also told the Kharar lab was simultaneously performing both qualitative and quantitative tests from December 1 last year, on liquor samples received. The Bench, on a previous date of hearing, had made it clear the police/excise department was duty-bound to get both tests conducted to find out the contents.Qualitative tests were performed by laboratories through systematic analysis to identify the contents of the samples for determining whether it was spurious or unfit for human consumption.Quantitative analysis, on the other hand, was carried out to determine the “absolute or relative substance” present in a sample for finding out the percentage of alcohol/ethyl alcohol. In case of spurious liquor, high percentage of ethyl alcohol could be dangerous.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-regional-chemical-lab-to-come-up-at-jalandhar-225349
15-03-2021||Abohar||Youth Congress  workers protest fuel price hike||Youth Congress (YC) activists on Sunday organised a protest march against rising petrol, diesel and gas cylinder prices here.YC block president Atinderpal Singh Tinna, while leading the march, said petrol had crossed Rs 100, diesel Rs 90 and the price of gas cylinders was hiked by Rs 250 in the past few months. Despite the open loot, the BJP government was blaming the Congress, he claimed.The members said the rise in fuel prices had also made vegetables and other domestic items costlier due to hike in transportation charges. BJP workers who used to cry hoarse over minor rise in prices during the UPA government were unable to offer any explanation now, they said.The protest started from Nai Sadak and ended at Shaheed Chowk after passing through the main roads. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-congress-workers-protest-fuel-price-hike-225350
15-03-2021||---||Patiala DSP who thrashed Mayor’s guard transferred||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 14Two days after the police booked Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Hardeep Singh Titli, posted with the Government Railway Police, for allegedly thrashing a security guard at the official residence of the Mayor, he has been shifted to an Indian Reserve Battalion in Pathankot.Charges against copThe DSP faces charges under Sections 452 (trespass after preparation for hurt), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code following registration of an FIR against him.The orders by the Director General of Police (DGP) office directed the officer to join his new place of posting by March 15 and send a joining report to the headoffice. The orders came following an approvalfrom the Police Establishment Committee.Sources say the action follows alleged misconduct of the DSP during a spat wherein he allegedly thrashed the guard after Mayor’s three dogs attacked his pet. The DSP later created a ruckus at the Government Rajindra Hospital, where he was taken for a medicalexamination followingthe incident.The incident took place outside the Mayor’s house and the DSPwas allegedly in an inebriated state at the time.The DSP faces charges under Sections 452 (trespass after preparation for hurt), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Codefollowing registrationof an FIR against him.According to the FIR, the complainant alleged the Mayor’s three dogs attacked the DSP’s pet. Following this, the DSP rushed to the Mayor’s residence in an inebriated state and thrashed the guard. The incident took place at the official residence of Mayor Sanjeev Sharma. The officer could not be contacted for comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-dsp-who-thrashed-mayors-guard-transferred-225351
15-03-2021||---||BSF arrests 4 peddlers along IB||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 14The Border Security Force has apprehended four alleged Indian drug peddlers after a shootout in which a fifth suspect was injured. The incident occurred near the Fatehpur border outpost along the International Border last night.Holding recce to smuggle drugsThose arrested have been identified as Vikramjeet Singh, Vijay Singh and Gopi, all residents of Kakkar village, and Navjot Singh of Dug Dogar village. Their fifth accomplice, Sarabjit Singh of Kakkar village, was injured after a BSF trooper opened fired in self-defence.According to BSF officials, Sarabjit attacked the team with a sickle on being surrounded by the personnel.The BSF authorities said the troops observed suspicious movement on both sides of the barbed fencing, following which they challenged the suspects. However, they tried to flee the scene.They were surrounded and nabbed by the BSF men, who recovered a mobile phone from their possession. The injured was taken to a hospital, while the four others were handed over to the Amritsar rural police for further action.The BSF had launched a search operation near the Pakistan border and found footmarks of intruders in the area.BSF sources said the suspects were lured by notorious drug peddler Dev, active in the Lopoke area. He had given them the mobile number of his Pakistan accomplices to retrieve the drug consignments. The suspects had come for recce in the area to identify the spot for smuggling drugs. However, the BSF jawans noticed their movement and surrounded them.“The mobile phone confiscated from them revealed certain contacts of Pakistan smugglers,” said the sources.Attari DSP Gurpartap Sahota said the BSF had handed over the four suspects and a case was being registered in this regard. Further investigations were under way, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-arrests-4-peddlers-along-ib-225352
15-03-2021||Ferozepur||Two drug smugglers held after encounter||Two wanted inter-state drug peddlers were arrested following an encounter with the Special Operations Unit (SOU) of the Rajasthan Police in the district late last night. A third suspect, however, fled the scene.Inspector Bhoora Ram of the SOU said Angrej Singh from Mamdot block in the district was wanted in a drug smuggling case registered at the Beejgarh police station in Barmer district of Rajasthan.On instructions from the DIG (ATS), Jaipur, the SOU team from Ajmer, led by Inspector Bhura Ram, arrived in the border district last evening to nab the suspects. The Rajasthan Police received information that Angrej was travelling in an Innova on the Ferozepur-Fazilka road. As per police record, the car was used in another case in which Angrej was booked in Rajasthan.“On signalling the car driver, Angrej, to stop the vehicle, the suspects opened fire at the police team,” said the Inspector.“Our men retaliated in self-defence, during which one of the suspects was injured. The Rajasthan Police alerted the local police. One of the suspects, Yadwinder, fled the scene, while Angrej and Jarnail Singh were taken into custody.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-drug-smugglers-held-after-encounter-225353
15-03-2021||---||Abohar residents pay tribute to BSF martyr||Our CorrespondentAbohar, March 14Border Security Force (BSF) Assistant Commandant Ramesh Chander Shah of the 181 Battalion today led the people in paying tributes to Vijay Kumar Mahar on his 10th Balidan Diwas. A BSF contingent offered a ceremonial salute to the martyr.Vijay Kumar Mahar sacrificed his life at the age of 24 in an ambush by a faction of the National Democratic Front of Bodoland in Assam’s Kokrajhar district in 2011.At the function organised at the memorial in Dharampura village near here, the martyr’s statue was garlanded by the dignitaries.The martyr’s family said the memorial had been developed by villagers with the help of the Border Security Force in the native village.The Border Security Force had also named a lane in its sector headquarters in Abohar after Mahar. Former MLA Gurtej Singh Ghuriana had arranged Rs 5 lakh to develop a welcome gate dedicated to the martyr.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-residents-pay-tribute-to-bsf-martyr-225354
15-03-2021||Moga||Zira council ex-president joins AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party today got a shot in the arm with former Zira Nagar Council president Balwant Singh Dhillon joining the party in the presence of state president and MP Bhagwant Mann here.Dhillon served as the council chief for 10 years, i.e. from 2003 to 2013. He is also a member of Sukhmani Sewa Society, an NGO, and Sewa Bharti Association, representing Zira, Makhu and Mallawala areas in Ferozepur district. His brother Gurcharan Singh served as the council vice-president in 1997, while another brother, Piara Singh, remained its chief from 2015 to 2017. The family enjoys clout in Zira town and its adjoining areas.Mann said people today saw the AAP as the only credible alternative in the state.Meanwhile, ETT Teachers’ Unions’ state unit president Jaswinder Singh Sidhu is also likely to join the party in the coming days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/zira-council-ex-president-joins-aap-225355
15-03-2021||Muktsar||Muktsar village 1st in state to start sterilisation of dogs||Bura Gujjar village in Muktsar district has become the first village in the state to implement Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme. To control the spurt in population of stray dogs and spike in dog bite incidents, the village panchayat has passed a resolution to sterilise stray dogs.Following this, the panchayats of four other villages, Udekaran, Sangu Dhaun, Lambi Dhabh and Rahurianwali, have also passed the resolution.The contract to sterilise stray dogs has been given to the Compassion forAnimal Welfare Association (CAWA). Vini Mahajan, Chief Secretary, Punjab, applauded the village on implementing the programme. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-village-1st-in-state-to-start-sterilisation-of-dogs-225356
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||42 top guns vie for  C-PYTE DG post||As many as 42 serving and retired officers of the rank of brigadier and major general have applied for the post of Director General, Centre for Training and Employment of Punjab Youth (C-PYTE).Interviews for the post are scheduled to be held here on March 15. While the post is tenable by a retired officer who has held the rank of either brigadier or major general and equivalent, the last few directors general have been major generals. The applicants include 22 major generals, 19 brigadiers and one commodore from the Navy, some of whom are still in service and posted at various places across the country. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/42-top-guns-vie-for-c-pyte-dg-post-225357
15-03-2021||Ferozepur||Suspect ‘hangs self’ in lock-up||In an alleged case of custodial death, a suspected drug peddler died in the lock-up after he reportedly hanged himself inside the police station.As per information, suspect Shiv Ram, alias Shiva (26), a resident of Mudki block, and his brother Suraj were involved in drug peddling.While Suraj was arrested by the police last month, Shiva was nabbed last evening. However, the police claimed Shiva hanged himself using his shirt in the wee hours.The matter was brought to the notice of senior officials, following which a judicial probe was ordered. The statements of police officials on duty were recorded. The body was handed over to the family.SSP Bhagirath Singh Meena said there was no apparent lapse on part of the police. However, strict action would be taken against the guilty. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/suspect-hangs-self-in-lock-up-225358
15-03-2021||Muktsar||Muktsar boy fulfils grandfather’s dream, bags 29th rank in NDA exam||Bus stand to get a new addressGurdaspur: It has taken nine long years to shift the local bus stand to its new location. In 2012, Deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal laid the foundation stone of the new bus stand. Once done, the project was put in cold storage. Now, MLA Barindermeet Singh Pahra has pulled the venture out from the gallows. Located in the heart of the city at present, the new bus stand will find its new address on the outskirts, far away from the crowd and sickening traffic on the Tibri road. The legislator has managed a Rs 14-crore grant from the state government. This is also seen as a welcome move as far as expansion of the city is concerned. Did someone tell the MLA that cities which do not expand die? Probably yes, because that is the reason he took an avid interest in the project.Touching lives through blood donationFatehgarh Sahib: Baba Moti Ram Mehra Blood Donors’ Society has been organising blood donation camps every month on the eve of ‘sangrad’ at Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib. In all, 118 blood donation camps have been organised by it to date. Sher Singh, former president, Municipal Council, Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib, said due to lack of awareness, people were not coming forward to donate blood. He said he started distributing literature to create awareness for donation after which the devotees also responded. In the first camp, five donations were made. The number continued to rise and approximately 100 units are being collected every month now.BFUHS VC gets awardFaridkot: Dr Raj Bahadur, a renowned spinal surgeon and Vice Chancellor of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, was awarded by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, with Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Award for distinguished services to the nation in New Delhi last week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-boy-fulfils-grandfathers-dream-bags-29th-rank-in-nda-exam-225359
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Bill to replace the word ‘Punjab’ with ‘Haryana’ in||The BJP-JJP government will bring a Bill in the Haryana Assembly tomorrow for replacing the word ‘Punjab’ with ‘Haryana’ in 154 laws.The Haryana Short Titles Amendment Bill-2021 will be introduced in the state Assembly tomorrow by Parliamentary Affairs Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar.Earlier, a panel was formed in this regard on the initiative of Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta. The panel has presented its recommendations. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has approved the recommendations, which has cleared the way for passing the Bill in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bill-to-replace-the-word-punjab-with-haryana-in-225194
15-03-2021||Jalandhar||Shahkot DSP Varinderpal Singh succumbs to Covid-19 at 52||Shahkot Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Varinderpal Singh (52) died of Covid-19 on Sunday.While he was on a ventilator for the past one month, he succumbed to the virus on Sunday at 3.48 am at a private hospital in Ludhiana.The deceased took charge of Shahkot in July last year. Before that, he was posted at Barnala where he was promoted to the rank of DSP in 2019.Shahkot SHO Surinder Kumar said, "Singh tested Covid positive on February 8 after he developed a mild fever. Since then, he remained admitted to the hospital. Due to multiple organ failure, he was shifted to a ventilator. Doctors told the family that his lungs couldn't recover."His two gunmen also tested positive for the virus in February.Singh is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter.He will be cremated today between 12-12.30 PM at Sarabha Nagar in Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shahkot-dsp-varinderpal-singh-succumbs-to-covid-19-at-52-225078
15-03-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Covid-19: 15-day footage must for hotels, shrines in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 13Alarmed over a spurt in virus cases, the Punjab Government is contemplating harsh measures against violators of Covid norms.While night curfew has already been imposed in eight districts, Jalandhar DC Ghanshyam Thori today ordered hotels, marriage palaces, banquet halls, eateries and religious places to keep CCTV footage of events held on their premises for at least 15 days. This has been done to ensure strict compliance of norms, including cap on gatherings (100 for indoor and 200 outdoor).In another move, Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh said the government had allowed teachers to get themselves registered for vaccination.District Education Officer (Secondary) Harinder Pal Singh said teachers would be considered frontline workers.On closure of schools for students, Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said: “Exams will be held as per schedule, although these can be staggered to ensure less attendance on a given day.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-15-day-footage-must-for-hotels-shrines-in-jalandhar-224884
