19-03-2021||Patiala||Punjab’s discus thrower Kamalpreet Kaur books her ticket for Tokyo Olympics||Punjab’s discus thrower Kamalpreet Kaur, an employee of Diesel Loco Modernization Works (DMW) Patiala, booked her ticket for the Tokyo Olympics on the final day of 24th National Federation Cup, here at National Institute of Sports (NIS), on Friday.Making a comeback after almost two years, Kaur, with an impressive throw of 65.06m in her first attempt itself, smashed the nine-year-old national record of Krishna Poonia.Notably, Kaur is the first discus thrower to breach the 65m in the history of Indian women’s discus throw.Veteran Seema Punia finished second with a throw of 62.64m while Sonal Goyal took bronze medal with a best effort of 52.11mKaur said that she, however, was a bit nervous otherwise her performance would have been much better.Talking to The Tribune, Kamalpreet said, “I couldn’t sleep for almost three days because the competition was very important for me. I tried meditation and watched videos to get a good sleep but nothing helped.”Kaur added, “I had never expected that I will be able to throw above 65m. In practice also, I was spearing the discuss around 62 metre only. The competition-feel might have helped me to do what I did.”Talking about her future plans, Kaur said that she would continue her training at DMW ground in Patiala under the guidance of my coach Baljeet Singh.“My focus, presently, is to bring a medal from Tokyo Olympics. I will continue training in Patiala at Railways camp at DMW,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-discus-thrower-kamalpreet-kaur-books-her-ticket-for-tokyo-olympics-227628
19-03-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana police bust drug racket, arrest 15||Police here on Friday claimed to have busted an inter-state drug racket with the arrest of 15 people. According to police, over 67 lakh intoxicating tablets, injections and syrups were seized from the 15 accused.Police said the seized intoxicants were worth several crores. Police have also recovered Rs 5.44 lakh in cash from the accused.While most arrested hail from Ludhiana, three of them belong to Uttar Pradesh, including two from Meerut, said police. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-police-bust-drug-racket-arrest-15-227627
19-03-2021||Patiala||Now, Patiala police will take violators to COVID testing centres||Taking a serious note of the increase in coronavirus cases, the district administration and police authorities have decided to take violators to the nearest COVID testing facility. This task would be carried out by the newly constituted Mask Surveillance Teams (MSTs).Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said that Patiala Police have deployed four Special Mask Surveillance Teams (MST)—one each in Patiala City, Rajpura, Samana, and Nabha—in addition to local area police for enforcing mask-related guidelines to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Duggal said that MSTs are creating awareness and distributing masks, as well as, issuing challans to violators. Enforcing compulsory of wearing face masks—which is considered to be the only way to break the transmission chain of the deadly disease—Mask Surveillance Teams have been made, and directed to all those roaming in public areas, and on the roads and streets, without face masks, to the nearest  RT-PCR Testing Facility, and getting COVID tests done. “Given a sudden increase in Covid-19 cases, and taking the government’s recent COVID guidelines into account, the administration has started taking all-round measures including imposing night curfew from 09:00 PM to 05:00 AM and booking mask related violators through challans,” said Duggal. During the month of March, Patiala Police has booked as many as 2,500 violators for various violations. Overall, as many as 38,944 Challans have been issued while registering 909 FIRs and arresting 1,312 people, seizing 127 vehicles.SSP has appealed to all citizens to follow all COVID related guidelines (wear a mask, maintain social distance, frequent handwashing/sanitization, and to come out of the house if necessary) issued by the government to prevent further spread of the Virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-patiala-police-will-take-violators-to-covid-testing-centres-227604
19-03-2021||Mumbai||Dharmendra gets COVID-19 vaccine shot to 'inspire' all; see here||Veteran star Dharmendra got himself vaccinated for COVID-19 protection on Friday evening. The 85-year-old actor tweeted a video where he can be seen getting a shot of the vaccine on his left arm."Tweet karte karte... josh aa gaya... aur main nikal gaya... vaccination lene... it's definitely not a show off... but to inspire you all... Friends, please take care (got inspired while tweeting and went off to get vaccination)," Dharmendra tweeted. Tweet karte karte.... josh aa gaya ...aur main nikal gaya....vaccination lene .... it’s definitely not a show off...but to inspire you all..... Friends, please take care 👋 pic.twitter.com/gp4lQAZr1lHe was referring to his tweet earlier in the day that he had posted to remind everyone to wear masks and maintain social distancing, after Maharashtra registered a new high in Covid-19 cases the day before.Mask laga kar baith..... tere tarboz koi nahin kharede ga.......lock down ko lock karna hai ..... to do gaz ki doori aur mask zarori 🙏 pic.twitter.com/UlDcOyEuyc  Dharmendra shared a throwback black-and-white photograph, where he can be seen sitting with sliced watermelons and a knife."Mask laga kar baith..... tere tarboz koi nahin kharede ga.......lock down ko lock karna hai ..... to do gaz ki doori aur mask zarori, (wear a mask and sit, nobody is going to buy your watermelons, we have to lock the lockdown, maintain social distance and wear a mask)," Dharmendra captioned his photo.The actor's tweet comes a day after Maharashtra registered 25,833 new Covid cases on Thursday, a new high in the state surpassing the previous single-day peak of 24,886 cases registered on September 11 last year. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dharmendra-gets-covid-19-vaccine-shot-to-inspire-all-see-here-227598
19-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||This Bhangra performance has an Ireland twist; 'love this Punjabi Irish jig', says Twitterati||Shamrock Bhangra, a folk dancing group, were caught doing Bhangra in front of Castletown House in County Kildare, Ireland.RTE News, in a Twitter post, shared the video featuring the folk dance group. So far, the video has been shared over six lakh times.The choreographers—Gurpreet Singh, Charnjit Singh and Kanwar Singh—performed the socially-distanced routine by an Irish band and the UK-based The Dhol Foundation—a Bhangra musical group—on St Patrick's Day, according to RTE News.A group of Bhangra dancers in Ireland have given the traditional Punjabi dance an Irish twist, to celebrate their two cultures on St Patrick's Day | https://t.co/4hI4MQqXyd pic.twitter.com/dO0OqOkJgMIn traditional outfits, the folk group danced their hearts out.The video has gone viral on all social media platforms."This is absolutely brilliant. A great way of embracing the Irish culture with a new spin," a user said. Another comment reads, "This makes me so happy! I need to see a Bhangra dancer every day!", another wrote: "Love this Punjabi Irish jig!"||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/this-bhangra-performance-has-an-ireland-twist-love-this-punjabi-irish-jig-says-twitterati-227582
19-03-2021||Amritsar||GNDU postpones ongoing examinations in view of COVID-19||Guru Nanak Dev University Amritsar has postponed the ongoing exams as the Punjab government ordered closure of educational institutes in the state till March 31.The university in a notice announced that fresh dates for the examinations would be announced soon.The physical classes in the university departments, regional campuses and constituent colleges have also been suspended whereas online classes will be conducted.Meanwhile, IK Gujral Punjab Technical University has also postponed its exams scheduled from March 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gndu-postpones-ongoing-examinations-in-view-of-covid-19-227576
19-03-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana breaches 300-mark; reports 346 cases, 8 COVID-19 deaths||Ludhiana reported 348 cases and eight COVID-19 deaths on Friday, taking the district's total infections to 34,874. These include six students and teachers, three healthcare workers, one cop, and 56 patients from out of the district. Among the casualties, one each was reported from Jalandhar and Nawanshahr.The death toll stands at 1,612, and active cases, including 14 critical patients on ventilator support, touched 1,791. However, 27,350 patients have already recovered from the virus in the district.Despite the district being under night curfew since March 12, it has been reporting 300 fresh cases since the next day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-breaches-300-mark-reports-346-cases-8-covid-19-deaths-227575
19-03-2021||New Delhi||32 more die in Punjab as nation sees around 40,000 new Covid cases||India saw 39,726 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, the highest single day rise recorded so far this year, taking the nationwide COVID-19 tally of cases to 1,15,14,331, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday.The daily rise in infections (39,726) was the highest recorded in 110 days, while the death toll increased to 1,59,370 with 154 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering an increase for the ninth day in a row, the total active caseload has reached 2,71,282, which now comprises 2.36 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 96.26 per cent, the data stated.   As many as  41,810 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on November 29.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,10,83,679, while the case fatality rate has further to 1.38 per cent, the data stated.India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.According to ICMR,  23,13,70,546  samples have been tested up to March 18 with 10,57,383  samples being tested on Thursday.   The 154 new fatalities include 58 from Maharashtra, 32 from Punjab and 15 from Kerala.A total of 1,59,370  deaths have been reported so far in the country including 53,138 from Maharashtra, 12,573 from Tamil Nadu, 12,415 from Karnataka, 10,949 from Delhi, 10,300 from West Bengal, 8,753 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,186 from Andhra Pradesh.The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities."Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/32-more-die-in-punjab-as-nation-sees-around-40-000-new-covid-cases-227526
19-03-2021||---||Master Saleem challaned for not wearing mask||Phagwara, March 18Getting tough with those not wearing a mask during the current health crisis, the Phagwara police on Thursday issued a challan to popular Punjabi singer Master Saleem.Saleem, who resides in Jalandhar, was passing through Phagwara with his crew in his Fortuner car when he was signalled to stop by a Sub-Inspector and his team deputed on the flyover. The car stopped and Saleem came out of it. He got into an argument with the cop. An interesting conversation started between the two a video of which went viral this evening.Saleem donning a red T-shirt and a scarf on his head was seen daring the cop to issue a challan. As he realised that the cop was serious as he took out the challan book, Saleem urged him, “Chhad deyo maharaj. I have been operated upon.” At this, the cop told him, “Agreed. But was everyone else with you also operated upon?”The cop further said, “Aiwein buzdili na vikhayo, malik ne tuhanu bahut kuchh ditta (Please don’t show cowardice. The Lord has given you so much.” At this, Saleem opened the door of the car and was about to get in when the cop asked him to pay the challan. Saleem got a bit agitated as he told the cop to keep patience and then hit back at the SI again saying, “All your people come to me for getting selfies clicked with me. At least give me some respect.” Saleem then finally asked his team members to pay the challan amount.How it went viralSaleem, who resides in Jalandhar, was passing through Phagwara with his crew in his Fortuner car when he was signalled to stop by a Sub-Inspector and his team deputed on the flyover. The car stopped and Saleem came out of it. He got into an argument with the cop. An interesting conversation started between the two a video of which went viral on Thursday.Saleem was seen daring the cop to issue a challan. As he realised that the cop was serious, as he took out the challan book, Saleem urged him, “Chhad deyo maharaj. I have been operated upon.” At this, the cop told him, “Agreed. But was everyone else with you also operated upon?” The cop further said, “Aiwein buzdili na vikhayo, malik ne tuhanu bahut kuchh ditta (Please don’t show cowardice. The Lord has given you so much.” At this, Saleem opened the door of the car and was about to get in when the cop asked him to pay the challan. Saleem got a bit agitated as he told the cop to be patient and then hit back at the SI again saying, “All your people come to me for getting selfies clicked with me. At least give me some respect.” Saleem then finally asked his team members to pay the challan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/master-saleem-challaned-for-not-wearing-mask-227478
19-03-2021||We catch up with Brig His Highness Sukhjit Singh sitting calmly under a huge tree in the gardens of the Villa Buona Vista||Villa Buona Vista of Kapurthala; tale of loyal service to royalty||Surrounded by dogs all around him, he has just gone through the English newspapers of the day. Amid a continuous chirping of birds, he talks about his royal past. “Born and raised in a palace (the now Sainik School Kapurthala building) amid all the luxuries of life was indeed a unique experience that came my way by virtue of my birth in the family. Of all the experiences of the royal culture, one of the most memorable ones include my rides in the zebra-driven chariot in the zoological park of the palace. My grandfather had a unique collection of exotic animals,” he is still maintaining some healthy horses.The 86-year-old recalls the old times, “But my most cherished moments were watching my grandfather attend to his subjects. He was so much passionate about his people. He knew many of them personally. The kind of relationship he shared with his subjects as the ruler cannot match the materialistic approach of the present-day politicians. My grandfather had always been my mentor and I tried to imbibe some of his virtues. He never went to a school but was home-tutored. I have tried to recollect all my memories with him in a book ‘Prince, Patron and Patriarch: Maharaja Jagatjit Singh of Kapurthala’ that I authored along with the US-based Cynthia Meera Frederick. We released the book three years ago and it’s available on Amazon.”In the fieldAnyone who has met Sukhjit talks about a unique aura around him which perhaps stems from the mix of the royal and military touch. “I spent nearly 26 years in the Army. I had then even asked Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh to join the Army and he did it on my suggestion. I motivate every youth I meet to join the forces.”He is one of the oldest 1971 Indo-Pak War heroes and a Maha Vir Chakra awardee, he was honoured recently at Vajra Corps on the occasion of the celebrations of the 50 years of the war. He recalls a very interesting anecdote, “The 1971 War was raging. I was Lieut Col at that time. My troops managed to round up Pakistani soldiers. Among them was a tall, smart guy with whom I began talking just to cull more information. As our conversation was on, he told me, ‘I have one last wish’. I replied, ‘What makes you think that we are going to kill you?’ During further inquiry, we got to know that he is the son of Sikandar Hayat Khan, a former Premiere of Punjab. He was among those who were set free. Much later, I met the family as well.”About VILLA KOTHIBrig His Highness Sukhjit Singh, grandson of Maharaja Jagatjit Singh, who was the last ruler of the princely state of Kapurthala, shared, “The house that I am living in is a European prototype. It was commissioned in 1894. Since it falls on the bank of Bein river it used to be a perfect place as my grandfather’s shikargah (hunting lodge).” The villa has also served as the residence of Tikka Raja Paramjit Singh and Tikka Rani Brinda’s residence. It has hundreds of fruit trees all around, most of the varieties of mangoes and loquat.The GHARIALOne of the most attractive pieces in the house is a 15-ft 10-inch stuffed gharial hanging on the walls of its verandah. The gharial was shot by Brig Sukhjit’s grandfather Maharaja Jagatjit Singh on January 13, 1913, at Bein rivulet. “My grandfather told me that it was a man-eater because when he sent it for preservation, bangles worn by women was found in its gut. He presumed that these must be of the women who were found missing after they went to fill water from the rivulet,” he points to a description written along the massive, precious catch.His majesty: Brig Sukhjit Singh with his grandfather Maharaja Jagatjit Singh. Courtesy: The Kapurthala CollectionSukhjit shows the jointly authored book titled ‘Prince, Patron and Patriarch: Maharaja Jagatjit Singh of Kapurthala’.Nobody but you: It was designed by JOS Elmore in the year 1899. Once a hunting lodge of the royal family, it was later converted to a living quarter for Anita Delgado — Maharaja’s Spanish wife.Round of applause: The second highest military award of India, Maha Vir Chakra, was presented to Sukhjit for his courage at Naina Kot sector in December 1971. He was then posted as Lieutenant Colonel.Riding good times: The Maharaja riding with his grandchildren Sukhjit Singh and Asha in a zebra cart at the zoological park of the palace which housed many exotic animals. Courtesy: The Kapurthala collectionDream home: The villa is located on New Cantonment Road in Kapurthala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/villa-buona-vista-of-kapurthala-tale-of-loyal-service-to-royalty-227509
19-03-2021||Saurabh Malik||Registration of marriage via video link allowed: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 18Amid the Covid outbreak, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has permitted the registration of marriages through videoconferencing. A Division Bench has overruled a Single-Bench judgment that refused to permit the e-registration of marriage on the ground that the parties could not be exempted from being personally present before a marriage officer to sign the “marriage certificate book”.The Bench of Justice Ritu Bahri and Justice Archana Puri referred to a number of judgments before observing that it was possible for a person living thousands of kilometres away or anywhere in India to simultaneously communicate with another party.The Bench added that technology enabled affected parties to attest documents digitally and ensure digitally secure transmission through the Internet. The objective and philosophy underlying the Information Technology Act was based on these developments. Against this backdrop, the registration of marriage of spouses separated by distance had to be addressed keeping in view the changing times.The matter was brought to the HC’s notice after Ami Ranjan and his wife Misha Verma filed an appeal through senior counsel Navniti Prasad Singh and advocate Nitin Kant Setia. The Bench was told that the wife, a medical professional, had been put on Covid-19 emergency duty in the United States.It was added that Gurugram Deputy Commissioner-cum-Marriage Officer, in response to the petitioners’ request, intimated that there was no provision for registration of a marriage under the Special Marriage Act, 1954, without the parties appearing in person.The Bench asserted the husband was not seeking his wife’s complete exemption from appearance before the Registrar of Marriage. His prayer was that the wife should be allowed to appear through videoconferencing for marriage registration.The presence of the wife could be secured through videoconferencing. The certificate of marriage could be issued after verification of facts as contemplated under the Special Marriage Act. Once the marriage certificate was issued, it could be made a part of the public record by entering it in the marriage certificate book.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/registration-of-marriage-via-video-link-allowed-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-227431
19-03-2021||Amritsar||Dal Khalsa's Nanakshahi calendar dedicated to farmers||Dedicated to the farmers sitting at Singhu, Tikri and Gazipur borders spearheading the agitation against three agri laws, the Sikh Youth of Punjab, youth wing of the Dal Khalsa, released the original Nanakshahi calendar at the Golden Temple on Thursday.The calendar carried action-oriented 12 pictures related to the agitation including hoisting of Nishan Sahib at the Red Fort.Dal Khalsa spokesman Kanwar Pal Singh said the calendar released today was completely Nanakshahi in letter and spirit as the three dates of Guru Nanak’s gurpurb, Holla Mahalla and Bandi Chorr too has been fixed. Earlier, these three dates kept on changing every year as per Bikrami calendar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dal-khalsas-nanakshahi-calendar-dedicated-to-farmers-227422
19-03-2021||---||Cabinet Minister Om Parkash Soni lists out govt’s achievements of 4 yrs||Amritsar, March 18Listing out the achievements of the four-year Congress rule in the state, Cabinet Minister Om Parkash Soni stated that the government strongly opposed the agriculture laws and if the President did not give his assent, the government would approach the Supreme Court.He said that these new laws would not improve the existing system but would destroy the agriculture sector.Earlier, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh addressed mediapersons through video conferencing and listed his government’s achievements.Soni said that agriculture was a state issue and the Centre had no authority to legislate in this regard. He slammed the Union government for trying to undermine the federal structure enshrined in the constitution by creating an obstacle in the powers of the state.Soni claimed that the state government had succeeded in breaking the backbone of drug supply. Citing the success of Operation Red Rose of the Punjab Police, he said that the drug situation in the state had improved a lot and large consignments of drugs were being recovered on a daily basis.He said that the process of eradication of various mafias like sand, liquor, transport, drugs was in full swing and their backbone had been severely broken during the last four years.Soni cited revenue generation from sand mining to establish government’s success. He said that revenue from sand mining has increased from Rs 35 crore to Rs 350 crore at present.He added that excise revenue from procurement of liquor which was Rs 4,300 crore during the previous government had gone up to Rs 7,200 crore in the current financial year.He said that all this was possible in spite of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cabinet-minister-om-parkash-soni-lists-out-govts-achievements-of-4-yrs-227426
19-03-2021||---||Come April, fly directly from Amritsar to Goa||Amritsar, March 18As summer schedule of airline industry starts from March 29, Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport will connect with more international and domestic destinations.FlyAmritsar Initiative convener Sameep Singh Gumtala said according to the schedule released by airlines on their website, the holy city Airport would directly connect to eight international and 13 domestic destinations. The number of weekly flights would also go up due to the increase in frequency of flights.Direct connect“Now, Amritsar is connected to more European destinations than ever before,” said Gumtala. Under the temporary air-bubble agreements, Air India has opened bookings for one-weekly flight to Birmingham and London’s Heathrow airport till the end of October 2021. At present, airlines were operating only from Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru to London due to the new UK virus strain.Air India has extended the booking of its one-weekly direct Amritsar-Rome flight till the end of May 2021. The airline would operate twice-weekly flights between Amritsar-Dubai till the end of October 2021 and operate one-weekly flight to Abu Dhabi.Indigo would operate six-weekly flights to Sharjah, three flight per week to Dubai and one-weekly flight to Abu Dhabi. Spicejet has also opened bookings for five-weekly flights to Ras-Al-Khaimah.Air India Express would also operate daily flights to Dubai and one-weekly flight to Abu Dhabi.Indigo would start new direct flight from the city to Goa in April. With the addition of this route, Amritsar would be directly connected to 13 domestic destinations; Delhi, Mumbai, Srinagar Nanded, Patna, Jaipur, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Goa and through connections to Hyderabad, Chennai, Guwahati, said Gumtala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/come-april-fly-directly-from-amritsar-to-goa-227299
19-03-2021||PK Jaiswar||No official concerned about my well-being, says doctor injured in civil hospital||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 18Even three days after Emergency Medical Officer (EMO) Dr Bhavneet Singh of the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial Civil Hospital sustained bullet injuries in a clash between two groups at the hospital, he was still in trauma.Given the security scenario at the hospital, I would not perform the duty of the EMO here, said Dr Bhavneet.A bullet pierced his thigh and it took two hours to remove the bullet. Thankfully, the bullet did not damage his thigh bone or punctured any artery.“There were only five staffers, including me at the time of incident. There was no specialist to perform surgery. I asked a nurse and other employees to follow my instructions in order to stop the bleeding,” he said.Though the staff informed the Senior Medical Officer about the firing incident, it would have taken around an hour for doctors to reach and access the scenario, thus I called my family and shifted to a private hospital for the treatment, said Dr Bhavneet.Given the security scenario at the hospital, I will not perform the duty of the EMO here.There were only five staffers, including me at the time of incident. There was no specialist to perform surgery. I asked a nurse and other employees to follow my instructions in order to stop the bleeding. —Dr Bhavneet Singh, EMO, Jallianwala Bagh Memorial Civil HospitalNevertheless, what made the EMO’s family more upset that barring the night when the incident took place, no official from the district administration or the Health Department has asked about his well-being as he needs moral support to come out of the shock.Manmohan Singh, father of Dr Bhavneet, said, “He has been completely ignored by the district administration as well as health officials following the incident.”“Freshers have been asked to prepare medico legal reports, while ideally they should perfom duties under specialist doctors. It’s a sorry state of affairs,” he said.Dr Bhavneet was injured when a group of armed men attacked two persons at the hospital on Saturday night.Rahul Nagi and his brother, Madan Nagi, had a dispute with Sunny Sahota.According to the police, Sunny, along with Gattu, Gaain, Raj Kumar Raju and four unidentified persons, clashed with Rahul and Madan, who were hit on the head, while their mother was also allegedly manhandled at Luv Kush Nagar in Putlighar.The police had sent Rahul and his brother to the Civil Hospital for the treatment. Raju, Vijay Pardhan, Aman, Gattu, Sunny, Barinder Singh and their six accomplices reached the emergency room and attacked Rahul. Sunny allegedly started firing indiscriminately and a bullet hit Dr Bhavneet.The police arrested Aman, Vijay Pardhan and Barinder Singh, while the prime suspect was still on the run.Deputy Commissioner of Police Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said the police have launched a manhunt to nab Sunny Sahota and his accomplices. They would be arrested soon, he said.Cops stationed at HospitalA permanent booth for cops is being constructed in the emergency ward of the Civil Hospital following the protest by staff after the incident. Bhullar said a police team has been deputed at the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-official-concerned-about-my-well-being-says-doctor-injured-in-civil-hospital-227301
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Night curfew extended by 2 hrs in nine Punjab districts||Terming the spread of Covid-19 in Punjab as alarming, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today announced two-hour extension in the night curfew in the state’s nine worst-affected districts.Fresh cases cross 35KThe night curfew will now be in place from 9 pm to 5 am, instead of 11 pm to 5 am, in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Mohali, Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Ropar. The announcement came as Punjab’s daily cases shot up to 2,387 with 32 deaths on Wednesday.Read also: Prevent vax wastage“It won’t be easy on the people. They may not like it, but it’s my duty,” the CM said, adding that he hoped the daily caseload won’t cross 3,000, as projected by some experts. The CM hoped the Centre would accept his suggestion on opening up the vaccination drive to younger people in the worst-hit areas and also to all those in public dealing. Several other stringent measures, including restrictions on gatherings, would be announced after discussions with the Covid team over the next couple of days, he said.Regarding a question on Himachal Pradesh CM’s statement seeking curbs on people coming from Punjab for pilgrimage and religious purposes, Captain Amarinder said he was not in favour of restricting such movement. “But the Covid problem needs to be controlled, and an appropriate decision will be taken when we get a formal letter from the HP CM on the issue,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/night-curfew-extended-by-2-hrs-in-nine-punjab-districts-227381
19-03-2021||Ravinder Saini||Tikri farmers shun jab, to be sensitised||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, March 18Despite the best efforts of the district health authorities, farmers camping at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border have so far been reluctant to get vaccinated against Covid-19.For the second consecutive day today, no farmer turned up for vaccination at a booth set up at the protest site. The dismal response has forced the health authorities to plan holding an awareness campaign at Tikri. “We have been contacting farmers for vaccination, but they refuse to take jab. They often claim that the Covid-19 pandemic is nothing but a conspiracy of the Centre to divert the public attention,” said an official.Parminder Singh of Moga claimed no farmer had been infected for three months at the stir site hence there was no need for vaccination.“The issue will be discussed in the next meeting of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha to take a final call in this regard,” said Purushottam Singh Gill, a senior BKU leader.Civil Surgeon Dr Sanjay Dahiya said efforts were being made to convince the protesters.Dr Vinay Deswal, Senior Medical Officer, said health officials had been directed to meet the farmers to motivate them. No one had been vaccinated, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tikri-farmers-shun-jab-to-be-sensitised-227391
19-03-2021||---||All want Navjot Sidhu back in team, says Capt Amarinder||Chandigarh, March 18A day after Navjot Singh Sidhu met CM Capt Amarinder Singh at the latter’s farmhouse in Siswan, the CM today hinted at political rehabilitation of the former cricketer into the Cabinet soon.Without specifying the exact role for Sidhu, the CM said everyone in the government wanted him to be part of the team. “The meeting took place in a cordial atmosphere yesterday. Everyone wants Sidhu to be part of the team. I hope he decides on joining back soon. Before that he has sought some time,” he said.Sources close to the Chief Minister said Sidhu wanted to meet the party high command and senior party leadership in Delhi before joining back the government. It is learnt that everything would be clear by March 31. The CM was not keen on a major Cabinet reshuffle at this juncture as the next Assembly elections were due early next year.In the given circumstances, the options before Sidhu to align with any other party are limited. After hectic parleys between Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat and Sidhu, if the latter settles for the same position at which he left, he would try to seek an assurance from the central party leadership, Rawat and the CM on his status if the party returns to power in 2022.Going beyond Sidhu, the CM said he would be happy to have Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Dhullo as part of the team. “While everyone has his/her own ambitions, it is up to the Congress president to decide. In a difficult hour, you have to set aside your own ambitions and stand with the party,” he said.On speculation that Sidhu would seek the post of Deputy Chief Minister or PPCC president, the CM said: “The decision has to be taken by the party president, not me or Sunil Jakhar.” In a lighter vein, he said: “If Sidhu wants my job, he can have it.”To a question on him leading the party and being its CM face in 2022, Capt Amarinder said it was for the AICC president to decide. On Prashant Kishor’s appointment, he said in a democracy every leader and party had a team of strategists.Can take my job if he wants: CM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/all-want-navjot-sidhu-back-in-team-says-capt-amarinder-227228
19-03-2021||---||No rival in Assembly elections: Punjab CM||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 18Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today claimed that in the 2022 Assembly elections, the Congress would have no rival, as neither the Akalis, nor the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) offer any competition.At a press conference to mark the Congress government’s four years in office, he said before going to people to seek vote, every poll promise would be fulfilled. Claiming that more than 85 per cent of manifesto promises had been fulfilled, he said it was a record for any party in any state. The previous record was held by Chandrababu Naidu in Andhra Pradesh. He had fulfilled 81 per cent promises.He said his government had broken the backbone of the drugs chain. He had never said he would eliminate the drugs mafia. “I had clearly said – main nasheyan di lak todanga.” On Opposition allegations of not fulfilling poll promises like action against those involved in sacrilege, police firing and ending the mafia, the Capt said SIT, probing the sacrilege cases, would soon complete its investigation and he would not interfere, if it decides to challan any senior police officers or politicians.He pointed out that SIT chief IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh had stated that the final supplementary challan in the Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura firing cases would be filed in a Fardikot court soon. Nine challans had already been filed by SIT in the two cases.On a question of sand and gravel prices continuing to be on higher side and the sand mafia still prevailing, he said the increase in revenue from sand from Rs 35 crore under the SAD-BJP regime to Rs 350 crore now showed the progress in revenue.Listing his government’s biggest achievement as the maintenance of “Punjabiyat”, he said, “People want peace, where they can conduct their business smoothly. People will see our management,” he said.Centre must hold talks with farmersMaking it clear that his government was totally opposed to the farm laws, Capt Amarinder urged the Centre not to make it a prestige issue, but immediately scrap the legislation and bring in new laws after fresh discussions with the farmers.Allowance soon for unemployed youthThe Chief Minister said the promises of debt waiver for all farmers and Rs 2,500 a month to all unemployed youth would be fulfilled. The fiscal constraints, especially due to Covid, had pushed back his government in implementing some promises.Threat realAmarinder declared, “As long as I am here, no Khalistani or Pakistani or any other terrorist activity will be allowed to disturb the peace in the state.” Terming the national security threat perception real, he said he had met Union Home Minister Amit Shah amid farmers’ agitation to discuss the issueOpposes pvt job quotaThe CM opposed the policy of excessive regionalisation being followed by certain states, saying “Amarinder stands for India for Indian”. Capt Amarinder was responding to a question on reservation in jobs for the local youth, as recently announced by Haryana. “If we start regionalising, we will suffer,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-rival-in-assembly-elections-punjab-cm-227229
19-03-2021||Aman Sood||Properties of 55 POs worth Rs 146 cr seized||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 18In a major action against proclaimed offenders (POs), the Punjab Police have freezed properties worth over Rs 146 crore of 55 such offenders in the past year and a half. The police have also arrested 2,427 POs while properties of 283 others have been identified since January 2020.While the Amritsar police top the list in action against POs by freezing assets worth Rs 125 crore belonging to a single family, the Patiala police have seized properties worth Rs 10 crore from 22 POs, including a terrorist, who has been evading arrest for the past over 30 years.Data collected by The Tribune suggests that the Amritsar (Rural) police top in terms of financial seizure while the Patiala police top with the maximum such properties seized. Further, the Fatehgarh Sahib police have seized properties worth Rs 4.46 crore of five POs.Earlier this month, properties belonging to Gulshan Jain and his family, who owned Virumal Mulakhraj Rice Mill at Jandiala Guru, were seized by the Amritsar police. The family has been absconding for the past two years after allegedly bungling government paddy and taking bank limits worth Rs 200 crore.Patiala SSP Vikramjeet Duggal said properties in many cases were attached as per the instructions of area magistrates under Sections 82 and 83 of the CrPC.“A local court recently declared Baldev Singh, a suspect booked under the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act in 1988, a proclaimed offender and allowed the police to attach his properties. These properties include seven acres in his village Dandoa and are valued at Rs 2.17 crore,” Duggal said.Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta told The Tribune the properties of 283 people had been identified and process was on to attach them. “Many of them have skipped court hearings or have not joined investigations. In all such cases, properties are identified and attached as per law,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/properties-of-55-pos-worth-rs-146-cr-seized-227230
19-03-2021||Fazilka||Nine arrested for assault on Fazilka MLA’s PA||Nine persons were arrested and 30 booked for assaulting Baldev Singh alias Sukha, vice-chairman, Block Samiti, Fazilka, and Harbans Singh, personal assistant to Fazilka MLA Davinder Singh Ghubaya, yesterday.The accused were identified as Jagdish Singh, Abnash Singh, Dalip Singh, Bagicha Singh, Hazara Singh, residents of Muhar Khiva village; Balwant Singh, Baaz Singh, Harbhajan Singh, Pritam Singh, Sukhjinder Singh, Satnam Singh, residents of Nawan Hasta, Mansa; Niranjan Singh of Hasta Kalan village, Subeg Singh of Salemshah village and 16-17 unidentified persons. They were booked under Sections 307, 323, 379-B, 148 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code.Baldev alleged that he was assaulted by protesters who had blocked the way to the BDPO’s office regarding their demand relating to MGNREGA issues. When he asked them to clear the way to facilitate the visitors, they allegedly attacked him. SHO, City Police, Fazilka, Bachan Singh said nine persons had been arrested and they were produced before the court of Judicial Magistrate, Fazilka, today who remanded them in police custody for one day. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nine-arrested-for-assault-on-fazilka-mlas-pa-227231
19-03-2021||Muktsar||SAD leader Jagmeet’s son Akal Arpan Singh joins politics||Former MP and senior vice-president of SAD Jagmeet Singh’s son has entered politics. Akal Arpan Singh (31) is appointed as senior vice-president of the Youth Akali Dal (YAD) on Wednesday. This is the third generation of the Brar family into politics now. Jagmeet’s father late Gurmit Singh remained MLA for five times and also the general secretary of the SGPC.Jagmeet said, “I have directed Akal to first collect the data of 300 farmers’ families, whose kin have sacrificed lives in the ‘kisan andolan’. He has done his Masters in Law from the University of California, Berkeley.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-leader-jagmeets-son-akal-arpan-singh-joins-politics-227232
19-03-2021||---||Four of family killed as car rams into tree||Muktsar, March 18 Four persons of a family, including two women and a child, died in a road accident at Bhallaiana village on the Muktsar-Bathinda highway today morning. The victims were reportedly coming to Muktsar to see a doctor, when the car, in which they were travelling, collided with a roadside tree. The driver, a relative of the victims, suffered injuries. He was admitted to the Civil Hospital at Gidderbaha. Sources said Satnam Singh, his wife Rani Kaur of Bhama Badi village in Sangrur, sister Raghubir Kaur and her son Sukhjot Singh, alias Bunty, of Attar Singhwala village in Barnala district, died on the spot. Rajinder Singh, a cousin of Satnam Singh, from Bhaini Mehraj, was driving the car. Sources informed the car was moving at a fast pace, and the driver lost control at a turn, which caused the fatal mishap. The driver was pulled out from the vehicle after cutting its roof, they claimed. Sources said a few minutes before the mishap, the car had stopped at a filling station. DSP Narinder Singh said they had started investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-of-family-killed-as-car-rams-into-tree-227233
19-03-2021||Gurdaspur||Covid hit debt-waiver plan: Tript Bajwa||Cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa blamed the pandemic for playing havoc with the state government’s debt-waiver programme.“Thousands of farmers have been left high and dry because their loan payments could not be waived following the spread of the virus,” he said, highlighting the government achievements of the last four years. Sources say today’s initiative is an integral part of PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar’s plan to inform voters what the Capt Amarinder Singh government had done and what it will do in its last year in power.On the proposed medical college announced by the CM in 2017, he said, “Some clearances have to be taken from the Union government which is a cumbersome process. Once we get the green signal, work will commence immediately. I admit the mega project, which will be the pride of Gurdaspur, has been delayed, but we are working hard to ensure there are no further stoppages.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-hit-debt-waiver-plan-tript-bajwa-227234
19-03-2021||Ropar||Land acquisition for national highways: More land damages for farmers soon||To pacify the protesting farmers demanding higher compensation for their lands for two national highways Delhi-Amritsar-Katra and Jalandhar-Ajmer, the state government has tweaked the rules. This was stated by PWD and Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla here today.Singla, who was here to list achievements of his government in the last four years, said the government had increased the multiplier factor for land acquisition following which there would be substantial increase in the compensation to farmers.The NHAI would acquire land in 12 districts for the two projects. Farmers had refused to give their lands for the projects, citing lower compensation. He said in Punjab, the collector rates were lesser as compared to the market rate on demand of people so that they had to spend less on stamp duty at the time of the purchase of land. This was the reason for lesser compensation. Now, the compensation would be near double. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/land-acquisition-for-national-highways-more-land-damages-for-farmers-soon-227235
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||SAD to CM: Resign on moral grounds||The SAD today asked CM Capt Amarinder Singh to resign on moral grounds after candidly admitting that he had failed to end the drug menace and provide jobs to the youth.The SAD also lambasted the CM for his point-blank refusal to reduce power tariff rates for both domestic and industrial sector, admitting that the government would not implement the Rs 2,500 per month unemployment allowance to the youth, besides stating that the Rs 90,000 loan waiver, he had announced for the farming community, would not be executed. It accused him of presiding over four years of corruption, scams, brazen misrule and breakdown of law and order.At a press meet, ex-minister Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said it was shocking that instead of fulfilling the promises, the CM tried to ignore his commitments. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-to-cm-resign-on-moral-grounds-227236
19-03-2021||---||Will continue to back farmers' stir: Ranjit Singh||Amritsar, March 18A day after being granted bail, Ranjit Singh (22) from Kajampur village in Nawanshahr, one of the youths accused of attacking the police at the Singhu border on January 29, paid obeisance at the Golden Temple on Thursday.Accompanied by DSGMC chief Manjit Singh Sirsa, he said he would continue to support the protesting farmers. Sirsa claimed that to prevent granting bail to Ranjit, several sections, not relevant to his case, were added in the complaint filed against him. He was granted bail in the second attempt. He said the DSGMC would put in efforts to secure release of all those who were held during the farmers’ protest and continue to support agitating farmers. Video grabs of Ranjit being beaten up with lathis had gone viral on the Internet. His family has denied the charges of Ranjit attacking the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-continue-to-back-farmers-stir-ranjit-singh-227237
19-03-2021||Tarn Taran||Woman killed as youths open fire at Tarn Taran village||A woman was killed and a man seriously injured when a group of five motorcycle-borne men opened fire at Piddi village here.The deceased has been identified as Mohinder Kaur (70). The police said the armed men enquired about the whereabouts of a man, identified as Harbhinder Singh Bhinda, and fired at him. The residents tried to catch them but four of them escaped. One of their accomplices lost his way. When residents rushed to nab him, he fired at them. A bullet hit passerby Mohinder Kaur. She was admitted to a hospital where she succumbed to injuries. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-killed-as-youths-open-fire-at-tarn-taran-village-227238
19-03-2021||---||Man nabbed with 20 stolen two-wheelers||Bathinda, March 18 The Bathinda police nabbed a man, who had stolen as many as 20 two-wheelers from three different districts — Bathinda, Muktsar and Faridkot — in Malwa region. Addressing mediapersons, Bhupinderjit Singh Virk, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Bathinda, said, “After a nakabandi on the Bathinda-Malout road, the district police have nabbed the accused, identified as Gurtej Singh, a resident of Muktsar district. He had been stealing two-wheelers from quite some time now. After interrogation, he revealed the location of a godown, where he had kept all 20 stolen two-wheelers.” After taking possession of the stolen vehicles, the police arrested the accused and booked him under Sections 379, 411 and 473 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-nabbed-with-20-stolen-two-wheelers-227239
19-03-2021||Aman Sood||Bhakra water level dips, farmers worried||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 18Punjab and Rajasthan could face an irrigation crisis during the upcoming paddy-sowing season as the water level in the Bhakra reservoir is nearly 55 feet lower than the last year.The water level at Bhakra on Wednesday was recorded at 1,548 feet against 1,604 feet on the corresponding day last year. The water level in Ranjit Sagar Dam is 1,615 feet against 1,659 feet the same day last year. In Pong Dam, the water level is 1,304 feet against last year’s 1,359 feet.“The water level in the reservoir may decline further on account of scanty snowfall this winter as there may be reduced water inflow from the melting of snow in the glaciers this year,” said an official.As per the reservoir storage weekly bulletin of March 11, the total live storage available in these reservoirs in Punjab and Himachal is 4.20 billion cubic metres (BCM), which is 20 per cent of the total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during the corresponding period last year in Himachal was 50 per cent and in Punjab was 34 per cent. Thus, the storage during the current year is less than the corresponding period last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhakra-water-level-dips-farmers-worried-227240
19-03-2021||Fazilka||Sukhbir’s rally illegal, action to follow: Balbir Sidhu||Four days after the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) organised a rally at Jalalabad, which was presided over by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, a controversy has erupted over the permission to the rally.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu has announced to take action against the organisers, terming the rally illegal. He claimed that Sukhbir’s rally was held without permission from the competent authority. Sukhbir had tested positive for Covid recently.Sidhu met mediapersons after the press conference of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in Chandigarh.However, Ashok Aneja, president, SAD, Fazilka, claimed that they had taken permission for the rally.While lashing out at Sukhbir, Sidhu said he ruled the state for 10 years, but had no faith in the health system of the state, hence got himself admitted to Medanta hospital in Gurugram after testing positive.In a reply to a query, Sidhu assured to bring the issue of setting up of liquor unit in Fazilka village to the notice of the Chief Minister. Villagers and farmers of nearly 30 villages have been blocking the NH- 7, near Hiran Wali Maur, demanding to shelve the proposal of setting up the liquor unit. — OCLashes out at ex-DY CMWhile lashing out at Sukhbir Badal, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said he ruled the state for 10 years, but has no faith in the health system of the state, hence got himself admitted to Medanta hospital in Gurugram after testing positive||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbirs-rally-illegal-action-to-follow-balbir-sidhu-227241
19-03-2021||---||Take back order on Hola Mohalla Covid test report: SGPC||Amritsar, March 18The SGPC has demanded withdrawal of an order issued by the Rupnagar Deputy Commissioner regarding mandatory Covid-19 test report of devotees before allowing them take part in Hola Mohalla celebrations at Anandpur Sahib.Holla Mohalla: International visitors asked to bring negative COVID-19 test reportSGPC Chief Bibi Jagir Kaur condemned the orders during her address to the ‘sangat’ at the conclusion of a three-day ‘gurmat samagam’, dedicated to Guru Teg Bahadur.She questioned the timing of the order as it was issued 72 hours before the start of the Hola Mohalla. She said: “It is not possible for a large number of devotees to get the report of a Covid test in such a short span.”She accused the Capt Amarinder Singh government for using the district administration to prevent the Sikhs from taking part in the religious programme. She challenged the government to release a direct order on its own. Akal Takht jathedar Harpreet Singh said the pluralistic character of the country, its customs, traditions, languages and distinct identity of different communities must be secured with the path shown by the Guru.-ve report must for international pilgrimsRopar: The district administration has asked the international pilgrims planning to attend Hola Mohalla festival at Anandpur Sahib and Kiratpur Sahib to bring Covid-negative report of the test taken up 72 hours prior to the visit. Sampling has been made mandatory for those, who will stay at hotels during the six-day event starting from March 24. Ropar DC Sonali Giri said the authorities of the two international airports at Mohali and Amritsar had been asked to keep a close watch on international visitors. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/take-back-order-on-hola-mohalla-covid-test-report-sgpc-227242
19-03-2021||Bathinda||Get jab or gear up for weekly RT-PCR test, health workers told||In wake of rising number of Covid-19 cases in the district, the Health Department has taken some tough measures to ensure maximum vaccination in the coming days.In a letter, the Bathinda Civil Surgeon told the block-level health centres to ensure maximum vaccination of health workers, failing which they would have to undergo RT-PCR testing mandatorily. In the letter, as per the directions of the principal health secretary, it has been mentioned that all employees should get themselves vaccinated at the earliest. The letter stated that in order to protect the already limited workforce, those who refuse to get vaccinated will mandatorily undergo RT-PCR testing every week and report of all un-vaccinated employees will be submitted on every Monday.One of the SMOs at a government-run hospital in the district said healthcare employees who refuse to get vaccinated will have to undergo RT-PCR test on weekly basis and if they do not get tested, they won’t be allowed at their workplaces and marked absent. Bathinda CS Tejwant Singh Dhillon, said: “We have not made vaccination mandatory for healthcare employees but keeping in view rising cases, we have asked them to get vaccinated on priority. We have to anticipate and check the rising number by ensuring maximum vaccination and regular sampling.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/get-jab-or-gear-up-for-weekly-rt-pcr-test-health-workers-told-227243
19-03-2021||---||2,387 cases, 32 deaths in Punjab||Chandigarh, March 18The state has reported 2,387 cases and 32 deaths in the last 24 hours.With these, the number of total cases so far has reached 2.05 lakh and over 6,200 people have succumbed to the deadly virus.Hoshiarpur topped the chart with eight deaths, followed by Jalandhar with six deaths, Amritsar and Ludhiana four deaths each, Gurdaspur, Ropar and SBS Nagar two deaths each, Kapurthala, Barnala, Patiala and Sangrur reported one death each.9 teachers, 5 students test +veLudhiana: The rising trend of the new Covid cases continued for the sixth consecutive day today when 285 fresh infections and 5 more deaths due to the virus were reported in the district in the past 24 hours.The fresh cases included nine teachers, five students and two healthcare workers. Among the casualties, one was from Hoshiarpur district.With this, the total count of cases in the district breached the 34,000-mark to settle at 34,526. The active cases also surpassed the 1,600-mark to reach 1,693.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-387-cases-32-deaths-in-punjab-227244
19-03-2021||Muktsar||Ex-CM Badal tests -ve again, leaves for Gurugram||After SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram on Wednesday, his father Parkash Singh Badal, too, left for the city today.He left from his Badal village residence this afternoon and boarded a chartered plane from Bhisiana airport in Bathinda district.Before leaving, he again tested negative for Covid-19. “We tested him again today for the virus and the report was negative,” said Dr Manju Bansal, SMO, Civil Hospital, Badal. Sources said taking preventive measures, the SAD patron would now isolate himself for a couple of days at a palatial hotel owned by the family. Badal, 93, had been staying at his village residence for the past few days. Three of his domestic workers, including a cook and a personal attendant, had tested positive on Tuesday, setting the alarm bells ringing for the Badal family. Since the Covid-19 outbreak, the former CM has been living indoors mostly for the past one year. Even during the cremation of his younger brother Gurdas Singh Badal last year and close aide Dyal Singh Kolianwali a few days ago, he was seen following Covid norms, wearing mask and gloves.Sources close to the Badals said they did not want to take any risk, thus decided to bring the SAD patron, too, to the national capital region (NCR). “The personal staff, including a doctor and a DSP, too has left for Gurugram along with Badal,” they said.Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal and her three children are currently staying at her official residence in Delhi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-cm-badal-tests-ve-again-leaves-for-gurugram-227245
19-03-2021||Ferozepur||Reopen routes for trade with Pak: Farooq Abdullah||Batting for reopening of more routes for trade and transit with Pakistan, former Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir Farooq Abdullah today said it was high time that both nations should promote “peace” for the betterment of people.Abdullah, who was here on a private visit, was accompanied by Cabinet Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi and other senior officials.He said it was time to bury the hatchets of the past, and usher into a cordial environment, conducive to the growth of economy.Earlier, Abdullah arrived at the helipad in the Police Lines, from where he drove to Gurdwara Saragarhi Memorial. He paid tributes to the gallant martyrs of the Battle of Saragarhi. “It was my desire to visit this memorial,” said Abdullah, while lauding the sacrifice of the martyrs.State Information Commissioner Anumeet Singh Sodhi, DC Gurpal Singh Chahal and SSP Bhagirath Singh Meena were also present. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/reopen-routes-for-trade-with-pak-farooq-abdullah-227246
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Efforts to suppress farmer stir: AAP||The AAP has stated that efforts are being made to suppress the agitation of the farmers.Addressing a press conference at the party headquarters here today, Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said AAP was the first party to oppose the farm laws, the first party to support the farmers’ march to Delhi and the only party that stood with the farmers in their fight. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/efforts-to-suppress-farmer-stir-aap-227248
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers call for Delhi march||GMC work to start soonSangrur: Transport, Water Supply and Sanitation Minister Razia Sultana on Thursday said to improve health facilities in Sangrur district, the work on the proposed Government Medical College (GMC) at Malerkotla would start soon. TNSLiquor seized, two arrestedSangrur: The Sherpur police have arrested two persons and confiscated 270 boxes of smuggled liquor. "We have arrested Jarnail Singh and Narinder Singh from Sherpur-Badi road and confiscated 270 boxes of liquor from their car. We have registered a case and started investigation," said ASI Gurjant Singh. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-call-for-delhi-march-227260
19-03-2021||---||Girl shot in moving car, Cong leader held||Moga, March 18Shot at point-blank range in a moving car, a girl was killed while her elder sister was seriously injured allegedly by a Congress leader near the bus stand at Manuke village in Nihalsinghwala subdivision of Moga district on Thursday, police sources said.Moving just a few yards away from the bus stand, the Congress leader, identified as Gurveer Singh, a resident of Sekha Khurd village, pushed out one of the girls sitting on the front seat by opening the window of the car. The other girl, sitting on the rear seat, opened the window and fell down in a bid to escape when he pointed the revolver and fired a shot at her, eyewitnesses said.Another youth coming in a car took the injured girls to a government hospital from where they were referred to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital at Faridkot, local police officials said.Later, one of the girls, identified as Kamlpreet Kaur (18), succumbed to the injuries. The condition of her elder sister, Amanpreet Kaur (24), is stated to be serious. Gurveer Singh’s mother is the sarpanch of Sekha Khurd village while his father is a former sarpanch.Later in the evening, the police claimed Gurveer had been arrested from Ludhiana district. The car and weapon used in the crime had also been recovered from him. Preliminary investigations revealed that he also tried to kill himself after the incident, but fell short of bullets. The police are yet to ascertain the exact reason behind the attack.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/girl-shot-in-moving-car-cong-leader-held-227294
19-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Shehnaaz Gill's 'bubbly' picture from Bigg Boss house is too cute to be missed; fans are 'nostalgic'||Shehnaaz Gill, who is currently in Canada, took a trip down memory lane of her Bigg Boss days. The actress shared a picture of her bubbly self from the reality TV show days.   The Punjabi actor, who has undisputedly one of the largest fan bases on social media, was seen wearing a dark pink night suit, and like a kid, she was digging into her cheek's dimples. Shehnaaz Gill cradles baby bump as Diljit Dosanjh stares into her eyes; see 'Honsla Rakh' new posterShehnaaz looked absolutely adorable, and her fans can't stop gushing about how cute she is. A post shared by Shehnaaz Gill (@shehnaazgill)  They flooded Instagram's comment section showering compliments. Some even requested her to come back to Mumbai since they were missing her. For the unversed, Shehnaaz is shooting in Vancouver for her upcoming Punjabi film with Diljit Dosanjh and Sonam Bajwa. Shehnaaz Gill visits Gippy Grewal in CanadaThe film will be released on Dussehra, and fans are excited to see Shehnaaz spread her magic on the big screen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shehnaaz-gills-bubbly-picture-from-bigg-boss-house-is-too-cute-to-be-missed-fans-are-nostalgic-227065
19-03-2021||Muktsar||Former CM Parkash Singh Badal again tests Covid-negative; leaves for Gurugram||Two days after SAD chief-cum-MP Ferozepur Sukhbir Singh Badal tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram on Wednesday, his father, former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal, too left for Gurugram on Thursday.He left from his Badal village residence in a cavalcade of vehicles in the afternoon and then boarded a chartered plane from Bhisiana airport in Bathinda.Before leaving, he was tested for COVID-19 today and tested negative.“Badal sahib was tested today for the COVID-19 and the report came negative,” said Dr Manju Bansal, SMO, Civil Hospital, Badal.Sources said taking preventive measures, the SAD patron would now isolate himself for a couple of days at a palatial hotel owned by the family.Notably, 93-year-old Badal was staying at his Badal village residence here for the past few days.Even though the elderly Badal was tested negative for COVID-19 on Tuesday, yet three of his domestic workers, including a cook and a personal attendant, had tested positive on Tuesday. It had set the alarm bells ringing for the Badal family.From the last about a year, since the pandemic outbreak, the former CM has been living indoors mostly.Even during the cremation of his younger brother Gurdas Singh Badal and a close aide Dyal Singh Kolianwali a few days ago, he was seen following the Covid norms, wearing face mask and gloves.Sources close to the Badals said they did not want to take any risk, thus decided to bring the SAD patron too to the national capital region (NCR).“The personal staff, including a doctor and a DSP, too has left for Gurugram along with Badal sahib,” they said.Notably, MP Bathinda Harsimrat Kaur Badal and her three children are presently staying at her official residence in Delhi.Meanwhile, the COVID-19 test reports of a number of people deployed at the Badals’ residence, including security personnel, were awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-cm-parkash-singh-badal-again-tests-covid-negative-leaves-for-gurugram-227059
19-03-2021||---||Punjab is your child, don’t be indifferent to us, Khadoor Sahib MP tells Centre||New Delhi, March 18Khadoor Sahib MP Jasbir Singh Gill on Thursday demanded a government cancer research centre for Punjab saying the state was reeling under a growing cancer burden which it had inherited on account of excessive use of pesticides and fertilisers to boost foodgrain production for the country.He told the government not to mete out an indifferent treatment to Punjab saying “Punjab is your child”. Initiating the discussion on the Supplementary Demands for Grants, second batch 2020-2021 in the Lok Sabha, Gill said, “Punjab played with its own health to feed the nation. We used fertilisers and pesticides to improve foodgrain production. The country was fed but Punjab fell sick with cancer. We urgently need a cancer research centre and hospital in the state. The hospital must be in the government sector.”The Congress MP also accused the Centre of meting out indifferent treatment to Punjab and demanded compensations and aid across segments. He cited the hit the state’s industry took due to tax rebates to the bordering hill states to argue for similar concessions at least for the six border districts of Punjab, if not for the whole state.“When I look at the Union budget, it appears to have been tailormade for poll-bound states. Punjab has been neglected. We need infrastructure, especially because we are a border state and a landlocked one at that. We had a lot of industry but militancy disrupted that. Later, the tax rebates to hill states hampered our development. If you give rebate to six Punjab border districts our industry will be revived. We are suffering from brain drain and faced with bleak employment prospects as our educated youth is leaving for abroad,” said Gill citing the once-famous handloom industry of Amritsar, Batala’s machine tools, Jalandhar’s world-class sports goods and Ludhiana’s garment supremacy.He hailed the bicycles made in Ludhiana and said Ludhiana, the Manchester of India, needed support.“We have no iron ores, no coal mines. We have to take everything from the rest of the country. How can we compete? Punjab is your child. Please support it,” Gill said to the BJP government.He thanked PM Narendra Modi for opening the Kartarpur Corridor but called for enhanced connectivity.The Congress MP also demanded cuts on duties imposed on domestic electric vehicles to boost demand.Gill also sought more international flights from Amritsar airport.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-is-your-child-dont-be-indifferent-to-us-khadoor-sahib-mp-tells-centre-227045
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab extends night curfew timings in 9 worst-affected districts||Terming the spread of Covid in Punjab as alarming, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced to extend the time period of night curfew in nine districts from 9 pm to 5 am, instead of the previous 11 pm to 5 am.He was addressing the media at a function to mark four years of the Congress government in office.He said he was meeting medical experts in a day to take stock of the situation before announcing further stricter measures to check the spread. “The way the things are going, I fear it requires strict measures like restricting gatherings and punishments.”The Chief Minister said 2,039 fresh Covid cases and 35 deaths had been reported till Wednesday evening. At least 283 people were on oxygen support.Also read: 35 more die in Punjab as nation sees 35,871 fresh Covid cases, biggest single-day jump in 102 daysHe said the government is looking into a request from Himachal about the movement of people from Punjab to religious sites in Himachal.He said anti-national activity from across the border had increased after the farmers’ agitation. He cited the use of drones to drop arms and ammunition from across the border. He hoped the Centre would take action to check it.‘Sidhu to be part of the team soon’The CM said everyone in the government wanted Navjot Sidhu to be part of the government. “We had a cordial meeting on Wednesday evening. He has sought time to decide about joining the government.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-extends-night-curfew-timings-in-9-worst-affected-districts-227014
19-03-2021||New Delhi||35 more die in Punjab as nation sees 35,871 fresh Covid cases, biggest single-day jump in 102 days||India on Thursday recorded 35,871 new COVID-19 cases, the highest single-day rise in over 100 days, which took the infection tally to 1,14,74,605, according to Union Health Ministry data.Registering an increase for the eighth consecutive day, the active caseload reached 2,52,364, which accounts for 2.20 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate further dropped to 96.41 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed.The death toll increased to 1,59,216 with 172 new fatalities, it stated.The single-day spike of 35,871 cases is the highest in 102 days. As many as 36,011 new infections were recorded on December 6.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,10,63,025, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.39 per cent, according to the data.India’s COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.Also read: Punjab increases night curfew timings in 9 worst-affected districtsAccording to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 23,03,13,163 samples had been tested up to March 17 with 10,63,379 being tested on Wednesday.The 172 new fatalities include 84 from Maharashtra, 35 from Punjab and 13 from Kerala.So far, 1,59,216 deaths have been reported in the country including 53,080 from Maharashtra, 12,564 from Tamil Nadu, 12,407 from Karnataka, 10,948 from Delhi, 10,298 from West Bengal, 8,751 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,186 from Andhra Pradesh.The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.“Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research,” the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/35-more-die-in-punjab-as-nation-sees-35-871-fresh-covid-cases-biggest-single-day-jump-in-102-days-226995
19-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||'Main...sehta aya', reads Dharmendra's latest tweet; fans left concerned||Veteran actor Dharmendra, in a tweet, has talked about having a "hard time". This has left netizens worried. The 85-year-old had recently confessed that he was "feeling sad". Once again, the actor took to the microblogging website to talk about having a rough time."I wasn't aware of my own simplicity all my life, I kept enduring," he shared on Saturday morning.Shaoor na aya saadgi ko meri ..... ummr bhar.....Main ..... sehta aya...... sehta hi aya..... 🙏 pic.twitter.com/nbdFlFNwc9  Along with this, he posted an old black-and-white picture of himself.  Several fans reacted to his tweet. One wrote: "Apno ne begana banaya; auro se maine pyaar paya (Our own made us strangers, I received love from others.)" To which Dharmendra replied: "Aisa kion hota hai Sarabjeet .... chalte chalte chaahat pali ....... de ke dard chalte bane ....... (Why does this happen, Sarabjeet... Along the journey, we embraced love... But they left us in pain...)".Other fans requested the actor to take care. "How can someone be this lovely," a fan tweeted. "Bohot uunda Dharm ji.. (Very well said, Dharm ji) This is actually you.. Seede saade pyare Insaan hain aap. (You are a straightforward and a sweet human) Love you, best of regards," another fan said. "Itna handsome koy kaise ho sakta hai.. Sir really aap jaisa handsome to ub koy dikhta he nahi.. Waah ishwar aapko sada sehatmand rakhy (How can someone be this handsome. Sir really, no one looks as handsome as you today. Hope God always keeps you healthy)," a third fan said, referring to his old picture.Last month, Dharmendra confessed he has been sad lately. The actor, in a reply to a fan, said: "Sumaila, iss be-ja chaahat ka haqdaar...Main nehin...masoomiyat hai aap sab ki ...hansta hoon hansaata hoon..magar..udaas rehta hoon ...'iss ummr mein kar ke be-dakhil ..mujhe meri dharti se...de diya sadma ...mujhe mere apnon ne' (Sumaila, I am not worthy of so much love. It is you who are the innocent ones. I laugh and I make others laugh... I stay sad. 'In this age, my loves one hurt me by throwing me out of my land')."Dharmendra lives at his farmhouse near Mumbai while his wife Hema Malini and his children live in Mumbai. It was confirmed that the actor will return on the big screen for 'Apne 2'.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/main-sehta-aya-reads-dharmendras-latest-tweet-fans-left-concerned-224690
