21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 44 more COVID-19 deaths, 2,669 new cases||There was no let-up in the surge in COVID-19 cases in Punjab with the state recording 2,669 fresh infections, maximum this year so far, and 44 more fatalities on Sunday, according to a medical bulletin.With the fresh cases, the infection tally climbed to 2,13,110.The number of active cases has increased from 16,988 on Saturday to 18,257 on Sunday.Jalandhar reported a maximum of 393 cases, Ludhiana 330, Mohali 327, Hoshiarpur 259 and Patiala 244, among others.Ten fatalities were reported from Hoshiarpur, eight from Ludhiana, seven from Gurdaspur and six from Jalandhar, among others, the bulletin said, adding that the death toll reached 6,324.A total of 1,331 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,88,529, it said.There are 23 critical patients who are on ventilator support, while 272 are on oxygen support, according to the bulletin.A total of 56,03,286 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday had held the laxity shown by people in following safety protocols as the reason behind the recent surge in coronavirus cases and had also urged them not to let their guard down against the infection.Meanwhile, Chandigarh also reported a surge with 239 more people getting infected with COVID-19, pushing the total count to 24,459.The death of a 59-year-old man took the toll to 362, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases rose from 1,717 on Saturday to 1,872 on Sunday in the Union Territory.Eighty-three patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 22,225 in the city.A total of 2,92,183 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 2,66,727 tested negative while reports of 131 samples are awaited, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-records-44-more-covid-19-deaths-2-669-new-cases-228541
21-03-2021||New Delhi||Farmer unions condemn parliamentary panel’s demand for implementation of ECAA||Farmer unions on Sunday condemned the demand for immediate implementation of the Essential Commodities Amendment Act (ECAA) by a parliamentary committee.The ECAA is one of the three laws against which farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders.The parliamentary panel, which also has members from opposition parties, including the Congress, TMC and the AAP, asked the government to implement in “letter and spirit” the ECAA.These parties have been demanding repeal of all three farm laws enacted by the Centre recently.“It is insensitive to the food security of poor people and the demand to increase the procurement of farmers’ crops,” the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a joint front of the protesting farmer unions, said in a statement.“We appeal to farmers, labourers and common citizens to intensify their struggle for the repeal of the three laws and legal right of minimum support price,” the SKM said.The Morcha said it is clear from the overwhelming support from “Kisan Mahapanchayats” against the agricultural laws that the proposed “Bharat Bandh” on March 26 will be successful.It said all services, other than emergency services, will remain suspended from 6 am to 6 pm on that day. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-unions-condemn-parliamentary-panels-demand-for-implementation-of-ecaa-228539
21-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Wanted in murder case, 2 Nihangs killed in police firing in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, March 21Two Nihangs were killed, while SHOs of Valtoha and Khemkaran police stations were seriously injured in an encounter in the border area Singhpura (Bhikhiwind) village on Sunday evening.The hands of the SHOs were reportedly chopped off. They had been admitted to private hospitals in Amritsar after being referred by from Civil Hospital, Sursing.According to information, the Nihangs were wanted in connection with a murder case in Nanded Sahib Sach Khand Sri Hazur Sahib. The Bhikhiwind police were chasing the Nihangs who were on a motorcycle. The police personnel when tried to nab the Nihangs, the latter allegedly attacked them with swords.The two Nihangs were killed in police firing at Singhpura village. The injured SHOs were identified as Narinder Singh (Khemkaran) and Balwinder Singh (Valtoha).Bhikhiwind DSP Rajbir Singh had a narrow escape in the attack. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale along with police force reached the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wanted-in-murder-case-2-nihangs-killed-in-police-firing-in-tarn-taran-228520
21-03-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana reports 330 cases and 12 COVID deaths||Ludhiana on Sunday reported 330 cases and 12 COVID-19 deaths, taking the district's death total to 1,632. The deaths include 549 from outstation. The fresh casualties include two from Hoshiarpur, and one each from Ropar and Nawanshahr.New cases include 10 students, four healthcare workers, three teachers, one cop, and 58 out of district patients. The total number of cases stands at 35,635. Now, active cases have reached 2,095, including 149 from other districts. The condition of 17 patients was reported to be critical, and they have been put on ventilator support. Under night curfew since March 12, the district was reporting a surge of daily fresh cases and deaths—which has multiplied manifolds since March 13.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-reports-330-cases-and-12-covid-deaths-228497
21-03-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar: Gold ornaments worth Rs 25 lakh looted||Gold ornaments worth Rs 25 lakh were looted by holding a family hostage in the Civil Lines area of Amritsar on Sunday, police said.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Sandeep Malik said four to five people gained entry into a house located near the district courts and made a family hostage at gunpoint.He said the family told police that the accused took away gold ornaments worth Rs 25 lakh besides some cash. A case has been registered and further investigation is on, police said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-gold-ornaments-worth-rs-25-lakh-looted-228489
21-03-2021||Rajiv Mahajan ||Water from Shahnehar barrage creates flood-like situation in lower Kangra's mand area||Nurpur, March 21The unabated release of water from Shahnehar barrage at Talwara in Punjab since March 17 has created a flood-like situation in Mand areas of Fatehpur and Indora sub divisions in Kangra district.This artificial calamity has added to the woes of farmers of Bahadpur, Badala, Halle, Rajgiri Bhatolli, Malal and Bhogrwan mand areas villages. Standing wheat and other rabi crops over 400 hectares have been damaged so far. The SDMs of Fatehpur and Indora sub divisions have directed the field revenue staff to conduct a survey of the loss cause to the crops.              Meanwhile, sub divisional officer, Shahnehar head works civil sub division, Talwara, Ram Parkash in a statement last evening denied any breach in Shahnehar canal. He clarified that water discharge had stopped in Shahnehar canal and was being released in the Beas river due to repairs of Mukerian Hydel channel being carried out from March 17 to April 30.He said the intimation of water discharge had been passed to the district administration, Kangra, and local authorities on March 16 through wireless messaging system and it was the responsibility of the Himachal Pradesh authorities to ensure safety of people and livestock.Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati categorically denied the claim of Shahnehar authorities of giving prior intimation to the district and local authorities on March 16 before releasing water in the Beas. He said no communiqué had been received in this connection and Shahnehar authorities had been asked for timely communication henceforth to the administration keeping in view the safety of human and livestock in the area.Several local farmers lamented that their crops had to be harvested after two weeks but untimely water release in the Beas river had inundated their fields and damaged rabi crop.They added that their stored dry fodder had also been damaged by flood water. “If Shahnehar authorities ensure release of specified quantity of water within 24 hours as committed, the flood-like situation can be under control,” says Balwan Chand, SDM, Fatehpur.Rampant mining in the Beas river is also one of the causes behind flood-like situation in the Mand area. The mining has changed the course of river and partially damaged a bridge at Haler village. Its existence is also under threat due to Shahnehar water release which will continue till April 30.Meanwhile, Ajay Mahajan, Kangra district Congress president, who visited the flood-affected areas yesterday has demanded compensation for farmers whose crops were damaged. He said the state government should find a permanent solution of the flood threat by channelising river water passing through this area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/water-from-shahnehar-barrage-creates-flood-like-situation-in-lower-kangras-mand-area-228483
21-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Diljit Dosanjh's 'cheat day' meal will make you drool; don't miss Punjabi singer's moves too||Punjabi singer Diljit Dosanjh has one of the most entertaining Instagram pages. He often uses the platform to showcases his cooking skills.His hit video clips have a witty and running commentary in Punjabi. The self-confessed foodie has set diet plans for his movies, but when it's time to indulge, he doesn't hold back.Diljit, on Saturday, posted a hilarious Instagram reel from his "cheat day". He was seen munching on the cheesiest pizzas, along with peri-peri fires and puffs, and also gave his fans a glimpse of his dancing skills in the video.Spotting three pizzas on the table, Diljit's reaction to these pizzas is one of the most relatable things on Instagram today."YAARAN Da #CheatDay & Night" #diljitdosanj #pizza", he captioned his Instagram reel with CJ's Whoopty playing in the background.Watch it here:A post shared by DILJIT DOSANJH (@diljitdosanjh)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/diljit-dosanjhs-cheat-day-meal-will-make-you-drool-dont-miss-punjabi-singers-moves-too-228472
21-03-2021||Moga/Amritsar||Punjab showed India what peaceful protests mean, Arvind Kejriwal tells Moga kisan mahapanchayat||Amid the Covid spike, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal addressed a 'kisan mahapanchayat' against the Centre's three farm laws at Baghapurana in Moga district on Sunday.Kejriwal the chief minister of Delhi, the city on whose borders farmers have been camping since November resolute of making the central government repeal the laws they see as deleterious to their welfare,  accused Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party of conniving to bring the controversial agriculture laws,The mahapanchayat becomes especially significant because Punjab heads for assembly elections next year.He said Punjab had shown the rest of the country how peaceful protests are held.“Modi has brought these farm laws to snatch the lands of poor farmers. He is also trying to disturb us,” he said. He also referred to recent the National Capital Region Amendment Bill introduced in Parliament this Budget session. His government sees the Bill as an attempt to further weaken Delhi’s existing status by handing over administrative powers to the Lieutenant  Governor, and therefore, the Centre.“I know how to deal with BJP and its leaders. I’ve been fighting a battle for the people of Delhi for the past 6 years and hopefully the blessings of the people will help me succeed,” he said.His government has been frequently at loggerheads with the Lieutenant Governor and Centre. AAP, he claimed, has always been a supporter of the farmer protests.“When I first tried to step out from my house to visit Singhu border the Delhi Police put me under house arrest. But I did not lose heart. I repeatedly tried to go out and finally the police allowed me to visit the farmers. I went there and provided food, water, medicines, and shelter to the protesting farmers,” he said.He also accused Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh of going back on the promises he made last assembly elections.“No jobs have been provided, no smart phones distributed among youths, and farm loans have not been waived,” he said. “The people of Punjab will ask Amarinder of his promises in the coming elections,”It’s time to teach them a lesson for broken promises, he said. “If you vote for us, we will give unemployment allowances to the youths, provide free power, improve law and order situation, provide free education, health services and pull out the peasants from the prevailing farm crisis,” he said.“We’ll find a way out of the unemployment crisis and  the declining farm income," he added.Sangrur Member of Parliament Bhagwant Mann started began his to speak after Kerjwal, but was forced to cut it short when he realised that his audience was leaving the venue in droves.The rally was scheduled to begin at 12 pm but was delayed because the Delhi chief minister reached the venue three hours late.Earlier, Kejriwal arrived in Amritsar on his transit visit before proceeding to attend the kisan mahapanchayat at the grain market of Baghapurana in Moga.Before his visit, the boards and hoardings of the AAP were removed by the civic authorities during the wee hours for which the officials had to face the wrath of AAP workers. They raised slogans against the civic administration.Nonetheless, Kejriwal was welcomed by AAP Punjab head Bhagwant Mann at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport.When asked about the health guidelines and restrictions being imposed by the Congress-led state government for holding a gathering in the wake of spurt in Covid cases, Mann said, “Congress party has been contesting Assembly elections and holding rallies in Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Assam, was the Covid threat under consideration then? Why did they do so when AAP was holding an event, that too for the farmers? Moreover, all arrangements were in place when it comes to the Covid -19 health guidelines at the venue of the event. Proper sanitizing mechanism and social distancing were being maintained there. I, myself, had undergone Covid testing”, he said.On the removal of AAP hoardings by the civic authorities here, he said, “Kejriwal could never be removed from the heart and mind of the people by removing the boards and hoardings”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-showed-india-what-peaceful-protests-mean-arvind-kejriwal-tells-moga-kisan-mahapanchayat-228455
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||18-year-old Mercedes driver, who mowed 3 persons in Mohali, arrested||Punjab Police arrested an 18-year-old man for mowing down three persons with his Mercedes car near Radha Soami Chowk here in SAS Nagar in the early morning of Saturday.The accused, Samrat, 18 years, a resident of sector 34D, Chandigarh belongs to the family of Weldon Opticals in Chandigarh. He did not have a driving license and was drunk while driving at the time of the accident. The police have also booked two of Samrat’s friends, identified as Arjun and Prabhnoor, who was accompanying him in the car.The incident took place when Samrat, who was driving the Mercedes bearing registration number CH01CA1869 jumped the traffic lights and rammed his car into an Ertiga car and two cycles, leaving three persons including a cyclist dead and other three critically injured. The deceased persons have been identified as Dharampreet Singh, Ankush Narula and Ram Prasad.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) SAS Nagar Satinder Singh said that the trio who were riding the Mercedes was drunk when the accident took place and the driver lost control of the car. They fled from the accident spot even after sensing the serious condition of victims and didn’t inform the police or ambulance. The police have also recovered empty bottles of liquor from the Mercedes.The SSP said that the police have arrested Samrat, the accused driver who does not possess a Driving Licence. The police are conducting raids and will arrest the other accused persons soon too, he added.Meanwhile, a criminal case has been registered under sections 304 (Culpable Homicide not amounting to Murder) and 120B (Criminal Conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Police Station Mataur against the accused. Investigations will be completed in the next two weeks and the Court will be asked to conduct a speedy trial to give exemplary punishment to the culprits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/18-year-old-mercedes-driver-who-mowed-3-persons-in-mohali-arrested-228445
21-03-2021||Patiala||Patiala teachers protest against state govt; climb atop mobile tower||Protesting against the state government, two unemployed—ETT and TET pass—teachers climbed on top of a mobile tower on Sunday in the city.  The teachers refuse to step down until their long-pending demands were met. The teachers are demanding, that the Education Department should repeal the provision of B.Ed entry into ETT, and advertise 10,000 new posts of theirs immediately.  The teachers climbed on top at around 9 am, and threatened the district administration of being "responsible" for any eventuality. Meanwhile, senior police officers have reached the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-teachers-protest-against-state-govt-climb-atop-mobile-tower-228444
21-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||MP Manish Tewari takes first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at Ropar Civil Hospital||Congress leader and Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari on Sunday took the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at the Ropar Civil Hospital.Tewari thanked doctors and called the vaccination process “flawless and smooth”.After the first dose of COVID -19 vaccine in Ropar - Sri Anandpur Sahib . pic.twitter.com/Jqv9aKB28f  Announcing the development through a video on Twitter, Tewari said: “The second wave of COVID-19 can be even more dangerous than the first one. My motive behind getting the shot at my Lok Sabha constituency, Sri Anandpur Sahib, is that I want to send out the message that those who are eligible must get the vaccine.”Tewari said the vaccine had “no reaction, no pain, and would save one from COVID-19.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mp-manish-tewari-takes-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-at-ropar-civil-hospital-228425
21-03-2021||Sarika Sharma||Sahitya Akademi award 2020: Punjab’s master of short stories Gurdev Singh Rupana||This storyteller never tires. Gurdev Singh Rupana revisits his stories long after they have been written, published and devoured by his readers. “There is always scope for improvement,” he says. The winner of Sahitya Akademi award for 2020, Rupana is a noted Punjabi prose writer. The award was conferred on him last week for his anthology of stories, ‘Aam Khaas’.‘Aam-Khaas’, as the name suggests, is about ‘the ordinary, the extraordinary’. “I believe every ordinary person we meet in our daily lives is a treasure trove of extraordinary stories. I tell their tales in ‘Aam-Khaas’. It took me 10 years to complete the book,” says the 87-year-old, who is based in Delhi.by Gurdev Singh Rupana.The anthology, which tells the stories of Dalits, immigrant labourers and slum dwellers, earlier won The Dhahan Prize 2019. Awarding it the second prize worth $10,000 (Rs5.81 lakh approximately) for a work of fiction in Gurmukhi, The Dhahan Prize committee noted: “‘Aam-Khaas’ engages the readers’ attention by using contemporary narrative techniques like intertextuality, flashback and co-incidence to reveal both the ordinary and extraordinary nature of Punjabi common folk in a changing society.”Hailing from Rupana village in Muktsar, he wrote his first short story, ‘Draupadi’, when he was in Class X. He had put in words what he had heard two passersby talk about. The story appeared in ‘Panj Dariya’, a popular literary magazine of the time. Rupana shifted to Delhi when he got the job of a teacher there and eventually made the city home. More than 50 years after he left his village, Rupana is known to paint a throbbing picture of life in Punjab villages. Ask him how he manages to do that and he says he doesn’t see much difference between cities and villages. “Delhi and Rupana are the same for me. While cities are much more crowded indeed, people’s nature, their greed, their fights, all are the same,” he says.His upcoming novel is called ‘Murti’. It is the story of a girl named Murti. We ask how and why has he chosen to tell her story, and he says “her being a girl itself” is the biggest reason. His saying it in a matter-of-fact way hits you, making you realise how centuries of oppression and denial of rights is still a reality, the web of patriarchy still refuses to let a woman be truly free. “This is going to be a tale about the years of atrocities on her,” he says.Rupana’s other important works include short story collections ‘Ik Tota Aurat’, ‘Aapani Akh da Jadoo’, and ‘Sheesha tey Hor Kahaniyaan’; ‘Sheesha’ (Mirror) is often hailed as one the best works on Partition in Punjabi language. Among his novels are ‘Jaldev’, ‘Aaso da Tabbar’ and ‘Gori’, the latter a part of the syllabi in many universities. Prolific in both genres, Rupana is, however, better known for his short stories, often called simpler as compared to novel writing. He disagrees. “A short story, if it is beautiful, if it is a true piece of literature, will always be tougher than a novel. Writing a novel compared to writing 10 stories of the same length is easy. Every story could well be a novel in itself,” he insists.Rupana knows what he is saying. Writing, for him, has been serious business. His dislike for people who write for the heck of it is legendary, and so is his sense of humour. To those who have in the last week told him that the award (hence the award money) came too late, he has sought “interest” for all the years delayed! But on a serious note, hinting at the lobbying that is the hallmark of most awards, he says, “Earlier people would say, ‘Oh writer award le gaya’ (That writer took the award). This time they are saying, ‘Gurdev Singh Rupana got the award.’” Though that’s a welcome departure, the author doesn’t seem to mind the delay, he acknowledges the practice of lobbying too. “Corruption happens, and writing is very much a part of the society where it happens. Why would the writers’ world be any different?” he asks.Other winnersYuva Puraskar: ‘Malaha’n Ton Bina’ (Poetry) by Deepak Kumar DhalewanBal Sahitya Puraskar: ‘Phullan Da Shehar’ (Travelogue) by Karnail Singh Komal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sahitya-akademi-award-2020-punjabs-master-of-short-stories-gurdev-singh-rupana-228316
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers' cause: Sarb Dharam rally in Chandigarh today||Naujawan Kisan Ekta has given a call for Sarb Dharam motorcycle-scooter-car rally, which will start from Gurdwara Amb Sahib, Phase 8, and end at the Rally Ground in Sector 25 on Sunday.The rally will be organised to protest against the three agro-market laws and to show solidarity with farmers agitating at Delhi borders. “The rally will be flagged off by the chief of kinnar samaj and people of all religions,” said organisers. The rally will start from Phase VII, near Gurdwara Amb Sahib, pass by Jama Masjid, Sector 45, Laxmi Narian Mandir, Sector 44, markets of Sector 44, 43 and 42 and the church in Sector 41 before ending at Sector 25. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-cause-sarb-dharam-rally-in-chandigarh-today-228226
21-03-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Pending dues: Civic body to cut power supply to LED screens at Heritage Street?||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 20The advertisement wing of Municipal Corporation is chewing over the thought of disconnecting the connection of LED screens installed at the Heritage Street due to non-payment of dues.The advertisement wing in-charge Sushant Bhatia on Saturday visited the Heritage Street and called the officials of Jaipur-based firm NS Publicity Private Limited and asked them to deposit the pending dues. According to information, a major amount of the private firm, which operates the LED screens, is pending. Bhatia said that failure to pay their dues would result in discontinuation of the power connection.Apart from the Heritage Street, the advertisement officials also visited several other areas and verified the unipoles.It is worth mentioning here that the MC had set the target to collect Rs12 crore as revenue recovery from advertisement in the city. However, the advertisement wing has collected only 1.17 crore till date. There is a great potential of revenue in this business but a mafia is reportedly active in the city.“Today, I have physically verified the unipoles and gateries in the city. We will check the record of the advertisement company not paying the dues, strict actions would be taken to augment the process of recovery,” said Bhatia.The MC Commissioner Komal Mittal recently reshuffled the in-charges of various departments, including advertisement wing. The officials would also check the display boards being installed on the private buildings. By all accounts, the owners are also violating the norms on large scale.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pending-dues-civic-body-to-cut-power-supply-to-led-screens-at-heritage-street-228107
21-03-2021||Amritsar||400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur: SGPC postpones event at Anandpur||The SGPC has postponed various religious events to be organised as part of the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur at Sri Anandpur Sahib from March 24 to 28. SGPC president Jagir Kaur on Saturday said the new dates would be announced after April 1.She said Hola Mohalla celebrations would be held as usual. The decision to postpone the March 24-28 event was taken at a meeting. Officials said the decision was taken in the wake of the Covid-19. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/400th-birth-anniversary-of-guru-tegh-bahadur-sgpc-postpones-event-at-anandpur-228113
21-03-2021||---||4,400 violators taken for Covid testing in Punjab||Chandigarh, March 20In view of the fresh surge of Covid-19 cases in the state, joint teams of the Punjab Police on Saturday persuaded over 4,400 face mask violators to undergo RT-PCR testing. In addition, 1,800 persons were issued challans as they were found not wearing masks. The police also distributed free face masks to over 12,000 persons.The move came a day after Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh ordered enforcement of face masks in the state and directed the police and health authorities to take all those moving around and loitering in public areas, and on the roads and streets, without face masks to the nearest RT-PCR testing facility for taking nasopharyngeal swabs to ensure that they are not asymptomatic Covid cases.Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta, while giving details, appealed to the people of the state to wear face masks, comply with number limits on social gatherings and avoid crowded places, for their own protection and that of their fellow citizens.He said the Punjab Police had started a drive to penalise people found violating the safety protocols amid the fresh spike in Covid-19 cases in the state. He said the police in several districts had also collaborated with the mobile health teams and around 31 such teams were working in tandem with them to conduct RT-PCR tests on the spot.“Jalandhar Rural and SBS Nagar are leading in the RT-PCR testing with 800 and 541 tests conducted on violators in a single day, respectively,” he said. Besides getting people tested for Covid and issuing challans, the police had registered seven FIRs against violators in the state, the DGP added.Appealing to the public to strictly adhere to safety protocols and leave their homes wearing masks only, DGP Dinkar Gupta said the Covid testing and challan drive would continue to keep the people of Punjab safe from the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-400-violators-taken-for-covid-testing-in-punjab-228145
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Sale deeds, affidavits under lens as Punjab cops probe stamp paper scam||Hundreds of property documents, sale-purchase agreements, powers of attorney, affidavits and bank loans in Punjab and Haryana and other parts of the country are under scrutiny following the unearthing of a Telgi-like stamp paper scam in Mohali. Some of the stamp papers are suspected to have been executed in the name of dead persons and used in old property disputes.Modus operandiThis is the third such scam — unearthed in February with the arrest of five suspects from Mohali — in the past two years. While the first two did not have major ramifications, concerns are being raised over safeguard measures introduced following the 2001 Abdul Karim Telgi scam to keep fake stamp papers or their misuse in check. Surprisingly, the Mohali stamp paper suspects, allegedly led by Harish Arora, had been hoodwinking the authorities for the past eight years. Old stamp papers issued under fake names, even of dead individuals, were used to prepare documents with fake rubber stamps/seals of various banks. These documents were then used in disputed properties, affidavits or to get loans. Thirteen ledgers, maintained by the suspects, containing hundreds of entries of these documents are being looked into to ascertain the extent of the scam.“It is a voluminous investigation. We are looking at a wide network involving possible collusion with bank and revenue officials, besides real estate dealers who took stamp papers from the suspects,” said SP Ravjot Kaur Grewal. “Their main area of operation was Zirakpur where a large number of illegal property executions seemed to have taken place. Entries of other areas too had been found. The suspects seemed to have procured stamp papers from different cities of Punjab,” she said.“The main suspect is not even a licenced vendor. Why would anyone take stamp a paper issued a long time ago in someone else’s name from a vendor? It smacks of criminal intent,” said Grewal.DGP Dinkar Gupta said the scope of the case was being ascertained by a special investigation team (SIT), headed by the SP(R), Mohali.As many as 333 unused stamp papers were recovered from the prime suspect. The scam is likely to run into several crores of rupees. The prime suspect also supplied stamp papers to private sector banks, including HDFC and ICICI, through a vendor code allotted to his firm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sale-deeds-affidavits-under-lens-as-punjab-cops-probe-stamp-paper-scam-228161
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Jalandhar sees 87 deaths in 2 weeks||Doaba seems to have emerged as the epicentre of a second Covid spike in the state. Half of the state’s deaths in the last two weeks have been reported from Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and SBS Nagar districts.Daily cases above 40K after 111 daysNew Delhi: The daily Covid cases breached the 40,000-mark (40,953) after 111 days on Saturday. The total cases reached 1,15,55,284, while vaccinations have crossed 4.2 crore. Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab accounted for 76.22 per cent of the active caseload.As per the Health Department, the state reported 370 deaths and 23,118 cases in the past two weeks. Of these, 181 deaths and 7,306 cases were reported from the three Doaba districts. With 87 deaths and 3,171 cases, Jalandhar is the worst-affected district. It is followed by Hoshiarpur, which saw 63 deaths and 2,398 cases. SBS Nagar, where the first Covid case in the state was detected last year, witnessed 31 deaths and 1,737 cases during the same period.Meanwhile, there is no let-up in new infections in the state, which saw 2,587 cases in the past 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-jalandhar-sees-87-deaths-in-2-weeks-228124
21-03-2021||Amritsar||More farmers from Tarn Taran, Amritsar leave for Singhu||A convoy of tractor-trailers and other vehicles with protesters from Tarn Taran and the holy city on Saturday left to take part in the ongoing farmers’ protest against the central agricultural laws at the Singhu border. It was the ninth jatha from Tarn Taran district which left from the Harike Pattan area.They would take part in the programmes to mark the martyrdom of Shaheed Bhagat Singh on March 23.“Around 40 per cent protesters at the Singhu border hail from the Majha region. A large number of them are from Amritsar,” said Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary, Kisan Sangharsh Committee (KSC).Pandher accused the Capt Amarinder Singh government of playing politics with agitating farmers. He alleged “under the garb of Covid-19 restrictions, public assemblies are being prohibited to prevent the farmers from reaching protesting sites at the Delhi border.”Similarly, the Manohar Lal Khattar government was trying to stifle the voice of the common man, alleged Pandher, adding that the Property Recovery Loss Bill was recently introduced to put pressure on the peasant movement in Haryana.Similar charges were levelled by leaders of the Democratic Teachers’ Front. One of the front leaders, Ashwani Awasthi, said the government was trying to gag all democratic protests, including farmers’agitation, under the garb of Covid-19 management.Meanwhile, activists affiliated to the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) of Attari carried out a motorcylce rally to impress upon the central government to repeal the three contentious agricultural laws.The rally started from Nangali village and concluded at the Jallianwala Bagh. With banners of martyrs Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev installed on the tractor-trailers, the rally passed through various areas of the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/more-farmers-from-tarn-taran-amritsar-leave-for-singhu-228126
21-03-2021||---||BKU chief Joginder Singh Ugrahan positive, hospitalised||Bathinda, March 20Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) state president Joginder Singh Ugrahan has tested positive for Covid-19 and admitted to a private hospital in Bathinda.Ugrahan complained of breathlessness and uneasiness following which he was admitted to the hospital on March 17. Doctors said Ugrahan had responded well to the treatment and his condition was stable.Septuagenarian Joginder Singh Ugrahan, originally a native of Ugrahan village in Sangrur district, is a tall farm union leader who has been spearheading the farmers’ agitation for the repeal of three agricultural laws at the Delhi border for almost four months now. He calls the shots when it comes to key decision-making with regard to holding meetings and devising strategy to strengthen and taking forward the farmers’ agitation.Gursewak Singh, manager, Nivaran Hospital, said: “Joginder Singh Ugrahan was admitted to the hospital on March 17 after he complained of breathlessness and fever. Later, he was tested positive for Covid-19. He is in the isolation ward now. He has recovered well and is likely to be discharged from here in three to four days.”Shingara Singh Mann, president, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) Bathinda, said, “The absence of a leader of Joginder Ugrahan’s stature does make a difference, but on the whole it will not impact the agitation. Ugrahan has been attending meetings and holding rallies in the state since March 12. He is scheduled to return to Tikri after March 23. Once he fully recovers, he will rejoin the agitation.”Ugrahan, in a video shot from the hospital bed, said: “I was unwell and later tested positive for Covid-19. Now my condition is improving and I am feeling better. I will be discharged from the hospital shortly and will rejoin the agitation soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bku-chief-joginder-singh-ugrahan-positive-hospitalised-228127
21-03-2021||Mansa||Mansa farmers protest irregular power supply||BKU (Dakonda) members gheraoed the office of XEN, Powercom, and staged a protest in Mansa district alleging the farmers were not getting regular power supply, thereby hampering the irrigation of wheat crop.Apart from wheat, farmers in the region also grow vegetables and fruits, but erratic power supply makes their job difficult, union leaders say.Makhan Singh Bhaini Bagha, block secretary of the union, said, “We have been facing this problem for long. Despite approaching Powercom authorities on numerous occasions, our requests for regular power supply have fallen on deaf ears.”Singh added, “Many farmers have taken loans, so any dip in yield will make things difficult for them. Many a time such situations force marginal farmers to end their lives by suicide. The government should ensure adequate power supply to farmers during the day.” The Powercom XEN assured farm union members of an early solution to their problem after which the union decided to stall the gherao till March 24. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mansa-farmers-protest-irregular-power-supply-228128
21-03-2021||Nawanshahr||Released on bail, farmers activist Ranjit Singh returns home||Released on bail nearly 50 days after his arrest by the Delhi police in connection with violence at the Singhu border, Ranjit Singh was today given a warm reception at his native place Kajampur near Balachaur here.Ranjit Singh reached home in a cavalcade of cars along with SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC ) chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa. Villagers honoured him with garlands and siropas. Ranjit Singh was welcomed by his mother Sarabjeet Kaur, who gave him a warm, tearful hug.The SAD and DSGMC announced an aid of Rs 2.50 lakh each to Ranjit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/released-on-bail-farmers-activist-ranjit-singh-returns-home-228129
21-03-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Pathankot leads Punjab's fight against pandemic||Tribune News ServicePathankot, March 20Pathankot district has topped the rankings in Punjab’s fight against Covid. Based on certain indicators, the Department of Health and Family Welfare has put the district on the top followed by Hoshiarpur and Gurdaspur.The final results were prepared on the basis of the number of people tested per lakh population, positivity rate, deaths and vaccination rate.Ludhiana, Faridkot and Rupnagar have been placed at the fourth, fifth and sixth spots, respectively.“When the virus had just started spreading we were quick to launch a ‘mask and hand sanitisation’ awareness drive. Officials anticipated the second surge early on and hence wearing of masks was made mandatory. We have now started another drive wherein residents are being asked to come forward to get vaccinated. We are concentrating on public health measures, including the curve flattening,” said Deputy Commissioner Sanyam Aggarwal.“We have put in place a zero-tolerance policy as far as wearing of masks is concerned,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pathankot-leads-punjabs-fight-against-pandemic-228131
21-03-2021||Muktsar||Badal speaks to son via video call||The Badal father-son duo today made a video call to know each other’s well-being. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal was admitted to Medanta Hospital, Gurugram, after he tested Covid-positive on Tuesday, and his 93-year-old father and former CM Parkash Singh Badal, as a precautionary measure, has isolated himself at a hotel owned by the family in Gurugram. Sukhbir shared a snapshot of the video call on his Facebook page, and wrote, “Your blessings are all I need.” —  TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/badal-speaks-to-son-via-video-call-228132
21-03-2021||Moga||AAP gets nod for Moga rally||Even as the state government has imposed strict restrictions on public gatherings in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the Moga administration has granted permission to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) to hold a “Kisan Mahapanchayat” at the Baghapurana grain market tomorrow. District Magistrate Sandeep Hans said the approval had been granted subject to certain restrictions. The AAP leadership would have to follow certain guidelines keeping in view the Covid situation in the state, he added. AAP leaders who will share the stage will have to undergo Covid tests before the rally. The party leadership has also been asked to follow the SOPs put in place by the Centre and the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-gets-nod-for-moga-rally-228133
21-03-2021||Faridkot||CBSE: Class X, XII students can change exam centre||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has allowed Classes 10 and 12 students to change their examination centres.  In view of a spike in Covid cases, the controller of examination in the CBSE has conveyed to heads of all CBSE-affiliated schools that instead of examination centres already allotted, the students can appear in new exam centres in the city or country of their choice. In a letter to the school heads received today, the controller of examinations informed the schools that due to the pandemic, many students of Classes 10 and 12 along with their families had shifted to other city/countries and therefore, they were unable to appear in the practical and theory examinations from the schools/examination centre where the students were registered for the board exams. The CBSE will conduct the board examinations for Classes 10 and 12 from May 4 to June 10. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cbse-class-x-xii-students-can-change-exam-centre-228135
21-03-2021||Amritsar||10 illegal stills busted, 5 held||In yet another major seizure, the rural police today busted 10 illegal stills during a late night operation in Jasso Nangal village, which is located on the border of Amritsar and Tarn Taran.The police recovered 370-litre illicit liquor besides 1.35 lakh kg of lahan (raw material mixed for distillation of illicit liquor) from the village. It has arrested five persons, identified as Baljinder Singh, Gurmit Singh, Komal Singh, Paramjit Singh and Gagandeep Singh and registered six cases under the Excise Act in this connection.The rural police authorities said as the village is located on the border, the accused used to supply the illicit liquor to their customers and clients in Baba Bakala, Jandiala and Tarn Taran before sunrise. They said the village was notorious for bootlegging and its name had come to light during the hooch tragedy that killed over 100 persons in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Batala last year.The police authorities said the properties of these bootleggers were being identified and would be freezed.This is the fifth such raid and seizure of huge quantity of illicit liquor and lahan in the rural belt during this month. Earlier, the police had raided Khiala Kalan, Lakhuwal, Chhapa Ram Singh and Kotli Sakka villages and successfully made huge recoveries.The police said around 150 cops headed by SSP Dhruv Dahiya were involved in five hour-long cordon and search operation in the village. “Following a tip-off, the police conducted a recce of the area and identified the houses before a raid was planned to nail the bootleggers,” officials said. The police also confiscated 16 tarpaulins, water tanks, four drums of 200-litre capacity each, 50 drums of 50-litre capacity each, eight gas cylinders and two bikes from the village during the raid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-illegal-stills-busted-5-held-228136
21-03-2021||Amritsar||Nagar kirtan marks Gurpurb festivities||Amid showering of petals and chanting of Gurbani, a nagar kirtan, dedicated to the fourth centenary celebrations of Guru Tegh Bahadur, commenced from his birth place Gurdwara Guru Ke Mahal on Saturday.Before this, Golden Temple’s Hazuri Raagi recited kirtan. Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said, “The motive of the nagar kirtan was to make the sangat aware of historic occasions and link them with the Gurmat philosophy.”“We are fortunate that the centenary has fallen in our lifetime and we must utilise the occasion to pray before the Almighty,” SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nagar-kirtan-marks-gurpurb-festivities-228137
21-03-2021||Sangrur||Anganwari workers block road in Sangrur||Anganwari workers today blocked the Sangrur-Ludhiana road for around 30 minutes in support of their demands. “Three days ago, we launched an indefinite protest near Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla’s residence for shifting pre-primary students back to anganwari centres. We will not end our protest without the fulfilment of our demand,” said Usha Rani, national president of the Anganwari Mulazam Union, Punjab. The protesters also raised slogans against the state government and announced to intensify their agitation in the coming days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anganwari-workers-block-road-in-sangrur-228138
21-03-2021||Bathinda||Fire near thermal plant in Bathinda||A massive fire broke out near Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant in Bathinda this evening. However, no loss of life or property was reported in the incident. The cause of fire could not be ascertained. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fire-near-thermal-plant-in-bathinda-228139
21-03-2021||Abohar||Three held in robbery case||The police today arrested three persons in connection with a robbery of 6kg gold and over Rs 1 lakh in cash at Manappuram Finance Limited’s Hanumangarh branch office. Those arrested include a senior branch official and a valuer. Superintendent of Police Preeti Jain said the robbery was masterminded by Assistant Chief Manager Sanjay Singh Shekhawat (26) and jeweller Madanlal Soni (28) with the help of a gang. Pawan Jat (22), a youth directly involved in the robbery, has been arrested, along with Shekhawat and Soni. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-held-in-robbery-case-228140
21-03-2021||---||Punjab Govt to recruit 10K cops, 3K domain experts||Chandigarh, March 20Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced a first-of-its-kind initiative in the country to strengthen the state’s law enforcement apparatus with dedicated district technical units along with district narcotic units, social media units, forensic units and anti-sabotage checking teams in all districts.Announcing the move aimed at strengthening the state’s law enforcement machinery to address the new challenges of policing and investigation, the Chief Minister said after stabilising the law and order situation over the past four years, his government was now focusing on augmenting law enforcement further, with more touchpoints to tackle new-age crimes like digital/cyber crimes, and enhance the safety and security of women and other vulnerable sections of society.Apart from 3,100 domain experts to combat specialised crimes, 10,000 police officials will be recruited, of which 33 per cent will be women at the level of SI and constables, to expand the ground force and ensure more effective policing, the Chief Minister said.With the changing nature of crime necessitating support and interventions by domain experts for the effective prevention/detection of crime, the Punjab Police would soon recruit around 3,100 specialist police officers and domain experts in the fields of law, forensics, digital forensics, information technology, data mining, cyber security, intelligence analysis, human resource management and development and road safety planning and engineering, said Capt Amarinder, who also holds the Home portfolio.The pioneering initiative, designed to transform the police force, will make Punjab the first state in the country to induct domain experts, said the Chief Minister, as the state government geared up to scale the police department to the next level, after successfully implementing a slew of drastic measures.Giving details of the initiatives, DGP Dinkar Gupta said the domain experts would include around 600 law graduates, 450 crime scene investigators, 1,350 IT experts with specialist qualifications and experience in law, commerce, forensics, digital forensics, data mining, data analysis, etc, for deployment as cyber detectives, financial detectives, homicide detectives, sexual assault and rape detectives, etc. In addition, the Punjab Government will also recruit around 460 qualified and trained counsellors, clinical psychologists and community and victim support officers for deployment at family counselling centres and women help desks in all districts of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-to-recruit-10k-cops-3k-domain-experts-228141
21-03-2021||Saurabh Malik||High Court raps cops for dereliction of duty, orders probe||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 20In a severe indictment of the Punjab Police, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that the non-registration of an FIR after a man’s unnatural death appeared to be serious dereliction of duty and smacked of “some personal agenda on part of the police officials”.Making it clear that “there seems to be much more than meets the eye”, Justice Arun Monga directed a Subdivisional Magistrate to conduct a judicial probe into the case.FIR NOT FILED IN DEATH CASEThe petitioner’s brother died under mysterious circumstances. He allegedly sustained 14 injuries, including two firearm shots. The injuries would naturally lead to the prima facie impression that it was a murder. Yet, an FIR in the matter has not been registered till date.The Director General of Police, Punjab, was also ordered to depute the Inspector General, Amritsar border range, to conduct an inquiry and submit an action-taken report in the case.“Specific reasons, as to why an FIR has not been registered so far, be given in the inquiry report and, other observations of this court be also dealt with,” Justice Monga asserted.The directions came on a petition filed against the State of Punjab and other respondents by Maninder Pal, whose brother was allegedly murdered. Justice Monga said the court’s attention was particularly drawn to the glaring facts and circumstances narrated in the pleas. Not only did the petitioner’s brother die under suspicious circumstances, he allegedly sustained 14 injuries, including two firearm shots. The injuries would naturally lead to the prima facie impression that it was not a case of natural death, but a murder. Yet, an FIR in the matter was not registered till date.Justice Monga added the state/police officials were duty-bound to register an FIR on being approached and apprised of the facts by the petitioner as it was unnatural death — whether murder or homicide. Truth would emerge only after an investigation into the allegations was carried out. Fixing the case for April third week, Justice Monga made it clear that the SDM, too, would conduct the judicial inquiry into the entire episode before submitting his report by the next date of hearing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-raps-cops-for-dereliction-of-duty-orders-probe-228142
21-03-2021||---||Ex-serviceman shot in Batala||Batala, March 20 Ex-serviceman Harpal Singh (49) was gunned down outside his residence at Jaitu Sarja village late yesterday evening. A police officer said accused Gurprem Singh had an old enmity with the deceased. “Harpal was on way back home around 7 pm on Friday when the accused arrived there in a car and opened fire at him. Harpal was killed on the spot,” he said. “Lookout notices have been issued against the accused. He had arrived from Australia a few days ago. I have formed three teams that have identified some of his hideouts. The accused will be arrested soon,” said SSP Rachpal Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-serviceman-shot-in-batala-228143
21-03-2021||Faridkot||Cong leader Pehlwan murder case: Warrant against Canada resident||In the murder case of District Youth Congress president and Zila Parishad member Gurlal Singh Pehlwan, the police have procured an open-ended non-bailable arrest warrant from a local court against Canada-based Goldy Brar. He is believed to the main conspirator in the murder which was allegedly committed to avenge the killing of Goldy’s cousin, Gurlal Singh Brar, who was killed in Chandigarh on October 10, 2020.The open-ended non-bailable warrant does not have a time limit for execution. The police also have plans to get a red-corner notice issued by Interpol against Goldy.Brar (26) was a former state president of the Students’ Organisation of Panjab University (SOPU). He was an acquaintance of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi. After killing Brar last year, members of a group had taken the responsibility for the murder through a Facebook post, saying he was killed to avenge Lavi Deora’s murder in July 2017 at Kotkapura, allegedly by members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-leader-pehlwan-murder-case-warrant-against-canada-resident-228144
21-03-2021||---||Chattisinghpura Massacre: On 21st anniversary, Sikh body renews demand for probe||New Delhi, March 20On the 21st anniversary of the Chattisinghpura massacre, Sikhs in Jammu and Kashmir today renewed the call for a fresh probe into the horrific incident with the All Parties Sikh Coordination Committee, Kashmir, issuing a formal statement in this regard.RP SINGH, BJP SpokespersonDeep wound on the soul of communityIt was a horrific crime committed to send a message to the US and defame India. It is a deep wound on the soul of the Sikhs who were punished for standing by the country. If our brothers want a fresh probe, we are with them.“After 21 years, the people of J&K especially the Sikhs of the Valley, are waiting for justice and urge the state and the Centre to nab the culprits of the Chattisinghpura massacre,” president of the committee Jagmohan Singh Raina said today.The committee said in 2000, unidentified gunmen had entered a quiet south Kashmiri village and massacred 36 men. “The murders shocked the entire region. Questions about who perpetrated the horrific killings still look and await answers. The police said nearly 20 militants carried out the massacre but out of them only five were caught and later killed. Those killed were residents of Brackpura and a judicial enquiry by the Justice Pandan Commission had looked into the matter, but answers still evade us,” Raina said urging for closure to the families of slain Sikhs.Raina appealed to LG Manoj Sinha and the Centre to order a fresh probe into the killings of Sikhs in Chattisinghpura.“If this is not done, we will consider it as a grave injustice to the Sikhs of Kashmir,” he said. The massacre took place hours before the arrival of then US President Bill Clinton to India, the first visit by a US President to India in 22 years. Raina recalled how after the killings, then CMof the state Farooq Abdullah publicly assured that the culprits would be arrested. “So far the promises made by the former CM have not been fulfilled,” said Raina.36 men lost lives at Kashmiri village||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chattisinghpura-massacre-on-21st-anniversary-sikh-body-renews-demand-for-probe-228206
21-03-2021||Toronti||Delhi-to-Toronto flights bringing most Covid cases to Canada||Flights from New Delhi to Toronto are bringing in the largest number of international passengers testing positive for the novel coronavirus, according to data issued by Health Canada.There are two daily flights between the two cities, operated by Air India and Air Canada.Canada says AstraZeneca vaccine is safe after Norway and Denmark suspend useThe period from March 3-19 shows that almost all the New Delhi-Toronto flights carried Covid-positive passengers. Passengers in the three-row range of each Covid-positive person on the flight are deemed as impacted.As many as 30 Covid-infected flights from Delhi have landed in Canada since March 4 - nine in Vancouver and 21 in Toronto.Canada’s tourism suffers unprecedented lossesAmong the 21 flights landing in Toronto, 14 flights showed a minimum of six infected rows. The remaining seven flights had an unknown number of impacted rows.The two most-heavily infected flights from Delhi landed in Toronto on March 9 and 13.Canada’s economy worst on record since 1961The entire business-class and premium economy cabins on the Air Canada Boeing 787 Dreamliner flight from Delhi on March 9 were reported to be affected. Except for eight rows, the economy class was also infected.On March 13, the Air India flight landed with 22 out of 35 rows of its economy class infected.In all, 106 Covid-infected flights have landed in Canada from various international destinations since March 4, making Indian-origin flights the biggest source of Covid-positive passengers. Air travellers must provide proof of a negative Covid-19 test before boarding Canada-bound flights. They also undergo a test upon arrival.Canadian air travellers returning home quarantine for three days in government-approved hotels. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delhi-to-toronto-flights-bringing-most-covid-cases-to-canada-228004
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab shuts schools, colleges||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in Punjab, CM Capt Amarinder Singh has ordered a slew of restrictions beginning Saturday which include closure of all educational institutions till month-end and curbs on cinema halls and malls. The Punjab School Education Board has postponed Class V and VIII examinations, which were to commence from March 22.4,400 violators taken for Covid testing in PunjabEducation Minister Vijay Inder Singla said even the ongoing examination of all non-Board classes in government schools had been put off till March 31. “A new datesheet will be announced after reviewing the Covid situation by March 31,” he said.38 more die in PunjabIKG Punjab Technical University and Guru Nanak Dev University have also announced postponement of all ongoing examination.Fresh restrictions on gatherings till march 31 For 11 worst-hit dists...In the 11 worst-hit districts, a complete ban has been ordered on all social gatherings, except for funerals and weddings, which will be allowed with only 20 persons in attendance. This will be enforced from Sunday.These districts are Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, SAS Nagar, Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, SBS Nagar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ropar and Moga. In these districts, which will remain under night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am, cinemas, multiplexes, restaurants, malls etc., will remain shut on Sundays. Industries and essential services shall be allowed to function.Jab not for allIt is not scientifically necessary to vaccinate all... Priority groups to be revised soon. —Harsh Vardhan, Health MinisterThough other districts will not be placed under such stringent restrictions for now, the CM ordered immediate reinforcement and strict monitoring of the strategy of micro-containment and containment zones. The situation will be reviewed after two weeks, said the CM, chairing a meeting of the Covid task force officials. Dr KK Talwar, who heads the government’s expert team on Covid, said the surge appeared to be the result of opening of schools and colleges, with young asymptomatic people appearing to be spreading the virus. “There is no evidence as of now to show that the spike is due to the mutants,” he added.— TNS40K fresh casesIndia reported 39,726 new cases in 24 hours. It was on November 29, 2020, that India last saw 41,810 fresh infections.4,11,55,978 doses given||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-shuts-schools-colleges-227729
