22-03-2021||---||Activist Nodeep Kaur urges students to gather on one platform against farm laws||Patiala, March 22Labour rights activists Nodeep Kaur while speaking to students at Punjabi University in Patiala said various organisations will come together and hold a conference in Delhi.She said she had come to the University campus to remember and discuss the ideas of freedom fighters Bhagat Singh, Rajguru, Sukhdev and their associates, to apply them in relation to protests against the Centre government farm laws in the country. The event was organised by Democratic Students’ Organisation (DSO) to commemorate the martyrdom of Bhagat Singh and his associates.Accompanied by activist Shiv Kumar, she said people associated with various organisations need to come together to fight a ‘fascist’ government.She added, “Our politics is for the rights of women, children and all other members of the society.”She said they want to bring people of various organisations together. “Students associated with various student political wings should come together. We need to learn from the ideas of Bhagat singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru. Our education should not remain confined to our classrooms but we should use it for the betterment of the society.”She said all fronts protesting against the Centre’s farm bills will together hold a conference in Delhi. “A conference will be organised at all-India-level against the farm bills. We are going and meeting people of different organisations to bring them together on one platform.” She said the conference is set to be held on March 30. “We are also meeting trade unions and are in touch with farmers’ associations and other organisations,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/activist-nodeep-kaur-urges-students-to-gather-on-one-platform-against-farm-laws-228938
22-03-2021||Amritsar||US Sikhs offer to set up solar power plant in Golden Temple complex||With the assistance of US-based Sikhs, the SGPC has initiated to install a solar power system in the Golden Temple complex.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur on Monday held parleys with a delegation from California-United Sikh Mission led by Rashpal Singh Dhindsa and Sikh Lens Foundation president Vicky Singh and the members of coordination committee for installing solar power system, including coordinator Baldev Singh Kang, technical experts Balaur Singh, director retired PEDA (Punjab Energy Development Agency) and Dr NP Singh, retired Dean Punjab Technical University (PTU), Ranjit Singh and Avtar Singh.Bibi Jagir Kaur said the SGPC executive had decided to put the power supply mechanism on solar system mode and United Sikh Mission volunteered to do the service.“After exploring all the technical feasibility, it was decided that a solar power system of at least 1 megawatt (MW) capacity could be installed as a pilot project. The equipment would be fixed on the rooftop of buildings located in the Shrine complex. Thereafter, it could be replicated in Gurdwara Shaheed Baba Deep Singh, Takht Damdama Sahib and other gurdwaras,” she said.Rashpal Singh Dhindsa said the project would cost around Rs 8 crore and it would take around four months to fit the equipment.“Abiding by Gurus’ teachings, the US Sikh sangat spared their dasvandh (one-tenth of the earnings) for the noble cause. The project would be executed in a phased manner and our aim was to illuminate the whole shrine complex uninterruptedly. This 1MW solar power plant would produce about 14 lakh units of electricity per year and it will reduce electricity expenses of SGPC at Sri Darbar Sahib by about 50 per cent i.e. about Rs 1.25 crore annually,” he said.Meanwhile, Vicky Singh also showed gratitude towards the SGPC which gave them an opportunity to contribute for the Shrine.“We had received proposals from seven top solar power companies based in India and the best was chosen to execute the job,” he said.During the meeting, Sikh Lens Foundation also presented a set of books to Bibi Jagir Kaur with information of gurdwaras and Sikh heritage in Pakistan and Afghanistan.On this occasion, senior vice-president Surjit Singh Bhitewad, SGPC member Bhai Manjit Singh, Amrik Singh Vichhoya, Gurmeet Singh Booh, assistant secretary Kulwinder Singh Ramdas, Golden Temple manager Gurinder Singh Mathrewal, OSD Dr Sukhbir Singh were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/us-sikhs-offer-to-set-up-solar-power-plant-in-golden-temple-complex-228934
22-03-2021||---||NIA files charge sheet against 7 Khalistani operatives in Amritsar hand grenade seizure case||Mukesh RanjanTribune News ServiceNew Delhi, March 22The anti-terror probe agency NIA on Monday said it has filed a charge sheet against seven Khalistani operatives under various sections of IPC, Explosive Substances Act and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for their alleged involvement in a case pertaining to recovery of two hand grenades and one Samsung mobile phone from a bag in Amritsar on June 2, 2019.Officials in the NIA said the charge sheet in a Mohali special court is against Jajbir Singh Samra of Tarn Taran, Varinder Singh Chahal of Amritsar, Kulbir Singh of Nawanshahr, Manjit Kaur of Ludhiana, Taranbir Singh of Amritsar, Kulwinderjit Singh, an operative of Babbar Khalsa International, and Harmeet Singh, a Pakistan-based self-styled chief of Khalistan Liberation Force.The officials said, the NIA investigation revealed that accused Jajbir Singh Samra and Varinder Singh Chahal were part of a narco-terror module involved in distributing the heroin smuggled from Pakistan in order to channelise the proceeds of drugs to various terrorist entities on the directions of Pakistan based terrorist Harmeet Singh.They had also picked up grenades and concealed the same at pre-decided location for carrying out terrorist act to further the conspiracy hatched by Harmeet Singh and Kulwinderjit Singh, the officials said.The NIA in its investigation also found that accused Kulbir Singh, Manjit Kaur and Taranbir Singh had harboured and provided logistics support, including accommodation, business VISA for Kulwinderjit Singh in Cambodia and Malaysia at the time when he had escaped from India, the officials said.This case was first registered by Punjab Police on June 2, 2019 after seizure of two hand grenades and one Samsung mobile phone from a bag, which was thrown by two unknown motorcycle riders at Harsha Cheena bus stop, Kukkrawala, Amritsar (Rural). Later, the NIA took over the case in July 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nia-files-charge-sheet-against-7-khalistani-operatives-in-amritsar-hand-grenade-seizure-case-228921
22-03-2021||New Delhi||Punjab, 4 other states record surge in Covid cases||Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh are reporting a surge in the Covid daily cases and account for 80.5 per cent of the total new cases registered, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday.India saw 46,951 new cases being registered in a day, the highest single-day rise so far this year.Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 30,535 (65.03 per cent). This is followed by Punjab with 2,644 while Kerala reported 1,875 new cases.Eight states - Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana - are displaying an upward trajectory in the daily new Covid cases, the ministry said.India's total active caseload has increased to 3,34,646 comprising 2.87 per cent of India's total infections.A net rise of 25,559 cases has been added to the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours, the ministry said.The Daily Positivity Rate (7-day average) currently stands at 3.7 per cent, the ministry said.Maharashtra has conducted 1,78,00,438 tests and has a positivity rate of 13.93 per cent, followed by Tamil Nadu which has conducted 1,78,13,593 tests and has a positivity rate of 4.87 per cent.Haryana has so far tested 58,19,748 samples and has a positivity rate 4.81 per cent. Karnataka has tested 2,05,49,434 tests and has a positivity rate of 4.72 per cent.Madhya Pradesh and Delhi has conducted 59,31,486 and 1,39,44,512 tests so far and both has a positivity rate of 4.65 per cent.Eight States/UTs - Maharashtra, Chandigarh, Punjab, Puducherry, Goa, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Haryana - have a weekly positivity rate more than the national average of 3.7 per cent, the ministry highlighted.The total vaccination coverage in India has crossed the 4.5-crore mark, it stated.More than 4.5 crore (4,50,65,998) vaccine doses have been administered through 7,33,597 sessions, as per the provisional report till Monday 7 am.A total of 212 deaths have been reported in a day.Six states account for 85.85 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (99). Punjab follows with 44 deaths and Kerala reported 13 deaths in a span of 24 hours.The Case Fatality Rate currently stands at 1.37 per cent and is continuously declining, the ministry said.Fourteen states and UTs have not reported any Covid deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Uttarakhand, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Ladakh, Daman and Diu & Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Meghalaya, Manipur, Tripura, Nagaland, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-4-other-states-record-surge-in-covid-cases-228892
22-03-2021||New Delhi||44 more die in Punjab as nation sees highest single-day Covid cases since November||India saw 46,951 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, the highest so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid tally to 1,16,46,081, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday.Registering an increase for the 12th day in a row, the total active caseload has increased to 3,34,646, which now comprises 2.87 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 95.75 per cent, the data stated.2nd Covid-19 peak likely to be more severe: StudyThe daily rise in infections was the highest recorded in 130 days, while  the death toll increased to 1,59,967 with 212 daily new fatalities, the highest in 72 days, the data updated at 8 am showed.As many as 47,905 infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on November 12.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,11,51,468, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.37 per cent, the data stated.Restrictions won’t weaken farmers' stir: Ruldu Singh MansaAccording to the ICMR, 23,44,45,774 samples have been tested up to March 21 with 8,80,655 samples being tested on Sunday. The 212 new fatalities include 99 from Maharashtra, 44 from Punjab, 13 from Kerala and 10 from Chhattisgarh.Cases at 4-month high, Centre flags risk during Kumbh MelaA total of 1,59,967 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 53,399 from Maharashtra, 12,599 from Tamil Nadu, 12,434 from Karnataka, 10,956 from Delhi, 10,306 from West Bengal, 8,759 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,189 from Andhra Pradesh. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/44-more-die-in-punjab-as-nation-sees-highest-single-day-covid-cases-since-november-228857
22-03-2021||Bathinda||Restrictions won’t weaken farmers' stir: Ruldu Singh Mansa||Punjab Kisan Union president Ruldu Singh Mansa has criticised the Union government for imposing restrictions on the state, citing that Covid cases are increasing in Punjab, but coronavirus does not spread in states where elections are scheduled and leaders will address political rallies.“The government is mistaken if it thinks that it will weaken the farmer movement”, said Mansa, addressing a gathering of farmers during a Kisan Sammelan in Joga of Mansa district.Mansa said, “Such tactics will end up strengthening our resolve to fight the battle till it reaches its logical conclusion. We still stand firm with our demands and fight it until the laws are repealed.”Farmer leaders from the Kul Hind Kisan Sabha and the Haryana Kisan Union also addressed the gathering of farmers and exhorted them to participate in the farmer agitation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/restrictions-wont-weaken-farmers-stir-ruldu-singh-mansa-228613
22-03-2021||Karam Prakash||Students oppose testing at Punjabi University||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 21The Health Department has not dared contact tracing in Punjabi University. Reason: It foresees the backlash from students because they have already protested Covid measures announced by the government. The university has become a Covid hotspot. The students unions have said they won’t allow testing unless they are symptomatic.The protesting unions find the corona testing an attempt to stop the students from pursuing their study by deliberately turning healthy students’ corona positive.Harpreet Singh, member of the Punjab Students Union (PSU), LalKaar, said, “If any student is having symptoms, he or she will get tested at the health centres on their own. Therefore, they wouldn’t allow testing in hostels.”Around 54, including hostellers, have tested positive in the university.Dr Vikas Goyal, Senior Medical Officer, Tripuri, said, “We have already written a letter to university officials to convince the students for Covid testing. Until we get a green signal, how can we conduct tests at hostels? There has already been resistance from students unions.”Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said, “We cannot risk the safety of health officials, including doctors, who have been working day and night. We will not send our teams until we get the assurance of safety from the university officials.”Dr Regina, Senior Medical Officer, Punjabi University, said only a few positive students were in isolation while others had gone home with their parents.Meanwhile, Dr Paramjit Kaur Gill, Additional Dean, Student Welfare, Punjabi Univerity, said, “We have not ordered to vacate the hostel as we have not received any guidelines from the government. However, most students have already gone home. If the students are not willing, then what can we do?”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/students-oppose-testing-at-punjabi-university-228614
22-03-2021||GS Paul||Uncertainty over Sikh jatha to Pakistan on Baisakhi||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 21Amid the Covid spike, uncertainty prevails over the pilgrimage to Pakistan on Khalsa Sajna Divas (Baisakhi). The main event has been scheduled at Gurdwara Panja Sahib in Hasan Abdal, Pakistan.The SGPC will send a jatha to commemorate the occasion. About 878 passports of pilgrims have been sent to the government for visa.Due to the growing Covid cases, the Punjab Government has imposed restrictions in the state and closed educational institutions till March 31. Night curfew has been imposed in nine districts. Similarly, the Union government has also held a review meeting with Chief Ministers. Due to the situation, the departure of Sikh pilgrims to Pakistan on April 12 has again become uncertain.Earlier, a day prior to the scheduled visit to Sri Nankana Sahib to mark the Saka Nankana Sahib centenary, the Centre had declined the permission to the jatha due to the security and Covid threat in February.SGPC secretary Sukhdev Singh Bhurakona said, “Keeping in view the pandemic scenario, the Union government may not allow jatha to leave for Pakistan. But, we should be informed well in advance. Disappointment should not be there at the eleventh hour,” he said.Khalsa Sajna Divas and Baisakhi falls on April 14. A contingent of Sikh pilgrims is scheduled to leave for Pakistan via Attari Wagah checkpoint on April 12.On the other side of border, the PSGPC is all set to welcome the jatha. PSGPC president Satwant Singh said though the partial restrictions were there in the wake of Covid, yet the government had yet not raised any objections. He said due to coronavirus, precautionary measures have been taken in Pakistan as well.“We believe that the situation will be normalised if the health guidelines are observed. The India should allow the Sikhs to visit Pakistan,” he said. Last year, Pakistan’s Evacuee Trust Property Board scrapped the Baisakhi celebrations due to the Covid lockdown. In India, the jatha could not visit Pakistan on the occasion of Guru Arjan’s martyrdom anniversary and Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s death anniversary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/uncertainty-over-sikh-jatha-to-pakistan-on-baisakhi-228615
22-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Farm leaders review preparations for March 24 rally in Sirhind Mandi||Fatehgarh Sahib, March 21Local leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha along with SSP Amneet Kondal and other police officials today took stock of preparations for the “Maha Kisan Mazdoor Ekta Rally” to be held at the new grain market, Sirhind Mandi, on March 24.The rally is being organised by the Sarpanch Union, Punjab, in collaboration with Bharatiya Kisan Mazdoor Union. They discussed the security plan with police officials and farmer leaders coming from Delhi. The district administration has already granted permission for the rally.BKU (Ugrahan) district president Prof Dharmjit Singh confirmed farm union leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Rakesh Tikait’s participation in the rally.Sarpanch Union, Punjab, state president Gurmeet Singh Gunia Majra; and Kranti Kari Kissan Union, Bhal Majra district president, Harnek Singh said the consent of Ruldu Singh Mansa and Jagjit Singh Dalewal was awaited. He said besides farm union leaders, several artistes, including Babbu Mann, would also participate. They said farmers were holding meetings at village level to make the rally a success.The farmer leaders said on the pretext of Covid threat the state government was trying to sabotage their rally, but the people would attend the rally en masse. They said if there was any Covid threat farmers protesting at Delhi would have been affected. They called upon all farm unions, traders, labour organisations, supporters and others to participate in large numbers, so that a strong message was conveyed to the central government against the three contentious farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-leaders-review-preparations-for-march-24-rally-in-sirhind-mandi-228616
22-03-2021||Bathinda||Villagers protest laying of pipeline in Bathinda||Residents of Ablu village in Bathinda staged a protest against laying of a sewerage pipeline from Bathinda city to Chanbhan drain. The protesters raised slogans against the district administration and state government.Harpreet Singh Brar, block president of BKU (Sidhupur), said, “With this sewerage pipeline, polluted water from the city will be discharged in the drain. Apart from foul smell, the drain water will also make villagers vulnerable to diseases. It will also adversely affect the value of the land.” Union members said if the work was not stopped, they would start an indefinite stir. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/villagers-protest-laying-of-pipeline-in-bathinda-228617
22-03-2021||---||Will contest all Assembly seats in Punjab: BJP||Chandigarh, March 21The BJP will form the next state government in 2022, claimed Sudan Singh, national vice-president of the party, while addressing a two-day conference of the state unit here today.The senior leaders of the BJP strategised a policy for the coming months as Assembly elections are scheduled for the next year. Addressing the leaders, Sudan Singh emphasised the party had the requisite organisational infrastructure to contest all 117 constituencies.The party, which recently parted ways from its long-time ally SAD, is confident that Punjabis understand the “heinous role played by the Congress in the 1984 riots and justice was only dispensed after the BJP government came into power at the Centre”. “The BJP understands the deep wounds which our brothers suffered during that terrible period,” said Dushyant Gautum, Rajya Sabha member and organising secretary of Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-contest-all-assembly-seats-in-punjab-bjp-228618
22-03-2021||Abohar||Pak intruder shot||A suspected Pakistani intruder was killed by Border Security Force (BSF) personnel in the Anoopgarh sector of Sriganganagar late Saturday evening.  The deceased was around 25 years old and his body was brought to the mortuary at the Civil Hospital in Anoopgarh late last night. This is the second attempt by suspected Pakistan nationals to infiltrate the Anoopgarh sector in a fortnight. Earlier, on March 5, a suspected intruder was killed near the Kailash outpost. Sources said the BSF personnel noticed a man coming into the Indian territory near the Sherpura border outpost around 7 pm. Despite being challenged, the man walked near the wire fence. As he did not stop despite warnings, BSF soldiers fired five rounds. The suspected intruder was found killed.  Senior BSF officials later reached Sherpura and informed the police about the incident. The body was shifted to the Anoopgarh Civil Hospital late in the night. Sources said nothing suspicious was found in the clothes he was wearing and the search operation continued till today morning. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pak-intruder-shot-228619
22-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Honey trap gang busted, 3 held||Abohar, March 21In less than a week, the Rajasthan Police claimed to have busted one more honey trap gang with the arrest of Sushil Suthar (39) of Rohranwali, Rajo Devi (30) of Guru Nagar and Kuldeep Rahad (33) of Chak 3H village in Sriganganagar.Sriganganagar police station in-charge Ranjit Ram Sevada said Lakhbir Singh (43) of Lohara village had registered a case. He alleged the gang laid traps and invited him to a house in Guru Nagar on October 12, last year. They allegedly took his pornographic photo fraudulently and forced him to pay Rs 1.10 lakh under threat to implicate him in a false case. He was allegedly forced to sign non-judicial blank papers and two blank cheques of his bank account.Since then, he was being threatened to pay Rs 8 lakh more. As he reported the matter to the police, Rajo Devi lodged a complaint at the police station, alleging she was raped by Lakhbir. The police today recovered from the accused two blank cheques and the papers bearing Lakhbir’s signature.Earlier, two women and husband of one of them, were arrested for making a bank official captive after inviting him to a job-seeker’s house. They had allegedly demanded Rs 5 lakh after snatching his Aadhaar and PAN cards, wrist-watch and Rs 2,000 for not implicating him in a false sexual assault case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/honey-trap-gang-busted-3-held-228620
22-03-2021||Sangrur||Farmers' agitation: Youth pay tributes to martyrs||On a call of the BKU Ugrahan and the Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union (PKMU), a massive gathering of youngsters, including thousands of girls, paid tributes to Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev during a youth conference in Sunam today. They also pledged to fight against farm laws.“We declare that Basanti convoys of the youth will stand in frontlines in struggle against the farm laws and the corporate world. We will carry on the spirit of our martyrs against anti-people decisions of the governments,” said Gurpreet Kaur Brass, a youth leader.All leaders said the sacrifice of the martyrs was a source of inspiration for the youth till today. Despite gaining Independence, the people were still suffering from the exploitation of big corporate houses as the governments were supporting them.Youth leader Kala Singh alleged that the Modi government brought the farm laws for the exploitation of farmers and the laws would further multiply the problems of farmers. “A huge convoy of the youth will move to Delhi on March 22 to celebrate the martyrdom day on March 23. Girls will pay tributes to the martyrs in the villages. We also appeal to make the March 26 bandh successful and will also organise flag marches on March 24 and 25,” said another youth leader Ajay Pal Singh Ghudda.BKU Ugrahan state general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan expressed satisfaction over the youth’s participation in conference.“Some forces are trying to label the farm struggle as a religious one. Today’s conference is a befitting reply to such baseless propaganda,” said Kokri Kalan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-agitation-youth-pay-tributes-to-martyrs-228621
22-03-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Capt failed to fulfil promises, AAP only alternative: Kejriwal||Tribune News ServiceBaghapurana (Moga), March 21Standing in solidarity with the protesting farmers, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal today addressed a ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ at Baghapurana town in Moga.Keeping in view the Assembly elections next year, he trained guns at his Punjab counterpart Capt Amarinder Singh and Prime Minister Narendra Modi of conniving with each other to bring in the farm laws. He announced that his party would support the agitation until the farm laws were repealed by the central government.“AAP has emerged out of people’s struggle. It has the courage to bring down corrupt and autocratic regimes. We defeated the BJP three times in a row in Delhi. Similarly, we will show the door to the Congress in the coming Assembly elections in Punjab,” he said. Kejriwal accused Amarinder of backtracking from the promises he made to the people before the last Assembly elections. “Amarinder has failed to provide jobs to the youth, waive farm loans and stop the flow of drugs in the state,” he said, adding he could not fool the people in the coming state elections. “We will give unemployment allowance to youths and provide free power, education and health facilities,” Kejriwal promised a cheering crowd.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-failed-to-fulfil-promises-aap-only-alternative-kejriwal-228622
22-03-2021||Faridkot||CBSE student migration certificates on DigiLocker now||The CBSE has decided to provide migration certificates to Class X and XII students on DigiLocker from this year.The hard copy of the certificates will be issued only to the students who will make a request to the board. As soon as the results are declared, the soft copy of the certificate will be made available in the DigiLocker, said Controller of Examinations, CBSE, in a letter to all affiliated schools.The hard copy will be discontinued from 2024 examinations, said the controller.Migration certificate is an important document which indicates he/she is the bona fide student of a particular board. The document is required when a student is changing board after Class X or XII or when a student seek admission in a higher education system.Once the CBSE results are announced, the board issues the migration certificate to the students. The CBSE is already providing the pass certificate and mark-sheet through DigiLocker.The CBSE has also eased the norms for getting duplicate educational documents if these are misplaced, mutilated or stolen. The applicant has to send a valid copy of photo I-card like Aadhaar card, driving licence, voter card, bank passbook, and an application with complete details is to be submitted to the Regional Office, CBSE, said the controller, examinations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cbse-student-migration-certificates-on-digilocker-now-228623
22-03-2021||Amritsar||Administration removes AAP hoardings in Amritsar||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal arrived in Amritsar on his transit visit before proceeding to attend a farmers’ event at Baghapurana in Moga.Prior to his visit, the boards and hoardings of AAP were removed by the civic authorities in the wee hours, leading to AAP workers raising slogans against the civic administration.On removal of AAP hoardings by the civic authorities here, AAP Punjab chief Bhagwant Mann said, “Kejriwal can never be detached from the hearts of the people by removing the boards and hoardings.” When asked about the restrictions imposed by the state government for holding a gathering in the wake of a spurt in Covid cases, Mann said, “The Congress has been contesting Assembly elections and holding rallies in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Assam, was the Covid threat taken under consideration then? Why did they do so when AAP was holding an event, that too for the farmers? All health guidelines are being followed at the venue,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/administration-removes-aap-hoardings-in-amritsar-228624
22-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Four drug peddlers held in Abohar||Abohar, March 21 The police seized 1-kg opium from scooterist Ravi Singh Monty of Suraj Nagari and arrested him under the NDPS Act. Another team seized 10-gm heroin by intercepting a car and arrested Gurpreet Singh Sonu and Kuldeep Singh Goldy of Fatehgarh Panchtoor, Moga. The accused are being interrogated.  The Sriganganagar police seized 10,000 sedative tablets by intercepting a luxury car and arrested Vinod Kumar of Muklawa segment. Jawaharnagar police station Sub Inspector Adesh Kumar said after interrogating the accused, it was found that his Gujarat-based brother had allegedly been arranging regular supply of intoxicating tablets through his Nagaur-based friend to Jodhpur, from where Vinod used to transport the consignment to Sriganganagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-drug-peddlers-held-in-abohar-228625
22-03-2021||Abohar||Two killed in mishaps||A truck driver and an Army man, both of Bathinda, were killed in separate road accidents yesterday.The Mahajan police station in charge, Ramesh Kumar, said two trucks collided near Arjunasar on the National Highway-62. Driver Major Singh (48) of Kot Fatta, Bathinda, was killed. Army man Harpreet Singh (31) of Jujhar Singh Nagar, Bathinda, was killed as the car that he was driving towards Bathinda from Suratgarh reportedly collided with a bus. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-killed-in-mishaps-228626
22-03-2021||---||5K cops to be deployed during Hola Mohalla||Ropar, March 21Besides strict implementation of Covid-19 guidelines, nearly 5,000 cops will be deployed at Kiratpur Sahib and Anandpur Sahib during six-day celebrations of Hola Mohalla starting from Wednesday.More than 20 lakh devotees from various parts of the country as well as abroad reach in twin towns during the festival every year.Ropar Senior Superintendent of Police Dr Akhil Chaudhary said to maintain law and order, the two towns had been divided into 12 sectors, and the responsibility of each sector had been entrusted to one Senior Superintendent of Police and two Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs), along with other police personnel, who would be on duty round the clock in two shifts.Besides this, 24 nakas and 22 mobile patrol parties will be there at the prescribed routes.The traffic from Ropar to Bilaspur-Manali will be diverted to Ghanauli-Nalagarh-Dehni-Swarghat, and traffic from Ropar to Nangal will be diverted to Ropar Headworks-Nurpurbedi-JhajChownk-Kalwan Mod-Nangal-Una. Similarly, traffic from Bunga Sahib to Garhshanker and Nangal would ply on Bunga Sahib-Nurpurbedi-JhajChownk-Kalwan Morh.The SSP said appeals had been made to follow the prescribed precautionary measures, including use of sanitisers, face mask, washing hands and maintaining social distancing.According to the orders of the Deputy Commissioner, international pilgrims planning to attend the festival have to bring with them Covid-negative reports of the test taken up to 72 hours prior to the visit.Traffic diversion to avoid jams||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5k-cops-to-be-deployed-during-hola-mohalla-228627
22-03-2021||Abohar||Abohar gets ODF ++ status||Once given the ‘filthiest town’ tag in the Swachh Survekshan covering more than 400 cities, the Abohar Municipal Corporation has now got open defecation free (ODF)++ status from the Government of India. MC Commissioner Abhijeet Kaplish attributed the achievement to the staff of the corporation and the people of the city who played a vital role in changing the mindset. Deputy Commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu congratulated the people of Abohar for the achievement. Under the ‘Chokho Abohar’ project, brainchild of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the MC had initiated efforts to wash the stain of being on the list of dirty cities. Sanitation structure was completely overhauled, new tippers, JB and hand-pulled rickshaw rehris were provided after recruiting more than 100 sanitation workers. Motivational lectures prompted the staff to accept the challenge to restore the old glory of the subdivisional town that was quoted in history books as ‘Abha Nagari’.  The MC also took up the construction of eight state-of-the-art public toilets with 7-star category of which two have been completed. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-gets-odf-status-228628
22-03-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Car falls off Sirhind  overbridge, two die||The Sirhind police have registered a case under Sections 279, 304A and 427 of the IPC against the contractor of a national highway for allegedly not taking any safety measures while initiating repair work at an overbridge on the GT road, which resulted in the death of two youths from Haryana.One of the youths was an NRI, who had come here for his engagement ceremony. The FIR has been lodged on the complaint of Deepak, a resident of NDRI campus at Karnal, Haryana.GS Sikand, Sirhind SHO, said Deepak Kumar alleged his son Vishal Grover and son-in-law Mohit Rathi were returning in their Innova car from Amritsar. At 7.30 pm, they reached the overbridge on the GT road where repair work was going on but no safety measures were in place and there were huge potholes on the road.As their car struck a pothole, it went out of control and fell from the overbridge. Deepak said his son and son-in-law got hurt and succumbed to their injuries later.The SHO said after registering an FIR, an inquiry would be conducted over the whether the officials of the highway authority were also at fault. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/car-falls-off-sirhind-overbridge-two-die-228629
22-03-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Misuse of farm power:  Violators to face action||Ludhiana, March 21Taking serious note of the rampant misuse of tubewell connections issued under the agricultural power (AP) category, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has empahsised that all such cases amounted to the violation of the ‘Schedule of Tariff for Agricultural Pumping Supply’ and ought to be considered as the ‘unauthorised use of electricity’ and must be disconnected forthwith as per Section 36 of the Supply Code 2014.Reiterating instructions issued earlier in this regard on July 29, 2019, the PSPCL Chief Engineer/Commercial has said, in his memo (dated March 8, 2021), that in case the consumer wanted to get the tubewell (being misused) shifted to farmland under his ownership, action as per rules be taken for shifting. In case of ‘idle’ tubewell connections, the consumer be served notice to get it shifted to agricultural land or else it should be disconnected.Further, all supervisory officials have been directed to get a survey done through their field offices and submit a report within a month that no agricultural tubewell connection was being installed or used in residential colonies, marriage palaces, farm houses or industrial units. Action taken with regard to the identification of such connections and their disconnection or shifting should also be reported to the headquarters.The Chief Engineer/Commercial has also instructed the officials to seek a report from Junior Engineers concerned at the time of the release of fresh tubewell connections to residential colonies, marriage palaces, farm houses or industrial units that no agricultural connection was already installed on the premises of such consumers. “If a tubewell is already installed on the premises where fresh connection is proposed to be released, it should either be disconnected or shifted as per the prevailing rules before the release,” says the memo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/misuse-of-farm-power-violators-to-face-action-228630
22-03-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal---||Mukerian highway dug up to lay pipes||Tribune News Service Gurdaspur, March 21 Punjab State Water Supply and Sewerage Board (PSWSSB) officials have dug up the strategically important Gurdaspur-Mukerian state highway ostensibly to lay sewerage pipes but seem to have lost their way as hundreds of commuters are being inconvenienced every day. Work has been going on since January and officials claim it will be the last week of May when the last of the pipes will be laid. Tibri cantonment is located on this very stretch of the road.   A 2-km-long detour has been earmarked through Gharala village as an alternative route. However, this stretch of the road, which in any case is barely wide enough to let two cars coming from opposite directions pass without one of them getting its paint peeled off, has also caved in. “The road was bound to be damaged because of heavy traffic. What is meant to be a 5-minute diversion has become a nightmarish one-hour drive,” said a truck driver. “Development comes at a cost,” said a board official, rather nonchalantly.  Harinder Singh, Chief Engineer, PSWSSB, said he was apprised of the matter. Satnam Singh, XEN, said his department was in the process of taking action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mukerian-highway-dug-up-to-lay-pipes-228631
22-03-2021||Parvesh Sharma---||Illegal banners dot Sangrur||Tribune News Service Sangrur, March 21 With the Sangrur Nagar Council (NC) failing to award an advertisement contract to any party for the past three years, several illegal hoardings and banners have come up in the city. Residents alleged NC employees had been pocketing money to allow the use of government space for erecting illegal hoardings. The worst hit areas were the Patiala gate, Sunami gate, Dhuri gate, Nabha gate, Gaushala road and the main market. “The NC authorities used to earn Rs 24 lakh annually from the advertisement contract. But for the past three years, they have not awarded any contract,” said former councillor Mahesh Kumar Meshi. He has written to the authorities seeking a probe. Executive Officer, Nagar Council, Ramesh Kumar said they could not float tenders for the advertisement contract due to technical glitches. “Our employees are taking charges for allowing hoardings in the city. The contract will also be awarded in the coming days,” the EO added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/illegal-banners-dot-sangrur-228632
22-03-2021||Barnala||NCB lauds cops||The NCB lauded Barnala SSP Sandeep Goel for helping its officials in confiscating 50 lakh psychotropic tablets. From February 15, 2020, the police have seized 3.74 crore tablets, Rs 2.60 crore drug money and busted gangs involved in drug supply in the country. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ncb-lauds-cops-228633
22-03-2021||---||Punjab sees 44 deaths, 2,669 cases in a day, highest this year||Chandigarh, March 21Punjab reported 44 deaths and 2,669 cases in the past 24 hours, the worst-ever for the state. This is the highest figure as far as both cases and deaths are concerned this year.The first case of Covid was reported in March last year. Since then, the total number of cases has reached 2.13 lakh and 6,324 deaths have been reported. In January, the daily average of cases had come down to around 200. But now, over the past one week, an average 2,000 cases are being reported.Among districts, Jalandhar reported the highest 393 cases in the last 24 hours, Ludhiana reported 330, SAS Nagar 327, Hoshiarpur 259 and Patiala reported 244 cases.As far as deaths are concerned, Doaba continues to be the worst-affected region.Hoshiarpur topped the chart with 10 deaths, followed by Ludhiana with eight deaths, Gurdaspur seven deaths, Jalandhar six, Amritsar five, Tarn Taran two and Ferozepur, Kapurthala, Pathankot, Patiala, SAS Nagar and Sangrur reported one death each.The state government had recently closed all educational institutions other than medical and nursing colleges in the state till March 31 and issued stricter guidelines to contain the fresh surge. Night curfew has also been imposed in 11 districts from 9 pm to 5 am. The Punjab Police on Saturday acted tough on people not wearing masks at public places and made 4,400 violators undergo RT-PCR testing. In addition, 1,800 persons were issued challans. The police also distributed free face masks to over 12,000 persons.CM Capt Amarinder Singh will hold a review meeting with the Covid Task Force after two weeks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sees-44-deaths-2-669-cases-in-a-day-highest-this-year-228636
22-03-2021||Gurdaspur||Mingling with media||Capt’s helping hand for ex-cadetChandigarh: Reacting to a Twitter message from a former Chief of Army Staff, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has directed the Department of Sainik Welfare to provide a motorised cycle to Shubham Gupta, a former National Defence Academy (NDA) cadet from Bathinda who had injured himself during his swimming lessons at the academy in 2012 and had to quit. The CM responded to a Twitter post by Gen VP Malik, who had tweeted on Friday that “Shubham Gupta is from Bathinda. May I request Capt Amarinder to do something, urgently”. General Malik had responded to a post by Ankur Chaturvedi on March 18 in which he had said “What a shame! A young boy all of 19 years who dons the uniform to serve the nation, gets injured on duty and is left quadriplegic! His request for something as basic as a motorised wheel chair is being denied!!”Kansal is rotary governorSangrur: President of Sangrur Industrial Chamber Ghanshyam Kansal has won election of the district rotary governor of 2023-24 of 3090 rotary district. The 3090 district includes eight districts of Punjab, four of Haryana and two of Rajasthan. The voting took place online. Kansal said of the total 99 votes, he got 64 while his opponent got 35 votes.Women acheivers adorn wallsFaridkot: To sensitise visitors of various government departments in Faridkot for a gender-equitable society, the walls of the district administration complex in Faridkot have been painted with many famous women faces and messages to save the girl child. “Imagination has been used to highlight the importance of the issue. No visitor to the government offices can remain unaffected by some of the moving depictions,” said Vimal Kumar Setia, Deputy Commissioner, Faridkot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mingling-with-media-228637
22-03-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||2nd Covid-19 peak likely to be more severe: Study||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 21The second Covid peak is yet to come and is expected to be higher than the first one. By the end of this week, almost 3,000 cases a day can be expected.The state witnessed first Covid peak was on September 17 last year, when 2,896 cases were reported. The highest single day deaths (106) were reported on September 2. Today, 2,669 cases were reported, though the fatality rate slightly came down to less than three.44 more die in Punjab as nation sees highest single-day Covid cases since NovemberA study by Ludhiana-based Christian Medical College, based on mathematical calculations, has predicted that the state could see the peak again later this week and through the first week of April. This will be followed by a flattening of the curve, but when the decline in daily cases will start cannot be predicted immediately, says Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state nodal officer for Covid.Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla tests positive, no Deputy Speaker to preside over HouseThis is why it is important to gear up all healthcare infrastructure immediately and ensure that all protocols are followed strictly by the people, Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan tells The Tribune. Managing the state’s strategy to deal with the second wave of the pandemic, Mahajan says that the government’s focus is on saving lives as well as livelihoods.Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat tests positive for coronavirusAsked about the possibility of imposing another lockdown, the Chief Secretary says that there is no situation, as of now, of bringing the economic activities to a halt.“Hopefully, with the cooperation of the people, wherein they follow all norms, we will come out of the dire situation,” she says. “Of the 1,500 beds in level-3 facilities, 22 per cent are occupied and of the 8,000 level-2 facilities, 15 per cent are occupied,” she says. ‘3,000 cases by weekend’What CMC saysA study by Ludhiana-based Christian Medical College has predicted that the state could see the peak again later this week and through the first week of April||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2nd-covid-19-peak-likely-to-be-more-severe-study-228640
22-03-2021||Tarn Taran||Wanted for murder, 2 Nihangs shot dead||Two murder accused Nihangs were on Sunday shot dead in an encounter after the duo attacked policemen with swords at Singhpura village, 35 km from here. Sub-Inspector Narinder Singh and Inspector Balwinder Singh, both SHOs, were injured.The accused were identified as Gurdev Singh of Ganda Singh Colony in Amritsar and Mehtab Singh, alias Khandewala Baba. They had allegedly murdered Baba Santokh Singh in Nanded.SSP Dhruman Nimbale said following a tip-off, a police team raided Dera Bidhi Chand at Sursingh village, but the accused fled. The cops then cornered them on the outskirts of Singhpura village. The Nihangs attacked the police and severely injured both SHOs, he said. Another team later confronted the accused near a drain. A gunfight ensued, in which the duo was shot dead, he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wanted-for-murder-2-nihangs-shot-dead-228610
22-03-2021||A man with beliefs and ideals like mine could never think of dying uselessly. We want to get the maximum value for our lives. We want to serve humanity as much as possible. —Bhagat Singh||Bhagat Singh: Re-imagining the icon, 90 years after his death||Vikramdeep JohalBhagat Singh was one among several Indian revolutionaries who were martyred in the prime of their youth. He and his comrades Rajguru, Sukhdev, Jatin Das and Chandra Shekhar Azad were in their early or mid-20s when they made the supreme sacrifice. Bhagat Singh’s own idol, Kartar Singh Sarabha, was just 19 when he was executed in 1915. All of them deserve to shine in our collective memory as bright young stars for all eternity. What then has made Bhagat Singh the first among equals? Why is he easily the most celebrated and venerated of the lot?Read also: Satvinder Singh Juss on the farcical trial of Bhagat SinghBhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru.His face has launched a thousand campaigns. His name reverberates at virtually every protest; there is hardly a political party or government that fails to invoke him, especially during the election season. Here is an icon recognised and admired even by those who have never read his insightful writings or assimilated his thoughts. Indeed, it’s tempting to quickly co-opt Bhagat Singh rather than to slowly understand him. So overpowering and dazzling is the iconography surrounding him that at times it blinds us to the larger picture — there is much more to Bhagat Singh than meets the eye. But first, we need to delve deep into his visual reservoir. For the record, only four genuine photographs of Bhagat Singh are available. The other images are mostly reproductions or recreations, with not many of them being true to the originals.The turban and the hat“Medium height; thin oval face; fair complexion; slightly pock-pitted; aquiline nose; bright eyes; small beard and moustache; wears khaddar.” This is how the Criminal Intelligence Department (CID) described Bhagat Singh in its report in 1926. The busy teenager was on the CID’s radar for several reasons: he had served food to Jaito Morcha activists in 1924, for which he was booked under the Criminal Law Amendment Act; he was involved in an agitation spearheaded by the Zamindar Sabha against the hike in canal water rates; and he had performed in a play with a telltale title, ‘Bharat Durdasha’, which was staged by the Dramatics Club of National College, Lahore, on the sidelines of a Congress conference at Gujranwala in October 1925. It was along with other members of his college club that Bhagat Singh posed for a photo, sporting a pencil moustache with an incipient beard, and a loosely tied turban with its end perched on his left shoulder. His close-up, extracted from the group photo, was first published by The Tribune on the front page of the edition dated April 13, 1929, just five days after his arrest in the Delhi Assembly Bomb Case. In a striking coincidence, the then Lahore-based newspaper’s readers came ‘face to face’ with the young revolutionary on the 10th anniversary of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, a monumental tragedy that left an indelible impression on Bhagat Singh and shaped the course of his short but eventful life.This black-and-white picture, which endears him to fellow Sikhs and Punjabis worldwide and has inspired countless, often inaccurate, portraits in colour, is a key element of Bhagat Singh’s iconography. It is vastly different from his more popular, prim-and-proper look: wearing a felt hat, slightly askew, with a nicely twirled moustache on a smooth and beardless face. This western avatar was created by him in the run-up to the Delhi Legislative Assembly incident (April 8, 1929), wherein he and Batukeshwar Dutt hurled country-made, low-intensity bombs with the aim of “making the deaf hear” in the highest echelons of power. He had already got his hair cut and beard shaved off in September 1928 in an attempt to hoodwink the police and ensure that he could travel unhindered.The hat photo was taken on April 3 or 4 in the studio of Ramnath Photographers at Kashmere Gate, Delhi. “It is a fairly conventional studio portrait,” writes Kama Maclean, the author of ‘A Revolutionary History of Interwar India’ (2015). “He stares calmly into the camera, as if to defy the empire and the weighty charges about to be brought against him, namely, that he had been engaged in a conspiracy to wage a war against his Majesty, the King Emperor...”According to her, “By posing for his photograph, Bhagat Singh was providing a pivotal ingredient for a publicity campaign that created a powerful movement around his pending martyrdom. The press was vital in spreading images of this and other photographs of revolutionaries that brought their politics to life.”So ubiquitous is the hat image that it is compared to Cuban photographer Alberto Korda’s iconic picture (‘Guerrillero Heroico’ or heroic guerrilla fighter) of Argentine Marxist revolutionary Che Guevara. “Both were photogenic, capturing the romance, idealism and sacrifices demanded of the revolutionary. Both photographs, too, have been so widely appropriated that they have become disconnected from their historical context,” observes Maclean, a Professor of South Asian History at the University of Heidelberg, Germany.Beyond barriersThe hat picture (and to a great extent the turban one) enjoys amazing visibility in the physical domain — from T-shirts, car stickers and tattoos to paintings, posters and hoardings — as well as in cyberspace, with social media amplifying the legend to the hilt. Cinema has done its bit with the classic ‘Shaheed’ (1965) and a mixed bag of films released in the 2000s, including ‘Rang De Basanti’. The Amar Chitra Katha picture book (1981), illustrated by Dilip Kadam, has introduced children of one generation after another to the great patriot. It was inevitable that Bhagat Singh’s face would pop up at the ongoing farmers’ agitation, which has also resurrected his uncle Ajit Singh, a rebel in his own right and the torchbearer of the Pagdi Sambhal Jatta movement of 1907 that mobilised the peasantry to fight for its rights.There is another photo, intriguing but widely used nonetheless. It shows a bearded, handcuffed Bhagat Singh sitting on a cot, in conversation with an elderly man. At a cursory glance, it appears that he is simply chatting with an avuncular acquaintance or even a family member who has come to meet him in prison. Malwinder Jit Singh Waraich, a leading chronicler of India’s revolutionary history, throws light on this image: “It was taken secretly by the police at Lahore railway police station during Bhagat Singh’s first term in jail (May 29 to July 4, 1927). He had been arrested in connection with the Lahore Dasehra Bomb Case of October 1926. The person talking to him is Gopal Singh Pannu, DSP, CID, an old hand at interrogating revolutionaries since he was an investigator during the Ghadarite trials in 1915-16 as well.”Unkempt hair, bare feet crossing each other: Bhagat Singh seems quite relaxed here. There is no visible sign of the tension one expects when a prisoner is being interrogated by a seasoned cop. Unaware of the camera, the young man appears to be handling the situation with sangfroid far beyond his 19-odd years. Waraich says the obvious purpose of clicking the photograph was to make copies and spread them around in the region so that it could be easier to keep tabs on him in view of his “known mobility and ubiquity”. The least circulated of the preciously few Bhagat Singh photos is the one clicked in his childhood: it shows a smartly dressed, turbaned boy, facing the camera with confidence.Bhagat Singh’s compelling iconography might have granted him a legendary status that transcends all barriers, but it has also contributed to his straitjacketing as a nationalist hero and a martyr. S Irfan Habib, an eminent historian who has edited ‘Inquilab: Bhagat Singh on Religion & Revolution’ (2018), laments the neglect of the revolutionary’s intellectual legacy. “Bhagat Singh going to the gallows as a nationalist is not something exclusive to him alone; two others were hanged with him and many more were hanged before him as nationalists. He is different because he left behind a huge collection of political and social writings on burning issues of even contemporary importance like caste, communalism, language and politics.”Bhagat Singh’s ultimate battle was not against oppressive colonial forces; it was against injustice and inequality. “Revolution (inquilab) is not a culture of bomb and pistol. Our meaning of revolution is to change the present conditions, which are based on manifest injustice,” he proclaimed in a joint statement. Ninety years have passed since his death, but his social and political vision continues to be obscured by shallow and hollow idolisation. A holistic understanding and appreciation of Bhagat Singh will remain elusive unless we start exploring what lies behind his omnipresent, overwhelming visage.Portrait of the hero’s heroImmortalised in his imagery over the past nine decades, Bhagat Singh himself believed strongly in the power and reach of the visual medium. In his memoir, ‘Amar Shaheedon Ki Yaadein’, Raja Ram Shastri writes: “Bhagat Singh always strived to attract the attention of the youth towards the lives and deeds of the martyrs. He collected their photographs, wrote brief life sketches and got them published in magazines like ‘Kirti’ and ‘Chand’. He also got slides made to be projected by a magic lantern at public gatherings. Of all the martyrs, Kartar Singh Sarabha was his role model.”Shastri came in touch with Bhagat Singh and other knowledge-hungry youngsters during his tenure as the librarian of Lahore’s Dwarka Das Library (based in Chandigarh since 1966), founded by Lala Lajpat Rai in 1920. The latter’s death was avenged by Bhagat Singh and his comrades with the murder of British police officer JP Saunders in 1928.A photo of Sarabha was found during a search at Bhagat Singh’s house in Lahore after his arrest in Delhi. He, however, did not confine himself to mere idol worship; he not only emulated the Ghadar martyr, but became a towering role model himself.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagat-singh-re-imagining-the-icon-90-years-after-his-death-228320
