23-03-2021||Chandigarh||53 more Covid deaths, 2,274 new cases in Punjab||Punjab on Tuesday reported 53 more fatalities due to COVID-19 and 2,274 fresh cases, bringing the toll to 6,435 and the infection count to 2,17,663, according to a medical bulletin.The districts which saw deaths due to the pandemic included Jalandhar (14), Hoshiarpur (9) and Patiala (6).Ludhiana reported a maximum of 364 new COVID-19 cases, Jalandhar 322, Mohali 263 and Amritsar 246, the bulletin said.The number of active cases increased from 18,628 on Monday to 19,403 on Tuesday.A total of 1,426 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,91,825, the bulletin said.There are 29 critical COVID-19 patients who are on ventilator support while 268 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 56,66,257 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported 214 more coronavirus cases, taking the count to 24,881.The death of a 52-year-old woman took the coronavirus-related toll to 364 in the Union Territory, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases rose from 1,979 on Monday and 2,066 on Tuesday, the bulletin said.A total of 126 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 22,451.A total of 2,96,079 samples have been taken for COVID-19 testing so far in the UT and 2,70,196 of them tested negative while reports of 151 samples are awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/53-more-covid-deaths-2-274-new-cases-in-punjab-229441
23-03-2021||New Delhi||Govt encouraging inequality with tax breaks to rich: MP Amar Singh||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday praised two Lok Sabha Members from Punjab – Dr Amar Singh and Ravneet Singh Bittu – for their contributions during the debate on the Finance Bill.“I am grateful. It was indeed unusual,” she said of Dr Singh’s intervention during the debate while she appreciated Bittu for “taking care of the Opposition”, in a reference to the Ludhiana MP being made the new Leader of Opposition for the ongoing Budget Session as Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury is busy with the West Bengal Assembly elections.Sitharaman began her reply to the Finance Bill by stating that it was a “very much pleasing experience to have a member from the Opposition benches recognising some of the good work done by the government.Dr Singh went into the details of the Finance Bill and pointed out areas where appropriate action was taken although he also had points where he thought the government could have done differently,” she said.“I was pleasantly surprised that for a change there was recognition from the Opposition benches,” she remarked amidst laughter.However, Dr Singh’s speech praised a few aspects only in passing while in the main he criticised the government’s overall approach.The biggest worry was the speed with which inequality was increasing, pointed out the Fatehgarh Sahib MP, while not thinking much of the government’s claim that the economy will rebound with great vigour.“Having fallen so much, rebound is bound to happen but when will it reach the 2019-20 GDP figures?” he asked.The steady rise of borrowings suggested a problem in revenue collection. “You said I spent and spent. But the truth is you could not collect taxes,” he said while pointing out that in 2020-21, GST collection was short by Rs 1.75 lakh crore, corporation tax was less by Rs 2.35 lakh crore, income tax by Rs 1.8 lakh crore though excise collection increased by Rs 1 lakh crore.Moreover, 24 per cent of the revenue is from cess and surcharges which the Centre does not share with the states.“We should see cooperation somewhere,” he proposed. Dr Singh also cast doubts over the government being able to meet its disinvestment targets.Dr Singh wanted Fatehgrah Sahib to be made into an international tourist destination, wanted a rail link to Raikot and raised the GST woes of entrepreneurs in Mandi Gobindgarh, Khanna, Doraha and Sahiwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-encouraging-inequality-with-tax-breaks-to-rich-mp-amar-singh-229425
23-03-2021||New Delhi||Afghanistan vows to protect its Sikh, Hindu minorities||Describing Hindus and Sikhs in Afghanistan as "proud citizenry" of his land, the Afghanistan Foreign Minister Hanif Atmar on Tuesday said that it would be the responsibility of the government to provide them with protection and security."We got to do that", he said during a press conference here.Disagreeing with the perception of Hindus and Sikhs being "especially" targetted in Afghanistan, Atmar said: "The violence against Afghans, unfortunately, did not spare our minorities either. So, it is not a kind of persecution against specific minorities per se. It’s the general violence against the entire nation and unfortunately, this part of the population has been disproportionately affected".Last July, India had said it would facilitate a settlement of Afghan Hindu and Sikh community members facing security threats in Afghanistan.There are about 1,000 Sikh and Hindus left in Afghanistan, and the sense of insecurity was heightened after the massacre in Gurudwara Guru Har Rai, Kabul, in May last year, followed by the kidnapping of a Sikh Nidan Singh Sachdeva."They are citizens of Afghanistan, and Afghanistan is proud of them. It has been like, that for centuries, and will be like that. It is the responsibility of not just the Afghan government, but the Afghan people too to protect their federal brothers,’’ he declared.Soon after the May 15, 2020, massacre at the Kabul Gurdwara, Democratic Party’s Presidential nominee Joe Biden had promised to raise the annual global refugee admissions cap to 1.25 lakhs if he won the November US Presidential elections.Implicit was the assurance that some quotas would be for Afghanistan’s embattled Sikh community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/afghanistan-vows-to-protect-its-sikh-hindu-minorities-229401
23-03-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana breaches 400-mark; reports 412 cases and 11 deaths||Ludhiana reported 412 cases and 11 COVID-19 deaths on Tuesday, taking the district's death total to 1,648. The deaths include 559 from out of the station. Ludhiana's total number of coronavirus cases stands at 36,426, including 4,996 from other districts. The fresh cases included nine teachers, three students, two healthcare workers, two international travellers, and 48 out-of-district patients. The fresh casualties include two from Jalandhar, one each from Ferozepur, Nawanshahr, Sangrur, Barnala, and Fatehgarh Sahib.The active cases touched 2,305, including 139 from other districts. The condition of 14 patients was reported to be critical and was put on ventilator support. The district—which was under night curfew since March 12—has been witnessing a surge in daily fresh cases and deaths since March 13 with the figure crossing the 400-mark on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-breaches-400-mark-reports-412-cases-and-11-deaths-229397
23-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Shehnaaz Gill is lost in deep thought in these all-black outfit pictures; check it out||Bigg Boss 13 star Shehnaaz Gill is currently shooting in Canada for her debut film, Honsla Rakh, co-starring Diljit Dosanjh and Sonam Bajwa. Shehnaaz shares constant updates with her fans. Recently, the actress shared stunning pictures of herself in an all-black outfit on Instagram. These pictures have left fans in awe. In the pictures, Shehnaaz looks lost in deep thought. She matched her black top, jacket and matching pants. Breaking the monotony, Shehnaaz wore a pair of white shoes, leaving her hair in a messy ponytail. 'Honsla Rakh' also features Gippy Grewal’s son, Shinda Grewal. The film is scheduled to release on October 15 this year. Directed by Amarjit Singh Saron, it also marks Diljit Dosanjh’s debut as a producer. He is backing the film under his banner Story Time Productions. The film is written by Rakesh Dhawan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shehnaaz-gill-is-lost-in-deep-thought-in-these-all-black-outfit-pictures-check-it-out-229360
23-03-2021||Raj SadoshAbohar||Storm leaves a trail of destruction in Abohar||A storm that lashed the region during the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday has left a trail of destruction in Abohar.As members of the action committee against the proposed liquor factory at Heeranwali village had blocked the Abohar-Fazilka highway for the past few weeks, vehicles could not be routed through link roads due to multiple blockades caused by uprooted trees.The high-velocity dust storm was succeeded by thundershowers and hail storms. Punjab State Power Supply Corporation Limited (PSPCL) consumer grievances portal indicated that in Abohar Sub Division-2 alone outage affected as many as forty colonies besides Sector Headquarter of the Border Security Force. Supply stays disrupted to Kala Tibba, Chakra, Dhani Sucha Singh, Raipura, Jodhpur, Dhaban Kokarian, Kerakhera and other villages on the Seetogunno road.The movement of buses and other vehicles has come to a grinding halt due to the large scale uprooting of trees and bunches on most of the roads that link rural areas besides Muktsar, Fazilka and Sriganganagar. The storm uprooted a 25-year old banyan tree in Government Senior Secondary School in Gobindgarh village; the boundary wall of the complex also got damaged. Farmers across the subdivision said standing crops including wheat that was ripening fast due to changing weather has been flattened.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/storm-leaves-a-trail-of-destruction-in-abohar-229356
23-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Punjab Chief Secy congratulates Kamalpreet Kaur for booking Olympic berth||Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan on Tuesday congratulated Kamalpreet Kaur for sealing a place in Tokyo Olympics and setting a new national discus throw record.In a tweet, Mahajan said: “Congrats to our #Muktsar girl #Kamalpreet Kaur for sealing her place in Tokyo #Olympics in style, setting a new national #discus throw record by clocking 65.6 m in the process. Wishing her all the very best for her #medal journey we all are waiting for. We are proud of you.”Congrats to our #Muktsar girl #Kamalpreet Kaur for sealing her place in Tokyo #Olympics in style, setting a new national #discus throw record by clocking 65.6 m in the process. Wishing her all the very best for her #medal journey we all are waiting for. We are proud of you.  Kaur from Kabarwala village on the Malout-Abohar national highway has made every Punjabi proud with her success of breaking the nine-year-old national record in the discus throw and qualifying for the Tokyo Olympics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-chief-secy-congratulates-kamalpreet-kaur-for-booking-olympic-berth-229337
23-03-2021||Jhajjar||65-year-old woman protester from Punjab dies at Tikri border||A 65-year-old woman protester from Punjab reportedly died of cardiac arrest at the Tikri border on Monday night.Balbir Kaur, of Mandi Kalan village (Bhatinda), had been actively participating in the farmers' agitation.Dr Sanjay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, Jhajjar, said she was brought dead to Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh town late on Monday night. The exact cause of death would be ascertained after the postmortem, he added.Balbir Kaur is the first woman protester to lose her life at Tikri during the agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/65-year-old-woman-protester-from-punjab-dies-at-tikri-border-229325
23-03-2021||New Delhi||Modi pays tributes to Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev, Rajguru on ‘Shaheed Diwas’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday paid homage to freedom fighters Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru and said their sacrifice would remain an inspiration for every generation of the country.It was on this day that Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru were hanged by the British government.Also read:March 23 is observed as 'Shaheed Diwas' to pay tributes to the trio who were hanged for killing British police officer JP Saunders. They wanted to avenge the death of Lala Lajpat Rai.Opinions"Salutations to the revolutionaries of independence, 'Amar Shaheed Veer' Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru on Martyrdom Day," Modi said in a tweet in Hindi. "The sacrifice of these great sons of 'Maa Bharati' will remain an inspiration for every generation of the country. Jai Hind!" he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/modi-pays-tributes-to-bhagat-singh-sukhdev-rajguru-on-shaheed-diwas-229320
23-03-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Heritage well of Bhai Veer Singh at risk of encroachment||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 22Some persons are trying to encroach upon a heritage well near the ancestral house of Padma Vibhushan awardee and eminent poet Bhai Veer Singh at Kucha Devi Wala, Jaure Pipal in Gilwali Gate. The heritage well is a property of Bhai Veer Singh’s family.“The well should be covered as someone can fall in it. Grills should be installed,” said a local resident.Reliving Kashmir through Bhai Vir Singh’s verseA few persons who claim to be relatives of Bhai Veer Singh said some locals want to encroach upon the land, thus their intention behind covering the well is to demolish the original structure.Gunbir Singh, an office-bearer at Bhai Veer Singh Residence Committee, urged the Commissioner of Police to protect the well from encroachers.He said, “Bhai Veer Singh was born at Kucha Devi Wala and the well belongs to his family. It is heritage of the city and it should be preserved under the National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY). We will also discuss the issue with the MC Commissioner and other officials concerned to protect the heritage well.”Bhai Veer Singh, who is known as a father of modern Punjabi poetry, was born on December 5, 1872, at Kucha Devi Wala. Family and neighbours of Bhai Ver Singh used to get water from the well, which is in a shambles. Bhai Veer Singh also mentioned about the well in some of his writings.Dr Balwinder Singh, former head of Guru Ramdas Planning Department, Guru Nanak Dev University, demanded that the well of Bhai Veer Singh should be preserved. “Lakhs of devotees visit the city. Bhai Veer Singh contributed to Punjabi and Sikh literature. If administration preserves the well, it will be a tribute to the great poet,” he said.Bhai Veer Singh shifted from Devi Wali Gali to Lawrence road in 1930. The Lawrence Road has been named after Bahi Veer Singh and his house has also been converted into a museum.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heritage-well-of-bhai-veer-singh-at-risk-of-encroachment-229057
23-03-2021||Fazilka||Fazilka villagers oppose construction of canal||Villagers of Jalalabad subdivision opposed digging of a minor canal, being carved out to supply water to Guruharsahai villages in Ferozepur.FarmersTail-end areas hitThe tail-end villages have been facing scarcity of water and if a new canal is carved out, it will worsen the situation. The villagers have started an indefinite dharna, demanding to shelve the proposal of construction of minor canal. Sources said the government had proposed to set up Rana minor canal, which would draw water from non-perennial Nizamwa canal and provide it to villages of Guruharsahai subdivision.Former Congress minister and former Jalalabad MLA Hans Raj Josan said Nizamwa canal supplied water to 70,000 acres in 60 villages on the tail end of the canal in Jalalabad. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fazilka-villagers-oppose-construction-of-canal-229001
23-03-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||Two more held for robbery||Missing persons’ bodies foundAbohar: The bodies of two persons, reported missing from Fatehgarh Gehari village of Guruharsahai tehsil in Ferozepur, were found in a branch of Ganga Canal, near Chak 2-Y village, Sriganganagar. The victims were identified as Angrej Singh (48) and Rajwinder Kaur (45). They reportedly went missing on March 16 from the village. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-more-held-for-robbery-229016
23-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Mohali man made co-accused in FIR||Ludhiana, March 22The city police have nominated a Mohali resident, Vipin Kumar, as a co-accused in the FIR involving theft of luxury cars by an interstate gang busted with the arrest of parking contractor Micky Sahni and his accomplice Amanpreet Singh, both Ludhiana residents, here on March 18.The police had recovered 16 stolen luxury cars from the parking lots operated in the city by Sahni. These vehicles were reportedly stolen from various parts of Punjab and Delhi.Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal said during preliminary investigation, it was learnt accused Amanpreet Singh, alias Aman, had purchased some stolen vehicles from Vipin Kumar, alias Bhalu, a resident of Sector 79, Mohali. These cars were further sold to unsuspecting customers on the basis of forged and fabricated documents.“Accordingly, the name of Vipin Kumar has been added to the FIR lodged at the Sarabha Nagar police station under Sections 379, 411, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC and teams have been formed to arrest the accused and conduct further investigation,” said the CP.The police said two more stolen cars were recovered on the basis of information provided by Amanpreet during police interrogation.Of the 18 cars recovered so far, four were found to have been stolen from Delhi. “We are in touch with the police stations where car theft cases had been registered,” Agrawal added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mohali-man-made-co-accused-in-fir-229017
23-03-2021||Amritsar||Golden Temple to have solar plant||With the assistance of US-based Sikhs, the SGPC will instal a solar power system in the Golden Temple complex.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur today held parleys with a delegation from California-United Sikh Mission led by Rashpal Singh Dhindsa, Sikh Lens Foundation president Vicky Singh and members of the coordination committee for installing the system.Bibi Jagir Kaur said the SGPC executive had decided to put the power supply mechanism on the solar system mode and United Sikh Mission volunteered. “At present, the monthly power bill of the shrine comes around Rs 30-50 lakh. We required a system of generating at least 1-MW power. The California-based Sikhs offered to do the service,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/golden-temple-to-have-solar-plant-229018
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Supreme Court school fee order applicable to Punjab: Punjab and Haryana High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear interim arrangements made by the Supreme Court on collection of school fee would be applicable to Punjab and Haryana as well.“It is ordered that the interim arrangements made by the Supreme Court vide its order dated February 8 passed in SLP titled as ‘Gandhi Sewa Sadan Rajsmand Vs. State of Rajasthan’ shall apply and parties shall abide thereby till the matter is finally decided by the Supreme Court,” the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli ruled, while taking up an appeal and related matters.Information suggests the apex court had allowed private unaided schools in Rajasthan to collect 100 per cent school fee amid the Covid-19 pandemic through six monthly instalments from March 5, 2021.The Bench, at the very onset, was told the Supreme Court after staying the operation of the orders passed by the High Court on October 1, 2020, and October 9, 2020, had directed the interim arrangements made by it in order dated February 8 would apply to Punjab as well.“It would be just and appropriate if the same arrangements that have been ordered by the Supreme Court are made operative in the present cases as well. In these circumstances, all the previous orders passed by this court are modified in terms and in view of the orders passed by the Supreme Court…,” the Bench asserted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/supreme-court-school-fee-order-applicable-to-punjab-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-228996
23-03-2021||Archit Watts||Olympic berth booked, athlete seeks help||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, March 22Kamalpreet Kaur from Kabarwala village on the Malout-Abohar national highway has made every Punjabi proud with her success of breaking the nine-year-old national record in discus throw and qualifying for the Tokyo Olympics, but she is a little disappointed. Kamalpreet says when she reached her native village, nobody came to welcome her except her family and friends.Kamalpreet Kaur, Discus throwerGovt must supportI want officials to help me financially. I belong to a farmer family and studied at a school in Badal village after paying a hefty fee. Notably, Kamalpreet is the first woman discus thrower from India with a throw of 65.06-metre, the record which she created in the Federation Cup National Athletics in Patiala.“I am feeling a little bad that no official came to welcome or congratulate me. I want that they should come and help me financially. I belong to a farmer family and studied at a school in Badal village after paying a hefty fee,” she said after reaching her village.Kamalpreet said her aim was now to win a medal in the Olympics and make the country proud.Her father Kuldeep Singh said, “I felt bad that no one from the district administration came to honour my daughter today. If mediapersons can come at our residence, why can’t the officials? I own 13-acre agricultural land and somehow managed to make my daughter a capable sportsperson. She is now a clerk in the Railways and earning some money. A sportsperson has to spend huge money on diet and equipment. Our state government should also support sportspersons like Haryana does.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/olympic-berth-booked-athlete-seeks-help-228999
23-03-2021||---||Road blocked over power man’s death||Ropar, March 22A large number of employees blocked the Ropar-Chandigarh highway for four hours today after one of their colleagues was electrocuted while on duty here.While the police had registered a case, the employees alleged negligence on part of the authorities concerned and demanded action against erring officials, besides Rs 50 lakh in compensation along with a government job for a member of the bereaved family.Jaswinder Singh, son of deceased Kuldeep Singh (48), claimed his father had been employed on a contract basis for the past seven years. Yesterday, he was repairing the power lines atop an electricity pole when the supply was restored, leading to his electrocution. Kuldeep’s body was found on the ground near the pole in the evening.Today, his colleagues and members of the Powercom and Transco Contractual Employees Union staged protest at the PSPCL office and around 2.30 pm, blocked the highway near the Police Lines, resulting in a traffic jam.The police diverted the traffic towards link roads, while district administration and electricity department officials tried to placate the protesters. After an assurance by the authorities of a speedy inquiry and adequate compensation, the protesters lifted the dharna at 6.15 p.m.Ropar DC Sonali Giri said the power department officials would complete the inquiry within two days and action would be taken against anyone found guilty of negligence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/road-blocked-over-power-mans-death-229000
23-03-2021||Ravneet Singh||2 months on, Punjabi University, Patiala fails to dispatch transcripts||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 22Youths interested in studying and immigrating abroad are in a quandary as Punjabi University, Patiala, has failed to dispatch their educational transcripts to respective agencies for verification for nearly two months now. Sources on the campus said over 2,000 applications are pending with the university after its contract with a private courier service expired in January.University officialContract not renewedThe university’s contract with a private courier service provider came to an end and has not been renewed since Jan 25. We are helpless.The university collects a separate courier fees of Rs 1,200 from students. The applicants from India are supposed to pay Rs 500 per document along with Rs 100 per form, while those abroad pay $290 (around Rs 21,000) for preparation of documents and their dispatch.Students said they were losing precious time due to the delay. “The documents are supposed to be verified by respective agencies after which we can use the assessment reports for immigration, education or job purposes,” a student said.A student of the university, now working abroad, said he had applied for transcripts but the documents had not been dispatched for the past over two months. “When we contact the officials they say the process has not been restarted. It is causing unwanted harassment and our application is being delayed without our fault,” he said.The sources said over 2,000 applications for transcripts are pending. “It is because the university’s contract with a private courier service provider came to an end and has not been renewed since January 25. We are helpless,” they said.A senior functionary of the university said it would soon start sending the transcripts online. Registrar Dr Devinder Pal Singh Sidhu said the university had decided to sign a contract with India Post and would send the documents through it. “We will start sending the transcripts by Monday,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-months-on-punjabi-university-patiala-fails-to-dispatch-transcripts-228995
23-03-2021||---||Drug racket being run from Sangrur jail busted, 2 held||Faridkot, March 22The police claimed to have busted a drug racket, allegedly being run by a gangster from the Sangrur jail, with the arrest of two suspected peddlers in Jaito town of Faridkot.The gangster, Gurbax Singh Sewewala, has been in jail since August 2017 after being arrested by a joint team of Bathinda and Moga police following a brief encounter.After a tip-off, the CIA Staff of Jaito police today arrested Tarsem Singh and Jaswinder Singh of Jaito while allegedly selling drugs to some persons. On questioning, the suspects claimed they were working as Gurbax’s conduit.Dalbir Singh, CIA Staff in charge, said during preliminary investigation, the suspects said they were in touch with Gurbax over the phone and helped him in running the illegal business from jail.The police would bring Gurbax on a production warrant from Sangrur for further interrogation, he said. A case under the NDPS Act against the two suspects and Gurbax had been registered, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drug-racket-being-run-from-sangrur-jail-busted-2-held-228990
23-03-2021||Tarn Taran||3-member SIT to probe Nihangs’ encounter||Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh has deputed Patti SDM Rajesh Sharma to conduct a fact-finding magisterial inquiry into the killing of two Nihangs in an encounter on Sunday in which SHOs were also injured.SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the police, too, had formed a three-member special investigation team (SIT) to probe the sequence of events. The SSP said the SIT members were Dr Mehtab Singh, SP (Investigation), Ravisher Singh, DSP (Homicide) and Kawaljit Singh, DSP (Investigation).The postmortem of the bodies could not be conducted today due to some technical issues. Dr Gurpreet Singh Rai, in charge of Civil Hospital, Patti, said the X-ray of the bodies had been conducted and the postmortem would be done on Tuesday. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-member-sit-to-probe-nihangs-encounter-228991
23-03-2021||New Delhi||NIA chargesheets 7 Khalistan operatives||The anti-terror probe agency NIA today said it had filed a chargesheet against seven Khalistan operatives under various sections of the IPC and the Explosive Substances Act and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for their alleged involvement in a case pertaining to the recovery of two hand grenades and a mobile phone from a bag in Amritsar on June 2, 2019.Officials in the NIA said the chargesheet was filed in a Mohali special court against Jajbir Singh Samra of Tarn Taran, Varinder Singh Chahal of Amritsar, Kulbir Singh of Nawanshahr, Manjit Kaur of Ludhiana, Taranbir Singh of Amritsar, Kulwinderjit Singh (an operative of Babbar Khalsa International) and Harmeet Singh (a Pakistan-based self-styled chief of Khalistan Liberation Force).The officials said the NIA investigation revealed accused Samra and Chahal were part of a narco-terror module involved in distributing heroin smuggled from Pakistan in order to channel the proceeds to various terrorist entities on the directions of Pakistan-based terrorist Harmeet Singh.They had also picked up grenades and concealed these at pre-decided location for carrying out terrorist act to further the conspiracy hatched by Harmeet and Kulwinderjit Singh, the officials said. The NIA in its investigation also found accused Kulbir, Manjit Kaur and Taranbir had harboured and provided logistics support, including accommodation and arranging business visa for Kulwinderjit Singh in Cambodia and Malaysia when he had escaped from India, the officials said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nia-chargesheets-7-khalistan-operatives-228993
23-03-2021||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court: Stay on Sumedh Singh Saini’s arrest to continue, state can proceed||Chandigarh, March 22The Punjab and Haryana High Court today made it clear the arrest of Punjab’s former Director General of Police Sumedh Singh Saini in the Kotkapura police firing case will remain stayed, but the prosecution/state would be at liberty to proceed with the matter.The direction by Justice Avneesh Jhingan came after senior advocate Harin P Rawal, appearing for the state, submitted although the petitioner’s arrest had been stayed, it be granted the liberty to proceed in accordance with law. Fixing August 3 as the next date of hearing, Justice Jhingan asserted: “In the meantime, the interim order dated March 4 is modified. The arrest of the petitioner shall remain stayed, however the prosecution/state would be at liberty to proceed with the matter in accordance with law.”Saini, though senior counsel APS Deol and Himmat Singh Deol, was seeking anticipatory bail in the FIR registered at the Kotkapura city police station on August 7, 2018, for attempt to murder, causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means, disappearance of evidence and other offences under Sections 307, 326, 324, 323, 341, 201, 218, 120B, 34, 148 and 149 of the IPC and the provisions of the Arms Act.The FIR was registered after several persons were injured in the police firing on October 14, 2015, at Kotkapura following sacrilege incidents at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-stay-on-sumedh-singh-sainis-arrest-to-continue-state-can-proceed-228994
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Sisters’ murder in Moga: SC panel seeks report||The Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission today took suo motu notice of abduction and murder of two sisters in Moga district and sought an action taken report from the Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Moga.Terming the incident shocking, chairperson of commission Tejinder Kaur said the matter came to her notice through media reports. The commission has directed the Moga SSP to file a challan in the court concerned and submit a report by April 7. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sisters-murder-in-moga-sc-panel-seeks-report-229019
23-03-2021||Patiala||Martyrs’ ideas ‘relevant’ to farm stir: Nodeep Kaur||Labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur, while speaking to students at Punjabi University, Patiala, said various organisations would come together and hold a conference in Delhi to discuss the ideas of freedom fighters Bhagat Singh, Rajguru, Sukhdev and their associates, to apply them in relation to protests against the farm laws.The event was organised by the Democratic Students’ Organisation to commemorate the martyrdom of Bhagat Singh and his associates. Accompanied by activist Shiv Kumar, she said people associated with various organisations should come together to fight the ‘fascist’ government.She said a conference would be organised at an all-India level on March 30. “We are also meeting trade unions and are in touch with farmer unions,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/martyrs-ideas-relevant-to-farm-stir-nodeep-kaur-228984
23-03-2021||Sangrur||Sangrur residents protest Punjab Agro move to open fuel station||Angered at the proposal of Punjab Agro Industries Corporation Limited to allow axing of trees at its Sangrur office, area residents today had heated exchanges with senior officers. The residents alleged the authorities got their signatures on the pretext of constructing a park at its office, but later learnt the authorities wanted to open a petrol station.As two filling stations already exist on the Gaushala-Mehla road, area residents claim there is no need for a third one. They allege since their houses are located at the rear end of the office, the station will pose a threat to their lives.“Some officers took our signatures on the pretext of building a park here, but now they want to have a petrol station here. Today, they auctioned old trees on the land and these will be axed soon. We will not let this happen,” said Happy, an area resident.Learning about the auction, some locals tried to enter the office but were allegedly prevented from doing so. Sources said the Agro authorities had auctioned 13 trees and called interested parties to its office on Monday. Sangrur Agro district manager Balwinder Pal Singh he said the land belonged to the department and they had completed the process of opening a filling station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-residents-protest-punjab-agro-move-to-open-fuel-station-228987
23-03-2021||---||Rain, wind flatten crop; no cause for concern: Experts||Moga/Bathinda, March 22Light rainfall in many districts due to a fresh western disturbance in the past 24 hours not only lowered the temperature, but also brought cheer to wheat growers.The Meteorological Department in Chandigarh has said intermittent rain will continue at isolated places in the state over the next 24 hours. In Amritsar, it was 3.2 mm, Patiala 1.8 mm and Ludhiana 3.4 mm. The rain was also witnessed in Moga, Ferozepur, Faridkot, Muktsar, Bathinda, Barnala, Sangrur, Mansa, Taran Taran, Gurdaspur, Mohali, Ropar, Fatehgarh Sahib and other districts of the state.Dr Jaswinder Brar, Agri Dept ScientistYield will be goodWheat crop needs cold conditions to thrive. An expected drop in the minimum temperature over the next five to 10 days will help increase the grain size, thereby boosting the yield.Reports from Taran Taran, Goneana in Bathinda district, Moga and some places in Ferozepur revealed that gusty winds of 30 to 40 kmph flattened the wheat crop. However, no hailstorm was reported from any part of the state. “The wheat crop has the tendency to withstand such vagaries of weather,” said Dr Jaswinder Brar, an agro-scientist of the Agriculture Department.He claimed the rainfall was beneficial for wheat growers who had sown their crop without burning straw by mulching technology. The scientist who visited several villages of Attiana block in the Sudhar area of Ludhiana on Monday said good moisture was seen in the roots of the wheat plants.Devinder Singh, a farmer in Attiana, told the visiting agro-scientist the crop was healthy and he was expecting a good yield. The paddy straw left in the fields had completely decomposed, making the soil healthy, he said.However, high-velocity winds and rain damaged the standing crop, which was to be harvested in mid-April, in parts of Bathinda district. Jagga Singh of Balluana village said: “It would be difficult to harvest the fallen wheat and they would have to pay more to labourers.”Another farmer Parminder Singh of Balluana village said “We were expecting bumper crop this time, but the standing crop now lies flattened in the field. The yield is expected to be reduced by around 50 per cent.” They also demanded that the government should immediately order a special ‘girdawri’ (revenue survey to assess losses) and give compensation to farmers for their crop loss. An agriculture expert, however, said this rain was good for the wheat crop at this point of time as it had lowered the temperature. “There is no need to panic as there is ample time for the crop to recover,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rain-wind-flatten-crop-no-cause-for-concern-experts-228985
23-03-2021||Sameer Singh||Bathinda virtual kisan mela gets tepid response||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, March 22The virtual kisan mela organised by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) at its regional centre here has received a cold response as scores of not-so-tech-savvy farmers could not listen to expert panel discussions and lectures regarding latest agricultural techniques online this year.Paramjit Singh, PAU Regional DirectorOlder farmers not tech savvyOlder farmers are not so tech savvy, but younger ones are and they particpated in the event. We tried to make it successful.In the wake of Covid-19 restrictions, the mela was organised virtually. As a result, the university missed out on income generation from the sale of seeds and other equipment during the event.A senior university official, said: “Things cannot be the same when we are connected virtually. In the past, thousands of farmers from south Malwa districts visited the mela and attended sessions.“They would buy seeds, pesticides and other equipment, get water and soil tested at a single platform and enhance their knowledge. But with Covid curbs, they could not join us in large numbers,” he said.Bogh Singh, a Mansa farmer and a union leader, said: “Virtual kisan mela was merely a formality by the government and failed to serve its purpose of educating farmers in large numbers. A majority of farmers in villages do not have smartphones.”“The government could have organised block-level training camps in villages and distributed farm literature. It was merely a paper exercise. We not only condemn it but also demand probe with regard to utilisation of funds for the meet,” added Singh.Prior to Bathinda, virtual kisan melas were held in Nawanshahr, Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Faridkot and Patiala recently. University officials agreed virtual meets were not as effective as regular ones, but expressed their compulsion due to Covid restrictions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-virtual-kisan-mela-gets-tepid-response-228986
23-03-2021||Gurdaspur||Punjab CM’s hoardings removed, Deputy Commissioner orders probe||The Deputy Commissioner (DC) has ordered an inquiry into a manner in which a dozen hoardings carrying pictures of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh were dismantled and later taken away by Municipal Committee (MC) officials in trolleys meant to transport garbage.DC Mohammad Ishfaq has marked the probe to SDM Arshdeep Singh Lobana. On March 11, GNDU senate member Anu Gandotra had put up these hoardings across the town to observe the 79th birthday of the CM. Last week, MC executive officer Ashok Kumar, allegedly acting at the behest of a local Congress politician, got the billboards dismantled.Ashok Kumar said Gandotra had not taken permission from the MC. “He also violated the MC outdoor advertisement policy. We were within our rights to take off the hoardings. We are going to legally proceed against the offender,” he said. On his part, Gandotra said no permission was required to put up hoardings. This contention was negated by Ashok Kumar. Copies of the complaint have been sent to Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra, Principal Chief Secretary Suresh Kumar, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan and DGP Dinkar Gupta. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cms-hoardings-removed-deputy-commissioner-orders-probe-228981
23-03-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Jalandhar youth donates 3,500 books on Bhagat Singh||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 22An advocate by profession, Yuvraj Singh, 25, has been donating books on Bhagat Singh to anyone interested in reading these for the past year. Having donated 3,500 books in a year, Yuvraj urges every recipient to pass on the book to a friend or an acquaintance after reading it.Yuvraj says, “A few years ago, I read the jail diary of Bhagat Singh and his autobiographical discourses like ‘Why I am an Atheist’, and his essays. I felt that every Indian youth must go through these and know about the thoughts of the icon. At that time, I did not have any money to proceed with such plan, but I kept working on the idea.”An LLB from Guru Nanak Dev University Regional Campus, Ladhewali, Yuvraj says it took him some time to save to begin with his mission. “The first thing I did was to procure 700 books. Of these, I took 300 to my native village Noorpur and contacted some youth there. I distributed the copies to them and told them to read and redistribute these. They did so and it gave me a great satisfaction,” he said.“I used the social media, including WhatsApp groups and Facebook, to circulate the message that anyone interested in getting a free copy of the book could contact me. Many people from Jalandhar and other areas expressed interest. I took the help of friends to send books to nearby towns of Nakodar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, etc.,” says Yuvraj Singh.Now 11 volunteers, including his cousins, help him out in his mission. “I have also developed my personal library. I am always there to offer a free copy,” he says.About his plans for the Martyrdom Day function tomorrow, he says, “Some of my friends, activists and I have planned a programme tomorrow at the Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall. Some people have contacted me for the books and I will distribute these at the venue.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-youth-donates-3-500-books-on-bhagat-singh-228982
23-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Freedom fighter Bhagat Singh’s hideout in a shambles||Ferozepur, March 22Even six years after being notified as a ‘protected monument’, the state government has failed to make any concerted efforts for the development and preservation of the double-storey building that served as a hideout of the Krantikari Party led by legendary revolutionary Bhagat Singh.After a prolonged legal battle by locals, the Department of Tourism and Cultural Affairs had declared the building as a ‘protected monument’ on December 17, 2015. Thereafter, neither any step was taken to take over the building nor any funds were allocated for it.Modi pays tributes to Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev, Rajguru on ‘Shaheed Diwas’At present, the building is under the control of the Krishna Bhagti Satsung Trust. Nand Kishore Sharma, one of the trustees, said his grandfather Lahori Ram Shastri had met Bhagat Singh here several times. “I am ready to do anything for the construction of a museum in the building,” he said. Earlier, the district administration had served a notice on the occupants not to alter the structure or sell the premises.In 2016, the then Deputy Commissioner DPS Kharbanda had mooted a proposal to relocate the shop on the ground floor and family occupying the first floor to another location for which an agreement was also drafted. However, the matter is still stuck.During his visit three years ago, former Tourism and Cultural Affairs Minister Navjot Sidhu had also promised to provide Rs 15 lakh for the renovation of the building.Opinion: The supreme martyrsBhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev are a source of inspiration for one generation after another. Bhag...“This building is no less than a pilgrimage centre for me. This was taken on rent by my father Dr Gaya Prashad under the fake name of Dr BS Nigam to run a pharmacy in 1928-29,” said Kranti Kumar Katiyar.“While pharmacy was run on the ground floor, the first floor was used by the revolutionaries to make bombs and evolve strategy against the British rule,” said Rakesh Kumar, who has also authored several books on the monument.Opinion: Rekindling the revolutionary spiritWhen contacted, Deputy Commissioner Gurpal Singh Chahal said, “We will take up the matter with the higher authorities.” He said the state government was determined to develop all such memorials and efforts were being made for it.NGOs ready to helpCertain NGOs have submitted proposals to the government, expressing their desire to make contribution for the restoration of the historical building. However, nothing has happened so far. Even the Sonalika Group had announced to contribute Rs10 lakh for the restoration of the martyr’s hideout.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/freedom-fighter-bhagat-singhs-hideout-in-a-shambles-228983
23-03-2021||---||Arvind Kejriwal’s claims re-run of 2017 false promises: Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, March 22Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday rejected his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal’s claims and allegations against the state government, saying it was a re-run of false promises and cheap attacks on the Congress that later had resorted to in the 2017 Assembly elections.Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterFocus on delhi, fulfil poll announcements Instead of indulging in deceitful claims and talking of ‘badla’, Arvind Kejriwal should focus on Delhi, which is still waiting for him to fulfil even 50 per cent of his poll promises.“The people of Punjab were wise to your deceptions then, and can see through them again now... Kejriwal’s lies will be exposed again, just as they had been exposed in the 2017 Assembly polls. Punjab knows what a first-rate liar and master of deceit you (Kejriwal) are,” said the Chief Minister, in a response to Kejriwal’s criticism at a mahapanchayat yesterday.Trashing his Delhi counterpart’s allegation of the Congress government failing to fulfil its poll promises, he said it was ridiculous to compare his government’s track record of over 84 per cent promises implemented with that of the Delhi Government’s less than 25 per cent of 2015 manifesto commitments fulfilled in 2020. “If this is the Delhi model you (Kejriwal) are promising in Punjab then my people are better off without it,” he added.He pointed to independent analysis which had showed that at the end of its five-year term the Kejriwal government had fulfilled only 11 of its 70 promises.The Chief Minister said despite Delhi Congress leader Ajay Maken’s repeated questioning on the issue, the AAP government had failed to show its progress on its 8-lakh jobs’ promise of 2015. He claimed as per figures listed in one of the analysis, the Kejriwal government had given jobs to 102 people in 2016, 66 in 2017, and 46 until April 2018.In contrast, Capt Amarinder said, his government had provided 16.29 lakh jobs or self-employment opportunities, including 58,709 in the government sector alone, under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar Mission. He stressed his government would be recruiting another one lakh people to fill existing vacancies in government jobs.Citing survey of the Government of India and its agencies, Capt Amarinder said as against Delhi’s unemployment rate of 8 per cent, Punjab had 7.2 per cent unemployment, which was even lower than the national average.The Chief Minister also lambasted Kejriwal for not ensuring Covid-appropriate behaviour during the Moga meeting, where the AAP leadership itself was seen without masks. He said it showed how little Kejriwal and his party cared about for the people of Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arvind-kejriwals-claims-re-run-of-2017-false-promises-capt-amarinder-singh-228978
23-03-2021||Amritsar||BJP leader Laxmi Kanta Chawla-Arvind Kejriwal meet triggers speculation||Senior BJP leader and former minister Prof Laxmi Kanta Chawla’s meeting with Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal yesterday has triggered a debate in the political circles.Prof Laxmi Kanta Chawla, BJP leaderRumours baselessI was taking a walk and noticed VVIP movement. On learning it was Kejriwal, I expressed desire to meet him out of courtesy. The picture taken on my mobile was posted on the social media, triggering baseless speculation.The meeting took place in the evening at the Circuit House complex. Kejriwal had reached Amritsar after attending ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ at Baghapurana to take a flight back to Delhi. Amritsar was his transit route. He had arrived at Amritsar by air and gone to Bhagapurana by road.The meeting came to light after a picture went viral on the social media, showing the two and AAP MLA Prof Baljinder Kaur having tea.In a bid to clear the air, Chawla said it was an “accidental” meeting that had attracted baseless rumours.She claimed during a routine evening walk in the complex, she noticed the arrival of some VVIP guest. “When I came to know it was Kejriwal, I expressed my desire to meet him out of courtesy. He was kind enough to come out and receive me. I sat with him for a few minutes. I got the picture taken on my mobile. It was posted on the social media, triggering baseless speculation,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-leader-laxmi-kanta-chawla-arvind-kejriwal-meet-triggers-speculation-228979
23-03-2021||---||AAP’s Moga rally forces Congress to have a rethink||Chandigarh, March 22Days after the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh claimed the Congress would have no rival in the 2022 Assembly elections, as neither the Akalis nor the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) offered any competition, the AAP’s yesterday Moga rally by national convener Arvind Keriwal has forced the party leaders take cognisance of the gathering.Leaves party Dalit leaders worriedWhile the Chief Minister on Monday termed Kejriwal’s claims and allegations “shameless lies”, party MLAs point out keeping in mind anti-incumbency factor, the AAP in the name of “kisan mahasammelan” had begun its election campaign from Moga, a political nerve centre in Punjab politics.In the light of Punjab Congress leadership dismissing the AAP as no rival, the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee’s clarification in the shape of an advertisement to counter the results of a pre-poll survey by a private channel has surprised many leaders in the party.However, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar said there was a leadership crisis in the AAP. “They do not believe in their leadership. How do they think people will believe them? We were hoping Keriwal would announce CM’s face at the Moga rally.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aaps-moga-rally-forces-congress-to-have-a-rethink-228980
23-03-2021||Vishav Bharti||Fatality rate halves in 2nd Covid wave, drops to 1.75% in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 22With a rise in cases during the second wave of Covid, Punjab’s fatality rate has come down to 1.75 per cent, which is almost half of the first spike when it remained around 3.5 per cent.Follow MHA norms on capping visitors at malls, Punjab CM urgedThe first spike of Covid came in September last year, when around 60,000 cases were reported. However, after that, the cases witnessed a continuous decline and the number came down to just 200. The second spike of Covid started in the first week of February. Since February 1, the state has reported 40,240 cases and 708 deaths. Thus, the state’s case fatality rate (CFR) remained at 1.75 per cent in this period. Till January-end, the case fatality rate in Punjab was 3.23, which was the highest in the country.With a recent decline in the case fatality rate, Punjab’s overall rate has come down to three per cent. It is still above than the national average of 1.4 per cent.58 more die in Punjab as nation sees more than 40,000 Covid cases in a dayNationally, after Punjab, the distant second is Sikkim, where CFR is 2.2, which is followed by Maharashtra with 2. Himachal Pradesh has 1.7, Chandigarh has 1.5, Jammu and Kashmir has 1.5 and Haryana has 1.1 CFR. The reason behind the high fatality rate in Punjab, experts say, is the heavy load of population suffering from comorbidities. Apart from that, the bigger worry for Punjab is the sudden increase in active Covid cases, which at present stand at 18,257.Meanwhile, eight students of a private Ayurvedic medical college at Badal village in Muktsar were found positive for Covid. Dr Manju Bansal, SMO, Civil Hospital, Badal, said, “A large number of students were tested and eight of them found positive. They have been isolated.”58 deaths in past 24 hoursThe state reported 2,319 cases and 58 deaths in the past 24 hours. This is the highest number of casualties in a single day during the second spike. Doaba continues to be the worst affected. The three districts reported 28 deaths in the past 24 hours. Hoshiarpur figured on top with 10 deaths followed by Jalandhar and SBS Nagar with nine deaths each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fatality-rate-halves-in-2nd-covid-wave-drops-to-1-75-in-punjab-228988
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Follow MHA norms on capping visitors at malls, Punjab CM urged||The Shopping Centre Association of India has urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to follow the guidelines of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) while capping the number of persons visiting the malls at any time.Seeking to know the basis of allowing only 100 persons in a mall at any time while allowing cinemas to operate at 50 per cent capacity, the association, in a representation to the CM, said, “We find it hard to understand the basis of this rule. Typically, a mall has a minimum of 150-plus staff across departments. The capping by the state government simply means that malls should not be entertaining any customer at any given point in time. Most cinemas have a seating capacity in excess of 300-400. At 50 per cent occupancy, a cinema hall will have permissions to entertain 150-plus consumers at any point.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/follow-mha-norms-on-capping-visitors-at-malls-punjab-cm-urged-228989
23-03-2021||Tribune Web Desk||National Film Awards: B Praak wins Best Male Playback for Teri Mitti from Kesari||Chandigarh, March 22Singer B Praak was on Monday named the best male singer for “Teri Mitti”, a patriotic song from Hindi film “Kesari, at the 67th National Film Awards.Praak, winner of best male playback singer for the song “Teri Mitti” from the period patriotic drama “Kesari”, took to Instagram to share his gratitude to fans and the makers of the Akshay Kumar-starrer.“I’m speechless. It is thanks to your blessings and love that I have won the National Award for #TeriMitti,” Praak wrote.Kumar also congratulated Praak for the song, which marked the Punjabi singer’s Bollywood debut.“#TeriMitti still gives me goosebumps every time I hear it and one song I’m most proud of being part of... Couldn’t be happier! @BPraak #NationalFilmAwards2019,” the star tweeted. With agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/national-film-awards-b-praak-wins-best-male-playback-for-teri-mitti-from-kesari-228977
