24-03-2021||Muktsar||Sukhbir Badal discharged from Gurugram hospital||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal was discharged from Gurugram’s Medanta Hospital on Wednesday, seven days after he tested positive for COVID-19.Badal, a member of parliament from Ferozepur, tested positive on March 16. He was admitted to the hospital the next day.Sources in the party said Badal felt fine, but was now in home isolation at his Delhi residence.After Badal, four domestic helps and an assistant sub-inspector who was posted at his residence in Badal village also tested positive.Badal’s father, former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, has also isolated himself at the Delhi residence. He has taken the COVID-19 test twice in one week, and tested negative  both times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-badal-discharged-from-gurugram-hospital-229929
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder pleads for resolution to farmers' crisis, says Pakistan taking advantage of dissatisfaction||By delaying a resolution to the farmers' crisis, the BJP-led central government is allowing Pakistan to take advantage of the dissatisfaction emerging in Punjab, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Wednesday.He also termed the "growing economic and military collusion" between Pakistan and China New Delhi's "failure of diplomacy".Urging the Centre to repeal the three farm laws at least in the "interest of the nation's security", the chief minister asked, "Have you not thought of what Pakistan will do in this scenario." Warning that the neighbouring country will take advantage of the dissatisfaction among the youth in Punjab as they have done in the past, Singh stressed on the need to "learn from history"."Is Delhi sleeping," he asked, citing an increase in arms smuggling into Punjab through drones since the farmers intensified their stir.The chief minister, as per an official statement here, again urged the central government not to hold on to its "ego or prestige" and to withdraw the farm laws immediately."This is not Hitler's Germany or Mao Zedong's China. The people's will has to be heard," he stressed, adding that those at the helm should understand that the agitation of the farmers is not a political issue but a matter of their survival. The agitation is not limited to Punjab, Singh added.Pointing to his 52 years' experience in politics, the Punjab chief minister said he has seen build-up of terrorism and also the assassination of a chief minister of the state.The situation is worse now because of the economic and military collusion between Pakistan and China, which is "very ominous for India", he said."While the Indian Army is equipped to handle any situation, the question is why the Indian government is allowing the country's two big enemies to get together," Singh asked."If there is a war, Pakistan and China will be in it together, and Punjab, which shares a 600-km-long border with Pakistan, will be at the battle front, he added.The chief minister also claimed that Pakistan army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa's offer of peace should not be trusted, and termed it Islamabad's double-faced policy."Pakistan has been at our throats since 1947, how can they bury the past," he remarked, adding that the Pakistani army and the ISI have vested interests in fanning tensions with India and will never let peace prevail.The day the general made the peace offer, seven encounters happened at the borders, Singh added.Stating that his government was never consulted on the farm laws, the chief minister said the legislations had been imposed on the state and the farmers without any discussion "as they (Centre) were perhaps very clear that we would oppose"."After using Punjab when needed, the Centre is now discarding us," he said, adding that the state government was not even included in the agricultural reforms committee originally, and after it was made a member, nothing on the farm laws was ever discussed.Ruling out any threat from other major political parties in the next Assembly elections, the chief minister said he believed that his experience of governing the state and also in the Army will help him handle the challenges of the state beyond 2022. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-pleads-for-resolution-to-farmers-crisis-says-pakistan-taking-advantage-of-dissatisfaction-229922
24-03-2021||Muktsar||NSUI leader gives Rs 51,000 to athlete Kamalpreet Kaur||The National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) Punjab president Akshay Sharma on Wednesday gave Rs 51,000 to Kamalpreet Kaur, for breaking the nine-year-old national record in the discus throw on Friday, and qualified for the Tokyo Olympics.Akshay on Wednesday visited Kamalpreet’s residence at Kabarwala village here, and said, that her hardwork and dedication would inspire other youngsters to take up sports as a career.Despite this, the chairperson of Punjab State Commission for Women Manisha Gulati too congratulated Kamalpreet Kaur over the phone."The chairperson of Punjab State Commission for Women today congratulated me through a video call and said that she would appoint me as an ambassador of the commission,” said Kamalpreet.However, Manisha wasn't available for comment.Notably, Kamalpreet is the first woman discus thrower in India with a throw of 65.06-metre. This record was created during the Federation Cup National Athletics, held in Patiala.Meanwhile, former MP Jagmeet Singh also visited Kamalpreet's residence to congratulate her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nsui-leader-gives-rs-51-000-to-athlete-kamalpreet-kaur-229908
24-03-2021||---||Parading of minors: SC panel asks Sangrur cops to arrest accused in 2 days||Parvesh SharmaTribune News ServiceSangrur, March 24Days after a video of four minor boys, including one Dalit, being paraded in Bhasaur village with their hands tied after they were caught in an alleged theft case by Banbhauri residents went viral, Vijay Sampla, Chairman of National Commission for Scheduled Castes, along with senior officers visited the house of the Dalit boy on Wednesday.As Sampla and his team did not meet the residents of Bhasaur, who have converged in local school to share their feedback, they protested after Sampla left the village.Though police had registered a FIR under sections 499, 500, 341, 342, 323, 34 IPC and Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, SC and ST (Prevention of atrocities Act 1989) on March 14 against four accused, the delay in the arrest has angered the parents of children. The four minors include one Dalit, two from BC and another belonged to general category.“Incident took place on March 7, but FIR was registered on 14 as cops got the complaint late. There might be multiple reasons for delay in submitting complaint, but till date we are satisfied with the working of Sangrur police as they registered the FIR immediately after getting complaint and have also added more sections, as per our letter,” said Sampla after meeting the Dalit family and presiding over a meeting of senior officers of Sangrur.Sangrur SSP Vivek Sheel Soni, Deputy Commissioner Ramvir along Sangrur BJP chief Randeep Deol with senior officers accompanied the Sampla first to the residence of Dalit family in Bhasaur and later shared all details with commission team.“We have directed Sangrur SSP to arrest the accused in two days and we have also got deputed a police vehicle near the residence of Dalit family for their protection,” said Sampla.When asked that why he did not meet the residents of Bhasaur, he said, “Today I have come to meet only Dalit family and if anyone wants to meet me, he could meet me any time in my New Delhi office. I would also share the details of BC boys with BC commission for their help,” said Sampla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parading-of-minors-sc-panel-asks-sangrur-cops-to-arrest-accused-in-2-days-229905
24-03-2021||Mumbai||Neha Kakkar was left speechless after Neetu Kapoor gave her 'shaadi ka shagun'; watch Indian Idol 12 new promo||Veteran actress Neetu Kapoor, who met singer Neha Kakkar during a recent shoot of "Indian Idol" season 12, congratulated the singer on her recent wedding.Neetu said that she has always shared a great equation with Neha, not just professionally, but personally as well."Neha is just not a singer but a beautiful soul, and she is just like a daughter to me. My blessings are always going to be with her wherever she would be," she said.A deeply-touched Neha responded by thanking Neetu, who also gave her 'shaadi ka shagun'."I am just speechless, receiving a blessing from such a renowned actress is the best thing that has ever happened to me in this entire journey. I will keep it with me my entire life," Neha said.A post shared by Viral Bhayani (@viralbhayani)  The popular singer married singer Rohanpreet Singh in October last year. The wedding was an elaborate affair with multiple functions. She had also come up with her album titled "Nehu Da Vyah", which also featured Rohanpreet. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/neha-kakkar-was-left-speechless-after-neetu-kapoor-gave-her-shaadi-ka-shagun-watch%C2%A0indian-idol-12-new-promo-229871
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM digitally orders mass transfers of 19,905 school teachers under Teachers Transfer Policy, 2019||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday digitally ordered mass general transfers of school teachers through the online portal of the Education Department, in line with the Teachers Transfer Policy-2019. With the touch of a button, the Chief Minister cleared the transfer of 10,099 teachers and volunteers to the station of their choice purely on a merit basis. Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla was also present on the occasion.A total of 35,386 online applications were received from aspiring teachers and volunteers, of which 15,481 were found ineligible as they were found short of the prescribed parameters of the policy. The remaining 19,905 were found eligible for transfer. For the first time, Computer Teachers and various categories of Education Volunteers were brought into the ambit of the Teachers Transfer Policy.Speaking on the occasion, the Chief Minister said the unique teachers transfer policy has been instrumental in successfully achieving the goal of quality education through the filling of vacant posts. This has helped in ensuring uninterrupted academic session, besides giving enormous job satisfaction to the teachers to work at the places of their choice exclusively on merit. He disclosed that the state Government would soon enact the Teachers Transfer Act for the transfer of teachers, in place of the existing system of notification issued by the School Education Department.The Chief Minister lauded various projects of the School Education Department for sprucing up infrastructure and improving the quality of education in government schools. Punjab, he pointed out, has pioneered several path-breaking initiatives to bring in qualitative improvement in school education. The Teachers Transfer Policy-2019 was also a major step in that direction.Under the online system, so far over 50 per cent of transfer applications have been approved with utmost transparency. As many as 10099 teachers, including 4405 masters, 3748 primary teachers and 718 lecturers, as well as an adequate number of Computer teachers working under Punjab ICT Education Society (PICTES), have availed the benefit of the policy, apart from different categories of Education Volunteers and Education Providers working under ‘Smagra Sikhiya Abhiyan’.Detailing the process, an official spokesperson said the teachers aspiring for transfers need to apply on the department's portal. Employees who are suffering from Cancer, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, Sickle cell Anaemia, Thalassemia or on Dialysis, besides handicapped to the extent of 60 per cent, divorcees, having differently-abled or mentally challenged children, are exempted from submitting online transfer requests. Similarly, War widows, Widows of Martyrs, where the death of the spouse makes it necessary for the serving employee to relocate to another place immediately and having children below 15 years of age or teachers who are spouses of armed force personnel posted in difficult areas, also need not submit their transfer request online. The orders in such cases would be issued with the approval of the Chief Minister on merit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-digitally-orders-mass-transfers-of-19-905-school-teachers-under-teachers-transfer-policy-2019-229869
24-03-2021||New Delhi||Maharashtra, Punjab, three other states witnessing surge in COVID-19 cases: Centre||Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat are reporting a surge in daily COVID-19 cases and the five states together account for 77.44 per cent of the new infections, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday.A total 47,262 new cases were registered in a span of 24 hours.Six states cumulatively account for 81.65 per cent of the new cases. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 28,699. It is followed by Punjab with 2,254 and Karnataka with 2,010 cases."Eight states have reported a higher weekly positivity rate than the national average (4.11 per cent). Maharashtra leads with a weekly positivity rate of 20.53 per cent," the ministry said.India's total active caseload has reached 3,68,457 on Wednesday, accounting for 3.14 per cent of the total infections. A net rise of 23,080 in active cases was recorded in a span of 24 hours.The ministry said India has crossed a significant milestone in the fight against the global pandemic with the cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country having crossed five crore.The ministry said 5,08,41,286 vaccine doses have been administered through 8,23,046 sessions, according to a provisional report till Wednesday 7 am.These include 79,17,521 healthcare workers (first dose), 50,20,695 healthcare workers (second dose), 83,62,065 frontline workers (first dose) and 30,88,639 frontline workers (second Dose), 47,01,894 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (first dose), and 2,17,50,472 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years.Eight states account for 60 per cent of the cumulative vaccine doses given so far.India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1,12,05,160 with 23,907 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours.A total of 275 deaths were reported in a day.Six states account for 83.27 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (132). Punjab follows with 53 daily deaths and Chhattisgarh reported 20 deaths in the last 24 hours.Twelve states and union territories have not reported any COVID-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Odisha, Lakshadweep, Ladakh, Manipur, Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Sikkim, Tripura, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/maharashtra-punjab-three-other-states-witnessing-surge-in-covid-19-cases-centre-229865
24-03-2021||Vibha Sharma||Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu accuses Modi govt of taking ‘revenge’ on people of Punjab through procurement||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, March 24Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu on Wednesday accused the Narendra Modi government of taking “revenge on farmers of Punjab through procurement because they did not agree to the three central farm laws”. Raising the issue related to the FCI seeking land records of farmers for direct online payment of Minimum Support Price (MSP) to their bank accounts from the upcoming marketing season, Punjab’s Congress MP said even as festival of happiness, Baisakhi, is approaching 15 lakh farmers of state are “looking towards the Central government” because they had been “ordered” to change the APMC law of 40 years. “How is it possible to change the 40-year-old relationship between farmers and arhtiyas,” he said in the Lok Sabha as a Zero Hour mention.  Regarding providing land records, Ravneet Singh also questioned  “how computerised details can be provided so suddenly”. “Procurement is starting next week…how can it be done so fast,” he added.Asking the Centre to “wake-up” to Punjab’s issues, Ravneet Singh said “Bhagat Singh kissed the gallows for his cause but he was the same man who bombed the Assembly. Wake up….do not do this with us (Punjab’ farmers). So many farmers are NRIs, some have given their land on contract, some are out of Punjab due to their jobs. Because we did not agree to the three farm Acts, you will take revenge on us through procurement…. we will not tolerate this”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-mp-ravneet-bittu-accuses-modi-govt-of-taking-revenge-on-people-of-punjab-through-procurement-229829
24-03-2021||New Delhi||53 more die in Punjab as nation sees 275 Covid deaths, highest in 83 days||India recorded 47,262 fresh coronavirus cases in a day, the highest single-day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid tally to 1,17,34,058, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday.The active caseload registered an increased for the 14th day in row and was recorded at 3,68,457, comprising 3.14 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate further dropped to 95.49 per cent, the ministry data updated at 8 am said. The daily rise in infections was the highest recorded in 132 days, while the country's COVID-19 death toll increased to 1,60,441, with 275 new fatalities, the highest in 83 days. As many as 47,905 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on November 12 last year, it said.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,12,05,160, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.37 per cent, the data stated.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 23,64,38,861 samples have been tested till March 23, with 10,25,628 samples tested on Tuesday.Out of the 275 new fatalities, 132 were reported from Maharashtra, 53 from Punjab, 20 from Chhattisgarh and 10 from Kerala.A total of 1,60,441 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 53,589 from Maharashtra, 12,618 from Tamil Nadu, 12,449 from Karnataka, 10,967 from Delhi, 10,310 from West Bengal, 8,764 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,193 from Andhra Pradesh. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/53-more-die-in-punjab-as-nation-sees-275-covid-deaths-highest-in-83-days-229815
24-03-2021||Amritsar||Centre allows Sikh jatha to visit Pak, SGPC chief says nothing new||Amid reports that the Centre has allowed a jatha to visit Pakistan on Khalsa Sajna divas (Baisakhi), SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said every year four jathas were sent to Pakistan and it was no different that the Centre approved it.The SGPC has not yet received any communication in this regard. She said: “Rather, this has exposed the negative attitude of the Centre, which denied permission to the earlier jatha that was supposed to commemorate the centenary of Saka Nankana Sahib in February. If the Covid and security threat was there then, did it all get normal now? This has made it clear that the Centre had deliberately prevented Sikhs from participating in the Saka Nankana Sahib event. Sikhs can never forget the way Centre had stopped the jatha at the eleventh hour then.”It is learnt the Home Ministry has send a fax message to the Chief Secretaries in which a detailed programme has been mentioned. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-allows-sikh-jatha-to-visit-pak-sgpc-chief-says-nothing-new-229590
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Pvt polytechnic told to refund excess fee||Perhaps in a first-of-its-kind order, the Punjab Technical Education Department has directed a private polytechnic in Amritsar to refund excess fee charged from at least 120 students, besides initiating the process to cancel its affiliation. The institution has been found exorbitantly charging annual fee ranging from Rs 60,000 to Rs 65,000 instead of Rs 29,000 allowed by the state government.Sources in the department said on getting complaints against some private institutions for charging excess fee from students, teams were formed to conducted random checking.During an inspection at SBS College, Sohian, Amritsar, it was found that students was charged over and above approved by the department.Principal Secretary, Technical Education, Anurag Verma said apart from passing directions to refund excess fee by March 31. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pvt-polytechnic-told-to-refund-excess-fee-229591
24-03-2021||Abohar||Storm uproots trees||A storm that hit the area late on Monday night left a trail of destruction. Besides uprooting many trees, the storm led to power outages in many areas.The high-velocity storm was followed by thundershowers and hailstorm. Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) consumer grievances portal indicated that in the Abohar subdivision-2 alone, outages affected 40 colonies besides BSF sector headquarter. Supply was disrupted to Kala Tibba, Chakra, Dhani Sucha Singh, Raipura, Jodhpur, Dhaban Kokarian, Kerakhera and other villages on the Seetogunno road.The boundary wall of Government Senior Secondary School, Gobindgarh, was damaged as a banyan tree fell on it. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/storm-uproots-trees-229593
24-03-2021||Bathinda||Power supply to RO plants cut over dues||Punjab State Power Corporation Limited has snapped power supply to all reverse osmosis (RO) water treatment plants in Mansa city over the non-payment of bills. The order in this regard was issued by the Executive Officer (EO), Mansa Municipal Council.According to information, RO plants are running in the name of the EO, Municipal Council Mansa. As per an agreement dated April 26, 2011, the electricity bill of these plants is to be paid by Health Point Services India, which has failed to clear the dues.The closure of the RO plants has led to a shortage of drinking water in the city. SAD (urban) president Prem Kumar Arora Simranjit Kaur Simmi said residents paid an advance bill of Rs 120 per month to RO officials and the firm should clear the dues. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/power-supply-to-ro-plants-cut-over-dues-229594
24-03-2021||Karam Prakash||Council suspends surgeon’s licence over negligence||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 23Taking action in a medical negligence case, which resulted in death of an 18-year-old girl, the Punjab Medical Council (PMC) has suspended the licence of a surgeon for three years. The incident occurred at Sahara Hospital, Patiala, in 2018.The ethical and disciplinary committee of the PMC, on the findings of a team of experts from the PGIMER, Chandigarh, concluded that Dr Ramesh Kumar Goyal performed the surgery that he was not qualified to do as a general surgeon. Moreover, he himself had given the spinal anaesthesia that ultimately became the cause of the death of the victim.PGI experts help PMC committeeThe ethical and disciplinary committee of the PMC, on the findings of a team of experts from the PGIMER, Chandigarh, concluded that the doctor performed a surgery that he was not qualified to do as a general surgeon. Moreover, he himself had given the spinal anaesthesia that ultimately became the cause of the death of the victim.The final decision regarding the suspension of the surgeon from the PMC for three years was reportedly taken in the general body meeting of the council. It is learnt that Dr Goyal admitted that he had performed the surgery under local anaesthesia, however, the committee found that was neither the standard procedure nor recommended for such surgery in any textbook or medical literature.Besides, a team of experts was of the view that it was not reasonable for a general surgeon to operate the case of an ovarian cyst without consulting a gynaecologist, especially in the urban areas where such doctors were easily available.Consequently, the committee was of the view that Dr Goyal committed an act of negligence, which resulted in the death of the 18-year-old girl, therefore, the licence of the surgeon was suspended for 36 months.Rajvinder Singh, father of the deceased, said, “Majority of the victims of medical negligence rarely get justice due to lack of knowledge about the profession. But I am satisfied that some action has been taken against the doctor.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/council-suspends-surgeons-licence-over-negligence-229579
24-03-2021||---||Special coins, stamp to mark 400th anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur||Amritsar, March 23The Centre, which had invited Sikhs’ ire for disallowing a jatha to Pakistan for commemoration of Saka Nankana Sahib recently, has now inclined to participate in the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur, scheduled for May 1.The Union Ministry of Culture has approached the SGPC regarding the design of the commemorative coins, postage stamp and envelope that could be released to mark the occasion.SGPC’s honorary secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami said the proposed design of coins and postal stamp has been sent to the ministry. “The Centre asked us about the denomination and design of the commemorative articles along with the text material that could be scribbled on them. These would be released on May 1,” he said.SGPC’s design team has proposed to have the image of Gurdwara Guru Ke Mehal with a slogan dedicated to 400th anniversary of the Guru and year 1621-2021 at the bottom, emblazoned on one side of the coin and denomination on the other side. A similar design was proposed for the stamp and the envelope.Gurdwara Guru Ke Mehal, few yards away from the Golden Temple, gained significance as it was the birth place of Guru Tegh Bahadur.On its part, the SGPC has plans to offer specially crafted gold and silver coins so that the devotees could preserve them as a memoire of the historic centenary. It has also sent a report to the Centre in the light of Guru Tegh Bahadur’s baani (holy writings) and his life history.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur has already clarified that no special invitations would be sent to the PM, CMs or any VVIP guests on the occasion. “Anyone, irrespective of his or her social status, would be welcomed like a common devotee,” she said. Meanwhile, nagar kirtan is underway to mark the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/special-coins-stamp-to-mark-400th-anniversary-of-guru-tegh-bahadur-229580
24-03-2021||Saurabh Malik||File ‘own’ affidavit, High Court tells Sangrur SSP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 23The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the Sangrur SSP to file his “own” affidavit in a case where the counsel for an accused in a drugs case referred to the call details to say the accused was actually “picked up” by a police party prior to the time of showing his apprehension.Fresh probe soughtThe petitioner’s counsel said the call records, including those of police officials, showed that the petitioner was “picked up” from a different location. As such, the foundation of the FIR itself was false and a de novo investigation was required to be conducted by an independent agency other than the Sangrur police.Justice Amol Rattan Singh also made it clear that the Bench, after the filing of the affidavit, would consider whether a de novo or new investigation was actually required by an independent agency, such as the Punjab Bureau of Investigation or the Central Bureau of Investigation “looking at the seriousness of the allegations made by the petitioner”. The trial court was also asked to adjourn the matter to a date beyond the one given by the High Court.Petitioner Upashu Garg, through counsel Ishan Gupta, was seeking a probe by an independent agency in an FIR registered on February 22, 2020, at the Sadar police station in Dhuri of Sangrur district, alleging the commission of an offence punishable under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.Appearing before the Bench through video-conferencing, Gupta submitted that the High Court on an earlier petition had directed the trial court to immediately obtain the call details of the mobile numbers given in an application by the accused.He added the call records, including those of police officials, were produced before the trial court pursuant to the order passed by the High Court. Gupta further submitted that the call details showed that the petitioner was “picked up” from a different location altogether. As such, the foundation of the FIR itself was false and a de novo investigation was required to be conducted by an independent agency other than the Sangrur police, Gupta added.Taking up the matter, Justice Amol Rattan Singh also issued a notice of motion to the state of Punjab and other respondents, including police officials, before fixing the case for further hearing in May second week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/file-own-affidavit-high-court-tells-sangrur-ssp-229581
24-03-2021||Moga||Pregnant woman dies in Moga, family protests ‘delay’ in surgery||A pregnant woman carrying a dead foetus died at the district hospital in Moga on Tuesday evening after doctors on duty allegedly delayed surgery.The doctors performed an ultrasound test on Rajni Kaur, a resident of Singhawala village, and it was established the foetus was dead, said a medical officer.Woman’s husband Angrej Singh and his mother Veer Pal Kaur alleged they urged the doctors to immediately perform surgery and save her life, but to no avail.Veer Pal claimed her daughter-in-law was suffering from severe pain, but the doctors did not treat her properly. Later, the family and relatives staged a protest against officials of the Health Department and demanded legal action against the doctors for causing death due to negligence.However, Dr Simrat Khosa, gynaecologist, refuted the allegations claiming the patient had normal blood pressure and did not have any history of ailment. The exact cause of death would be ascertained after the post-mortem examination tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pregnant-woman-dies-in-moga-family-protests-delay-in-surgery-229582
24-03-2021||---||2 fuel stations robbed, 5 held||Bathinda, March 23Hours after two incidents of dacoity were reported at petrol stations in the district early today, the police arrested five suspects and seized two pistols, a car and Rs 95,000 in cash from their possession.SSP Bhupinderjeet Singh Virk said: “Around 2.30 am, an Alto car stopped at a petrol station at Lehra Bega village in the Bucho area. One of the occupants pulled out a gun and asked employee Gurdayal Singh to top up the fuel tank. They allegedly snatched Rs 25,000 from the employee.”The suspects then went inside the office and snatched the key to the locker from employee Nem Chand. After taking away Rs 2.50 lakh from the safe, they damaged CCTV cameras and LCD installed at the filling station. The suspects later targeted a filling station located at Kotshamir on the Maur road, where they allegedly snatched Rs 55,000 in cash, four mobile phones and two silver chains from the employees, said the SSP.After getting the information, the police formed teams and arrested the suspects from the house of Niranjan Singh of Pakka Kalan village.The suspects have been identified as Rajinder Singh; Kulwinder Singh; Narinder Singh; Sukhpreet Singh, and Dharmender Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-fuel-stations-robbed-5-held-229584
24-03-2021||Abohar||Man duped of Rs10 lakh, 1 held||The police have arrested Roshan Lal, alias Malla, of Dharam Nagari for allegedly duping a man of Rs 10 lakh.  The victim, Prithvi Raj (60), alleged that Roshan Lal, Manish Kumar, alias Nita, and Karthik, in connivance with Salim Khan, established fake IT firms and duped him of Rs 10 lakh in 2019. After preliminary investigations, a case was registered on Sunday. Other accused are yet to be arrested. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-duped-of-rs10-lakh-1-held-229585
24-03-2021||New Delhi||MP opens debate on Finance Bill, seeks urban MNREGA||The Congress today opened a debate on the Finance Bill, 2021, in the Lok Sabha, accusing the government of offering tax relief only to the rich, while burdening the poor and demanded urban MNREGA.Congress’ Fatehgarh Sahib MP Amar Singh urged Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to withdraw excise duties on petrol, diesel and customs duty hikes on nuts, bolts, electronic toys and rail projects.He demanded urban MNREGA, withdrawal of farm laws and mapping of Covid-19 induced losses in the informal sector.“If you have decided to punish the farmers, it is another matter. But you should withdraw the farm laws. Of the eight core sectors of economy, only agriculture grew during Covid times and you have cut agriculture budget,” Singh said.He pointed to Rs 1.50 lakh crore of corporate tax waiver last year, asking why the government was not reducing fuel prices. The MP said 24 per cent of the Centre’s revenue was now coming from cess and surcharges and these revenues were not being shared with cash-strapped states. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mp-opens-debate-on-finance-bill-seeks-urban-mnrega-229565
24-03-2021||New Delhi||BJP MP Shwait Malik for rail link between Amritsar,  Ayodhya||BJP Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik today asked the government to consider establishing a rail link between two pilgrim centres of Amritsar and Ayodhya, as this would help promote religious tourism in a big way.Raising the issue during zero hour in the House, Malik said Ayodhya, the birth place of Lord Ram, had a special place in the hearts of people, irrespective of their “caste, community and religious belief”. “People had for long wanted a grand temple of Ram Lalla in Ayodhya and now it is coming to reality,” Malik said.Similarly, Amritsar, he said, “is a Guru Nagari and famous for Harminder Sahib. Therefore I demand between these two special pilgrimage centres, the government should consider running a train. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-mp-shwait-malik-for-rail-link-between-amritsar-ayodhya-229566
24-03-2021||New Delhi||Govt: No decision on direct transfer of fertiliser subsidy||The government on Tuesday said it had not yet taken a final decision on the implementation of direct cash transfer (DCT) of fertiliser subsidy to farmers but the issue was under its consideration. “The direct cash transfer of fertiliser subsidy to farmers has been under discussion at various forums. A committee headed by the Cabinet Secretary has been set up to develop the broad contours of the DCT framework. In its meeting on January 16, 2020, the panel had recommended constitution of a nodal committee to formulate and implement the DCT,” Fertiliser Minister Sadanand Gowda said today during the question hour in the Lok Sabha. He said the nodal committee had held two meetings but no decision had yet been taken for the DCT implementation. The government also said the Department of Fertilisers had constituted a ‘Chintan Shivir Working Group’ to examine the feasibility of introducing a direct fertiliser subsidy transfer to farmers, criteria for selection of farmers and their entitlement.  To a question by the Bathinda MP as to which stakeholders the Centre had consulted from Punjab and what was the view of the state government, Gowda said, “Consultations have been held nationally.  It is only after we finalise the issue I will be able to tell you what the Punjab Government view is.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-no-decision-on-direct-transfer-of-fertiliser-subsidy-229567
24-03-2021||---||Centre fears facing us: Farm leaders||Nawanshahr, March 23‘Khoon se likha itihas hum syahi se nahee mitne denge, bech diye honge rail aur jahaz tune, lekin apne desh ke kisan ko nahee bikne denge’, a poetic attack on the Narendra Modi government resonated in the Kisan Mazdoor Ekta Mahasabha to mark the martyrdom of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev, at Banga.Organised by the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Doaba), the mahasabha saw people from all walks of life, including youth, NRIs, famous singers and farmer leaders from the Samyukt Kisan Morcha. Young farmer leaders from Haryana also marked their presence in the event.Youths reach DelhiOn a call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha to commemorate martyrdom day of Bhagat Singh and his comrades, a large number of youngsters on Tuesday reached Delhi. They brought the soil from seven places with them.Senior farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal made a scathing attack on the government. “A senior minister once told us during the meeting: ‘Koi aisa rasta labbo, jide naal sarkar di vi izzat bach jaaye, tuhada vi kamm ho jaaye (find out a middle ground that would help us save our face and solve your purpose too). That means the government has accepted the defeat and they don’t have the courage to face our delegation anymore,” he said.Another farmer leader, Dr Darshan Pal, said whether the Modi government initiated fresh talks or not, the farmers wouldn’t come back without getting the three central farm laws withdrawn.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-fears-facing-us-farm-leaders-229568
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Martyrs remembered at farmers' stir sites||Hundreds of farmers in Punjab, who are staging dharnas at 68 places in the state to protest the three farm laws, today observed the martyrdom day of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru.Wearing yellow turbans, dupattas and bands, protesters remembered the sacrifices made by the martyrs and pledged to continue their struggle until the three laws were withdrawn. BKU (Dakaunda) general secretary Jagmohan Singh Patiala said a large number of farmers also reached the protest sites at Singhu and Tikri border today.At Chalela village in Patiala, a huge rally and protest march was organised. A massive protest was also organised at Barnala. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/martyrs-remembered-at-farmers-stir-sites-229569
24-03-2021||Ferozepur||Minister, MLAs pay homage to freedom fighters at Hussainiwala||Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa today rode on a tractor to reach National Martyrs Memorial, Hussainiwala, along with his Vidhan Sabha colleagues to pay floral tributes to martyrs Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev.  On board the tractor were Ferozepur (Urban) MLA Parminder Singh Pinki, Laddi Gehri, husband of Ferozepur (Rural) MLA Satkar Kaur Gehri, Anumeet Singh Sodhi and Zira MLA Kulbir Singh, who was in the driver’s seat. DIG (Ferozepur Range) Hardyal Singh Mann, Deputy Commissioner Gurpal Singh Chahal, SSP Bhagirath Singh Meena also paid the tribute to the gallant martyrs. Randhawa said keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic, no state-level function had been planned this year. He said the youth should realise the dreams of the martyrs for which they sacrificed their lives. Lauding the contribution of Punjabis in the Independence movement, he said we should feel proud of the fact that despite having a population of only 2.5 per cent in the country, 80 per cent of martyrs belonged to Punjab. He stressed the message of the martyrs must be disseminated to the people to make them aware of the rich tradition of sacrifices. The Sector Headquarters, BSF, also organised a wreath-laying ceremony at the border outpost Hussaniwala during which Brig (retd) Surinder Mehta DIG and other senior officials paid homage to the martyrs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minister-mlas-pay-homage-to-freedom-fighters-at-hussainiwala-229570
24-03-2021||Nawanshahr||Road rechristened Bhagat Singh marg||Paying rich tributes to martyrs Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev at Khatkar Kalan today, Cabinet Minister Sunder Sham Arora said several works were being taken up by the state government at Shaheed-E-Azam Bhagat Singh Museum. He named the road from Nawanshahr-Banga to Khatkar Kalan village as ‘Shaheed-E-Azam S Bhagat Singh Marg’. He also visited the gallery at the museum and the ancestral house of Shaheed Bhagat Singh at Khatkar Kalan. “The construction of a cafeteria, toilets and a parking lot, and development of tourist infrastructure at Khatkar Kalan at a cost of Rs 3.78 crore were in progress and likely to be completed by September 2021. Tenders had been invited for the installation of a rooftop solar energy system of 80 KW at the museum for Rs 33 lakh, and lighting of the building façade at Rs 18 lakh and both projects would be completed by June 2021,” the minister said. Arora said Khatkar Kalan village was not merely a native place of Sardar Bhagat Singh but it was also a source of inspiration for the generation to come. The ‘Shardhanjali Samaroh’ was organised by the Punjab Government to commemorate the ‘Martyrdom Day’ . — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/road-rechristened-bhagat-singh-marg-229571
24-03-2021||Sangrur||Martyrs’ kin see red  over ground after Cong  man||Angered by the naming of an under-construction sports ground after local Congress leader Sanjay Gaba in Capt Karm Singh Nagar, family members of freedom fighters today put up a banner naming the ground after martyrs Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru. Sanjay Gaba is the brother of Sangrur Improvement Trust  Chairman Naresh Gaba. “It has set a wrong precedent. Now, families of other political parties would demand institutes and parks named after their deceased family members,” said Harinder Khalsa, president of Freedom Fighters Successors’ Organisation Punjab. Naresh Gaba said the due process was followed to name the ground and none can change it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/martyrs-kin-see-red-over-ground-after-cong-man-229572
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Akalis hold candle march in all districts||The Youth Akali Dal (YAD) today held a candle march at all district headquarters in the state to commemorate the martyrdom day of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh and also paid homage to the 300 farmers who have laid down their lives during the ongoing agitation against the central agricultural laws. YAD members, taking out a candle march with portraits of the martyr, held placards bearing the name of farmers who sacrificed their lives in the ongoing agitation. YAD President Parambans Singh Romana  said the state was witnessing the Pagri Sambhal Jatta movement against the central farm laws similar to what was seen during the British rule — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akalis-hold-candle-march-in-all-districts-229573
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Justice Gill may head vigilance commission||A three-member committee headed by Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has recommended the name of Justice Mehtab Singh Gill (retd) to head the Punjab State Vigilance Commission. The commission has been set up under the Punjab State Vigilance Commission Bill, 2020, passed by the Vidhan Sabha in October last year. Earlier, Justice Gill had headed the Commission of Inquiry instituted by the Congress government to look into false cases registered during the 10-year rule of the Akali government. The selection panel, comprising Speaker Rana KP Singh and Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra, approved the name of Justice Gill today. The panel intends to bring more transparency and check corruption. An independent body, it will have supremacy over state vigilance bureau and police in respect of probe under the corruption Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/justice-gill-may-head-vigilance-commission-229574
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Mayors to be elected as per quota roster||The election of the mayors of eight municipal corporations and the presidents of 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats will be held as per the “roster of reservation” for SC, BC and women candidates adopted in the civic body polls held in 2015 and 2017.  A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting held here on Tuesday. It was attended by PPCC president Sunil Jakhar and Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra. Jakhar said following the precedent, there would be a 12 per cent reservation. Earlier, party MLAs had urged the Chief Minister to consider their demand before finalising the ‘roster system’. They had also approached Jakhar in support of their demand.  A draft of the roster system prepared by the Local Government Department has not found favour with MLAs, who want their choice of candidate to be elected as mayor or president of the elected body. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mayors-to-be-elected-as-per-quota-roster-229575
24-03-2021||Muktsar||Financial aid assured to athlete after appeal||A day after The Tribune highlighted how athlete Kamalpreet Kaur, who recently qualified for Tokyo Olympics, had expressed displeasure at lack of financial aid, the ADC (Development), DSP (H) and DWO today visited her residence at Kabarwala village here and assured her of providing monetary assistance.Kamalpreet broke the nine-year-old national record in discus throw on Friday and qualified for the Olympics. The athlete had expressed regret that nobody, barring family and friends, had welcomed her when she reached her native village on Monday.Her father Kuldeep Singh today said: “ADC (D) GS Sarao, DSP (H) Hemant Kumar and DWO Jagmohan Singh today visited us to congratulate my daughter. They further said the DC would honour her and provide financial help. SAD’s Tejinder Singh Midddukhera also visited us and said SGPC would give financial aid.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/financial-aid-assured-to-athlete-after-appeal-229576
24-03-2021||Muktsar||Ex-minister Gurnam Singh Abul Khurana passes away||Veteran Congress leader and former minister Gurnam Singh Abul Khurana, 90, passed away at his Chandigarh residence today. He was suffering from age-related ailments for some time.He remained MLA from Lambi in Muktsar from 1992 to 1997. He served as the Irrigation and Revenue Minister. The CM described him as a leader of masses. The government declared a holiday for the rest of the day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-minister-gurnam-singh-abul-khurana-passes-away-229577
24-03-2021||Balwant Garg||Court refuses fresh warrant for gangster Lawrence Bishnoi||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, March 23The Faridkot police are facing a tough time getting the custody of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi for questioning in connection with the killing of Youth Congress leader Gurlal Singh Pehlwan here.The court of Judicial Magistrate here today issued directions not to issue a production warrant for Bishnoi for the time being. Bishnoi, who faces 19 criminal cases in Punjab and Haryana, is currently lodged in the Ajmer jail.Reply sought from copsThe police had nominated Bishnoi as an accused in the murder case of Pehlwan, District Youth Congress president and zila parishad member here last month. For the past two weeks, the police have been unsuccessfully trying to bring Bishnoi on a production warrant from Ajmer for questioning.On Tuesday, when the police sought a fresh warrant, the court issued directions not to issue one in view of a Supreme Court order.Last year, fearing threat to life by way of encounter, gangster Lawrence Bishnoi had approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court, challenging a move by Haryana and Chandigarh police to bring him on production warrant from Ajmer jail in two criminal cases.The HC had issued directions that the entire operation to bring Bishnoi from Rajasthan was to be supervised by a DIG-rank officer and he be shifted in a bullet-proof or armoured vehicle escorted by armed commandos. The court had directed Bishnoi be handcuffed and shackled during transit to minimise chance of an escape.However, Bishnoi challenged the HC order in the Supreme Court and on February 4, the apex court stayed the order. Relying on the SC order, counsel for Bishnoi opposed the production warrant in Faridkot.The local court has asked the prosecution and police to file reply on April 7 in view of the SC orders for Bishnoi’s production warrants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/court-refuses-fresh-warrant-for-gangster-lawrence-bishnoi-229578
24-03-2021||---||81% new samples show UK strain in Punjab||Chandigarh, March 23With 81 per cent of the latest 401 samples sent for genome sequencing turning out positive for the new UK Covid variant, CM Capt Amarinder Singh today appealed to people to get themselves vaccinated.He also urged PM Narendra Modi to widen the vaccination ambit to cover those younger than 60 years since this mutant had been found to be infecting youth more. Various studies have established that the new strain is more lethal and infectious.Vaccine status :Total doses supplied 15.8L Administered 6.2LExpressing concern over the emerging situation, the CM stressed the need for the Centre to urgently open up the vaccination for a bigger section of the populace. The process needs to be expedited, he said, pointing to the fact that experts had found the existing Covishield vaccine to be equally effective against the UK variant — B.1.1.7. It was essential to vaccinate more and more people to break the chain of transmission, he added.Capt Amarinder also urged people to strictly adhere to all Covid safety protocols, including wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. The state government, which has already announced fresh restrictions, would be forced to impose more curbs if people do not follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour, he warned.Covid cases: 2,274 Cases in 24 hrs 53 Deaths in 24 hrsThe appeal from the CM came after the state’s Covid expert committee head, Dr KK Talwar, apprised him of the developments on the new variant in the state, which has been witnessing a surge in the number of cases in the past few weeks. The state health department had sent 478 Covid-positive samples to NIB, IGIB and NCDC for genome sequencing, of which results of 90 samples were received and those showed only two samples for N440K variant.Subsequently, a team from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare visited the state to review the increase in positivity. The team was informed about the pending results of genome sequencing. Thereafter, 401 more samples, collected between January 1 and March 10, were sent to the NCDC for genome sequencing. The result of these samples was worrying as it showed presence of B.1.1.7 variant in 326 samples, Dr Talwar said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/81-new-samples-show-uk-strain-in-punjab-229586
24-03-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Power consumers to get relief soon in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 23There is relief in sight for power consumers in Punjab. Come April, domestic power consumers in the state will pay slightly less for power consumption, while other categories will not have to face any tariff hike.With Assembly elections round the corner and the Congress government under fire from the Opposition over the high power rates, the government is learnt to be keen on extending its largesse to domestic power consumers. The tariff for this category could go down by 25-50 paise per unit.Highly placed sources in the Power Department told The Tribune that with the state power utilities, especially the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited, coming out of the red, a part of the profits could be used to ease the burden on domestic consumers. Interestingly, the PSPCL has sought a tariff hike of eight per cent in its annual revenue requirement submitted to the power regulator in December.The new power tariff is expected to be announced by Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) as soon as it gets a guarantee from the state government for payment of subsidy to be given to different categories of consumers, mainly farmers. “We are awaiting a written assurance from the government for the power subsidy bill. Once we get it, the new tariff order will be announced,” confirmed Kusumjit Sidhu, chairperson, PSERC.The subsidy bill of the state government in 2021-22 is expected to be over Rs 10,600 crore, including Rs 7,180 crore for farmers, Rs 1,513 crore for domestic consumers and Rs 1,928 crore for industrial consumers. Other than this, the arrears of the previous years are to be carried forward, taking the total bill for 2021-22 to Rs 14,000 crore.Jasvir Singh Dhiman, president of the PSEB Engineers’ Association, told The Tribune that the state government is yet to release Rs 6,930 crore towards power subsidy for the current fiscal. “Giving subsidy to consumers is fine, but it should not be at the cost of the fiscal health of the state power utility,” he added.PSERC seeks guarantee on subsidy payment||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/power-consumers-to-get-relief-soon-in-punjab-229564
24-03-2021||---||Former minister Gurnam Singh Abul Khurana passes away||Muktsar, March 23Former minister-cum-veteran Congress leader Gurnam Singh Abul Khurana, aged about 90, passed away on Tuesday at his Chandigarh residence. He was suffering from age-related and kidney ailment from past some time.The state government declared a holiday in its offices, Boards, corporations and educational institutions for the remaining part of the day as a mark of respect to the departed leader.Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh too expressed grief over the sad demise of Gurnam Singh. In his condolence message, the CM described Gurnam Singh as a gentleman politician and leader of masses with the qualities of head and heart, who worked tirelessly for the welfare of downtrodden and overall development of Malwa region.SAD chief-cum-MP Ferozepur Sukhbir Singh Badal too condoled the demise of Gurnam Singh.Gurnam Singh Abul Khurana remained MLA from Lambi Assembly Constituency in Muktsar district from 1992 to 1997. He served as Irrigation and Revenue Minister.He is survived by three sons Hardeep Singh Abul Khurana, Harjit Singh Abul Khurana, PPCC general secretary Jagpal Singh Abul Khurana and a daughter.The cremation would be held on Wednesday at Abul Khurana village here.Deeply saddened to learn of the passing away of former Minister S. Gurnam Singh Abulkhurana. He was a close friend and associate and I send my heartfelt condolences to his family. May his soul rest in peace. 🙏 pic.twitter.com/75iCcyUc3d||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-minister-gurnam-singh-abul-khurana-passes-away-229374
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||As 81 per cent of Punjab samples show UK variant, Capt urges PM to widen vaccination ambit to cover younger population||With 81 per cent of the latest 401 samples sent by the state for genome sequencing turning up positive for the new UK-Covid variant, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday appealed to the people to get themselves vaccinated, even as he urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to widen the vaccination ambit to cover those younger than 60 since this mutant has been found to be infecting young people more.Expressing concern over the emerging situation, the Chief Minister stressed the need for the central government to urgently open up the vaccination for a bigger section of the populace.The process needs to be expedited, he said, pointing to the fact that experts had found the existing Covishield vaccine to be equally effective against the UK variant - B.1.1.7. It was essential to vaccinate more and more people to break the chain of transmission, he added.Captain Amarinder also urged the people to strictly adhere to all Covid safety protocols, including wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing. The state government, which has already announced fresh restrictions, would be forced to impose more curbs if the people do not follow the Covid appropriate behaviour, he warned.The appeal from the Chief Minister came after the state’s Covid expert committee head, Dr KK Talwar, apprised him of the developments on the new variant in the state, which has been witnessing a surge in the number of COVID-19 positive cases during the last few weeks. The state health department had sent 478 COVID positive samples to NIB, IGIB, and NCDC for genome sequencing, of which results of 90 samples were received and those showed only two samples for N440K variant. Subsequently, a team from the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of India, visited the state to review the increase in positivity. The team was informed about the pending results of genome sequencing.  Thereafter, 401 more samples, collected between 1.1.2021 to 10.3.2021, were sent to NCDC for genome sequencing. The result of these samples was worrying as it showed presence of B.1.1.7 variant in 326 COVID samples, said Dr KK Talwar.The Chief Minister said he had been informed by Dr Talwar that though this UK variant B.1.1.7 is more infectious yet not more virulent.  Further, the Oxford (Covishield) vaccine is equally effective against this new UK variant. It is noteworthy that the B.1.1.7 variant is now spreading rapidly in many parts of the world, representing 98 per cent of the new cases in UK and 90 per cent in Spain. UK authorities have suggested it is up to 70 per cent more transmissible than the original virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/as-81-per-cent-of-punjab-samples-show-uk-variant-capt-urges-pm-to-widen-vaccination-ambit-to-cover-younger-population-229350
24-03-2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka makes negative Covid report mandatory for Punjab, Chandigarh people||The Karnataka government on Monday decided to make a negative COVID-19 report not older than 72 hours mandatory for travellers from Punjab and Chandigarh.The government had already made the provision for those from Kerala and Maharashtra."In order to contain the second wave of COVID-19, the existing guidelines issued to incoming travellers from Kerala and Maharashtra to carry negative RT-PCR negative reports not older than 72 hours at the time of entering Karnataka have been extended to Punjab and Chandigarh," Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar tweeted.A government circular said that recently a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases has been witnessed in Punjab and Chandigarh.The Technical Advisory Committee recommended extending the same provision that existed for the travellers from Kerala and Maharashtra to those coming from Chandigarh and Punjab.The circular said the airlines should issue boarding passes only to those passengers who have the negative report.The railway officials and bus operators should ensure those entering Karnataka from these states have such a report.The deputy commissioners of the districts bordering Maharashtra and Kerala have been tasked with making arrangements to ensure that all the vehicles are checked for compliance of the order.Constitutional functionaries and healthcare professionals and children below two years old have been exempted from this provision. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/karnataka-makes-negative-covid-report-mandatory-for-punjab-chandigarh-people-229344
