25-03-2021||Patiala||300 farmers pitch tents outside police station in protest of Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway land acquisition||Farmers protesting against the acquisition of their land for the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway on Thursday held a protest outside the Passiana police station on Sangrur road, here. Over 300 farmers associated with the Sangharsh committee pitched a tent outside the police station. They raised slogans against the state government. Earlier, the protesting farmers blocked the entire road, but later allowed the traffic to pass through. The farmers said that they have established a permanent protest at the site, and refuse to move. “We will sit here until our demands are met. If the district administration does not listen to us, we will hold a march toward the CM residence in the city”, they said.The farmers have pitched tents on the road to hold a sit-in. The farmers added that they are against the acquisition of land for the Expressway, and that weren't getting adequate compensation for it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/300-farmers-pitch-tents-outside-police-station-in-protest-of-delhi-amritsar-katra-expressway-land-acquisition-230350
25-03-2021||Bathinda||Farmers gherao BJP leader Surjit Jyani in Bathinda; demand repeal of agri-laws||Numbers of farmers from the BKU Ugrahan faction—including farm women and children—staged a protest on Thursday in front of a hotel in Bathinda where the former state cabinet minister and senior BJP leader Surjit Kumar Jyani had addressed a press conference.Farmers raised slogans against the minister and central government, demanding the repeal of the new agricultural laws.A leader of the BKU Ugrahan, Hoshiar Singh, said: "We will lodge protest against all BJP leaders in the state, and won't let them enter or address or interact anyone here. These three agricultural laws are not against only farmers, but also against all sections of the society who would be equally affected by them.""We have gheraoed both entrance and exit points of the hotel, and won't let Jyani go from here," added Singh.During the press conference, Jyani lashed out at the Congress government in the state, and said that it has failed to honour its pre-poll promises, and that there is huge resentment among the people of the state, who would vote it out of power in the next assembly elections.Reacting to allying with SAD, Jyani said: "There is a possibility of an alliance with SAD and anything is possible in politics."When questioned about the current logjam between the farmer unions, and the central government over the three laws, Jyani said: "The centre government is still ready for talks with farmer union and as per their demands requisite changes were made in the new laws and in future also farmers are free to prepare a prospal specifying their demands which government is ready to accommodate or change in the laws but as far as their demand for repeal of three laws, the government has already ruled it out. Sticking to an adamant stance of yes or no would do no good to farmer unions."Meanwhile, a heavy police force was pressed into action to prevent any untoward incident at the venue.Surprisingly, the venue holding the press conference was changed at the penultimate moment by the organisers, but farmers managed to reach, and protest at the press conference.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-gherao-bjp-leader-surjit-jyani-in-bathinda-demand-repeal-of-agri-laws-230348
25-03-2021||Fatehgarh Churian||Covid norms go for a toss as devotees make a beeline to offer liquor at shrine in Amritsar||Notwithstanding the surge in COVID-19 cases, several devotees without face masks and not adhering to social distancing norms converged to pay obeisance to Baba Rode Shah shrine in Punjab's Amritsar district and offered liquor bottles to seek his blessings.The unusual fair, being held for the last 90 years, ended on Wednesday in Bhoma village, situated on the Amritsar-Fatehgarh Churian Road.A relative of Baba and sarpanch of Bhoma, Gurnek Singh, who manages the shrine, said Baba used to collect liquor in a vessel and offer it to his devotees, but he himself never drank.Though liquor is offered at the shrine throughout the year, the offering increases during the fair."It is a gathering of animated devotees who thronged the samadhi of Baba Rode Shah, clutching bottles of liquor as offerings for grant of a boon," said Gursewak Singh of same village.Earlier, the first day of the fair was reserved for male devotees while the second day was for women, but with the passing of time, both men and women offer liquor to the 'samadhi' at the same time.During the course of the fair, it is quite common to see devotees making their way to the 'samadhi' with the bottles and other containers full of liquor which is offered at the shrine. It is then distributed among the devotees, male and female, who drink the liquor as 'prasad'.The uniqueness of this shrine is that only liquor is accepted as offerings from the devotees. The devotees scramble to reach the shrine where liquor is distributed in glasses.The Baba, who belonged to Dhawaan village in Gurdaspur district, left his family and settled in Bhoma in 1896. According to the legend, the Baba, who became a saint, was once approached by a farmer of the same village as he was childless despite being married for a couple of years. With the blessings of the saint, a male child was born to the couple, who offered Rs 500 to the saint for his blessings. But the saint refused to accept the money and asked the couple to purchase a bottle of liquor and offer it as parshad to his devotees.The Baba died in 1924. Since then, a fair is held in his memory every year and people from Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh visit the shrine to seek his blessings by offering and getting liquor as 'prasad'. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-norms-go-for-a-toss-as-devotees-make-a-beeline-to-offer-liquor-at-shrine-in-amritsar-230289
25-03-2021||New Delhi||39 more die in Punjab as national Covid infections rise to 5-month high||India saw 53,476 new coronavirus infections in a day, the highest single day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid tally to 1,17,87,534, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday.The active caseload registered an increase for the 15th day in row and was recorded at 3,95,192 comprising 3.35 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 95.28 per cent, the data stated.Covid norms go for a toss as devotees make a beeline to offer liquor at shrine in AmritsarThe daily rise in infections was the highest recorded in 153 days. The death toll increased to 1,60,692 with 251 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 54,366 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 23.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to1,12,31,650, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.36 per cent, the data stated.According to the ICMR, 23,75,03,882 samples have been tested up to March 24 with 10,65,021 samples being tested on Wednesday.Airlines may ban 15 passengers for 3 months for violating Covid normsThe 251 new fatalities include 95 from Maharashtra, 39 from Punjab, 29 from Chhattisgarh, 12 each from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka and 10 from Kerala.A total of 1,60,692 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 53,684 from Maharashtra, 12,630 from Tamil Nadu, 12,461 from Karnataka, 10,973 from Delhi, 10,312 from West Bengal, 8,769 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,197 from Andhra Pradesh. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/39-more-die-in-punjab-as-national-covid-infections-rise-to-5-month-high-230282
25-03-2021||---||Several injured as bus falls into drain in Punjab’s Faridkot||Faridkot, March 25Several people, including students, were injured as a bus carrying them from Ferozepur to Faridkot fell into a drain in this district on Thursday morning.The accident took place following a tyre-burst. The driver lost control over the vehicle and it fell into the drain after breaking iron grills.Residents of Golewala village rushed to help the injured.The injured were shifted to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/several-injured-as-bus-falls-into-drain-in-punjabs-faridkot-230279
25-03-2021||---||Strawberry cultivator from Sultanpur Lodhi catches eyes of agri officials||Sultanpur Lodhi, March 24Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department officials on Wednesday visited the farm of Sukhjinder Singh, a successful farmer of Swal village here, who has cultivated strawberries instead of the traditional crop cycle.The search for a viable alternative to wheat-paddy in agriculture and the desire to do something unique led Sukhjinder to cultivate strawberries in 2012, in which he achieved success despite initially facing many difficulties in marketing. He is proud to be the first strawberry farmer in Kapurthala district.He has cultivated strawberry in five kanals, which he is now selling at a good price of Rs 130 per kg. He has also planted a guava orchard on half acre land, where cabbage and carrots were also grown. He said his father Balkar Singh, who received the State Award for Agriculture in 2016, has made a great contribution in the cultivation of strawberries.Agriculture Officer Jasbir Singh said Sukhjinder has set an example for small farmers. Agriculture Development Officer Dr Jaspal Singh said that strawberry is a crop of hilly areas but it is now being cultivated in Punjab also.Sukhjinder father said he has been associated with the Department of Agriculture for a long time and on the advice of the department, he had branded the products of his farm under the name 'Green Gold' so that all his goods could be related to the farm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/strawberry-cultivator-from-sultanpur-lodhi-catches-eyes-of-agri-officials-230245
25-03-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Farmer leaders to organise mahapanchayat in Ludhiana on March 28||Ludhiana, March 24Leaders of farmers’ organisations, activists of labour and trade unions, and legal luminaries will hold a ‘kirti kisan mahapanchayat’ at the grain market near Jalandhar Bypass on March 28.In the mahapanchayat, the leaders will dwell on farm-related laws and anti-labour laws.Sharing the news of the mahapanchayat, former bureaucrat SR Ladhar and IRS (Retd) Jagtar Singh said the gathering would also strive to strengthen the bonds of social and sectional brotherhood.Ladhar said legal luminaries, including Supreme Court advocate Bhanu Pratap Singh would apprise farmers of the adverse effects of farm laws and anti-labour laws. People from all sections of society are expected to attend the mahapanchayat, he added.Farmer leaders namely Balbir Singh Rajewal, Harmeet Singh Kadian and Lachman Singh Sewawal will also address the gathering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-leaders-to-organise-mahapanchayat-in-ludhiana-on-march-28-230221
25-03-2021||Ludhiana||Punjab Govt to widen road leading to martyr Sukhdev’s ancestral house||The Punjab Government has deputed SDM Dr Baljinder Singh to acquire land for widening the road leading to ancestral the house of Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar at Mohalla Naughara from Chaura Bazaar area. According to the information, around 40 sq yards area would be acquired for the project. On Tuesday, Ludhiana DC Varinder Kumar Sharma had announced the project.The All-India Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Memorial Trust had been demanding for a direct way from Chaura Bazaar to the birth place of Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar at Mohalla Naughara for a long time.The SDM said there is a structure on a piece of land which is to be acquired. “We will follow the required process to acquire the land”, he said.In 2019, the Municipal Corporation had taken action to remove the alleged encroachment near Chaura Bazaar after members of the trust had demanded from the administration to make direct way to the martyr’s ancestral house.Ashok Thapar, kin of Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar, said, “We have been raising the demand to make a direct way from Chaura Bazaar to the house for a long time. The government has also assured us that a direct way will be made soon. The government has also announced to renovate the martyr’s birthplace. If the direct way is constructed from Chaura Bazaar, the visitors can easily reach the birthplace of Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-to-widen-road-leading-to-martyr-sukhdevs-ancestral-house-230203
25-03-2021||Moga||Man held for murder||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-held-for-murder-230227
25-03-2021||---||Punjab Govt targets 35K Covid tests a day||Chandigarh, March 24To deal with the second Covid wave, Punjab has decided to increase the sample testing capacity. At present, the state is conducting 30,000 tests a day but now the government is working to enhance it to 35,000 tests daily.In the past one year, the state has conducted 56.6 lakh tests. The daily average of tests remained around 15,000 samples. Out of the total samples, 2.17 lakh were found Covid positive. Since the breakout of Covid, the positivity rate has remained 3.84 per cent in the state.The state reported 2,634 fresh cases and 39 deaths in the past 24 hours. With these cases, the total number of cases so far has reached 2.2 lakh and the total number of deaths 6,474.In district-wise break-up of deaths, Jalandhar topped the chart with 11 deaths, Hoshiarpur, Ropar and Kapurthala reported four deaths each, Patiala and Gurdaspur three deaths each, Ludhiana, SAS Nagar and Amritsar reported two deaths each, Muktsar, Sangrur, Faridkot and Fatehgarh Sahib reported one death each.The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday said the surge of cases in Maharashtra and Punjab was of “grave concern”. The state has the most number of coronavirus samples with mutations, followed by Telangana, Delhi, and Maharashtra, as per the state-wise data released by the Union Health Ministry.A total of 771 cases of coronavirus variants have been detected across 18 states. Punjab accounts for 336 such cases. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the Centre held a meeting with health officials of Maharashtra and Punjab on Saturday to talk about refinement in their strategy to tackle the surge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-targets-35k-covid-tests-a-day-230191
25-03-2021||GS Paul||Screening, social distancing given go-by at Amritsar shrines||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 24Despite a spurt in Covid cases, scant precautionary measures are being adopted at the Golden Temple and Durgiana Mandir in Amritsar. When a Tribune team visited both shrines, it appeared the devotees did not see much reason in taking precautions against the pandemic.It was left to the ‘discretion’ of the devotees to follow the guidelines. Six feet physical distance and face mask was not mandatory. No screening of devotees was being done. Though the SGPC has set up a sanitising tunnel at the Ghanta Ghar side, the main entrance point of the Golden Temple and another one at the sarais (inns) side remain neglected.Unlike last year when ample arrangements were in place to check the health of devotees before letting them in, this time no thought was effort was made to set up a health checkup counter or arrangement for hand sanitisation. A sewadar at the entrance of the Golden Temple said, “Earlier, we used to ask the devotees to take off the masks before entering, but now, there is no restriction. It is devotees’ own will whether to wear a mask or not.”Another sewadar also joined in to express his viewpoint. “It is ‘babe da dwar’ (a place of faith) and people come here to seek blessings for good health and prosperity. No one can be forced to do anything,” he said.SGPC honorary chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami said though no visitor could be forced to wear a mask, but from today, the sewadars would be directed to encourage the visitors to wear one. We will shortly hold a meeting with the Deputy Commissioner for engaging health teams and take other preventive steps,” he said.At Durgiana Mandir, absolutely no arrangement has been made to comply with the guidelines. Mandir committee president Ramesh Sharma said, “We have sanitisation tunnels. These will be installed soon. Also, the devotees will be asked to wear masks and maintain social distancing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/screening-social-distancing-given-go-by-at-amritsar-shrines-230043
25-03-2021||Bathinda||Mask violators: 697 challaned in Bathinda||Joint teams of the Punjab Police and Health Department have intensified issuing challans and conducting tests to mask violators in Bathinda and Mansa.In Bathinda, 697 persons have been issued challans for not wearing masks. Similarly, 544 persons have been challaned in Mansa district.Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjeet Singh Virk made an appeal to the public to follow the instructions issued by the state government.Mansa SSP Surender Lamba said, “In the past few days, 1,900 face mask violators have undergone Covid tests and 544 persons have been issued challans. The police also distributed free masks to 2,000 persons in the district.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mask-violators-697-challaned-in-bathinda-230044
25-03-2021||Kiratpur Sahib||Hola Mohalla begins in Kiratpur Sahib; Covid -ve report must for foreigners||The first phase of the 6-day Hola Mohalla festival started here today. After three days, the venue will be shifted to Anandpur Sahib on March 27. The festival will be concluded on March 29 with a procession and display of martial arts by Nihang Sikhs.The festival started with the beating of drums and ardas. Akhand paths have also been started at various gurdwaras at Kiratpur Sahib, bhog of which will be held on March 26.To keep a check on the spread of Covid-19, the district administration has appealed to visitors to take all preventive measures, including the use of sanitisers, masks, hand wash and social distancing. The Covid negative report within 72 hours is a must for all international pilgrims and sampling has also been made mandatory for those who will stay at hotels. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hola-mohalla-begins-in-kiratpur-sahib-covid-ve-report-must-for-foreigners-230045
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers' agitation: All set for Bharat Bandh tomorrow||Prem Singh Bhangu, president of the All-India Kisan Federation and leader of Samyukt Kisan Morcha, said preparations had been made for Bharat Bandh on March 26. As per the reports received, the “bandh” will be observed in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Maharashtra, apart from Punjab and Haryana.Stop pressuring supporters of farmers’ agitation: Rakesh TikaitPreparations were in full-swing for the “bandh” in these states, said Bhangu.The agitation, which started from Punjab, had spread all over India and now it had become a people’s movement, he said. Farmers were determined to continue their struggle until the three anti-farmers’ laws were repealed, he said.Read also: Farmers’ sacrifice won’t go in vain, say Sikh leadersFarmers prepared for a long haul, will relent only when demands met: Rakesh Tikait'Bharat Bandh': Rail, road transport likely to be affected in parts of countryOn March 26, road and rail traffic, as well as the markets would remain closed. Even the government offices would observe complete “bandh” from 9 am to 6 pm, but essential services would be exempted, he said. Bhangu said there was a widespread resentment among people against the apathetic attitude of the Union Government. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha has appealed to all sections of society to participate in the “bandh” with full strength.Abohar Traders extend supportBeopar Mandal, Arhtiya Association, District Halwai and Bakery Association and Dodhi (milk vendors) Union in Abohar have extended support to the Bharat Bandh call. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-agitation-all-set-for-bharat-bandh-tomorrow-230046
25-03-2021||Amritsar||Farmers’ sacrifice won’t go in vain, say Sikh leaders||A programme to pay homage to Navreet Singh, who died during the tractor march in Delhi on Republic Day, and others who lost their lives during the course of the farm agitation was organised in the Golden Temple complex today. Sikh organisations held an ardas and ‘shardhanjali samagam’ for the success of the agitation against the three central farm laws.The grandfather, father and mother of Navreet Singh, father of Jugraj Singh, who unfurled Nishan Sahib at the Red Fort, and Ranjit Singh, who was arrested from the Singhu border on January 29 and released from Tihar jail recently, were honoured on the occasion. Various organisations backed the Bharat Bandh call. Sikh leaders said farmers’ sacrifices wouldn’t go in vain. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-sacrifice-wont-go-in-vain-say-sikh-leaders-230047
25-03-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||No ‘ghar wapsi’ until farm laws repealed: SKM||Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders today addressed a “kisan mahapanchayat” at the grain market in Sirhind. Amid loud cheering and sloganeering from the crowd, SKM leaders declared that there would be no ‘ghar wapsi’ from the Delhi borders until the three central farm laws were repealed. Actor Yograj Singh urged farmer leaders to form a political party and contest all 117 Assembly seats in the state. He said without being in the position of power, their agenda will remain unfulfilled. “If you (farm leaders) do not take any political step, the people will not spare you.” The crowd cheered him with “Bole So Nihal”. Morcha leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, however, clarified that their movement was apolitical and they had no intentions to fight elections. He said they toured all five poll-bound states and urged people to defeat the BJP. Rajewal said he had cautioned the people and politicians in 2017 about the intentions of the Modi government and held all-party meetings. He said PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar and SAD leader Balwinder Singh Bhunder supported us to lead a struggle, but the latter hadn’t been visible during ever since the agitation began.  He warned that a certain section of the media and the BJP’s IT cell were making all-out efforts to confuse masses and defame their agitation. Dr Darshan Pal recounted the achievements of their agitation and said that it had united all the sections of the society, including the youth, women and panthic organisations all over the country. “It has been discussed in parliaments of various countries and many human rights organisations have supported our just cause. He made it clear that there will be no “Ghar Vapsi’ till farm laws were repealed. Gurnam Singh Chaduni, in his address, said all three farm laws were on ventilator and would not survive for long. They were sitting at the Delhi border just to get the death certificate of these laws, he added. Langars were organised by SGPC, panchyats and NGOs. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-ghar-wapsi-until-farm-laws-repealed-skm-230048
25-03-2021||Abohar||Minor ‘killed’, case registered||The police here today registered a case under Sections 302 and 201 of the IPC on the complaint of Arjun, a native of Jharkhand, at Lande Rode village in Muktsar, in connection with the death of his 16-year-old younger brother. He said Ganesh, a Class X student, went missing on March 18. His body, tied with a rope, was recovered from a canal near Alamgarh village in Abohar yesterday. The victim carried a mobile phone in his school bag. The police said prima facie it appeared that Ganesh was kidnapped and thrown into the canal. The body was today handed over to the family after post-mortem. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minor-killed-case-registered-230049
25-03-2021||Our correspondent||Protesting farmers shut mall in Sriganganagar||Sriganganagar, March 24Taking cognizance of the reports that the staff of a big mall had reopened it thinking that farmers’ stir on Delhi borders had become less effective, representatives of farmers organisations reached Ridhi Siddhi Colony to shut it.Kisan Army spokesman Gurlal Singh Brar said ex-MLA Het Ram Beniwal, District Congress Committee ex-president Prithvipal Singh Sandhu and members Gurmeet Singh Mann, Sandeep Singh and Gurjant Singh asked the staff why they resumed work when three other malls were lying shut. The staff assured them that the mall would not be opened till farmers’ agitation continued.Brar said none of the toll plazas was charging fee in Sriganganagar after the sit-ins by farmer organisations. “We will continue raising strength at the Shahjahanpur morcha and Delhi, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesting-farmers-shut-mall-in-sriganganagar-230050
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||After High Court snub, Gurdaspur SSP transferred||Within days of the Punjab and Haryana High Court questioning appointment of police officials, chargesheeted or convicted in a criminal case, on key posts, the government today shifted the Gurdaspur SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal, who was convicted in a case. The government ordered his transfer replacing him with Dr Nanak Singh. The orders were part of the list of eight officers shifted today. The transfer of others was not related to the High Court order.  On a petition filed by an ex-police officer, the High Court said, “It is disquieting to note that Sohal, who has been convicted in a criminal case, is posted as SSP of Gurdaspur district. He has been convicted in a CBI case and sentenced to imprisonment for three years on March 11, 2013.” The other postings included Surjit Singh, DIG STF, Ferozepore and Ludhiana range; Kashmir Singh Gill, AIG STF, Ropar; Lakhbir Singh, Commandant, IRB, Amritsar; Kuljit Singh, AIG STF, Amritsar; Rajpal Singh, AIG STF, Jalandhar; Nirmaljit Singh, AIG STF, Ferozepore; Davinder Singh, SP STF, Bathinda and Ferozepore. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-high-court-snub-gurdaspur-ssp-transferred-230051
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Divyangjans honoured||Punjab Social Security, Women and Child Development Minister Aruna Chaudhary on Wednesday conferred the State Award 2020-21 on Divyangjans for exceptional achievements in various fields and organisations working for the welfare of persons with special needs. During the state level function held at Punjab Bhawan, 11 personalities and organisations were honoured with State Awards, which included  Harpinder Kaur, lecturer, Pawan Kumar and Pooja Sharma in employee category, Rajveer Kaur and Mandip Singh in self-employed category; among the institutions, the Ambuja Manovikas Kendra (Ambuja Cement Foundation Project), Rupnagar and the Speaking Hands Welfare Foundation, Patiala, in the best institution category. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/divyangjans-honoured-230052
25-03-2021||---||SC panel chief Vijay Sampla visits Sangrur boy paraded with hands tied||Sangrur, March 24National Commission for Scheduled Castes Chairman Vijay Sampla today visited the Dalit boy who was reportedly paraded in Bhasaur village recently with hands tied at the back along with three other minor boys in an alleged theft case.Since Sampla and his team did not meet the residents of Bhasaur, who had converged at a local school to share their feedback, they protested after the panel chief left the village. Though the police on March 14 had registered an FIR under Sections 499, 500, 341, 342, 323, 34 of the IPC and the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, and the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against four accused, the delay in the arrest has angered the parents of the four boys.“The incident took place on March 7, but an FIR was registered on March 14 as the police received the complaint late. There might be multiple reasons for delay in submitting complaint, but to date we are satisfied with the working of the Sangrur police as they registered the FIR immediately after getting complaint and have also added more sections, as per our letter,” Sampla said after meeting the Dalit family and presiding over a meeting of senior officers of Sangrur.Sangrur SSP Vivek Sheel Soni, Deputy Commissioner Ramvir along with Sangrur BJP chief Randeep Deol accompanied Sampla to the residence of the Dalit family in Bhasaur and later shared all details with the commission team.“We have directed the Sangrur SSP to arrest the accused in two days and we have also got deputed a police vehicle near the residence of the Dalit family for their protection,” Sampla said.Meets parents of slain Moga sistersMoga: NCSC Chairman Vijay Sampla on Wednesday met family members of the two sisters, who were brutally murdered in Moga. At Sekha Khurd village, Sampla directed the District Magistrate to ensure pension for the eldest member of the family, a government job, free education up to graduation to eligible family member and cultivable land as per the SCs and STs (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1999. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-panel-chief-vijay-sampla-visits-sangrur-boy-paraded-with-hands-tied-230053
25-03-2021||Ferozepur||Shunted, college lecturer demands investigation||Ad hoc lecturers working in a private college here levelled allegations of high-handedness against the college authorities. In a written complaint submitted to the college management, Dr Manpreet Singh, a resident of Jalalabad, said he had joined the college last year in September as Hindi lecturer. While his other colleagues were made to sign on blank papers, he refused to budge, following which the college authorities shunted him without giving any reason for relieving him, he alleged.  Manpreet demanded that the matter should be investigated.  The college authorities did not take the calls. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shunted-college-lecturer-demands-investigation-230054
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Rs 3.27 crore for labs’ upgrade in schools||On the directions of School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla, over Rs 3.27 crore has been released for renovation of science and computer labs and libraries. A spokesman for the School Education Department said an amount of Rs 327.42 lakh had been provided for 3,638 schools. Education Secretary Krishan Kumar directed the officers concerned to upgrade labs and libraries to smart rooms for which Rs 9,000 has been provided to each school. According to the spokesperson, the amount would be utilised for paint, flex, door mats, curtains, clocks, display boards, newspapers, reading stands and syllabus handler. The education department was fully committed to revamp the school infrastructure and the funds had been released in this direction, the spokesperson said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-3-27-crore-for-labs-upgrade-in-schools-230055
25-03-2021||---||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh digitally shifts 10K teachers||Chandigarh, March 24CM Capt Amarinder Singh today digitally ordered mass transfers of schoolteachers in line with the Teachers Transfer Policy-2019.With the touch of a button, the CM cleared the transfers of 10,099 teachers and volunteers to the station of their choice on merit basis. Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla was also present on the occasion. A total of 35,386 online applications were received from aspiring teachers and volunteers, of whom 15,481 were found ineligible as they fell short of the prescribed parameters of the policy. The remaining 19,905 were found eligible for transfer. For the first time, computer teachers and various categories of education volunteers were brought into the ambit of the Teachers Transfer Policy.Over 50% applications approvedThe Chief Minister said the transfer policy had been instrumental in successfully achieving the goal of quality education through filling of vacant posts. “This has helped in ensuring uninterrupted academic session, besides giving enormous job satisfaction to teachers to work at the places of their choice,” he said, adding that the government would soon enact the Teachers Transfer Act in place of the existing system of notification issued by the School Education Department.The CM lauded various projects of the department for upgrading infrastructure and improving the quality of education in schools. He said Teachers Transfer Policy-2019 was a major step in ensuring qualitative improvement in school education.Under the online system, over 50 per cent transfer applications had been approved. As many as 10,099 teachers, including 4,405 masters, 3,748 primary teachers and 718 lecturers and an adequate number of computer teachers working under the Punjab ICT Education Society, had availed the benefit of the policy.An official spokesperson said the teachers, aspiring for transfer, needed to apply on the department’s portal. Those suffering from cancer, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, sickle cell anaemia, thalassaemia or on dialysis, handicapped to the extent of 60 per cent, divorcees and having differently or mentally challenged children were exempted from submitting online transfer requests.Exempted from submitting online pleas||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-digitally-shifts-10k-teachers-230056
25-03-2021||---||Stop farm DBT scheme for one year, Capt Amarinder Singh urges PM Narendra Modi||CHANDIGARH, MARCH 24Opposing the Direct Bank Transfer (DBT) scheme for farmers, CM Capt Amarinder Singh today said he had written a letter to the PM, seeking early resolution of the matter in view of the upcoming Rabi season.The CM, who has also sought time from PM Narendra Modi for a meeting, sought his personal indulgence in issuing directions to the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution to defer the implementation of the scheme for at least one year.The arhtiyas and farmers had good relations, he said, questioning the need to change the system when it was working well. “Around 50 per cent farmers gave their land on contract. So how will those who till the land get their money under the DBT,” he said at a media event.In his letter, the CM drew the PM’s attention to the ministry’s directions, asking the state to ensure direct payment to farmers, along with online submission of the details of land owners/cultivators. Pointing to the age-old relationship between arhtiyas, licensees under the Agriculture Produce Market Committee Act, and farmers, he said for many decades procurement agencies and the FCI had been procuring foodgrain for the central pool. Farmers had never complained of non-receipt of payment of MSP and the government was ensuring online payment to them, albeit through arhtiyas, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stop-farm-dbt-scheme-for-one-year-capt-amarinder-singh-urges-pm-narendra-modi-230057
25-03-2021||---||Farmers hold dharna over land acquisition for Katra highway||Patiala, March 24Opposing land acquisition for the Delhi-Katra Express Highway, farmers today blocked the Bathinda-Chandigarh National Highway in Patiala and marched towards the Chief Minister residence but were stopped by a heavy police force.Thereafter, they started a sit-in on the highway. Protesting under the Delhi-Katra Express Highway Kisan Sangharsh Committee, they said the state government should halt the land acquisition process until the agitation against the three agricultural laws came to a logical conclusion.Harmanpreet Singh, committee coordinator, said: “Despite assurances, the government continues with the acquisition process. This shows that Capt Amarinder Singh is hand in glove with PM Narendra Modi. Farmers are protesting at Delhi borders and the state government is instrumental in acquiring their land.”The farmers also said they were not getting adequate compensation for their land. Gurnaib Singh, a protesting farmer, said: “The government is acquiring land at low rates to help industrialists. So, we won’t sell our lands for the express highway. Secondly, we will hold talks with the government only after the farmers’ agitation at Delhi borders is over.”Ramesh Dalal, president of Bharat Bhoomi Bachao Sangharsh Committee, joined the protesting farmers. Dalal said: “The farmers will be benefitted only if the government gives four times the market price and not the collector rate, which has not been revised for decades.”The protesting farmers said they would stage a sit-in for five days and would again march towards the CM residence on the sixth day if their demands were not met.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-hold-dharna-over-land-acquisition-for-katra-highway-230058
25-03-2021||Saurabh Malik---||Fraud case: High Court raps Punjab for brushing matter under carpet||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, March 24 Rapping Punjab for apparent attempts to push under the carpet the issue regarding the alleged fraudulent allotment of plots, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has called for an affidavit by the Principal Secretary concerned. He has been asked to delineate the measures taken after the submission of a report in the matter by the Vigilance Bureau to “ensure that faith of the general public in system is kept intact” The direction by the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli came on a petition filed against the State and other respondents by Satinder Singh through counsel Baltej Singh Sidhu. Referring to reports carried in different newspapers in September 2019, Sidhu had contended that the petitioner came to know about the scam in the allotment of plots by the Punjab State Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC). Sidhu submitted that an inquiry was marked to the Vigilance Bureau regarding forgery in the plots’ allotment in the industrial focal points in the State. The inquiry officer concluded that the PSIEC officers misused their position to get the plots allotted to their close relatives, friends and others, causing financial loss running into crores to the government. It further concluded that the PSIEC officers were involved in the scam in connivance with their relatives and ultimately it was suggested to register a criminal case after taking legal opinion. The Bench during the course of hearing was told that the petitioner was aggrieved by apparent inaction on the part of the respondent authorities to initiate criminal prosecution and proceedings against those found guilty of embezzlement and involved in fraudulent allotment of plots in accordance with the report submitted by the Vigilance Bureau after carrying out the inquiry. The Bench observed notices were issued to the respondent authorities way back in January last year and still time was being prayed for to submit the response. The Bench noted in its order that in response to a pointed query whether the matter had made tangible progress pursuant to the report, Punjab Deputy Advocate-General stated a committee of officers, belonging to the PSIEC, had been constituted to examine the issue. “Once the Vigilance Bureau has already conducted an inquiry and submitted a report, the act of the authorities in still constituting a committee consisting of the officers of the same institution (PSIEC), which is under scrutiny, defies logic. Rather, it appears to be an attempt to brush the entire issue under the carpet,” the Bench asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fraud-case-high-court-raps-punjab-for-brushing-matter-under-carpet-230059
25-03-2021||Faridkot||Murder case against ex-DGP Sumedh Saini, IGP Paramraj Umranangal committed to sessions court||For framing of charges against former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and under suspension IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal in the Behbal Kalan police firing case, the court of Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMIC), Faridkot, on Wednesday committed the challan in the case for trial before the court of District and Sessions Judge.Umranangal and Saini were nominated as accused in the murder case on September 27, 2020. The Home Department of the state government had granted permission to prosecute both senior police officers on February 16 this year.In the case under Sections 302, 307, 218, 201, 166-A, 120-B, 34, 194, 195 and 109 of the IPC and Sections 25/27 of Arms Act, the challan against other co-accused, including former Moga SSP Charanjit Sharma and many other police officials, was already committed to the sessions court as the offence under Sections 302 and 307 of the Indian Penal Code are exclusively triable by the sessions court. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/murder-case-against-ex-dgp-sumedh-saini-igp-paramraj-umranangal-committed-to-sessions-court-230060
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Congress MLAs meet Prashant Kishor, flag concerns over high power, sand prices||As the Congress government completed its four years, the party MLAs, at a meeting with Principal Adviser to the Chief Minister Prashant Kishor, have flagged “concerns” over the high power tariff, high sand and gravel prices and the need to create more employment avenues in the state.Some MLAs are learnt to have minced no words in saying that bureaucratic deliverance of government schemes and employment generation, instead of political deliverance, was acting as a gap between the masses and elected representatives. On drugs, the MLAs appreciated the efforts put in but sought more to be done.It had also been pointed out that while there was no issue with the intent of the government schemes like minibus permits, it should be seen on the ground that genuine people should be accommodated and not the influential and politically connected.As part of the exercise to review the status of the poll promises made to the masses in 2017, the Principal Adviser and his team have been interacting with leaders and Punjab Government officials. On Wednesday, the Adviser, along with a Political Adviser to the Chief Minister, met nearly 37 first-time MLAs to get the feedback. The issue of bringing a white paper and terminating/negotiating the controversial power purchase agreements with private thermal plants, bringing to book the accused in the Bargari sacrilege incidents and subsequent police firing were highlighted by others. One of the legislators said since the political strategist was involved in the poll promises during the 2017 Assembly elections, it was crucial for him to address all the issues being raised by the MLAs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-mlas-meet-prashant-kishor-flag-concerns-over-high-power-sand-prices-230061
25-03-2021||Abohar||Rape accused sentenced to 7-year jail||A Special Court established under Section 28(1) of the POCSO Act at Sriganganagar sentenced a man, accused of raping a teenager, to seven years of rigorous imprisonment. The police said on Wednesday the accused, identified as Raju, alias Rajendra Kumar (33) of Chak 3 MLD, was convicted by the Special Court under Sections 376 (1) and 3/4 of the POCSO Act to seven years of rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs 50,000 was also imposed. Failure to pay the fine would result in additional punishment of one year in jail. Raju was exonerated on charges of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Act, but under Section 450 of the Indian Penal Code, a sentence of five years and a fine of Rs 4,000 had been imposed. Compensation has also been recommended to the victim. As per the case registered on May 21, 2016, Raju jumped into a house when the complainant had gone to his field for watering the crop. The accused allegedly raped the 14-year-old daughter of the complainant. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rape-accused-sentenced-to-7-year-jail-230062
25-03-2021||---||Centre flags rapid surge, slow vaccine pace in Punjab||New Delhi, March 24A year since the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed to break the chain of viral transmission, the country finds itself battling a second surge of the infection with the Centre on Wednesday terming “Maharashtra and Punjab as areas of gravest concern”.Of the 47,262 (the highest daily case tally this year and the highest in 132 days), more than 28,699 are from Maharashtra and 2,634 from Punjab.“Punjab is a specific worry as cases are rising disproportionately to the population and the vaccine coverage among health workers is extremely low at 65.11 per cent. While 10 states have achieved 100 per cent coverage of health workers with the first dose, Punjab, despite adequate vaccine supplies, has not been able to cover even the identified groups. Likewise, only 63 per cent of the health workers have received the first shots in Chandigarh,” Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. The Centre will meet district magistrates and health officials of Punjab’s most affected districts — Jalandhar; SAS Nagar, Ludhiana, Patiala and Hoshiarpur — for a review on Saturday.In another major development, the government disclosed that the apex genome sequencing consortium had detected 771 Covid variants of concern (VOCs) in 18 states. Of these, 736 were positive for the UK variant; 34 for the South African and one for the Brazilian variant. Of the 771 VOCs, 336 are in Punjab alone and all are UK strains.Asked if the surge was linked to the mutations, Member, Health, NITI Aayog, VK Paul said the variants were not in enough numbers to be linked to the surge some states like Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab were witnessing. Both Indian-made vaccines were effective against UK and Brazil strains and studies on the South African variant were underway.“Mutations of the virus are natural and there is no cause for panic. But we need to be cautious,” Paul said, adding that India had not seen any case of blood clotting due to Covishield.“There is no inadequacy in the availability of vaccines. The systems are ready. But we must expand using private facilities,” said Paul.In Punjab, only 38.48% of all Covid vaccine centres are private and in Haryana 21.24%.Mutants detected across 18 statesSpike in infections not due to mutations: Government||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-flags-rapid-surge-slow-vaccine-pace-in-punjab-230119
25-03-2021||Balwant Garg & Aman Sood||PPSC making mega bucks with hefty exam fee||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot/Patiala, March 24While various government boards and corporations are under debt, the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) is proving to be a money-minting machine for the state government.From April 1, 2020, to January 31, 2021, the commission collected over Rs 32.60 crore as examination and registration fee for various recruitment drives. The total expenditure incurred by the commission on conducting these exams was only Rs 8.91 crore. The PPSC deposited around Rs 24 crore “profit” with the state treasury a few days ago.In a letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in January, PPSC Chairman Lt Gen Surinder Singh (retd) had demanded fee reduction for various categories, including women, economically weaker sections and persons with disabilities. He also appended a comparative list of money charged by the Union Public Service Commission and other state public service commissions for various recruitment exams.Except SC/ST and OBC categories, all other categories are being charged Rs 3,000 per exam in Punjab. This included persons from economically weaker sections, those with disabilities, sportsperson and descendants of ex-servicemen.The letter pointed out while Punjab charges Rs 3,000 for an exam from every general category candidate, the UPSC charges only Rs 200 for the same. Meghalaya and Gujarat charge Rs 100, Uttar Pradesh Rs 125, Rajasthan Rs 350, Haryana Rs 1,000 and Himachal Pradesh Rs 1,500.In an advertisement for 124 posts of SDO in nine departments, the Punjab authorities put a condition that every candidate should apply separately for each department. In other words, a candidate applying for all nine departments ended up paying Rs 27,000 in all.The PPSC Chairman confirmed to The Tribune that he had taken up the issue with the government. He had recommended a reduction in fee for all genuine categories, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ppsc-making-mega-bucks-with-hefty-exam-fee-230125
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 39 coronavirus deaths in last 24 hours||The infection count in Punjab climbed to 2,20,276 with 2,634 fresh COVID-19 cases while 39 more fatalities took the toll to 6,474 in the state on Wednesday.The number of active cases increased from 19,403 on Tuesday to 20,522 on Wednesday, according to a medical bulletin.Jalandhar reported a maximum of 351 cases, Ludhiana 320, Mohali 303, Amritsar 290, Patiala 276 and Hoshiarpur 249, among districts which witnessed new cases.The districts which saw deaths included Jalandhar (11), Hoshiarpur (4), Kapurthala (4) and Rupnagar (4). A total of 1,455 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of those recovered to 1,93,280, according to the bulletin.There are 29 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 293 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 57,03,944 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said.  Meanwhile, Chandigarh hit a new high in the number of coronavirus cases this year with 249 more people getting infected with the contagion, taking the total count to 25,130.The death of a 33-year-old man took the COVID-related toll to 365, according to the medical bulletin.The number of active cases rose from 2,066 on Tuesday to 2,178 on Wednesday, it said.A total of 136 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of those recovered 22,587, the bulletin said.A total of 2,98,087 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 2,71,952 tested negative while reports of 149 samples were awaited, it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-39-coronavirus-deaths-in-last-24-hours-229927
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM opposes DBT for farmers, writes to defer scheme for at least 1 year||Strongly opposing the Direct Bank Transfer scheme for farmers, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh said on Wednesday he had written a letter to the Prime Minister seeking early resolution of the matter in view of the upcoming Rabi season.The Chief Minister, who has also sought time from Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a meeting on the issue, sought his personal indulgence to issue appropriate directions to the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Government of India to defer the implementation of the scheme for at least one year.“The  ahrtiyas and farmers have long-standing relations, he pointed out, questioning the need to change the system when it was working very well. Around 50 per cent farmers give their land on contract, so how will those who till the land get their money under DBT,” the Chief Minister said at a media event.In his letter, Captain Amarinder drew the Prime Minister’s attention to the Ministry’s directions, asking the Government of Punjab to ensure direct payment to farmers along with online submission of the details of land owners/ cultivators. Pointing to the age old relationship that Punjab has between the Commission Agents. i.e.. arhtiyas, who are licensees under the Agriculture Produce Market Committee Act 1961 and farmers, he noted that for the past many decades, the State Procurement Agencies and FCI have been procuring foodgrains for the Central Pool.“The farmers have never complained of non-receipt of payment of MSP, and the State Government is ensuring online payment to farmers, albeit through these Arhtiyas,” he added. Further, said the Chief Minister, the land ownership and tenancy issues may give rise to various avoidable legal complications, especially during the ongoing farmers’ agitation. This, he said, “may also cause avoidable unrest and anguish among the farmers.” He further noted that bringing the software in line with the proposed directions shall take considerable time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-opposes-dbt-for-farmers-writes-to-defer-scheme-for-at-least-1-year-229894
