26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder sanctions Rs 1.25 cr for development of native villages of 5 Punjab soldiers killed in Galwan Valley clash||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday sanctioned Rs 25 lakh each for the development of native villages of five soldiers from the state killed during the Galwan Valley clash last year.Reviewing the various welfare measures for ex-servicemen, he said it was a humble effort on the part of the state government to undertake the development of the villages of the soldiers killed in the Galwan Valley clash.According to an official statement, Amarinder sanctioned Rs 25 lakh each for the development of Seel village in Patiala district from where Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh of 3 Medium Regiment belonged, Bhojraj village in Gurdaspur of Naib Subedar Satnam Singh of 3 Medium Regiment, Birewal Dogra in Mansa of Sepoy Gurtej Singh, a Vir Chakra awardee of 3 Punjab, Tolewal village in Sangrur of Sepoy Gurbrinder Singh of 3 Punjab, and Mardanheri village in Patiala of Lance Naik Saleem Khan of 58 Engineer Regiment.Apart from the total Rs 1.25 crore sanctioned for the development of these five villages, the chief minister also approved Rs 18 crore for the Punjab State War Heroes Memorial and Museum at Amritsar, the statement said.The Indian Army has built a memorial for its 20 personnel who were killed while valiantly fighting Chinese troops in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15 last year.In order to provide boarding and lodging facilities to ex-servicemen, war widows and their family members, Amarinder sanctioned Rs 4 crore for the construction of Sainik Rest Houses at Mansa and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar.He also approved Rs 39.50 lakh for the construction of the Victory Tower and renovation of the War Memorial at Asafwala in Fazilka district.This memorial was constructed to commemorate the gallantry deeds of the soldiers who laid down their lives during the 1971 Indo-Pak war in Fazilka sector. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-sanctions-rs-1-25-cr-for-development-of-native-villages-of-5-punjab-soldiers-killed-in-galwan-valley-clash-230847
26-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Punjab closes down museums until April 10||Punjab government announced it was closing down all museums in the state to the public until April 10.The decision comes as the state battles a second surge in COVID-19 cases.PTI reported on Thursday that the Virasat-e-Khalsa situated at Sri Anandpur Sahib will also be closed with immediate effect, and public entry will be strictly prohibited into the premises of this world-renowned museum of Sikh heritage and culture. "The general public is also advised to comply with health advisories issued by the Punjab government to check the further rise of this deadly virus," PTI quoted an official statement as saying.Pilgrims coming to Sri Anandpur Sahib to take part in the 'Holla Mohalla' festival should not gather at one place in large numbers, the government said.They should put on masks at all times, maintain social distance and sanitise their hands at regular intervals, it added.The Union Territory of Chandigarh administration also issued an order stating all public parks, the Sukhna lake area and the city's main commercial zone, Sector 17 Plaza, would remain out of bounds for the public for Holi celebrations.The step is a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 infection, the authorities said."There will be restrictions on entry into these places, which will be strictly implemented by the police and municipal authorities," an order issued by Manoj Parida, Adviser to UT Administrator, said.It said the restrictions on entry to these places would remain valid from 6 am to 6 pm on March 29.A few days ago, the UT administration had ordered several measures to check the spread of COVID-19, including banning public gatherings for Holi. — With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-closes-down-museums-until-april-10-230803
26-03-2021||New Delhi||Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat register sharp rise in daily Covid cases||Five states - Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat - have registered a sharp rise in daily Covid cases, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday as India recorded 59,118 new infections, the highest single-day rise so far this year.After touching its lowest mark in mid-February, India’s active Covid caseload is on a steady rise and has breached the 4-lakh mark again after around three-and-a-half months.As of date, there are 4.21 lakh active cases in the country, a net rise of 25,874 infections in a day."Three states - Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab - together account for 73.64 per cent of the total active cases in the country," the health ministry said.As for daily Covid cases, Maharashtra reported the highest 35,952 infections in a day, followed by 2,661 in Punjab and 2,523 in Karnataka.According to the ministry, Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Gujarat collectively account for 80 per cent of the new Covid cases.Ten states - Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Haryana and Rajasthan - are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, it highlighted.India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,12,64,637 with 32,987 people recuperating in a day. Besides, 257 deaths were reported in a day.Six states account for 78.6 per cent of the new deaths with Maharashtra reporting 111 fatalities and Punjab 43, the health ministry said.Fourteen states and Union Territories have not reported any Covid deaths in a day. These are Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Odisha, Puducherry, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Ladakh, Manipur, Tripura, Mizoram, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh.Meanwhile, over 5.5 crore vaccine doses have been administered through 9,01,887 sessions throughout the country, according to a provisional report till 7 am on Friday.These include 80,34,547 health-care and 85,99,981 frontline workers who have received the first dose, 51,04,398 health-care and 33,98,570 frontline workers who have been administered the second dose.Also, 55,99,772 beneficiaries aged more than 45 with specific co-morbidities and 2,47,67,172 senior citizens have been given the first dose of vaccine.On March 25, day 69 of the vaccination drive, more than 23 lakh vaccine doses were given, of which 21,54,934 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 40,595 sessions for first dose and 2,03,797 health-care and frontline workers received the second dose of vaccine.Ten states - Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, West Bengal, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra - account for nearly 70 per cent of the vaccine doses given in a day. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/maharashtra-punjab-karnataka-chhattisgarh-gujarat-register-sharp-rise-in-daily-covid-cases-230776
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Former Punjab and Haryana High Court Acting Chief Justice Surinder Singh Nijjar passes away at 71||Former judge of Supreme Court, Justice Surinder Singh Nijjar, passed away on Friday morning, following a cardiac arrest. He was 71.The former Acting Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court was also the former Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-acting-chief-justice-surinder-singh-nijjar-passes-away-at-71-230775
26-03-2021||Amritsar||In Amritsar, farmers protest bare-chested; roads, railways blocked around 165 places in Punjab||An overwhelming response to Sanyukt Kisan Morcha’s ‘Bharat Bandh’ call was witnessed in the Majha region. In Amritsar, the farmers—under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC)—contested bare-chested against the three agricultural farm laws. They blocked the Amritsar-New Delhi railway track, the Jodha Phatak in Vallah, Amritsar-Jalandhar GT road while raising slogans against the Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) led Centre government, demanding to repeal the farm law, the Straw Act, and the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020, unconditionally. They insisted on the implementation of the law of Minimum Support Price (MSP) guaranteeing government procurement, and cancelling the false notices issued to the farmers. Remove the condition of taking fards (land record) by the government, and stop issuing challans on fines in the name of coronavirus. Barring the essential, and emergency services—a total Bandh was observed and the streets wore a deserted look with a heavy vigil by the police at least at 40 different points. In Tarn Taran, the Amritsar-Khemkaran, the Amritsar-TarnTaran-Beas rail route remained blocked. The milk supply, fodder, and vegetable supply too were suspended.Though the government offices and Public oriented services were operational, there were scant applicants in public offices. Similarly, the rail track to Pathankot to Amritsar was blocked. Except for the banks and medicine, all services were stopped.  KMSC state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher claimed that thousands of farmers, labours with their family members, and youth took to jam the road and rail network.“In Punjab’s 12 districts the trains and roads were disrupted at over 165 places. Besides in Amritsar where the main rail track was blocked, in Tarn Taran at 32 places, the rail and roads were blocked, in Gurdaspur, the blockade was being observed at 18 places, Ferozepur at 15 places, Hoshiarpur at two places, Kapurthala at five places, Jalandhar at five places, Moga at two places, and also at Fazilka, Muktsar and Faridkot”, he said.Senior Vice President Sawinder Singh told that the Centre government attempted to discourage the farmers from agitation at Delhi borders under the pretext of the COVID-19 threat.“Where was Covid spread threat factor when massive political rallies were being conducted? Moreover, nobody should bother as farmers were accustomed to doing hard physical labour and their immune system was enough to scare away any pandemic”, he added.Farmer leaders said that the Modi government was not withdrawing the Agriculture Act under the pressure of WTO. “The ongoing struggle is not only against the Modi government but also against the imperialistic policy. It is a line that is drawn between the peasants-labour and the big corporate houses which intend to enter agriculture sector to gallop our land”, said another farmer Gurbachan Singh Chabba.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-amritsar-farmers-protest-bare-chested-roads-railways-blocked-around-165-places-in-punjab-230773
26-03-2021||Ruchika M. Khanna||Bharat Bandh: Womanpower to fore at dharna sites across Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 26Woman power came to the fore in full force on Friday during the Bharat Bandh call given by farmers to protest the three central farm laws.Across all dharna sites in Punjab, including the ones on railway tracks, women came out in massive numbers to give a fillip to the protests. Even as the normal life in the state came to a grinding halt, the women were seen leading the protests at many places, especially in the Malwa region. In Jagraon near Ludhiana, a number of women lay siege to the highway.The reason for the good turnout of women was that most of the male members of the family had already left for the main protest sites at Delhi borders on March 23. Most of them are still camping and protesting at Singhu and Tikri borders, leaving the women and elderly here to join the protest.Another reason is that many male members of farmer households are busy making arrangements for the wheat harvest. Thus, the female members are coming out to fight against the farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bharat-bandh-womanpower-to-fore-at-dharna-sites-across-punjab-230772
26-03-2021||---||Bharat bandh pics: Market, government offices shut in Patiala||Patiala, March 26Patiala witnessed a complete closure of shops in view of Bharat Bandh called by the trade unions. Work at market places, shops, institutes and government offices remained shut throughout the city.Police personnel remained positioned at various spots across the city as residents organised protest marches.The district bar association held a protest march near the district court complex while trade unions held a collective protest at the Lahori gate of the city.Residents blocked various roads in support of the protest and held a protest carrying flags of farmer associations.The protests continued till the afternoon, after which however, various shops including eating outlets started opening to customers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bharat-bandh-pics-market-government-offices-shut-in-patiala-230765
26-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Shehnaaz Gill in baggy jeans and white crop dances on Canada streets to 'Vilayati Sharab'; watch Punjabi star's reel||Bigg Boss star Shehnaaz Gill may not be in the country, but she has certainly kept her Indian fans hooked to her social media account. Shehnaaz is currently in Canada shooting for her upcoming film 'Honsla Rakh', co-starring Diljit Dosanjh and Sonam Bajwa.  The actress shared a series of pictures on Friday, where she was seen posing with a swanky car.  She donned baggy jeans and a white crop. Have a look:A post shared by Shehnaaz Gill (@shehnaazgill)  Along with this, Shehnaaz also shared a video of her dancing to 'Vilayati Sharab'. She was seen grooving to this song on the streets of Canada. "Loving this #vilayatisharaab Make your reels guys," she wrote. A post shared by Shehnaaz Gill (@shehnaazgill)  Fans couldn't stop praising her look. Post weight loss, the Punjabi actress has been on an experimental spree when it comes to fashion. Shehnaaz has been flaunting high-street style in Canada, and sharing her new looks every day on social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shehnaaz-gill-in-baggy-jeans-and-white-crop-dances-on-canada-streets-to-vilayati-sharab-watch-punjabi-stars-reel-230759
26-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Neha Kakkar and Rohanpreet Singh throw a pool party; kickstart Holi celebrations; have a look||Neha Kakkar and Rohanpreet Singh have kickstarted Holi celebrations at home with their close family and friends. The 32-year-old singer took to Instagram on Friday, and shared a video where she was seen having a pool party with her husband. They were all seen having a blast and grooving to Tony Kakkar's latest 'Tera Suit'. She wrote alongside, "Maaroon Pichkari Hoke Left, Hoke Right!!! Pre #Holi fun with Family at homeeee...(sic)" Have a look:A post shared by Neha Kakkar (Mrs. Singh) (@nehakakkar)  The couple has taken time off to celebrate their first Holi together. For the uninitiated, Neha and Rohan tied the knot in October last year in the presence of their close friends and family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/neha-kakkar-and-rohanpreet-singh-throw-a-pool-party-kickstart-holi-celebrations-have-a-look-230756
26-03-2021||Ambala||'Don't stop sick, commuters, milkmen', advises BKU chief as farmers' block Delhi-Chandigarh National Highway||Amid the nationwide 'Bharat Bandh', the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) Gurnam Singh on Friday has advised the farmers—who have blocked National Highways—to not stop local commuters, milkmen, and water tankers.  "On the call given, you have actively participated in the 'Bharat Bandh' in Haryana, but there have been complaints, that even sick people are not being allowed to travel, and milkmen and water tankers are being stopped". "I request you don’t stop sick people, and those travelling in emergency cases such as in case of death. Don’t stop local commuters, milkmen, water tankers, army vehicles and other essential services. You are doing well. We are protesting against the government. We have been struggling for the common people, so I request you to don’t displease them,” said Gurnam Singh. Farmers in Ambala have blocked the Delhi-Chandigarh National Highway, and Railway Track near Shahpur village, has also blocked NH-344 near Hema Majra village in Mullana, and roads in Karasan, and Saini Majra besides blockade at toll plazas. Commuters are facing an inconvenience due to the blockades.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-stop-sick-commuters-milkmen-advises-bku-chief-as-farmers-block-delhi-chandigarh-national-highway-230751
26-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Three peddlers held with 100-gm heroin in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, March 25The district police claims to have busted a gang of drug smugglers with the arrest of three peddlers, who used to bring drugs from Delhi and supply to youths in the rural areas. The police recovered 100 gm of heroin from their possession.The Fatehgarh Sahib SSP, Amneet Kondal, said a police team led by DSP Manjit Singh and SHO Rajneesh Sood had set up a naka on the Sirhind-Bassi Pathana road. During checking the police signalled a car (bearing registration number PB01A-8603) to stop at the naka, the SSP added.When questioned, car occupants could not disclose their identity and tried to evade queries of the police, the SSP said. The police got suspicious and during search of their car 100 gm of heroin was recovered, the SSP added.All the three occupants were taken into custody and during preliminary interrogation they were identified as Raghuveer Singh of Tajpur village in Ropar district, Harvinder Singh of Alampur Bassi Pathana village and Harpreet Singh of Rampura Kaleran village in Fatehgarh Sahib, the SSP said.The suspects admitted that they brought drugs from Delhi and supplied these in the rural areas, the SSP added. The suspects were booked under the NDPS Act, the SSP said. During further interrogation the suspect could give more information about their source of drugs and their sale, the SSP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-peddlers-held-with-100-gm-heroin-in-fatehgarh-sahib-230749
26-03-2021||New Delhi||43 more die in Punjab as nation sees 59,118 new Covid cases||India saw 59,118 new coronavirus infections in a day, the highest single day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide COVID-19 tally to 1,18,46,652, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday.The active caseload breached the 4 lakh-mark again after around three-and-half months.Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat register sharp rise in daily Covid casesRegistering an increase for the 16th day in row, the active cases have increased to 4,21,066 comprising 3.55 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 95.09 per cent, the data stated.The 59,118 new infections reported in a span of 24 hours were the highest since October 18, 2020. The death toll increased to 1,60,949 with 257 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.As many as 61,871 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 18.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,12,64,637, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.36 per cent, the data stated.India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.5 more containment zones declared in ChandigarhAccording to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 23,86,04,638  samples have been tested up to March 25 with 11,00,756 samples being tested on Thursday.The 257 new fatalities include 111 from Maharashtra, 43 from Punjab, 15 from Chhattisgarh, 12 from Kerala, 11 from Tamil Nadu and 10 from Karnataka.A total of 1,60,949  deaths have been reported so far in the country including 53,795 from Maharashtra, 12,641 from Tamil Nadu, 12,471 from Karnataka, 10,978 from Delhi, 10,316 from West Bengal, 8,773 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,201 from Andhra Pradesh and 6,517 from Punjab.The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities."Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/43-more-die-in-punjab-as-nation-sees-59-118-new-covid-cases-230741
26-03-2021||---||Punjab farmer found murdered at Tikri border||Jhajjar, March 26 A 61-year-old farmer was found murdered near new bus stand at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border on Thursday evening.The deceased has been identified as Hakam Singh of Patti Fuddu village in Bathinda district.“Hakam’s body bearing injury marks on the neck inflicted by a sharp-edged weapon was recovered from a farm in the evening. Prime facie, it seems to be a case of murder, but exact cause of the death will be ascertained after the post-mortem,” said a police official, adding that the body had been kept in the mortuary of Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh town.He maintained that investigation was under way and the case was yet to be registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-farmer-found-murdered-at-tikri-border-230734
26-03-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Haryana CM's security breach: Cops ‘knew’ about gherao by SAD MLAs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 25An inquiry report on Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s security breach by Akali Dal legislators during the Budget session on March 10 has revealed that the Chandigarh Police, Punjab Police intelligence and Haryana CID had prior information about the gherao. The report, however, is silent on fixing responsibility.The report by Inspector General of Police (IGP) Saurabh Singh, Chandigarh Superintendent of Police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal and Commandant 82 Bn Punjab Armed Police (PAP) Gurmit Singh Chauhan was submitted to Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta today.Not satisfied with the report, Gupta said: “There was prior information, but the Chief Minister’s media briefing was not shifted. The responsibility has not been fixed. I will examine the report legally to take further action.”On the sequence of events, the report has brought out that AIG (Intelligence), Punjab, Anil Joshi had informed Chandigarh DSP Ram Gopal that SAD legislators were planning to gherao the Haryana Vidhan Sabha on March 10 in protest against the farm laws. A message in this regard was conveyed to the Haryana CID.The SHO of the Sector 3 police station reached the Vidhan Sabha at 4.29 pm. Around 10 minutes later, Akali Dal MLA Bikram Singh Majithia and other party legislators reached the main entrance, where the Chandigarh Police stopped them to enter. But the watch and ward staff of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha allowed them, stated the report.As per the CCTV footage, eight SAD MLAs entered the Vidhan Sabha complex at 4.50 pm. They were Majithia, Sharanjit Singh, Sukhwinder Kumar, Harinder Pal Singh Chandumajra, Kanwarjit Singh Barkandi, Manpreet Singh Ayali, Gurpratap Singh Wadala and Narinder Kumar Sharma.About 5.55 pm, the MLAs holding black flags and placards started raising slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. At that time, Khattar was addressing the media.Five minutes later, Majithia and others tried to break the security cordon, but were stopped and pushed back by the security personnel.The report stated the action by SAD MLAs indicated that “they had some ulterior motive”. “They had jeopardised the CM’s security who is a Z-plus protectee,” said the report.On March 16, a case was registered against nine Akali legislators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/haryana-cms-security-breach-cops-knew-about-gherao-by-sad-mlas-230629
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana, Punjab DGPs discuss organised crime||A joint conference of senior police officers of Haryana, Punjab, and Chandigarh was held in Panchkula to discuss various issues and challenges to tackle organised crime in the region.The conference was jointly presided over by DGP Haryana Manoj Yadava and DGP Punjab Dinkar Gupta which was also attended by senior functionaries of the Chandigarh Police, where emphasis was laid on creating an institutional mechanism to effectively coordinate, create common database, and sharing of information in real time to curb organised crime.DIG Chandigarh Omvir Singh and SSP Chandigarh Kuldeep Singh Chahal were also present on the occasion.Yadava said holding such coordination meetings would certainly be helpful in keeping tabs on the criminal activity of inter-state gangsters, detection of crime and more importantly, sharing of information in real time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/haryana-punjab-dgps-discuss-organised-crime-230633
26-03-2021||Ravneet Singh||Punjabi University profs quit additional posts||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 25Professors of Punjabi University, holding over 30 additional administrative charges, collectively resigned from the posts today. The move came after the university authorities failed to issue promotion letters to 105 teaching staff.In a joint letter written to acting Vice Chancellor Ravneet Kaur, the teachers alleged the university had been harmed on academic and financial fronts. They said the acting VC has meted out ‘non-academic treatment’during various academic and finance-related meetings in the past.They said: “PUTA has been protesting the university’s failure to issue promotion letters and provide financial benefits to 105 teachers. The teachers were promoted as per the university rules. As such, the issuance of promotion letters is their right.”PUTA president Nishan Singh Deol said promotions letters were awaited for the last four months. “After various meetings and protests, we had appealed to the teachers to forgo their additional administrative charges, which they honoured.”“The campus environment is suffocating. Teachers feel humiliated during meetings due to the VC’s attitude. Also, her inability to attend the office has hampered the university’s working. The joint resignation letter has been emailed to the VC,” he said.Meanwhile, the acting VC said:“I met with PUTA representatives on Thursday. They alleged the matter of promotion wasn’t included in the agenda to be tabled during the Syndicate meet, which is false. In fact, they prevented the agenda from being circulated. We will hold a meeting to address their concerns.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-university-profs-quit-additional-posts-230446
26-03-2021||Sangrur||Jobless youth disrupt minister Vijay Inder Singla’s speech||Despite security cover, jobless ETT and TET-pass youth disrupted the function at Bhawanigharh, where Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla was giving a speech, and raised slogans against the state government for failing to recruit them.“We have the mandatory qualification, but the state has failed to recruit us. During the protest, Congress supporters manhandled our members. How can they push our members in the presence of police?” questioned Deep Banarasi, press secretary, ETT and TET-Pass Union.When Singla was talking about the achievements of the government, two protesters stood up from the audience and started raising slogans against him. It caused a commotion and the cops took both of them outside and later to the Bhawanigarh police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-youth-disrupt-minister-vijay-inder-singlas-speech-230447
26-03-2021||Bathinda||Pensioners’ body demands revival of old scheme||Punjab-UT Employees and Pensioners’ Joint Front members from six Malwa districts staged a protest in front of the District Administrative Complex and took out a march in the city, seeking regularisation of contractual and outsourced workers and revival of the old pension scheme. The leaders said if their demands were not fulfilled by the state, its repercussions would be seen in the upcoming Assembly elections. Farm union members also participated in the protest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pensioners-body-demands-revival-of-old-scheme-230448
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||151 wellness centres unveiled||In a boost to infrastructure development, Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra today dedicated a slew of projects to the people, besides laying the foundation stones of some others. During a virtual programme, he dedicated 151 health and wellness centres to facilitate citizens with healthcare facilities and inaugurated a Rs 93-crore state-of-the-art District Administrative Complex at Amritsar, equipped with ultra-modern facilities. The minister digitally laid the stones of four tehsil complexes each costing Rs 5 crore at Malerkotla, Bhawanigarh and Ahmedgarh in Sangrur and Amloh in Fatehgarh Sahib, besides dedicating a sub tehsil at Sham Chaurasi in Hoshiarpur district. Nine new police stations at Sadar Patiala, Malaud, Beas, Zira, Bilga, Basti Bawa Khel, Sidhwan Bet, Bahavwala and Ahmedgarh were also unveiled. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/151-wellness-centres-unveiled-230449
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Scrap dealer’s wife wins Rs 1-cr lottery||A lottery has changed the life of a scrap dealer’s family overnight. Asha Rani, a housewife from Baghapurana, has won the first prize of Rs 1 crore. She submitted the ticket and requireddocuments to the StateLotteries Department here on Wednesday for encashment of the prize. “I never thought that one day I will become a crorepati. It’’s a dream come true,” Asha said, adding that her husband ran a scrap shop at Baghapurana in Moga and both her sons helped their father at the shop. Asha, 61, said she would first build a new house with the prize money and would use the remaining amount to expand the family business. An official spokesperson for the Punjab State Lotteries Department said Asha had submitted the documents and the prize money would soon be credited to her account. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/scrap-dealers-wife-wins-rs-1-cr-lottery-230450
26-03-2021||Tribune Reporters---||In solidarity, Fazilka traders to observe strike||Fazilka/Sangrur, March 25 Traders today resolved to observe a strike in Fazilka on Friday to show solidarity with the protesting farmers in the wake of a call given against the three agriculture laws.  While chemists would keep their shops closed till noon, other establishments would remain shut the entire day. In Sangrur, efforts are being made to keep markets closed during the Bharat bandh call against the farm laws on March 26. District and state-level virtual meetings are being held while teams of farmers are making announcements through public address systems in cities and villages.  “Teams of farmers have been visiting almost all markets across Punjab to convince shopkeepers and businessmen to close their places on March 26 to express solidarity with farmers. We are getting good support across the state,” said Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, BKU (Ugrahan) state general secretary.  In Sangrur and Barnala, groups of farmers along with the leaders of various grain and vegetable markets are meeting arhtiyas, labour union leaders and residents to seek their support.  “The central government has stopped interacting with protesters against the farm laws. The March 26 bandh will force the government to restart the meetings with us,” said Balwant Singh Uppli, a BKU (Dakaunda) leader from Barnala.  In Fazilka, the traders also unanimously opposed the state government’s decision to levy Rs 200 per month development tax on taxpayers, including shopkeepers, in the state. At a meeting of the Beopar Mandal, president Ashok Gulbadhar said the traders were already reeling under recession on account of the Covid pandemic, and the government decision to levy tax at this juncture was uncalled for.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-solidarity-fazilka-traders-to-observe-strike-230424
26-03-2021||---||Farm unions pull out all stops to make ‘Bharat bandh’ a success||Bathinda, March 25 Farmers organisations have made all preparations for ‘Bharat bandh’ on Friday. Along with trade unions, they have exhorted people from all walks of life to extend their full support to make the bandh call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha successful.  Farmer unions will be blocking Bathinda-Badal road near Ghudda, Bathinda-Amritsar road near Jeeda, Bathinda-Chandigarh road near Lehra Bega and Rampura Phul, Bazakhana-Barnala road near Bhagta from 11 am to 4 pm to mark the protest. The Bathinda-Jind railway line near Maur Mandi will also be blocked.  BKU (Ugrahan) Bathinda president Shingara Singh Mann said, “Our union leaders are working on the ground and have left no stone unturned to make the bandh a success. Four months have elapsed since farmers’ agitation shifted to Delhi borders, but our genuine demand for the repeal of three controversial agricultural laws seem to have fallen on deaf ears.”  “A number of farmers have lost their lives in due course, but the government has not yet taken any steps to resolve the matter. We will continue to lodge the protest against these laws through such programmes until the government relents and repeals these laws,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-unions-pull-out-all-stops-to-make-bharat-bandh-a-success-230425
26-03-2021||---||Farmers gherao, show black flags to BJP leaders||Bathinda/Ropar, March 25Scores of farmers owing allegiance to the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan), women and children staged a protest in front of a hotel in Bathinda where former state minister and senior BJP leader Surjit Kumar Jyani had come to address a press conference on Thursday. The farmers raised slogans against the minister and the Union Government, demanding the repeal of the three farm laws.Hoshiar Singh, a BKU (Ugrahan) leader, said: “We will oppose all BJP leaders in the state and won’t let them enter, address or interact with anyone here. These laws are not only against farmers, but also all sections of society.” Singh added: “We have gheraoed both entrance and exit points of the hotel and won’t let Jyani leave.”During a press conference, Jyani said: “As far as the farmer unions’ demand for the repeal of the three laws is concerned, the government has already ruled it out. Sticking to an adamant stance of yes or no will not resolve the issue.”On farmers’ death at Delhi borders, Jyani said: “The government has done everything possible to end the stir. It’s ready to remove from the farm laws anything that farmers deem against their interests. Despite what transpired at the Red Fort on Republic Day, the government has avoided use of force.”A heavy police force was present at the venue to prevent any untoward incident. Surprisingly, the venue for holding the press conference was changed at the last moment by the organisers to prevent any faceoff. However, farmers in large numbers had already reached there to lodge the protest.In Ropar, BJP leaders, including Punjab unit vice-president Rajesh Bagha and Ropar district president Jatinder Singh Athwal, were shown black flags by farmers and CPM leaders when they came here to hold a press conference against the state government. On learning about the BJP leaders’ event, farmers led by CPM leaders Maha Singh Rodi and Gurdev Singh Baghi reached the spot holding black flags and started raising slogans against the saffron party demanding repeal of the three farm laws. A police team led by Ropar SHO Rajeev Kumar reached the spot to control the situation.Rodi said they needed an assurance from BJP leaders that they were also in favour of repealing the farm laws. Bagha and Athwal assured the protesters of conveying their demands to senior party leaders. Following this, the protesters allowed them to leave.Talking to mediapersons, Bagha alleged the Congress government had failed on all fronts in the past four years. He said Capt Amarinder Singh had made numerous promises to the people, including loan waiver for farmers, clearing pending amount against crop purchases, Rs 20,000 per acre compensation in case of losses due to natural calamity, 25 lakh jobs and smartphones. Nothing, however, was done to fulfil these, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-gherao-show-black-flags-to-bjp-leaders-230426
26-03-2021||---||FCI begins accepting custom-milled rice||Chandigarh, March 25In a relief for Punjab, the Food Corporation of India (FCI) has resumed the acceptance of custom-milled rice from the state’s millers.The rice shelling industry had come to a grinding halt from March 1 following a Government of India order saying it would accept only fortified rice from the state. Rice millers in Punjab neither had the know-how of making fortified rice nor had motorised blenders required for the purpose.State Food and Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said: “We have started sending small quantities of fortified rice to the FCI with almost 1,000 metric tonne sent yesterday. As the millers scale up the capacity to blend, we will be delivering the required quantity of fortified rice. Based on this assurance, the Centre will start taking delivery of custom-milled rice from today. The Centre has also fixed the price for purchasing second hand gunny bags for packing the rice,” he told The Tribune.The FCI wanted to accept 62 lakh tonne fortified rice from the state, to be distributed under the Integrated Child Development Services and Mid-Day Meal schemes. The orders for accepting only fortified rice (which is rice mixed with nutrients and minerals) were issued in January-end, and the time for purchasing new blenders was too less.Prem Goel, general secretary, Rashtriya Sheller Sangh, said it was after they involved Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Som Prakash that the Centre started a dialogue with the millers and finally relented. Som Prakash said he held meetings with rice shellers, and once convinced that it would be difficult to start fortified rice delivery this year, he took up their case with Union Minister Piyush Goyal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fci-begins-accepting-custom-milled-rice-230427
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting farmers have vacated warehouse in Patiala, court told||Less than a fortnight after the Centre and the Punjab Government were put on notice on a plea filed by a storage company seeking removal of protesting farmers from its warehouse in Patiala, the Punjab and Haryana High Court was today informed that the protestors have vacated the place.As the petition filed by SM Logistic and Warehousing Co. Pvt Ltd and another petitioner through counsel Siddharth Batra and Abhinav Sood came up for a resumed hearing before Justice Lisa Gill, a short status report filed by Ghanour DSP Jaswinder Singh Tiwana was placed before the Bench. Among other things, the report added pursuant his and SDM’s intervention, the protestors on March 18 agreed to lift the blockade outside the “third warehouse” and no blockade existed as on date.“In view of the submissions, no cause of action survives, since the protestors have vacated the private premises of the petitioners’ warehouses. Hence, the present petition may kindly be disposed of,” the report added. Taking up the matter, Justice Gill disposed of the petition. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesting-farmers-have-vacated-warehouse-in-patiala-court-told-230429
26-03-2021||Amritsar||In solidarity with farmers, SGPC offices closed today||Showing solidarity with farmers, the SGPC has announced closing its offices on Friday.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said all offices of the SGPC would be kept closed and the nagar kirtan being carried out from Amritsar to Delhi to mark the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur would also be suspended for the day. Bibi Jagir Kaur said the Centre should stop being stubborn and repeal the laws.Meanwhile, the SGPC president once again wrote a letter to PM Narendra Modi seeking reopening of the Kartarpur Corridor. She said when all institutions and places of worship were allowed to operate, why the corridor was not being made operational.The SGPC also condemned “action” of the National Highways Authority of India to demolish a wall and part of the college building of the SGPC at Budhlada. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-solidarity-with-farmers-sgpc-offices-closed-today-230430
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||NCT Bill violates Constitution: SAD||The SAD today termed the passage of the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, a violation of the fundamentals of federalism as enshrined in the Constitution and committed itself to work alongside all likeminded parties to restore the original Act.SAD MP Balwinder Singh Bhunder said the passage did not augur well for the future and could lead to far-reaching changes causing “widespread disruption”. “Federalism is the key to a healthy democracy in a diverse country like ours and the Constitution makers understood this. The passage of the amendment Bill is a sad day for democracy,” he said.Bhunder said the new Act, which had come into force now, severely curtailed the powers of an elected government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nct-bill-violates-constitution-sad-230431
26-03-2021||Amritsar||Pak delegation visits Golden Temple||Members of the Permanent Indus Commission delegation from Pakistan, who held talks with their Indian counterparts at New Delhi, visited Golden Temple today, before returning to their country.The two-day meeting of the commission was led on the Indian side by Indus Water Commissioner Pradeep Kumar Saxena. Led by Pakistan’s Indus water commissioner Syed Muhammad Mehar Ali Shah, the Pakistan delegation had arrived through the Wagah-Attari border on March 22 for the first talks in over two-and-a-half years.Talking to mediapersons, Shah said: “Golden Temple is a sacred place. This is my first visit to this shrine and am overwhelmed by its ambience. This place signifies peace and mutual brotherhood. The issues pertaining to waters and others could be resolved through dialogue in a peaceful manner.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pak-delegation-visits-golden-temple-230432
26-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Farmers to get e-carts at subsidised rates||Abohar, March 25While launching a scheme to provide mobile vending e-carts at subsidised price to promote self-marketing of fruits and vegetables among farmers under the ‘Kamyab Kisan, Khushal Punjab’ programme, Punjab State Agricultural Workers’ Commission chairman Ajay Vir Jakhar said it was approved by the state during the recent Budget session and the Horticulture Department had done a commendable job in the interest of the farmers by implementing it in a few days.He said self-marketing was the need of the hour and farmers could earn profit by marketing their produce.Jakhar said by purchasing subsidised e-carts, which ran on batteries, small farmers could deliver fresh vegetables and fruits directly from their fields to customers. He said the Chief Minister-led-government believed the state would prosper only when farmers became financially strong. He advised small fruit and vegetable growers to approach the Horticulture Department to get such mobile e-carts.Tejinder Singh, Deputy Director, Horticulture, said, “The total cost of a mobile vending e-cart is Rs 1.80 lakh. The Tata Trust provides subsidy of Rs 85,000, and Rs 15,000 is contributed by the Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture, a centrally sponsored scheme for holistic growth of the horticulture sector covering fruits and vegetables. The farmers will have to pay Rs 80,000 each.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-to-get-e-carts-at-subsidised-rates-230433
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Guv prorogues Budget session||The Governor has issued orders to prorogue the 14th (Budget) session of the 15th Punjab Vidhan Sabha. An official spokesperson for the Punjab Vidhan Sabha said the 14th (Budget) Session of the 15th Punjab Vidhan Sabha, which was adjourned sine die at the conclusion of its sitting held on March 10, had been prorogued by an order of the Governor on March 24. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/guv-prorogues-budget-session-230434
26-03-2021||Abohar||‘Krishi Mitra’ app for kinnow growers launched||The “Krishi Mitra” app launched recently at Sriganganagar carries new hopes for kinnow growers. District Collector Mahavir Verma said the app had been developed by the National Informatics Center, Sriganganagar. Citrus fruits are produced in about 26 states, including  Punjab. This hybrid fruit is produced mostly in Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh in Rajasthan and neighbouring subdivision of Abohar in Punjab. The app throws light on components such as planting, food and fertilisers, irrigation, care, major pests, diseases, fall of fruits, harvesting, nursery plant transport and installation, which will help get good quality of fruit. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/krishi-mitra-app-for-kinnow-growers-launched-230435
26-03-2021||---||Punjab's active cases double in 10 days||Chandigarh, March 25In less than 10 days, the number of active Covid cases has doubled in the state.Till March 16, the number of active Covid cases in the state was 11,942. However, now, the number has increased to around 23,000. Nationally, after Maharashtra, Punjab figures on the second position when it comes to active ratio. Maharashtra tops the list with 9.6 per cent, followed by Punjab with 9.3 per cent active case ratio. Chandigarh figures at third position (8.7 per cent). Even when it comes to absolute number of active cases, Punjab is among the top three states. At present, the country has total 3.95 lakh active Covid cases. Maharashtra tops with the 2.47 lakh active cases followed by Kerala with 24,265 active cases. Punjab figures on the third position with 22,937 active cases.2,700 fresh infections, 43 deathsThe state reported 2,700 cases and 43 deaths in the past 24 hours. With this, the number of cases has reached 2.2 lakh and the number of deaths has gone up to 6,517. Jalandhar topped the list with 11 deaths, followed by SBS Nagar with eight casualties.Till the first week of February, the number of active cases in Punjab had come down to just 2,000. The neighbouring states have a caseload much lower than Punjab. In Haryana, the number of active cases is 6,745, Jammu and Kashmir (1,593), Himachal Pradesh (1,654) and Chandigarh (2,286).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-active-cases-double-in-10-days-230436
26-03-2021||Abohar||Cinemas, bars open, why schools shut: Assn||Private school managements have objected to the government’s decision to close educational institutions due to Covid while cinemas, malls, liquor shops, bars and other establishments are being allowed to operate.  Teachers in some schools organised protests and expressed anguish on social media. The schools are closed till March 31 but the managements apprehend the date could be extended.  Sham Lal Arora, senior vice-president of the Recognised and Affiliated Schools’ Association (RASA), Punjab, alleged the move had a hidden agenda to benefit government schools which were allowed to launch fresh enrolment drives. A deputation of senior officials of RASA would soon meet Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar in this connection, he said. Director of a private school Sunit Kalra said when fresh admission schedule was on the cards, the Education Department ordered closure of schools.  Teacher Rajni Sharma said if the schools remained closed, the managements would not be able to pay salaries to them. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cinemas-bars-open-why-schools-shut-assn-230437
26-03-2021||---||Monuments, museums in Punjab shut till April 10||Ropar, March 25Keeping in view the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, the Punjab Government has decided to shut all protected monuments and museums till April 10.Sanjay Kumar, Additional Chief Secretary, Tourism and Cultural Affairs, said the infection was spreading at a fast pace and strict measures were required to check it. Places visited by a large number of people every day, including educational institutes, were the hotspots, he said.The closed areas of museums and monuments visited by a large number of people could pose a threat to the health visitors, so it was decided to shut them, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/monuments-museums-in-punjab-shut-till-april-10-230439
26-03-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Hunt on for con woman running fake note racket||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 25The Punjab Police have busted an inter-state fake currency racket and sounded an alert for a Haryana con woman, the kingpin, suspected of having duped hundreds of persons of crores of rupees in Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.lured through ponzi schemeThe woman, identified as Anju, 50, escaped during a raid on a Zirakpur hotel last evening while four of her gang members were arrested. A sum of Rs 21,600 in fake currency, some chemical used in making counterfeit notes and a car were recovered from their possession.The gang’s network was spread across West Bengal, Nepal and North India, especially Punjab. Anju used to source chemicals meant for manufacturing fake currency from West Bengal and paper with Mahatma Gandhi’s watermark from Nepal.Said to be a master con artist, the suspect targeted potential victims through a ponzi scheme, promising to double their money in a short time. Later, fake currency was given to the victims.DSP Vibhor Kumar of the Punjab Police’s Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) said Anju even tricked some of her gang members.She would call victims to a designated place to collect money. Her accomplices would “raid” the place posing as cops. “The woman would raise the alarm, asking all to flee. She would later claim the police had pocketed the money. This way, she duped some persons at Tanda, Himachal Pradesh, recently.”The fake currency was prepared in denominations of Rs 100 and Rs 500, though the gang circulated Rs 2,000 fake currency as well. “As per the statement of those arrested, the fake currency was so close to real that they had deposited Rs 10,000 at a Hoshiarpur bank recently.”The OCCU team, led by IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh and AIG Gurmeet Chauhan, planned the raid after receiving information about the gang’s activities.Those arrested included Rajinder, an AC technician; Surjit Singh, a priest; Kulwant Rai, an immigration consultant; and Rakesh Kumar. Police officials said the gang members knew Anju traded in fake currency and they used to lure people to invest in the scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hunt-on-for-con-woman-running-fake-note-racket-230440
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Subordinate services board to fill 2,280 posts||In a recruitment drive under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar Yojana, the Punjab Government has initiated the process to fill 2,280 posts in various departments. Punjab Subordinate Services Selection Board chairman Raman Behl said advertisement regarding these posts would be issued soon. Behl said under the drive, 847 posts would be of warder and matron in the Jails Department, 199 posts of legal clerk in various departments, 807 posts of librarian in the Education Department, 56 posts of senior industrial development officer in the Department of Industries and Commerce and 61 posts of block-level extension officer, 51 posts of excise and taxation examiner, 120 posts of technical assistant in the Punjab Warehousing Corporation, etc. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/subordinate-services-board-to-fill-2-280-posts-230441
26-03-2021||---||IGP Paramraj Umranangal, 4 other top cops suspended for ‘links’ with drug smugglers||Chandigarh, March 25The Punjab Home Department has suspended five cops, including an Inspector General of Police, on the charge that they were hand in glove with some drug smugglers.The Home Department issued orders of suspension on a report by the Special Task Force (STF) of the Punjab Police on a police-drug smuggler nexus.Those suspended included IG Paramraj Singh Umranangal (already under suspension in a police firing case related to sacrilege incidents), AIG Varinderjit Singh Thind, SP Sewa Singh Malli, DSP Parminder Singh Bath and DSP Karan Sher Singh.The STF had, in a preliminary report based on disclosures made by drug smuggler Gurdeep Singh, sought disciplinary and criminal proceedings against these cops. The Home Department also asked the STF to file a final inquiry report into the matter.The drug-police nexus has returned to haunt the state police in an election year. Earlier, in 2017-18, the STF had named some senior police officers running this nexus. The controversy had boiled over involving the Chief Minister’s Office and top-ranking police officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/igp-paramraj-umranangal-4-other-top-cops-suspended-for-links-with-drug-smugglers-230442
26-03-2021||Faridkot||Several injured as bus falls into drain||Several persons, including employees of the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC, were injured as a bus travelling from Faridkot to Ferozepur fell into a drain near Golewala village on Thursday morning.The accident occurred after the driver lost control of the vehicle following a tyre burst. Villagers rushed to help the injured, who were shifted to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital here.Injured PRTC employees said all six tyres of the bus were badly worn out due to which it lost traction after one of the front tyres burst. The employees said a large number of PRTC buses in its Faridkot depot needed immediate tyre replacement. Some buses had at least one bald tyre, thus putting lives in danger.Besides, the condition of the Ferozpeur-Faridkot road was deplorable as 20 km of the stretch was replete with potholes, increasing the risk of tyre burst.Mohinder Pal Singh, general manager, PRTC depot, Faridkot, could not be contacted for comment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/several-injured-as-bus-falls-into-drain-230443
26-03-2021||Our Correspondent||3 soldiers burnt alive during Rajasthan drill||Abohar, March 25Three soldiers were burnt alive and five others injured when a Gypsy overturned and caught fire during a training exercise on the Raziasar-Chhatargarh road in Sriganganagar district early today.The incident took place around 1 am “near Gopalsar during the night training task when unfortunately 3 fatalities were reported”, said Defence PRO Lt Col Amitabh Sharma.A source said eight soldiers of Bathinda-based 47-AD Army unit were in the vehicle when the mishap occurred. Three charred bodies were found from the wreckage, while five injured soldiers were admitted to the government hospital in Suratgarh, from where they were shifted to the Military Hospital.Lt Col Sharma said the incident occurred during a routine exercise when the soldiers were being given different tasks.Raziasar police station in charge Vikram Tiwari said the mishap occurred near Burji (pillar) No. 330 of the Indira Gandhi Canal. The vehicle rammed into shrubs, hit a tree before overturning. A fire erupted giving occupants little chance to escape, said the sources.The deceased have been identified as Subedar EV Nazar of Andhra Pradesh, Havildars Dev Kumar Bhattacharya of West Bengal and SK Shukla of Uttar Pradesh.Those injured are Captain Ankit Vajpayee (34), soldiers SK Prajapati (35), Umesh Yadav (27) Ashok Ojha (28) and Bhanwer Lal Bablu (27). Three of them suffered grievous injuries.Senior Army officers visited the scene and initiated a probe. The police said an accident case had been registered. The bodies were being taken by the Army to native places of the deceased for last rites.(With agency inputs )||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-soldiers-burnt-alive-during-rajasthan-drill-230444
26-03-2021||---||SC tells Punjab, Haryana, BBMB to maintain status quo on supply of water to Delhi||Chandigarh, March 25The Supreme Court on Thursday told Punjab, Haryana and the Bhakra Beas Management Board to maintain status quo on the supply of water to Delhi till Friday.A Bench led by Chief Justice SA Bobde put on hold the decision by the two states and the BBMB to reduce water supply to Delhi by 25 per cent in view of repair work in a canal.The top court asked the two states and the BBMB to file their response to the plea by Delhi Jal Board opposing the move to curtail the amount of water supplied to Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-tells-punjab-haryana-bbmb-to-maintain-status-quo-on-supply-of-water-to-delhi-230336
