27-03-2021||New Delhi||Samyukta Kisan Morcha condemns assault on BJP MLA in Punjab||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Saturday condemned the attack on a BJP MLA in Punjab’s Muktsar district during a protest and alleged that the saffron party and its allies were responsible for it.The SKM, an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions protesting the three agri laws, said they do not encourage such behaviour.A BJP MLA in Punjab was allegedly thrashed and his clothes torn by a group of farmers in Muktsar district on Saturday, police said.When Abohar legislator Arun Narang reached Malout along with local leaders to address a press conference, they were surrounded by a group of protesting farmers and black ink was also thrown at them, they said.“This agitation of farmers, under adverse circumstances, turned violent and the MLA was physically assaulted. It is a matter of regret that an elected representative was treated this way. We do not encourage such behaviour. We strongly condemn this act.“We consider the BJP and its allies are responsible for this incident. The central leadership of the BJP is rooted in its ego and instead of solving the problems of the farmers, they are busy in elections, but local leaders are facing the bitter results of this behaviour of the Central government,” the SKM said in a statement.Narang was later escorted to a safer place by the police, officials said.Deputy Superintendent of Police (Malout) Jaspal Singh said the protesters were adamant that they would not allow the BJP legislator to hold the press conference. A police official sustained a minor injury in the incident, he said.The SKM also alleged that it received reports of protesters misbehaving with media persons during the ‘Bharat bandh’ on Friday.It condemned the incidents and appealed to the protesters “to remain calm and disciplined”. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/samyukta-kisan-morcha-condemns-assault-on-bjp-mla-in-punjab-231371
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab registers 46 more COVID-19 deaths, 2,820 new cases||Punjab continued to witness an upward trend in COVID-19 cases with 2,820 fresh infections reported in the state, while 46 more people succumbed to the disease, a health bulletin stated on Saturday.The number of active cases increased from 22,652 on Friday to 23,271 on Saturday.The infection count rose to 2,28,864 in the state with 2,820 new cases, while the death toll reached 6,621 after 46 more fatalities were reported.Ludhiana reported a maximum of 497 cases, Jalandhar 391, Mohali 374, Patiala 274 and Hoshiarpur 264, among others.Of the 46 new fatalities, 11 deaths were registered in Hoshiarpur and eight in Patiala, among others.A total of 2,141 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,98,972 in the state.                    There are 25 critical patients who are on ventilator support, while 316 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 58,10,694 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan has asked all the departments concerned to ramp up the pace of the ongoing COVID-19 vaccination drive.During a review of the COVID-19 situation in the state, Mahajan said besides increasing the number of vaccination centres, the government is running an inoculation drive on all seven days of the week.Referring to the recent approval by the Union government to also vaccinate all persons above 45 years of age from April 1, Mahajan asked officials to rope in more private facilities for increasing the ambit of the ongoing vaccination drive.Meanwhile, Chandigarh recorded 294 fresh cases, taking the total count to 25,898 in the city.The death of two more persons, including a 96-year-old woman, took the toll to 374, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases rose from 2,392 on Friday to 2,532 on Saturday in the Union Territory.The bulletin said 152 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 22,992 in the city.A total of 3,03,963 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 2,77,045 tested negative while reports of 168 samples are awaited, it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-registers-46-more-covid-19-deaths-2-820-new-cases-231370
27-03-2021||Raj Sadosh||After Malout attack, Abohar MLA ‘gives up’ Punjab police security||Abohar, March 27Upset over the humiliation reportedly at the hands of protesting farmers at Malout on Saturday where he had gone to address a press meet to highlight “failure” of Amarinder Singh-led government in fulfilling the 2017 election promises, BJP legislator Arun Narang has reportedly returned the security guards that Punjab Police had provided to him.About a hundred BJP activists reached the subdivisional civil hospital at night and escorted Narang in a procession back to his Gaushala Road residence. The activists shouted slogans against Punjab Police and state government alleging conspiracy in thrashing of the MLA.Read also: Punjab CM condemns attack on BJP MLA from AboharBJP's Abohar MLA Arun Narang, some other party leaders thrashed in Malout townAs he had not suffered any major injury, party activists told him to leave the hospital, as the process for the medical examination had been completed and this is to be followed by recording his statement by the police for registering a case against Malout-based protesters. “If police guards can’t protect the legislator from physical assault, what was the logic of having security,” angry workers argued. They didn’t listen to officials’ explanation.Later, Fazilka SP Harjeet Singh, Abohar DSP Rahul Bhandari along with Station House officers of local police stations reached Narang’s residence. The SP inquired about the sequence of Malout incident from Narang.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-malout-attack-abohar-mla-gives-up-punjab-police-security-231367
27-03-2021||Ludhiana (Punjab)||Army recruitment exam in Punjab postponed in view of rising COVID-19 cases||The Army on Saturday postponed to April 25 the common entrance examination for recruiting general duty personnel in view of the surge in coronavirus cases in Punjab.The examination to be held on March 28 has been postponed to April 25 on the advice of the district administration due to hike in coronavirus cases, officials said.The officials at Army recruiting office Ludhiana said the candidates, who have successfully completed the physical and medical examination, were to appear for the common entrance examination.These candidates are from Ludhiana, Moga, Rupnagar and SAS Nagar (Mohali).The Army recruiting office Ludhiana had conducted a recruitment rally from December 7 to 27, 2020. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/army-recruitment-exam-in-punjab-postponed-in-view-of-rising-covid-19-cases-231365
27-03-2021||---||Punjab CM condemns attack on BJP MLA from Abohar||Chandigarh, March 27Strongly condemning the attack on BJP MLA from Abohar, Arun Narang, allegedly by angry farmers protesting the Centre’s Farm Laws, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday warned of strict action against anyone trying to disturb the state’s peace by taking the law into their hands.Even as he urged the farmers not to indulge in such acts of violence, the Chief Minister appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to urgently resolve the crisis triggered by the Farm Laws to prevent the situation from escalating further.Read also: BJP's Abohar MLA Arun Narang, some other party leaders thrashed in Malout townAmarinder also directed DGP Dinkar Gupta to take strict action, under the law, against the perpetrators, who also clashed with the police personnel who tried to rescue the MLA.Gurmail Singh PPS, SP Headquarters, Faridkot, was, in fact, injured while trying to save and evacuate the MLA from the protesting crowd. He also suffered a lathi blow on his head, causing his turban to fall off. He was admitted in Civil Hospital, Malout, where the incident took place.The DGP later said criminal cases will be registered against the suspects who assaulted the MLA and police officers. He said statements of local BJP leaders were being recorded and relevant sections of law would be imposed on its basis.With the simmering tensions between the Centre, led by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and the farmers, who have been fighting for their rights for the past four months, intensifying, a number of incidents of protests against BJP leaders were reported from different parts of Punjab today. The Chief Minister said while protesting is the democratic right of the farmers, violence of any sorts would not be tolerated, and the law and order situation in the state would not be allowed to be disturbed at any cost. He said barring the assault on the MLA, other BJP leaders were safely evacuated from the protest sites. Seeking the Prime Minister’s immediate intervention to resolve the tensions, the Chief Minister said any further delay on the part of the central government would trigger further unrest among the agitating farmers.Reacting to the demand of Punjab BJP leaders for his resignation over the issue, the Chief Minister said instead of trying to take political mileage from today’s incident, they should pressurise their central leadership to withdraw the controversial legislations. Highly condemnable: Speaker Punjab Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana KP Singh has strongly condemned the attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Abohar, Arun Narang at Malout today.In a statement issued here today, the Speaker said, such incidents had no place in a democratic set up. “It is not only unacceptable, but highly condemnable that an elected representative of the people was mercilessly thrashed in full public view”, he said.“We will not allow anyone to take law into their own hands,” he said, while adding, such incidents are aimed at maligning the farmers’ agitation and weakening their cause.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-condemns-attack-on-bjp-mla-from-abohar-231364
27-03-2021||Raj SadoshAbohar||BJP MLA Arun Narang hospitalised at Abohar||BJP legislator Arun Narang, who was thrashed by farmers at Malout, was admitted in the subdivisional civil hospital here on Saturday evening.Ashok Chhabra, vice president of the district BJP unit, has also been hospitalised along with him.Also read: BJP's Abohar MLA Arun Narang, some other party leaders thrashed in Malout townOn return from Malout, both BJP leaders were received at the hospital by Sita Ram Sharma, former district president of Bharatiya Janata Party.The duo was examined by Senior Medical Officer Dr Gagandeep Singh and Dr Kavita who recorded the injuries that Narang and Chhabra suffered during the farmers’ protest.Narang was feeling uneasy due to the incident, party sources said.  Farmers had long back staged dharna outside Narang’s Gaushala Road residence to protest the contentious farm laws last year; the same was ended after persuasion when the MLA assured them he would write to the party high command about farmers’ demands.Later he was gheraoed at Arorvansh Bhawan opposite Nehru Park during the campaign for Municipal Corporation elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-mla-arun-narang-hospitalised-at-abohar-231361
27-03-2021||Barnala||Farmers gherao BJP leaders in Barnala for around five hours||Barnala district farmers on Saturday gheraoed BJP leaders in a local rest house for around five hours.After BJP leaders assured to raise their demands with the Central government, farmers relented and allowed them to leave.Read also: BJP's Abohar MLA Arun Narang, some other party leaders thrashed in Malout town“Punjab BJP leaders are well aware that farmers are protesting against central farm laws. Our family members are also sitting on New Delhi borders, but still BJP leaders are trying to create law and order problems by visiting various places of state. Today we gheraoed BJP leaders for four hours here,” said Chamkaur Singh, BKU Ugrahan leader from Barnala.BJP leader Parveen Bansal along with Barnala chief Yadwinder Shanty and Barnala in-charge Vijay Singla had reached local rest house to address media against the failures of Punjab government in fulfilling its poll promises.Though the press conference concluded without any disruption, but after getting information about the visit of BJP leaders, farmers gathered at the front of the rest house and blocked the road and started raising slogans.Another BKU Ugrahan leader Balore singh said that they would not allow any BJP leader to preside over any meeting in Punjab.Protesters did not allow the leaders to leave for around five hours, but after all BJP leaders assured them through public address system to raise their demands with the Central government, farmers allowed BJP leaders to leave the rest house.“Bansal and all other BJP leaders assured farmers that we are with them and would raise all their demands with Central government,” said BJP leader Shanty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-gherao-bjp-leaders-in-barnala-for-around-five-hours-231353
27-03-2021||---||Centre approves Punjab’s plea to reschedule wheat procurement||New Delhi, March 27The Centre has approved Punjab government’s request to reschedule the wheat procurement in the wake of a massive COVID 19 surge in the state and resultant challenges and restrictions.“The request made by Government of Punjab for rescheduling wheat procurement period during Rabi Marketing Season (RMS) 2021-22 due to late maturity of crop and a surge in Covid-19 cases in the state has been considered and approved by Government of India,” a government statement said today.The wheat procurement period in Punjab has now been rescheduled to April 10 to May 31 in place of April 1 to May 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-approves-punjabs-plea-to-reschedule-wheat-procurement-231350
27-03-2021||---||Lt Gen Pinto who played key role in 1971 Battle of Basantar dies at 97||Chandigarh, March 27Lieutenant General Walter Anthony Gustavo Pinto, who had played a key role in the Indian victory in the Battle of Basantar, one of the most crucial operations in the Punjab-Jammu Sector during the 1971 war, passed away at the age of 97.As a Major General he had commanded the 54 Infantry Division during the war that had moved from its peace time location in Secunderabad to Punjab. Tasked for offensive operations in the Shakargarh bulge, the Division crossed the border on December 6 and captured key areas. Troops from the division were conferred as many as 196 gallantry medals including two Param Vir Chakra and nine Maha Vir Chakra, while Maj Gen Pinto was awarded the Param Vishisht Seva Medal.The Indian Army won a hard-fought battle on the banks of the Basantar river from December 4 to 16 that secured this area. It was a strategically vital area for both sides as it comprised road links to Jammu from Punjab, which could be cut off by the enemy. Pakistan Army generally regards this as their most humbling defeat despite numerical superiority, next only to the Battle of Laungewala in Rajasthan.Born in 1924 at Poona (now Pune), he was commissioned into the 13th Frontier Force Rifles in 1943. The unit moved to Burma during the Second World War, where then Second Lieutenant Pinto commanded a Medium Machine Gun Platoon.Post Independence, he assigned to the 2nd battalion of Assam Regiment and when the Brigade of Guards was raised, he was transferred to 3 Guards. Later he commanded 4 Guards, which moved to Sikkim during the Chinese aggression. As a Brigadier, he commanded 66 Mountain Brigade in Binnaguri.After the 1971 war, he became the Colonel of the Rajput Regiment. He also served as Director, Military Training where he also headed the Joint Training Committee, Services Sports Control Board, Army Mountaineering Federation and Army Rifle Association. He was also vice president of Indian Hockey Federation and Indian Olympic Association.On promotion to Lieutenant General, he took over as General Officer Commanding 33 Corps in Sukhna and then moved as the Commandant, National Defence College. In July 1980, he was elevated as Army Commander and took over the Central Command in Lucknow from where he retired after a two year tenure. After hanging up his boots, he had settled in Pune.Maj Gen Pinto’s father, Alexander Pinto, worked in the military accounts department. His elder brother Sydney Alexander was a Major General in the Corps of Engineers, while his elder sister, Phyllis Mary, served in the Women’s Auxiliary Corps in India and later in Burma. He was an alumnus of Robertson College in Jabalpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lt-gen-pinto-who-played-key-role-in-1971-battle-of-basantar-dies-at-97-231349
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19 vaccination drive on all 7 days in Punjab||In order to further expand the coverage of the ongoing COVID-19 vaccination drive, the Punjab government is providing vaccination facility on all seven days a week, there will be an increase in the number of session sites, and any identity proof will be considered as valid document for inoculating the eligible persons in the state.This was done to effectively contain the further spread of the sudden surge in daily new Covid cases in the state for the past several days.A decision to this effect was taken at a virtual meeting, chaired by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, to review the Covid situation and status of the ongoing vaccination drive, here on Saturday.She directed all the concerned departments to ramp up the pace of the ongoing vaccination drive to cover the maximum population and save the precious human lives from the pandemic. She also asserted to strictly enforce the Covid appropriate behaviour among the masses.Sharing the details, the chief secretary said besides increasing the number of vaccination centres, the government is running inoculation drive on all seven days of the week.Referring to the recent approval by the Union government to also vaccinate all persons above 45 years of age from April 1, Mahajan asked the health and other departments concerned to rope in more private facilities for increasing the ambit of the ongoing vaccination drive.Besides continuing vaccination at private and government facilities, the chief secretary also directed the health department to hold special vaccination camps to cover the maximum citizens at their doorsteps.“All arrangements should be in place till March 31 before starting the inoculation drive for all persons above 45 years of age from April 1,” Mahajan said, while instructing the health department to target the eligible vulnerable sections of the society like journalists, shopkeepers, government employees, especially those who were engaged in public dealing, first for Covid jab.She said the focus should be on saving lives and to curtail the virus spread as cases were surging daily in the state.The chief secretary asked the medical education and research department to ensure that Covid test result report should reach the concerned person within 15 hours as earlier detection will help to effectively contain the spread of the virus. She also directed the health department to ensure 100 per cent testing in the micro-containment zones.Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Hussan Lal said any photo identity card will be valid for vaccination and there was no need to insist on a particular identity proof.Participating in the meeting, the Director General of Police (DGP), Dinkar Gupta, said the state police were on its toes to curtail the spread of virus and as many as 90,363 face mask violators have been taken for Covid testing in the state so far. In a week, more than 18,500 violators were issued challans for not wearing masks.The special enforcement drive was started on the directions of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on March 19.He also asked the CPs and SSPs to crack the whip against the violators, who were putting themselves and others at risk.“Special vaccination camps would be organised for the police personnel and their families at police lines and other places soon,” the DGP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-vaccination-drive-on-all-7-days-in-punjab-231348
27-03-2021||Archit Watts||BJP's Abohar MLA Arun Narang, some other party leaders thrashed in Malout town||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, March 27Angry over three new farm laws, a large number of farmers allegedly thrashed BJP MLA from Abohar Arun Narang, tore his clothes and threw black ink on him in Malout town on Saturday.Terming it a murderous attack, Narang, in the evening, said, “I have a hunch that the state government could be behind it. It needs a thorough investigation. I don’t trust Punjab police now. I have undergone the medical examination; will take further action after consulting with my senior party leadership or whatever Modi ji will direct me. If the state government can’t protect an MLA, then one can better understand the present situation of law and order in the state. Those attacked me were not the genuine farmers, they seem to be motivated by someone. This is not a kisan aandolan, but goondaism. Today, it was me, tomorrow, it can be anyone else.”Narang had come to Malout to hold a press conference against the state government.Also read: Farmers gherao BJP leaders in Barnala for around five hoursBJP MLA Arun Narang hospitalised at AboharPunjab CM condemns attack on BJP MLA from AboharAfter Malout attack, Abohar MLA ‘gives up’ Punjab police securitySamyukta Kisan Morcha condemns assault on BJP MLA in PunjabThe farmers were, however, already waiting for him near the BJP office. As soon as Narang reached there in his car, the farmers gheraoed him and threw ink on him. They also blackened his car.The cops and BJP workers then took Narang inside a shop. However, when Narang came out, the farmers allegedly attacked him with full force, even tore his clothes. In some videos viral on social media, cops are seen saving Narang from the farmers, who, however, continued abusing and thrashing him. Meanwhile, some other BJP leaders too were thrashed by the farmers. Party office was also ransacked.BJP leaders were again taken inside a shop. After a few minutes, the police took them out from the backdoor of the shop and shifted to a safer place.A senior police officer too suffered minor injury during the scuffle as the melee continued nearly an hour.The saffron party leaders could not even reach the BJP office in Malout, where they were scheduled to hold a press conference at 3 pm. The farmers reportedly also burnt the party flags in the BJP office.At the time of filing this report, the farmers were dispersing from the spot.In November last year, the farmers had gheraoed Narang at Tarmala village in Lambi Assembly segment here.Two days ago, the farmers had gheraoed senior BJP leader-cum-former cabinet minister Surjit Jyani in Bathinda. A number of senior BJP leaders, including state president Ashwani Sharma and former state president Vijay Sampla, too have faced the farmers’ protest in the recent past.The SSP said a case of attempt to murder is being registered on complaint of the injured SP.Speaking over Tribune over phone in the evening, Muktsar SSP D Sudarvizhi said, "No BJP leader has yet given statement about today's incident. We are registering a case on the statement of SP (H) Gurmail Singh, who suffered injuries on his head, elbows and legs today, admitted to Malout civil hospital."The case is being registered at Malout City police station under sections 307, 353, 186, 188, 332, 342, 506,148 and 149 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjps-abohar-mla-arun-narang-some-other-party-leaders-thrashed-in-malout-town-231340
27-03-2021||Amritsar||Another haul of illicit liquor, Lahan busted in Amritsar's rural belt||Another haul of illicit liquor has been recovered during a late-night swoop.  In the Chak Mishri Khan village located near the Indo-Pak border, as many as 10 illegal working stills were busted by the local police.This is the fifth seizure this month. During the three-hour-long search operation, the Amritsar rural SSP Dhruv Dhaiya, and other officials confiscated 400 litres of illicit liquor, along with 1.16 lakh kg of Lahan.  The police also recovered 16 tarpaulins, a water tank of 1000 litre capacity, 20 drums, seven gas cylinders, and a car that was used to supply illicit liquor to their clients.  Balwinder Singh, Karnail Singh, Shamsher Singh and Sukhdev Singh, all residents of Chak Mishri Khan were among the few arrested during the raid.  The police have registered eight cases of excise act following the seizure. Earlier, the police seized a huge quantity of illicit liquor from Khiala Kala, Lakhuwal, Chhapa Ram Singh, Kotli Sakka and Jasso Nangal village. SSP Dhruv Dahiya said that till now the police have confiscated 5.25 lakh kg of Lahan, and 1,891 litres of illicit liquor in the past month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/another-haul-of-illicit-liquor-lahan-busted-in-amritsars-rural-belt-231299
27-03-2021||---||Punjab women make living out of their backyard greens, conserve it too||Pathankot, March 27Sudarshna Devi has changed."Changed for good," the 72-year-old says, in Punjabi, with a chuckle. Until 2003, the Class 8 dropout used to cover her face in ghoonghat and would barely step out of her home without a male company.Cooking, fetching water, raising children, rearing the cattle, her time was spent performing these household chores.But today, Sudarshna walks with an air of confidence—minus the ghoonghat and an entourage of men. She owes this confidence to the scrub forest in her 'backyard' in Dhar Kalan block of Punjab's Pathankot district, where she stays.She collects medicinal plants from the forest and sells them to local traders. "Last year, I made Rs 1.5 lakh," she tells us proudly.Like Sudarshna, the lives of close to 300 women in this block have transformed since they started making a livelihood from agro-forestry. The forest they go to has also benefited in return.PLPA restricted forest use.The forest stands on the border of Punjab and Himachal Pradesh and falls in the Lower Shivaliks range of hills. It is 10 to 15 minutes of walk from most of the 31 villages that fall under the Dhar Kalan block. But despite the proximity, the residents could not make a living from this forest for close to a century.This stems from the complicated history of this forest land.Dhar Kalan block is governed under The Punjab Land Preservation Act, which the British had introduced in 1905. Called PLPA in short, the Act banned all commercial and livelihood activities to arrest soil erosion and flash floods. Villagers could collect firewood and timber for personal use with the permission of forest officials but they could not plough this land.Dhar Kalan has some parcel of panchayat land for farming but the majority is PLPA forest land, spread across 15,771 hectares. As a result, most men in Dhar Kalan work as daily-wage labourers while women manage homes.It was only in 2010 when the Punjab government started withdrawing the land under PLPA so as to relax a few restrictions earlier imposed by the forest department and make it eligible for common use. This step opened up livelihood opportunities for the communities living close to the forest.As a result, 8,599.72 hectares of forest land in Dhar Kalan was withdrawn. This patch is now jointly managed by the villagers and the forest department. 'It gives us income'The women of Dhar Kalan started to make a living from the withdrawn forest patch in 2017. Thanks to a project started by the Punjab Forest Department under the aegis of the National Medicinal Plant Board (NMPB). The project aims to employ women in the processing and sale of herbs collected from the local forest.It was Sunita, a social development facilitator with the state forest department who goes only by her first name, who mobilised these women to come out and work. Most of these women did face resistance from the men and elders in their family initially. But when extra income started trickling in, these families saw value in this initiative.Sunita's intervention in Dhar Kalan started in 2003 when she organised women into self-help groups to sell locally-grown fruits and products like aam papad. This was part of the Punjab Afforestation Project.Later, when the project to harvest medicinal plants was announced, she trained these women to pick plants like giloy, amla, neem, amaltas, gandla, basuti and bhabbar and operate machines to make juices and powders.Krishna Devi, a 36-year-old from Mothwan village, admits that she joined the project "after seeing the kind of money it brought (sic)." Today, Krishna and her farmer-husband have been able to build a home of their own, partly because of her income, she shares happily.The intervention has not only brought them money but also given them social mobility and agency. The practice of ghoonghat is on the decline because they have to go to the market and interact with traders in the city of Amritsar on a frequent basis. Women such as Sudarshna and Krishna have gone from being members of the self-help groups to taking on the role of a mentor.Since this is a part-time vocation and women have household chores to do as well, they take on the tasks as and when they are free. However, tasks are cut out between different age-groups. "Older women are responsible for boiling berries such as amla and extracting juice, younger ones head out to the forest to collect them," Krishna says.'They help conserve the forest'The project has given the forest department more reasons to cheer about. Pathankot Divisional Forest Officer Sanjeev Tewari informs 101Reporters, "They (these women) inform us about fires breaking out in the forest. They have also alerted us about poachers a few times and individuals encroaching the land. Their participation has helped us in conserving the forest."  Their vigilance is significant because "the number of unemployed youths in this area [Lower Shivaliks] is very high and they are likely to be easily lured in unlawful activities like poaching, illicit felling," cites a forest management plan prepared for the Pathankot forest division in 2015. The forests in Punjab need to be protected on a priority basis also because their cover is low in the first place, spanning only six per cent, Tewari informs. These women don't go into the forest with the prime motive of patrolling but when they do see any suspicious activity, they call up "Sunita ma'am" as soon as possible, Krishna tells us.Since these women have taken up this vocation to generate income, could it lead to greed and over-exploitation of the forest? The Dhar Kalan patch is a thriving habitat of the wolf, clawless otter, leopard, panther, blackbuck, Indian gazelle, pangolin and other wildlife species.No, says Sunita. She explains, "The NMPB scheme not only aims to generate livelihood but also promote in-situ conservation of medicinal plants. So we have trained them to survey and document important medicinal plants in their natural habitat. This way we make sure we don't harvest certain plants excessively. They have also been told to identify and report the invasive species." As a parting question, we ask Sunita why women were chosen for this project and not men. "Because they wore ghoonghat and stayed in," says Sunita, implying that a little incentive right in the 'backyard' can boost the self-confidence and social standing of the women. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-women-make-living-out-of-their-backyard-greens-conserve-it-too-231296
27-03-2021||---||One-hour silence order in Punjab causes problems to commuters||Muktsar, March 27The state government's order to observe one-hour silence on Saturday in honour of those who lost their lives due to Covid, led to major problems to commuters.As per the orders issued by Muktsar Deputy Commissioner MK Aravind Kumar, no vehicle was allowed to enter or move the town from 11 am to noon on Saturday.Long queues of vehicles were seen on the outskirts of the town, where cops had laid a 'naka', displayed notice that no vehicle is allowed to move for an hour.Gurjant Singh, an elderly resident of Dabwali town in Haryana, who had to go to Jalalabad town in Fazilka, said, "This is an impractical decision to stop vehicular movement for an hour. People like me who have to go to faraway places are stuck in the traffic jam. The state government should take people-friendly decisions, rather than harassing them."Many people commute during silence hour in PunjabChandigarh: Many people kept moving in their vehicles in Punjab from 11 am till noon on Saturday as they say they were unaware of the state government's decision to observe an hour's silence in memory of those who succumbed to Covid.Police stopped intra-city traffic at some places and it led to long queues of vehicles, causing inconvenience to commuters.The Punjab government had announced observing an hour of silence from 11 am on every Saturday starting March 27 in memory of all those who lost their lives to the contagion.During that hour, the traffic movement would not be allowed, except on state and national highways. Intra-city vehicular traffic should not be plied during this hour, as per orders.Sirens were sounded in the districts to indicate the start and end of the silence period.In Ludhiana, a commuter in a car said he was unaware of the state government's decision of observing the silence hour, adding that he was going to meet a patient at a local hospital.A two-wheeler rider in Hoshiarpur said he also did not know about the silence period.People at many places including Ludhiana, Sangrur, Mansa and Moga were commuting between 11 am and noon.A police official in Hoshiarpur said they appealed to people to stop their vehicles during the silence period.He, however, said if anyone had an emergency he was allowed to go.A commuter in Amritsar urged the state government not to stop traffic as those having emergency work could get stuck in a traffic jam.On Friday, the state had reported 3,176 infections, the highest single-day spike, while 59 more people died of the contagion. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/one-hour-silence-order-in-punjab-causes-problems-to-commuters-231288
27-03-2021||New Delhi||59 more die in Punjab as nation witnesses 62,258 new Covid cases||India saw 62,258 new coronavirus infections in a day, the highest single-day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide COVID-19 tally to 1,19,08,910, according to Union health ministry data updated on Saturday.Registering a steady increase for the 17th day in row, the active cases have increased to 4,52,647 comprising 3.8 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 94.85 per cent, the data stated.The 62,258 new cases were reported in a span of 24 hours, the highest since October 16, 2020, while the death toll increased to 1,61,240 with 291 daily new fatalities, the highest in around three months, the data updated at 8 am showed.As many as 63,371 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 16.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,12,95,023, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.35 per cent, the data stated.     According to ICMR, 23,97,69,553 samples have been tested up to March 26 with 11,64,915 samples being tested on Friday. The 291 new fatalities include 112 from Maharashtra, 59 from Punjab, 22 from Chhattisgarh, 14 from Kerala and 13 from Karnataka.A total of 1,61,240  deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 53,907 from Maharashtra, 12,650 from Tamil Nadu, 12,484 from Karnataka, 10,987 from Delhi, 10,320 from West Bengal, 8,779 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,203 from Andhra Pradesh and 6,576 from Punjab. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/59-more-die-in-punjab-as-nation-witnesses-62-258-new-covid-cases-231281
27-03-2021||Jhajjar||Punjab farmer found murdered at Tikri||The police have registered a case of murder against unknown persons on the complaint of the deceased’s relatives and started investigation.Hakum Singh’s body bearing injury marks on the neck inflicted by a weapon was found at the rear of the new bus stand. He came to Tikri on Thursday morning. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-farmer-found-murdered-at-tikri-231222
27-03-2021||---||Covid-19: Kapurthala reports 327 cases in one day||Kapurthala, March 26The district reported the highest single-day spike of 327 Covid-19 cases since its onset on Friday. A 63-year-old woman of Sidhwan Dona and another 60-year-old woman of Talwandi Chaudharian village succumbed to the virus while taking treatment at a private hospital.The death toll in the district has touched 239, while the number of infections has reached 8,526. Many patients of the district have started preferring to move to private hospitals in Jalandhar for treatment. Dr Seema, Civil Surgeon, Kapurthala, said that the daily sampling of cases was being increased. District epidemologist Dr Rajeev Bhagat said, “As many as 959 people were tested for coronavirus on Friday. We are expecting their report by tomorrow.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-kapurthala-reports-327-cases-in-one-day-230895
27-03-2021||---||Covid-19: Second wave wreaking havoc, 118 deaths reported in fortnight in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, March 26The coronavirus situation in Jalandhar has been getting scarier each day. As many as 494 new cases were detected on Friday with 13 deaths reported due to infection.The death toll has touched an alarming number of 118 in Jalandhar in just a fortnight. The total toll stood at 755 as on March 12 which went up to 873 in just two weeks. While the number of active cases stood at 1,356 a fortnight back, today it stands at all-time high of 3,116. As many as 4,507 cases have come up in just two weeks time.There has been practically no control over the spread of the disease despite the fact that the schools and colleges across the state were ordered to be shut by the state government since the past one week. The ongoing vaccination drive, too, is being sped up but still there little impact of the same on the rising numbers.Doctors treating patients have said that while more cases were being reported from urban areas in the first wave, now the number was more from rural areas. They also said that younger lot was reporting moderate to severe forms of symptoms. A Civil Hospital doctor shared that a 22-year-old boy, without comorbidity, reached hospital in a serious condition and had to be directly taken under ventilator.There are also reports that the patients and their families are not following the quarantine norms and are going to bazaars and attending public functions, which is a bigger cause of concern. IMA National vice-president Dr Navjot Dahiya said, “Stricter actions need to be taken against all those violating norms. More awareness ought to be spread on the need for early detection and timely medication.”ADC (D) Vishesh Sarangal opined, “Clearly, the second wave has been bigger and dangerous. More deaths are being reported as the patients are ignoring initial symptoms and reaching hospital only when their condition gets serious. The footfall at the vaccination sites is also somehow less and we are urging more people to come forward for the jab.”Admn calls for increasing bed capacity by 30%Deputy Commissioner Jalandhar Ghanshyam Thori on Friday exhorted all 19 private Covid care hospitals to increase their bed capacity by 30 per cent with immediate effect. He said with consistent efforts of administration as many as 50 additional beds have been arranged in 10 key Covid care hospitals which would take the number to 141 from the existing 91. Sarvodya Hospital and New Ruby Hospital have added five beds each while Patel Hospital has added nine. Besides, eight beds have increased at Sacred Heart Hospital, six at Johal Hospital, two each at Cardionova and Ghai Hospital, 12 at SGL Hospital, 10 at Caremax Hospital, and 17 at Shriman Super Specialty Hospital.Acceding to the demands of all private Covid care centres, district administration has assured availability of ventilators and HNFC for free of cost. Thori said that the administration has already requested health department to provide 30 ventilators and 31 HNFCs according to the demand flagged by the private hospitals.Mobile vaccination drive to start todayAs a part of various measures being taken by the district administration to check the rise of cases, it has been decided to start a special vaccination drive with its launch from bus stand and Industrial Area on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Friday directed health officials to launch mobile vaccination campaign in different areas of the city for the facilitation of general public. The DC said the mobile van would go into different localities for on-the-spot vaccination camps to provide inoculation facilities at doorsteps.Under this initiative, the beneficiaries need not book slots in advance. He said now health teams will visit particular area/factory/village/residential society or private establishments, where the eligible beneficiaries would be inoculated.Urging people to shun hesitance to get vaccinated, the DC said inoculation was necessitated amid current Covid situation so all the eligible beneficiaries should come forward for it. He said that it would not only boost the immunity in beneficiaries but also infuse a sense of confidence among them.Website for Covid bed info: https://jalandhar.nic.in/||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-second-wave-wreaking-havoc-118-deaths-reported-in-fortnight-in-jalandhar-district-230896
27-03-2021||---||Total bandh in Punjab; road, rail traffic hit in Haryana||New Delhi/Chandigarh, March 26Road and rail traffic was disrupted in several parts of Punjab and Haryana during the “Bharat Bandh” called by farmers on Friday as part of their nationwide protest against the three farm laws. The response was partial in other parts of the country. Punjab saw a complete shutdown. Roads and markets wore a deserted look. Bus service in the state was severely hit with both private operators and Punjab Roadways buses keeping off road.A press note by the Northern Railways said 10 trains, including the Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi and the Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi, were cancelled. At last five trains were diverted and more than 39 “short- terminated.”Impact barely 0.5% nationwide: RlysNew Delhi: The Railways said on Friday barely 0.5 per cent of the trains were impacted by Bharat Bandh. “Barring a limited number of trains in Punjab and Haryana, the bandh had nearly zero impact across the nation,” said official sources. TNSAll passenger and goods trains passing through Ropar district were cancelled or terminated mid-way. The bandh received a massive response in Patiala, Bathinda, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Mansa, Sangrur and Barnala. “All sections of society supported the bandh today,” said Jagtar Kalajhar of the BKU-Ugrahan.Under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, farmers in Amritsar held a protest bare-chested. They blocked the Amritsar-New Delhi rail track and the Amritsar-Jalandhar GT road. In Fatehgarh Sahib district, farmers gathered in front of the shop of BJP’s Sirhind unit president, asking him to shut his shop.In Haryana, farmers blocked highways and other key roads and squatted on rail tracks at several locations. As many as 35 passenger trains were detained and the movement of 40 goods trains was affected. The movement of trains was disrupted at 44 locations under the Delhi, Ambala and Ferozepur divisions. Road traffic was hit at Ambala, Panipat, Sonepat, Jhajjar, Jind, Panchkula, Kaithal, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Hisar, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Palwal, Rohtak and Bhiwani districts.Shops remained shut in Rajasthan’s Sikar, Jhunjhunu, Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh districts. Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, and Odisha saw a mixed response.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/total-bandh-in-punjab-road-rail-traffic-hit-in-haryana-231076
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Major rejig: High Court shifts 180 judicial officers in Punjab, Haryana||In a major administrative reshuffle, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered the transfer and postings of 180 judicial officials in Punjab and Haryana. The transferred officers include district and sessions judges.In all, 79 judicial officers of the Haryana Superior Judicial Services, including six district and session judges, and 73 additional district and sessions judge-rank officers have been transferred in Haryana. In Punjab, 97 judges have been transferred. This is the first major administrative reshuffle ever since the HC went into restrictive functioning mode in March last year following the Covid outbreak. The major transfers include District and Sessions Judges Gurbir Singh from Ludhiana to Chandigarh, Munish Singal from Moga to Ludhiana, Harpreet Kaur Randhawa from Tarn Taran to Amritsar and Kanwaljit Singh Bajwa from Pathankot to Nawanshahr. In Haryana, District and Sessions Judge Deepak Gupta has been transferred from Faridabad to Panchkula; Surya Partap Singh from Chandigarh has been transferred as District and Sessions Judge at Gurgaon. Puneesh Jindia has been posted from Rohtak to Chandigarh as member-secretary, State Legal Service Authority, UT. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/major-rejig-high-court-shifts-180-judicial-officers-in-punjab-haryana-231091
27-03-2021||Chandigarh/Mohali||Bharat Bandh: Farmers block Chandigarh-Ambala highway; traffic jam on Zirakpur-Panchkula road||Farmer unions blocked the Chandigarh-Ambala Highway on Friday morning, observing the 'Bharat Bandh'. Massive protests broke out at the McDonald point in Zirakpur.Despite this, they also barred K-Area lights on Zirakpur-Panchkula road. Long queues of vehicles were witnessed here.Farmers union have also blocked National Highways in the Mohali district. The Zirakpur-Patiala road was also blocked by the protesting farmers from the Airport light points since this morning.Due to the Bharat Bandh, passengers in Chandigarh face an inconvenience as the Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi Express stopped at Chandigarh Railway Station as the farmers blocked the railway traffic during the nationwide 'Bharat Bandh', called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha. Also read: Meanwhile, the strike will be observed from 6 am to 6 pm.Local markets: Phase 7, 3B2, Phase 11 in Mohali wore a deserted look. Shopkeepers were spotted waiting outside their shops in Zirakpur, hoping the markets open till 10am.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bharat-bandh-farmers-block-chandigarh-ambala-highway-traffic-jam-on-zirakpur-panchkula-road-230750
27-03-2021||Tribune ReportersMoga/Bathinda||Bharat bandh brings Malwa to standstill||The 12-hour Bharat bandh call received a good response in Moga and its adjoining districts. While markets, private establishments and industries remained closed, the road and rail traffic across the Malwa belt was adversely hit.Farmers, farm labourers, commission agents, trade unions and activists of political parties squatted on railway lines, and national and state highways. There was no report of any untoward incident from anywhere in the region. The emergency services were exempt from the blockade.Arhtiyas, traders come out in supportReports of road blockades were received from all cities and towns of the Malwa belt. Blockades were reported from more than 100 locations in the Malwa belt. In Moga, the roads were blocked at 11 locations, besides a sit-in on the Moga-Ferozepur railway track.Milk supply hit in muktsar districtBKU (Ekta) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri said farmers observed a complete blockade of rail and road traffic. Buses, trucks, taxis and other vehicles were not allowed to ply, giving a tough time to commuters.Markets in Moga, Baghapurana, Dharamkot, Kot-ise-Khan, Nihalsinghwala and other towns of the district remained closed. BKU (Krantikari) activists blocked the Moga-Jalandhar state highway, while BKU (Ekta) members protested on the Moga-Kotkapura highway.Residents of Karahewala village protested at the bus stand and blocked the Moga-Amritsar road. BKU (Ekta) activists protested in front of a silo at Dagru village and at a toll plaza near Chandpurana village. BKU (Krantikari) activists squatted on the railway track between Moga and Ferozepur at Dagru. They also protested at Baghapurana and blocked the Moga-Bathinda highway.The overall bandh was peaceful and no untoward incident was reported in the district.In Bathinda and Mansa districts, roads and markets, both in city and rural areas, wore a deserted look. Buses of PRTC as well private operators did not ply, while hospitals witnessed up to 70 per cent fall in patient inflow in OPDs. Members of different trade unions and arhtiya associations also joined farmers in the protest and raised slogans against the three farm laws.Farmers blocked roads at Jeeda toll plaza on the Bathinda-Amritsar National Highway, Ghudda on the Bathinda-Badal Road, Lehrabega toll plaza and Rampura Phul on the Bathinda-Chandigarh National Highway and Bhagta on the Bajakhana-Barnala Road. Farmers also protested on the Bathinda-Jind railway track at Maur Mandi. A large number of farmers, labourers and women from different villages participated in the bandh.In Bathinda city, almost all markets remained closed during the day. Only chemist shops and hospitals remained open but these too witnessed thin footfall. Protesters kept making announcements from loudspeakers mounted on vehicles to keep the shops closed. The traders’ fraternity also lent support to the bandh call. The wholesale vegetable market of Bathinda did not witness much activity as no fresh stock of vegetables or fruits arrived in the mandi and vendors participated in the bandh call. In the rural areas and different mandis (blocks) in the district such as Goniana Mandi, Sangat Mandi, Bhucho Mandi, Rampura Phul, Maur Mandi and Rama Mandi among other small markets in villages remained shut during the day. But liquor vends were operational.All markets remained closed in both Sangrur and Barnala districts. Various farmer organisations have decided to intensify their agitation against the central farm laws in the coming days.All markets remained closed in Ropar, Chamkaur Sahib and Morinda while trains were disrupted as farmers sat on a dharna at various places today. There was, however, no impact of the bandh in Nangal where all markets remained open throughout the day.The farmer unions had already exempt Kiratpur Sahib and AnandpurSahib from the bandh call due to the ongoing Hola Mohalla festival.(With inputs from Sangrur, Ropar & Muktsar)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bharat-bandh-brings-malwa-to-standstill-230939
27-03-2021||Amritsar||Road, rail blockade in Majha; supplies hit||The ‘Bharat bandh’ call evoked an overwhelming response in the Majha region.In Amritsar, farmers — under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) — protested half-naked. They blocked the Amritsar-New Delhi railway track, Jodha Phatak in Vallah and Amritsar-Jalandhar GT Road, demanding the repeal of the farm laws, Straw Act, and the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020.They insisted on a law guaranteeing MSP, cancellation of notices issued to farmers and issuance of challans for violations of Covid-19 guildeines and the removal of the condition of taking fards (land record) by the government.Barring the essential, and emergency services — a total bandh was observed and the streets wore a deserted look with a heavy vigil by the police at 40 different places.In Tarn Taran, Amritsar-Khemkaran and Amritsar-TarnTaran-Beas rail routes remained blocked. The milk and vegetable supply, too, were suspended. The rail track from Pathankot to Amritsar was blocked. Except for the banks and medicine, all services were stopped.KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said:“In Amritsar the main rail track and road network remained disrupted at 88 points; in Tarn Taran, at 32 places; in Gurdaspur, the blockade was being observed at 18 places; in Ferozepur, at 15 places; in Hoshiarpur, at two places; in Kapurthala and Jalandhar at five places each; and in Moga, at two places. The blockade was also witnessed in Fazilka, Muktsar and Faridkot”, he said. The border belt of Attari, Chogawan, Lopoke, Khasa and Bhakna, too, saw complete shutdown.Doaba affected tooJalandhar: The call for ‘Bharat bandh’ evoked a huge response across Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Nawanshahr in the Doaba region. All marketplaces remained shut, as farmers squatted on highways across the region. Banks, telecom offices and tehsils, which opened in the morning, were forcibly shut by protesters. Passengers faced inconvenience as road and rail traffic was paralysed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/road-rail-blockade-in-majha-supplies-hit-230940
27-03-2021||Ferozepur||Shutdown hits  train services||At least 21 express and passenger trains were affected as farmers blocked railway tracks at 24 locations in Punjab in the wake of the ‘Bharat bandh’ call today.DRM (Ferozepur Division) Rajesh Aggarwal said no damage was caused to any Railways property and overall, the bandh remained peaceful throughout the day.While the Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabadi Express was cancelled, 11 trains were rescheduled which included Amritsar-Haridwar Janshatabadi Express , Amritsar-Bandra Terminal Paschim Express, Amritsar-Newjalpaiguri Karambhumi Express, Amritsar-Jainagar Shaheed Express), Amritsar-Dibrugarh Town Tinsukia Special, Amritsar-Jaynagar Humsafar Express, Amritsar-Bilaspur Express, Ferozepur-Dhanbad Ganga Sutlej Express, Fazilka-Rewari Express, Vande Bharat Express from Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-New Delhi Express and Amritsar-Hawrah Express.The Ajmer-Amritsar Special train and, Jalandhar-Ferozepur Express and Ferozepur Cantt-Jalandhar City were short-terminated/originated. The DRM said keeping in view the safety of passengers, a few trains were halted at various locations. He said the Nander Express was halted at Phagwara and Malwa Express was halted at three places, including Jammu-Tawi, Pathankot Cantt and Mukerian.Swaraj Express was halted at three places ie Jammu Tawi, Pathankot and Kathua. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shutdown-hits-train-services-230941
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers' stir creating history, Centre nervous: AAP||Reacting to the Bharat bandh, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said the farmers’ movement was creating history and the Narendra Modi-led central government was nervous.In a statement, senior AAP leader and Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema said the Modi government should stop taking the test of farmers’ patience and accept all demands of farmer organisations immediately.“Not only in India, it has become one of the longest public movements in the world. The Modi government made every possible undemocratic attempt to crush the movement, but the farmers of the country continued to protest in a peaceful manner,” he said. The way farmers had refused to be provoked and shown peace and tolerance for so many days was a great example in itself, he stressed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-stir-creating-history-centre-nervous-aap-230942
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers' agitation: Women power to fore at protest sites||Women power came to the fore today during the ‘Bharat bandh’ call given by farmers under the aegis of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha to protest against the three farm laws. As a result, the protest sites saw a sea of “kesari” and green from “dupattas” worn by them.Across all dharna sites, including the ones on the railway tracks, women came out in large numbers to give a fillip to the protests. At some places such as Bhaini Bagha in Bathinda, women protesters outnumbered male counterparts, and blocked roads by staging a dharna.Why the trendEven as the normal life in the state came to a grinding halt, women were seen leading the protests at many places, especially in the Malwa region.In Jagraon, near Ludhiana, a number of women laid siege to the highway. In Mansa, women led a protest march in the city, while in Barnala, the maximum participation of women was seen at Dhanaula and Bhadaur protest sites.Narinder Kaur Sohal, who led the protesting women in Moga, told The Tribune many women who had lost their sons and husbands to suicide because of rural indebtedness participated in huge numbers.“These women have suffered the ill effects of government policies, which are often made without checking the ground realities. They can sense what the farm laws can do to hit them economically. They are even inspiring other women from farm households to join the protest. That is why we are seeing a rapid increase in women protesters in the past one month,” she said.Another reason for their good turnout was that most of the male members of the family had left for the protest sites at the Delhi border on March 23. Most are still camping and protesting at Singhu and Tikri borders, leaving the women and elderly here to join the protest here.Amarjit Kaur, a retired lecturer, who was leading the protests at Barnala, said at each of the four protest sites in Barnala district, more than 1,000 women participated, as their men folk were in Delhi.“The women are taking a lead role in protests across the state as the men folk and youngsters have been camping at the Delhi border,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-agitation-women-power-to-fore-at-protest-sites-230943
27-03-2021||Patiala||Patiala University students, lawyers join protesting farmers||The bandh call received a positive response from all sections of society, including youth, advocates, market unions and residents in Patiala.The district bar association held a protest in the market place. As a result, the work at the district court remained suspended throughout the day. The Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, Patiala, also held a protest at the Lahori gate.Students of Punjabi University associated with various student political parties along with teachers and non-teaching faculty members locked the university gates and held a collective protest outside the campus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-university-students-lawyers-join-protesting-farmers-230944
27-03-2021||Sangrur||Sangrur, Barnala women mobilise support for farmers' movement||With husbands and sons away to the Delhi border, elderly women in the rural belt of Sangrur and Barnala districts led from the front to mobilise younger women and other villagers for the ‘Bharat bandh’. In fact, many aged women had been attending the protests against the central farm laws right from the start.“It’s a fight for survival and we cannot think of staying away from protest. If the protest fails, it will cause irreparable loss to the farming community and everyone understands this,” said Gurdev Kaur, an elderly woman, during a protest in Sangrur.A majority of the elderly women, drawn from different villages, claimed they had left their grandchildren home to join the protest as they had no other option.Though they were aware of the Covid-19 threat — given the fact that people over 60 are particularly vulnerable — they said they have no option but to risk their lives and come out on roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-barnala-women-mobilise-support-for-farmers-movement-230945
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||At 3,176 cases, Punjab sees steepest spike so far||Punjab is on tenterhooks as the surge in Covid positive cases continues, with the state surpassing the 3,000 threshold in a single day. This is the highest single-day spike ever during the course of the pandemic.The number of deaths, too, remained the highest today at 59, with 14 persons each losing their lives in Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur.59 more succumbAs many as 3,176 cases were reported today, which is the highest single-day spike seen in the state since the pandemic began. The peak in the first wave of the pandemic was on September 17 last year when 2,896 cases were reported. A study conducted by Ludhiana-based CMC had warned that the total Covid cases in the state would cross 3,000 by the end of this week.Doaba continued to report the highest number of cases and adding over 1,000 cases to the state’s tally. The three districts in the region — Jalandhar, Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur — have reported 494, 327 and 202 cases, respectively. Other than the 14 deaths each reported in Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur, four casualties were also reported in Kapurthala. As many as 92 cases were reported in Nawanshahr today and four persons lost their lives after battling the viral disease.Ludhiana, Mohali and Amritsar, too, continued to add numbers to the state’s tally. As many as 409 cases were reported in Mohali, 394 in Ludhiana and 304 in Amritsar. Five persons died of the contagion in Ludhiana, four in Amritsar and one in Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-3-176-cases-punjab-sees-steepest-spike-so-far-230946
27-03-2021||Muktsar||One-hour silence order serves no purpose: Locals||The state government order to observe one-hour silence on Saturdays in the memory of those who died due to Covid has left people worried.The Muktsar Deputy Commissioner has even passed an order in this regard, saying no vehicle would be allowed to ply on roads on Saturday between 11 am and noon.Raj Kumar, a resident, said: “My uncle passed away recently and the bhog ceremony is scheduled for Saturday. Our relatives are worried as to how they would reach here in time. The government should not have made the silence hour mandatory as it serves no purpose. The decision to observe no-vehicle hour should have been left to people.”“This one-hour show-off exercise seems to have been suggested by a person not knowing the ground realities,” a 65-year-old man said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/one-hour-silence-order-serves-no-purpose-locals-230947
27-03-2021||Patiala||16 of 18 labour inspectors flunk departmental exam||In a major embarrassment for the Labour Department, only two inspectors of the 18 who took a departmental examination could pass it.Held in January, the examination was meant to confirm their promotion. Sources said some of the inspectors were not even abreast with recently enacted new four labour codes.As per the department guidelines, those already been promoted as Labour Enforcement Officer and Labour Inspector (Grade 1) have to clear the departmental examination to confirm their promotion, but if they fail to qualify, they would be demoted.An official of the department said: “If they are not familiar with the basic labour laws, how can we expect them to protect the rights of the labourers. As almost all of them have failed, questions are being raised on their competency to continue on the post they are holding.”VK Janjua, principal secretary, Labour Department, said he was shocked to see the results. “After the results, I immediately checked the question paper. It was an easy one. I don’t know why the majority of them failed,” he said. Janjua said the inspectors would get another chanc to clear the examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/16-of-18-labour-inspectors-flunk-departmental-exam-230948
27-03-2021||Muktsar||Punjab to give athlete Rs 10L||The state government will extend Rs 10 lakh financial assistance to local athlete Kamalpreet Kaur, who broke the national record in discus throw and qualified for Tokyo Olympics recently, said DC MK Aravind Kumar today.The Tribune had published a report in these columns on March 23 in which the athlete had appealed for financial help. The SGPC gave her Rs 2 lakh and National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) state president Akshay Sharma extended Rs 51,000 aid to her. Kamalpreet from Kabarwala village set the national record with a throw of 65.06 metre at the Federation Cup National Athletics in Patiala recently. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-give-athlete-rs-10l-230949
27-03-2021||Ludhiana||Rs 484-cr bogus billing scam unearthed||The anti-evasion wing of the CGST Commissionerate here on Friday claimed to have unearthed another bogus billing and fake input tax credit (ITC) scam amounting to Rs 484 crore with the arrest of kingpin Baljinder Singh, alias Bunty, and one of his accomplices, Vishal Singh.Cash amounting to Rs 44.6 lakh and a cache of cheques, incriminating documents and digital devices were recovered from the kingpin.Aide availed Rs2.5-cr fake ITCPreliminary investigations pointed to a loss of Rs 48 crore to the state exchequer by fraudulently claiming the ITC through fake invoices issued by 19 firms, said Ashutosh Baranwal, Principal Commissioner, Ludhiana CGST Commissionerate.He said the value of fake/fraudulently availed ITC by the 19 firms, all based in different parts of Punjab, was Rs 48 crore and the fake ITC passed was Rs 40 crore, which was channelled through bogus billing amounting to Rs 484 crore. Acting on a tip-off, the CGST sleuths conducted a search on the residential premises of Bunty in Khanna. “On seeing the team, Bunty climbed on to the rooftop of his house and started throwing cheques into fields behind the house along with a waterproof sheet to conceal the cheques,” claimed Baranwal, adding the act was caught on the CCTV cameras.“Cash amounting to Rs 44.6 lakh, which prima facie appeared to be proceeds from the racket, was also seized along with incriminating documents and digital devices,” informed the CGST Principal Commissioner.In his statement, Bunty admitted he along with others had indulged in availing and passing of fraudulent ITC using fake invoices without the movement of goods.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-484-cr-bogus-billing-scam-unearthed-230950
27-03-2021||Faridkot||Kotkapura firing: No exemption from appearance for Sumedh Saini||The court of Judicial Magistrate on Friday denied former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini exemption from personal appearance in the court in the Kotkapura police firing case of October 2015.Saini was to appear in the court here today. However, his counsel contended that he could not appear due to medical reasons as he was being treated at a hospital in New Delhi.However, denying exemption to Saini on the basis of medical grounds, the court observed as Saini had not appeared in the court in the case to date, he could not appear through the counsel or anyone else. In its order today, the court observed as per the ‘ahlmad’ report, the security officer of the former DGP had prevented the court’s summons-serving official from meeting Saini, so the summons were pasted outside his house.While the public prosecutors for the special investigation team (SIT) of the Punjab Police claimed the former DGP was intentionally evading the service of summons and was fully aware of the proceedings in the court as his counsel was also appearing on his behalf, the counsel for Saini said the prosecution did not make the personal service of the summons at New Delhi, the place where the accused was for medical reasons.After hearing out the public prosecutor, the court issued the summons for Saini for April 16, allowing the SIT to get it effected as per the procedure. The court said in case Saini failed to appear, it would proceed further under the law. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-firing-no-exemption-from-appearance-for-sumedh-saini-230954
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Rs 1.25 cr for villages of five Galwan martyrs||In recognition of the exemplary valour shown by five martyrs of Galwan valley hailing from Punjab, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today sanctioned Rs 25 lakh each for the development of their native villages.Reviewing the various welfare measures for ex-servicemen, the CM said it was a humble effort on the part of the government to undertake the development of the villages of Galwan martyrs. The CM sanctioned the funds for the development of Seel village in Patiala from where Naib Sub Mandeep Singh of 3 Medium Regiment belonged; Bhojraj village in Gurdaspur of Naib Sub Satnam Singh of 3 Medium Regiment; Birewal Dogra village in Mansa of Sep Gurtej Singh Vir Chakra awardee of 3 Punjab; Tolewal village in Sangrur of Sep Gurbrinder Singh of 3 Punjab; and Mardanheri village in Patiala of Lance Naik Saleem Khan of 58 Engineer Regiment.The CM also approved Rs 18 crore for the Punjab State War Heroes Memorial and Museum in Amritsar, Rs 4 crore for the construction of Sainik rest houses in Mansa and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Rs 39.50 lakh for construction of Victory Tower and renovation of War Memorial in Fazilka. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-1-25-cr-for-villages-of-five-galwan-martyrs-230959
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Probe Mukhtar Ansari’s stay as state guest at Ropar jail: Akalis||The SAD today demanded a judicial inquiry into a “criminal conspiracy” behind giving political shelter to underworld don Mukhtar Ansari by keeping him as a “state guest” at the Ropar jail on a “trumped-up” charge for two years.Welcoming the Supreme Court verdict, directing transfer of Ansari to Uttar Pradesh to face cases registered in the state, SAD spokesperson Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said the verdict had lowered Punjab’s image in the country.Yet to get order“An impression has gone out that the Congress government can stoop to any level to extend protection to a criminal. The verdict is an indictment of the Punjab Government, which has misused its power to prevent the transfer of Ansari to UP for two years.“The government must answer as to what were its motives to harbour a hardened criminal in its jails and why it went to the extent of spending a huge amount of money to hire top lawyers to oppose Ansari’s transfer to UP,” he claimed.Dr Cheema demanded an inquiry to probe all aspects including the “case” under which Ansari had been arrested and brought to Punjab — a property dealer had claimed to have received a threat on the phone from “Ansari” on January 7, 2019.He said despite the vague nature of the complaint, the Mohali police moved with lightning speed to register a case in the matter the very next day, got a production warrant against the gangster on January 12 and presented him in court on January 22.He said following this, the police moved into reverse gear and failed to present a challan in the case for 60 days. He said Ansari too did not apply for bail and the state government was content with not only keeping him in jail, but also providing one excuse after another to prevent his transfer to Uttar Pradesh. Dr Cheema said the conduct of the Punjab Government had sent the wrong message. “If state governments are not ready to cooperate with one another, how can we expect other countries to repatriate criminals to India?” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/probe-mukhtar-ansaris-stay-as-state-guest-at-ropar-jail-akalis-230972
27-03-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Six held for gangrape||The police have arrested six suspects in connection with the alleged gangrape of a 24-year-old woman at Mandi Gobindgarh in the district.Fatehgarh Sahib SSP Amneet Kondal said on March 23, the victim, who worked at a beauty parlour in Ludhiana, complained to the police she had come to Mandi Gobindgarh on a bus after Paramjit Singh Pamma, also a Ludhiana resident, called her to the industrial town.She claimed Pamma took her to his friend Manga Singh’s finance company office on the Amloh road, where he along with five others raped her at gunpoint.The SSP said around 3 am on March 24, they arrested three suspects who were presented in the court, which remanded them in police custody. Late on Friday evening, the rest of the accused were arrested. They would be produced in the court tomorrow. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/six-held-for-gangrape-230983
27-03-2021||Ferozepur||Inmate among 2 booked under NDPS Act||SAD to resume rallies as party chief recoversChandigarh: Within days of AAP’s big rally in Moga, the SAD on Friday decided to resume the series of public rallies across the state which had been discontinued after party chief Sukhbir Badal tested positive for Covid. A decision to resume the rallies was taken at a special meeting of the core committee of the party chaired by Sukhbir who told the meeting that he had fully recovered from his ailment and had been advised to resume normal work from March 30. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/inmate-among-2-booked-under-ndps-act-230993
27-03-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||4 more suspects held in gold robbery case||The police have arrested all seven suspects, who allegedly robbed about 6 kg of gold jewellery and Rs 1 lakh from the Manappuram Finance Company’s office in Hanumangarh, 60 km from Abohar, 10 days ago.SP Preeti Jain said out of 6.18-kg gold jewellery, 4.86 kg had been recovered, and out of Rs 1.7 lakh, Rs 1.39 lakh. All seven criminals involved directly and indirectly, including assistant branch head, had been arrested. An unlicensed pistol, six cartridges, an air gun and a motorcycle had been recovered from their possession. Some of the accused, who were hired by the jeweller, were connected with criminals operating in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-more-suspects-held-in-gold-robbery-case-230994
27-03-2021||Faridkot||10 mobile phones found in Faridkot jail||The recovery of 10 mobile phones from the Faridkot Modern Jail on Friday has left the law enforcing agencies baffled and the jail authorities under scanner.While the police have nominated two prisoners in case of recovery of two mobile phones, eight other mobile phones were found “abandoned” during a search operation. Two separate cases have been registered against two prisoners and some unidentified inmates under Section 52A of the Prisons Act.The police have started an investigation to trace contacts and call history of the “abandoned” phones to trace the persons outside the jail who were in contact with those inside, said Faridkot SHO Amarjit Singh. In the last one year when the jail has been sealed and no visitor was allowed amid lockdown, over 150 mobile phones have been recovered from the jail. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-mobile-phones-found-in-faridkot-jail-230995
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||High Court questions safety norms on installation of mobile towers||The Punjab and Haryana HC today questioned the safety guidelines issued by Punjab on the installation of mobile towers in residential areas. The Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh asserted it was still unclear whether the guidelines had the force of law and were being followed in letter and spirit in the entire state.The Bench also asked the state counsel to inform the court on the next date of hearing whether action had been taken against any person under the guidelines. As the case came up for resumed hearing before the Bench, senior advocate Chetan Mittal on behalf of one of the parties referred to the guidelines dated December 22, 2020. He submitted that all safeguards had been incorporated in the guidelines.Faced with the court’s observations on the potency and implementation of the guidelines, the state counsel prayed for additional time to seek instructions on the issues. Taking a note of the submissions, the Bench fixed the case for further hearing in April first week.The directions came on a petition filed by Simarjeet Singh. Holding that the larger question before the court was regarding the installation of towers on residential building, the Bench on a previous date of hearing had stayed the installation of towers atop the residential buildings in the state after holding that its slapdash setting up may put the lives and properties of the people in danger.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-questions-safety-norms-on-installation-of-mobile-towers-230996
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court orders transfer and posting of about 180 judicial officials||In a major administrative reshuffle, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered the transfer and postings of about 180 judicial officials in the states of Punjab and Haryana. The transferred officers include district and sessions judges.In all, 79 judicial officers of the Haryana Superior Judicial Services, including six district and session judges, and 73 additional district and sessions judge-rank officers have been transferred in Haryana.In Punjab, 97 judges have been transferred. This is the first major administrative reshuffle ever since the high court went into restrictive functioning mode in March last year following Covid outbreak.        The major transfers include District and Sessions judges Gurbir Singh from Ludhiana to Chandigarh, Munish Singal from Moga to Ludhiana, Harpreet Kaur Randhawa from Tarn Taran to Amritsar and Kanwaljit Singh Bajwa from Pathankot to Nawanshahr.In Haryana, District and Sessions Judge Deepak Gupta has been transferred from Faridabad to Panchkula; Surya Partap Singh from Chandigarh has been transferred as District and Sessions Judge at Gurugram. Puneesh Jindia has been posted from Rohtak to Chandigarh as member secretary, state legal service authority, UT Aradhana Sawhney, Additional Legal Remembrancer, has been posted as District and Sessions Judge at Jind. Yashvir Singh Rathore has been posted as District and Sessions Judge at Faridabad. UT Legal Remembrancer Phalit Sharma also has been posted as Additional District and Sessions Judge at Gurugram. The orders will come into force from April 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-orders-transfer-and-posting-of-about-180-judicial-officials-230832
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: Protests evoke good response in Punjab, Haryana||Road and rail traffic was disrupted in several parts of Punjab and Haryana during the Bharat Bandh called by farmers on Friday as part of their nationwide protest against the three agriculture laws, though there was partial response to it in other parts of the country.Farmers blocked national highways and other key roads at many places in Punjab and Haryana, and squatted on railway tracks at several locations.The Samkyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the farmers’ stir, called for the bandh from 6 am to 6 pm to mark four months of the agitation at Delhi’s three borders—Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri.A railway spokesperson said four Shatabdi trains were cancelled, 35 other passenger trains were detained and the movement of 40 goods trains was affected by the protests.Train movement was disrupted at 44 locations that fall under the Delhi, Ambala and Ferozepur divisions of the railways.In Uttar Pradesh’s Ballia, as many as 20 activists of CPI (M-L), protesting in Sikandarpur township of the district, were taken into custody.The bandh had a minimal impact in Delhi. Markets at Connaught Place, Karol Bagh, Kashmiri Gate, Chandni Chowk and Sadar remained open.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) had to briefly close the entry and exit gates of the Tikri Border, Bahadurgarh City and Brigadier Hoshiar Singh stations, but after a few minutes, the stations were opened for passengers.A farmer leader claimed that there were protests in Mayapuri and some other areas where people peacefully staged demonstrations.The SKM claimed that various farmer organisations, trade unions, student bodies, bar associations, political parties and representatives of state governments have supported the bandh call.In other parts of the country, there was partial response to the bandh.In Punjab, shops remained closed at several places. Shops were shut at a few places in Haryana, too, in support of the Bharat Bandh.Public and private transport remained off the roads in Punjab.Since morning, farmers in the two states gathered at several highways and roads, including in Bathinda, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Patiala, Mohali, Rohtak, Ferozepur, Pathankot, Jhajjar, Jind, Panchkula, Kaithal, Yamunanagar and Bhiwani districts.Farmers allowed ambulances and other emergency vehicles as well as marriage processions to pass.In view of the 'Holla Mohalla' festival at Sri Anandpur Sahib, vehicles carrying devotees were allowed to commute. The protesters had even arranged 'langar' for devotees at protest sites.Haryana BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni, in a video message on Friday, appealed to the protesting farmers to ensure the smooth passage of essential supplies or even sick persons travelling in private vehicles or those travelling in neighbouring areas."We have to protest peacefully," Chaduni said.The Bharat Bandh hit rail services in Punjab and Haryana. Protesters squatted on railway tracks at several locations, including in Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Ferozepur, Ambala, Jind, Jhajjar, Panchkula and some other districts in the two states, leading to the disruption of rail traffic.Some of the protesters blocked the Ambala-Delhi highway near Ambala Cantonment badly affecting the service on the route.Also read:The agitating farmers blocked several key roads, including the Chandigarh-Delhi, Amritsar-Delhi, Hisar-Delhi and Bhiwani-Delhi national highways. They parked their tractors and other vehicles in the middle of the carriageways.They also blocked the Ambala-Rajpura Highway on the Haryana-Punjab border near Shambhu barrier, and the Ambala-Hisar Highway near Ambala City.The protesters, many of them carrying placards, squatted on key roads and raised slogans against the BJP-led government at the Centre. There were sit-ins at toll plazas in several places.In Amritsar district, a group of farmers held a shirtless protest and raised slogans demanding the repeal of the farm laws. In Ludhiana, Punjab's industrial hub, some markets, including on Gill Road, Ghumar Mandi, Clock Tower, cloth market and Akal Market remained shut while in Mohali too most markets were closed.Traffic on national highways passing through Haryana, including Ambala and Chandigarh, was comparatively less as many avoided travelling during the Bandh hours. However, at many places, long queues of trucks and other heavy vehicles could be seen on roads.Police personnel were deployed in adequate strength to maintain law and order, officials said.Farmer leaders in the state had appealed to shopkeepers and traders to keep their shutters down during the bandh. Several unions representing commission agent also extended their support to the protest.The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, an apex gurdwara body, had also announced to keep its offices and institutions closed for the day.Earlier, in view of the Bharat Bandh, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting farmers' unions, appealed to the protesters to remain peaceful.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, with their main demand being complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for the minimum support price on their crops.So far, there have been 11 rounds of talks between the protesting unions and government, but the deadlock has continued as both sides have stuck to their stand.In January, the government had offered to suspend the farm laws for 12-18 months, which was rejected by the farmer unions. With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bharat-bandh-protests-evoke-good-response-in-punjab-haryana-230738
