28-03-2021||---||On Holika Dahan, farmers in Punjab burn copies of three agri laws||Chandigarh, March 28Farmers burnt copies of the three contentious Central farm laws at many places in Punjab on Sunday on the occasion of Holika Dahan, when bonfires are lit on Holi eve symbolising the victory of good over evil.On the call of Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers unions spearheading the agitation against the farm laws, farmers set copies of the laws on fire and demanded that the three legislations be repealed.Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said the protesting farmers set the copies of three farm legislations on fire at 42 places in 16 districts of the state.Read also: Farmers celebrate ‘Holika Dahan' by burning copies of Centre's farm lawsThousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border of Delhi with their main demand of complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for the minimum support price on their crops.So far, there have been 11 rounds of talks between the protesting unions and government, but the deadlock has continued as both sides have stuck to their stand.In January, the government had offered to suspend the farm laws for 12-18 months, which was rejected by the farmer unions. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-holika-dahan-farmers-in-punjab-burn-copies-of-three-agri-laws-231749
28-03-2021||Patiala||Patiala records highest single-day rise of 2021; celebrate Holi indoors, says Health Dept||Patiala reported the highest single-day rise of this year. On Sunday, the district recorded 293 COVID cases in the last 24 hours.With the Holi festival coming up, the Patiala Health Department has appealed to the residents to restrict the colours' festival celebration indoors only.  Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said that people should avoid any social gathering on this occasion. "We appeal to citizens to restrict celebration to their homes only. The district is already witnessing the worst of this year, therefore, any laxity in the COVID norms will make the situation out of control,” said Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-records-highest-single-day-rise-of-2021-celebrate-holi-indoors-says-health-dept-231743
28-03-2021||Anandpur Sahib||Farmers hold meet at Holla Mohalla festival in Punjab||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha which has been spearheading an agitation against the Centre's new farm laws held a public meeting at the Holla Mohalla festival here on Sunday.A large number of farmers attended the 'Kisana da Mahakumbh' (grand assembly of farmers) which was addressed by senior farmer union leaders.The speakers demanded repeal of the three agri laws and cautioned the central government against ignoring their demands.They said that farmers have been holding their agitation for the last over four months but the BJP-led central government was yet to meet their demands.Farmer leader Ruldu Singh said that three farm laws would affect every section of the society, including small traders.He said that they were fighting "for the cause of the nation".Singh said that every village shall form committees and pick new leadership to take forward the agitation.Multiple rounds of talks between the government and leaders of farmers have failed to break the impasse. The government has said the laws will benefit the farmers.Meanwhile, this year the number of devotees visiting the historic Holla Mohalla festival was less than previous years due to the COVID-19 pandemic.On the concluding day of the three-day festival on Monday, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee and groups of ''Nihangs" will take out a procession. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-hold-meet-at-holla-mohalla-festival-in-punjab-231741
28-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Navjot Sidhu 'hints' at resumption of trade relations between India, Pakistan, says it has 'infinite potential'||Punjab Former Cabinet Minister and Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday hinted at the resumption of trade talks between India and Pakistan.Sharing a video of his old clippings, including the ones from his Pakistan visit, the Congress leader listed the difference in prices of the various commodities between the two nations on Twitter."Welcome step - possibility of opening trade relations - Unlocking infinite potential - Way forward for Farmers and Profitable Business (sic)" the Congress leader tweeted."India PakRice Rs3200 Rs7000Tomato Rs20 Rs150Wheat Rs1700 Rs2900Peas Rs5 Rs25Ginger Rs22 Rs150Is there a better market for farmers?,' his tweet concluded.I welcome Indo Pak talks to resume tradeIndia PakRice Rs3200 Rs7000Tomato Rs20 Rs150Wheat Rs1700 Rs2900Peas Rs5 Rs25Ginger Rs22 Rs150Is there a better market for farmers? pic.twitter.com/aCxkVCjOn8  The Congress leader's tweet comes days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote a letter to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan to extend greetings on Pakistan Day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-hints-at-resumption-of-trade-relations-between-india-pakistan-says-it-has-infinite-potential-231740
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||BJP MLA attack: Punjab governor condemns incident, seeks report from state govt||Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore on Sunday condemned the recent attack on a BJP legislator in Muktsar district and sought a report from the Congress-led government in this regard.The governor also called up Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, who holds the home portfolio, and conveyed his serious concern over the incident.BJP MLA Arun Narang was allegedly thrashed and his clothes ripped off by a group of protesting farmers at Malout in Muktsar district on Saturday. The BJP leader had gone to Malout to address a press conference.Badnore condemned the incident after a delegation of Punjab BJP leaders led by state unit chief Ashwani Sharma and Union minister Som Parkash called on him and submitted a memorandum.The memorandum highlighted the “increasing attacks” on BJP workers and leaders in “illegal and unconstitutional manner” at the behest of the Congress government, according to an official statement. The delegation brought to the notice of the governor the violent attack on Narang by “politically motivated miscreants backed by the ruling party” in the state, it said.The delegation called for the dismissal of the Congress-led government and restoration of law and order in the state, as per the statement.The governor condemned the attack on Narang.In a statement, Badnore said the state government cannot allow such blatantly unlawful and violent attacks on anybody.The governor said these kinds of incidents should not repeat and strong action should be taken immediately to book the culprits, the statement said.He also sought a report from the state government on the action being taken on the matter.Several Punjab BJP leaders staged a sit-in outside the official residence of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh here on Sunday to protest the attack on Narang.After meeting the Punjab Governor, BJP leaders under the leadership of Sharma headed towards the chief minister’s residence.A few BJP leaders even took off their shirts as a mark of protest.The protesters raised slogans against the Congress-led government in the state, alleging that law and order has completely failed. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-mla-attack-punjab-governor-condemns-incident-seeks-report-from-state-govt-231725
28-03-2021||Patiala||Protesting ETT teachers reach Punjab CM's house; Patiala police 'lathicharge' them; 100 detained||Unemployed ETT teachers were spotted protesting outside Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh's Moti Bagh residence on Sunday afternoon.   Patiala police lathi-charged against the protestors, and detained hundreds of teachers who had forced their way into the main gate of CM's residence, and held sit-downs there.  Reportedly, several teachers had fractures as well. The protesting teachers complained that the state government had been continuously ignoring their demands.They were questioning the Education Department's decision to allow B.Ed graduates to apply for the posts of ETT teachers.  They demanded that the Department should repeal the provision of B.Ed entry into their cadres, and advertise 10,000 n32 posts of ETT teachers immediately. President of Unemployed ETT Teachers Union, Deepak Kamboj, said: “The teachers, including women, were thrashed and lathi-charged by the police for raising their voice. We, for months now, have been protesting, but the government has failed to address the issue. Our many teachers have received serious injuries in the police lathi charge.” Notably, two ETT teachers have been holding a protest atop a mobile tower in the city for over a week now.Patiala: Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, state president, Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic), condemned police lathi charge against unemployed teachers. "It is very shameful that Police lathi charged against teachers, who have been fighting for their rights since long. I strongly condemned police action," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesting-ett-teachers-reach-punjab-cms-house-patiala-police-lathicharge-them-100-detained-231717
28-03-2021||New Delhi||COVID-19: Maharashtra records highest positivity rate; Chandigarh, Punjab rate higher than national average||Eight states and UTs have a weekly positivity rate of coronavirus infection higher than the national average of 5.04 per cent, with Maharashtra recording the highest rate at 22.78 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday.Apart from Maharashtra, the other seven states and UTs with higher positivity rate than the national average are Chandigarh (11.85 per cent positivity rate), Punjab (8.45 per cent), Goa (7.03 per cent), Puducherry (6.85 per cent), Chhattisgarh (6.79 per cent), Madhya Pradesh (6.65 per cent) and Haryana (5.41 per cent).On the testing front, 15 states/UTs have lower tests per million than the national average (1,74,602). These states include Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra, the Health Ministry said.The total tests for COVID-19 conducted across India have exceeded 24 crores while the cumulative Positivity Rate continues to remain below 5 per cent, the ministry said in a statement.The country’s total vaccination coverage has surpassed 6 crores on Sunday.The 6,02,69,782 vaccine doses have been administered through 9,85,018 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am today.“These include 81,52,808 healthcare workers (1st dose), 51,75,597HCWs (2nd dose), 88,90,046 frontline workers (1st dose) and 36,52,749 FLWs (2nd Dose), 66,73,662beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st Dose) and 2,77,24,920beneficiaries aged more than 60 years,” the ministry said.Seven states of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have reported a high number of COVID daily new cases. These states account for 81.46 per cent of the daily new cases registered in the last 24 hours. About 62,714 daily new cases were reported in a single day.Eight states cumulatively account for 84.74 per cent of the new cases reported in the past 24 hours.Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 35,726. It is followed by Chhattisgarh with 3,162 while Karnataka reported 2,886 new cases.            Fourteen states/UTs have not reported any COVID-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Lakshadweep, Ladakh (UT), Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Sikkim, Tripura, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-maharashtra-records-highest-positivity-rate-chandigarh-punjab-rate-higher-than-national-average-231693
28-03-2021||Our Correspondent||3 vehicle thieves land in police net||Fatehgarh Sahib, March 27In two separate incidents, the district police have arrested three persons for stealing vehicles. The police recovered three cars, nine two-wheelers, seven mobile phones, three suitcases and one laptop from their possession.While addressing the media today, Fatehgarh Sahib SSP Amneet Kondal said vehicle thefts and luggage being stolen from vehicles were being reported from Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib for the past one month. She deputed constables and women cops in civil uniform to keep a watch on anti-social elements.She said on March 24, a man driving a Honda City car (PB-10AR-0015) came to Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib and started inspecting four-wheelers in the parking lot. The police got suspicious and kept a close watch on his activities. When he tried to pull the door of one of the cars, the police overpowered him.The SSP said during preliminary interrogation, he revealed his identity as Kuldeep Singh, a resident of Ambala. The suspect admitted that he had been stealing vehicles for the past 15 years and was out on bail after spending around eight months in the Ambala Jail.Kuldeep revealed that over 20 cases of theft were lodged against him in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. He was driving the Honda City car, which was stolen from Gurdwara Anandpur Sahib yesterday.The SSP said he was a master in breaking open the lock of cars. The police recovered keys of several four-wheelers from the dashboard of the Honda City car. On his disclosure, the police recovered three cars, seven mobile phones, three suitcases, stolen from a Tata Safari parked at Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib, and a laptop from his possession.Amneet said the Amloh police arrested two vehicle thieves. The police signalled a motorcyclist to stop for checking. During checking, the suspects failed to produce the documents of the motorcycle.During preliminary interrogation, the suspects revealed that they were riding a stolen motorcycle. They have been identified as Jasbir Singh, alias Jassi, a resident of Bajigar Basti, Amloh, and Gurcharn Singh, alias Channa, a resident of Samashpur Colony, Amloh. On their disclosure, the police recovered nine stolen motorcycles from them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-vehicle-thieves-land-in-police-net-231660
28-03-2021||Patiala||8 Covid deaths in Patiala in 1 day||Eight persons, including a 27-year-old youth - died of Covid-19, while 262 more tested positive for coronavirus here in the past 24 hours.Of the 262 fresh cases, only 42 were the contacts of the infected patients, while 220 were reported afresh. Seven of the fresh cases are inmates of Nabha Jail.Dr Balbir Kaur, Senior Medical officer, Nabha, said seven inmates had tested positive during regular testing. Reports of several jail inmates were still awaited.With eight fresh fatalities, the Covid toll in the district stands at 573. The Patiala Health Department claimed that the 27-year-old youth, who died of Covid-19, had no comorbidities.District Epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh said as Covid-19 cases continued to rise at an alarming rate, the number of deaths was also likely to increase. A majority of the persons who were dying due to the virus had comorbid conditions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/8-covid-deaths-in-patiala-in-1-day-231658
28-03-2021||---||Surge: Health Dept starts ‘vaccination on doorstep’ in Patiala||Patiala, March 27Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Patiala Health Department started “vaccination on doorstep” drive here today.Eligible beneficiaries can get the Covid-19 vaccination at their doorstep in their respective areas or colonies. To make the new initiative a success, the Health Department has already constituted seven mobile vaccination teams.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said they would hold small camps to expedite the vaccination drive.He said: “The district is witnessing an alarming increase in the Covid cases. Therefore, vaccination is very important to break the chain. Apart from dedicated Covid vaccination sites, mobile teams will visit door to door for the vaccination.”While explaining the process, Dr Satinder said city residents should contact the Municipal Councillor of their area who would further tie up with the Health Department or the District Administration for the vaccination camp. In order to get a vaccination camp organised in the area, at least 50 beneficiaries should come forward for inoculation.Under the doorstep vaccination drive, the Patiala Health Department today organised a vaccination camp and vaccinated 130 employees of the Excise Department.“We will hold camps at SBI branches, PRTC head office and other government offices in the coming days. If we get any request to hold a camp in a residential area, our teams will be ready to oblige,” Dr Satinder said. A huge rush of beneficiaries for the Covid-19 vaccination was witnessed at the Model Town Community Health Centre today.130 employees of Excise Dept jabbedUnder the doorstep vaccination drive, the Patiala Health Department on Saturday organised a vaccination camp and inoculated 130 employees of the Excise Department.50 beneficiaries must for campIn order to get a vaccination camp organised in the area, at least 50 beneficiaries should come forward for inoculation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/surge-health-dept-starts-vaccination-on-doorstep-in-patiala-231657
28-03-2021||Tribune Reporters||Traffic stalled during silence hour, commuters fume||Bathinda/Muktsar, March 27The government order to observe one-hour silence on Saturday in the memory of those who died of Covid led to major problems to commuters in Bathinda and Muktsar.Private bus operators blocked the GT road outside the Bathinda bus stand in protest against the district administration and police after traffic was stopped from 11 am to noon. They said the police were forcefully stopping the traffic. Long queues of vehicles were seen on the main GT road in the city.Questioning the government decision, Sunny Dhillon, co-owner of a private bus company, said: “Transporters had already faced huge losses during Covid and this decision to stop the traffic for one hour is not right as it won’t help the families of those who have died. Instead, the police should have donated their day’s salary to help the families.”Satnam Singh, a resident of Bathinda city, said: “I wanted to take a bus to Mansa to attend the bhog ceremony of a relative. But due to the one-hour blockade, I will not be able to reach in time.” SP (City) Jaspal Singh said following the government directions, traffic was stopped for an hour in the city, so there was no reason to protest.In Abohar, the appeal fell flat as traffic was at its peak on the old tehsil road and the circular road between 11 am and noon. There was no check on movement of heavy vehicles.Long queues of vehicles were seen on the outskirts of Muktsar town too, where cops had laid a “naka” and displayed a notice that no vehicle was allowed to move for an hour.Gurjant Singh of Dabwali in Haryana who had to go to Jalalabad, said: “This is an impractical decision. People who have to go to faraway places are stuck in traffic jam. The government should take people-friendly decisions instead of harassing them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/traffic-stalled-during-silence-hour-commuters-fume-231408
28-03-2021||Faridkot||Baba Farid University violates EPFO Act, pays Rs6 cr||The Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) has deposited around Rs 6 crore with the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) after the university was found violating the provisions of the EPFO Act.An inspection of the BFUHS’s accounts by the EPFO found that the university was not extending the statutory social security benefit EPF to its 235 contractual employees for the past many years. The EPFO has a provision of charging damages or penalty from the employers who are unable to deposit PF contributions as mandated under the EPF Scheme, 1952.Employers are required to deposit dues on a month’s salary by 15th of the next month. However, they get 10-day grace period for payment after that. According to the EPF rules, 12 per cent of an employee’s salary must go towards the PF. And the BFUHS was also required to contribute 12 per cent. The EPFO team found that neither the university was deducing 12 per cent from employees’ salary, nor it was depositing its share.Sources said the university stopped deducting EPF from some employees after many union leaders opposed any cut in their salary. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/baba-farid-university-violates-epfo-act-pays-rs6-cr-231409
28-03-2021||Bathinda||+ve undertrial escapes, 3 cops suspended||Three policemen who were escorting a Covid-positive undertrial at the Civil Hospital were suspended for negligence after he fled by jumping from an inmate ward here.A case has been registered against ASI Ravinder Singh and constables Jagtar Singh and Gurbaldev Singh. A case has also been registered against undertrial Avtar Singh.The hunt is on to nab the undertrial. The police are conducting raids at the houses of his relatives and family.Many prisoners have escaped from the ward at the Civil Hospital by dodging the security personnel in the past, but no efforts have been made to tighten the security.Avtar Singh, a resident of Raikhana village in Bathinda, was arrested a few days ago by a team of CIA-1 from Chakka Fateh Singh Wala village with 1,300 narcotic tablets. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ve-undertrial-escapes-3-cops-suspended-231410
28-03-2021||Sangrur||Private schools shut, staff protest||Around 500 employees of various private schools in Lehra subdivision today organised a protest in Lehra, demanding opening of schools. Private schools have announced a district-level protest at Sunam ITI on March 31. The protest led by Private School Sangharsh Front Lehragaga has drawn support from other organisations. The protesters criticised the government for closing private institutions at a time when students had already suffered a huge loss. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/private-schools-shut-staff-protest-231411
28-03-2021||---||Now, vaccination 7 days a week||Chandigarh, March 27To further expand the coverage of the ongoing Covid vaccination drive, the Punjab Government has decided to provide vaccination facility seven days a week, increase the number of sites and accept any ID proof as a valid document for inoculation of eligible persons in the state.This has been done to effectively contain the further spread of the sudden surge in new cases over the past few days. A decision to this effect was taken at a virtual meeting, chaired by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, here today to review the Covid situation and status of the ongoing vaccination drive.She directed the departments concerned to ramp up the pace of the vaccination drive to cover maximum population. She stressed the need to strictly enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour among the masses. The Chief Secretary said besides increasing the number of vaccination centres, the government is running the inoculation drive on all seven days of the week.Referring to the recent approval by the Centre to vaccinate all persons over 45 years from April 1, Mahajan asked the Health and other departments concerned to rope in more private facilities to increase the ambit of the drive. The Chief Secretary also directed the Health Department to hold special vaccination camps to cover maximum number of citizens on their doorstep.2,830 fresh cases, 46 deaths in 24 hrsThe state reported 2,830 fresh cases, including 46 deaths, in the past 24 hours. Among districts, Hoshiarpur topped with 11 deaths, followed by Patiala (8), Jalandhar and Ludhiana (5 each), Tarn Taran (4), Amritsar and SBS Nagar (3 each), Ropar (2) and Fazilka, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur, Muktsar and Pathankot (1 death each).90,000 mask violators testedDGP Dinkar Gupta said to curb the spread of the virus, 90,363 face mask violators had been tested for Covid in the state so far. Over 18,500 violators were issued challans for the offence in a week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-vaccination-7-days-a-week-231412
28-03-2021||---||Assault on Arun Narang: BJP blames Cong, demands President’s rule||Chandigarh, March 27Dubbing today’s attack on BJP MLA Arun Narang in Malout “a disgraceful incident and a sad day” in Punjab’s history, party’s state president Ashwani Sharma said the government had clearly failed to maintain law and order.Sharma said in a democratic set-up, political parties had every right to protest but a “code of decency” had to be followed. “The police could not protect an elected MLA. What will a common man be subjected to if a mob takes over?” said Sharma.BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh said the attack had exposed the collapse of law and order in Punjab. In a statement, he held Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh responsible for the incident, saying it seemed to be a Congress strategy to engineer attack on BJP leaders on the pretext of the farm stir. He said Capt Amarinder was instigating such attacks to stifle the voice of the BJP.Chugh recalled how murderous attacks by Congress workers were engineered on him, Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma and many other BJP leaders.He said it’s not just reprehensible but alarming for the state. He demanded the Chief Minister’s resignation over his “failure” in maintaining law and order in the state.Former BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia also condemned the attack on the Abohar MLA. “The police were present in sufficient numbers, still Narang was not only thrashed but his clothes were ripped off. If an elected representative is not safe, the safety of common man can be well imagined. Law and order has totally collapsed in Punjab,” said Kalia, demanding imposition of President’s rule in the state.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) termed the violent attack on the BJP legislator “deplorable” and demanded an impartial inquiry into the incident to fix responsibility for the failure of the state police in protecting the dignity of an elected representative.Reacting to the assault on the legislator at Malout, party president Sukhbir Singh Badal urged everyone to exercise restraint to ensure peace and communal harmony in the state.He also castigated the state police for failing to do its duty even as he maintained the Congress government had failed miserably in maintaining law and order.Assembly Speaker Rana KP Singh said such incidents had no place in a democratic setup. “It is not only unacceptable, but highly condemnable that an elected representative was thrashed in full public view.... We will not allow anyone to take law into their own hands,” he said, adding such incidents were aimed at maligning the farmers’ agitation and weakening their cause.The Speaker has asked the DGP to identify the culprits and take strict action. He sought a time-bound report on the incident and the action taken thereof.Narang hospitalised in AboharBJP legislator Arun Narang, who was allegedly thrashed by farmers at Malout, was admitted to the Subdivisional Civil Hospital on Saturday evening. Ashok Chhabra, vice-president of the district BJP unit, has also been hospitalised. The duo was examined by Senior Medical Officer Dr Gagandeep Singh and Dr Kavita. Narang was feeling uneasy due to the incident, party sources said. OCLegislator ‘returns’ police securityUpset at the attack by farmers at Malout, where he had gone to address a press meet to highlight the “failure” of Capt Amarinder Singh govt in fulfilling the 2017 poll promises, MLA Arun Narang has reportedly returned the Punjab Police security personnel provided to him. Fazilka SSP Harjeet Singh and Abohar DSP Rahul Bhandari along with officers visited Narang’s residence and inquired about the sequence of events. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/assault-on-arun-narang-bjp-blames-cong-demands-presidents-rule-231413
28-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Farmers unions protest at saffron party event in Ferozepur, force change of venue||Ferozepur, March 27Hundreds of farmers from various unions assembled outside the venue of a scheduled press conference by BJP leaders, including state secretary Sunita Garg, here today and raised slogans against the Centre for not repealing the three farm laws.The party later held the press conference at Talwandi Bhai, 40 km from district headquarters.The farmers have been staging a protest outside Garg’s residence at Kotkapura in Faridkot district for the past few months. As soon as the matter was reported, senior police officials, including an SP, a DSP, three SHOs and 150 constables reached the venue to control the situation.Jaswinder Singh Saiyanwala of the BKU (Mansa), Darshan Singh Karma of BKU Ekta (Dakounda) and Parkash Singh Qadian said the farmers were fighting for their rights.Later, during the press conference, Garg refused to make any comment on the farmers’ issue. “We had come here to discuss the performance of the state government over the past four years. Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government has failed on all fronts. Neither has the state government waived farm loans, nor provided job to youths of the state,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-unions-protest-at-saffron-party-event-in-ferozepur-force-change-of-venue-231414
28-03-2021||---||Protesters clear road in Patiala||Patiala, March 27The farmers opposing land acquisition for the upcoming Delhi-Katra Express Highway have decided to clear the blockade from YPS Chowk here following an assurance of a meeting with the government. However, the protest would continue, said the farmers.The farmers said the administration had given them an assurance of arranging a meeting with Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla on March 30, following which they had decided to clear the blockade at the YPS Chowk, 100 metres from the Chief Minister’s residence.Harmanpreet Singh, coordinator, Delhi-Katra Express Highway Kisan Sagharsh Committee, said: “As of now, we have decided to remove tents from the road. We don’t want to cause inconvenience to people. However, farmers will stay in tractor-trailers stationed by the roadside until a permanent solution is found.” He added 10 farmers from each district would visit Patiala to register their protest against the proposed land acquisition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesters-clear-road-in-patiala-231415
28-03-2021||---||Capt promises strict action; 250 booked||Chandigarh, March 27Condemning the attack on BJP MLA Arun Narang, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today warned of strict action against anyone trying to disturb peace in the state by taking the law into their own hands.Urging farmers not to indulge in acts of violence, the Chief Minister appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to urgently resolve the crisis triggered by the farm laws to prevent the situation from escalating.Capt Amarinder directed DGP Dinkar Gupta to take strict action, under the law, against the perpetrators who also clashed with the policemen who tried to rescue the MLA. Gurmail Singh, SP (Headquarters), Faridkot, was injured while trying to save the MLA from the mob.The CM said while holding protests was the democratic right of farmers, violence of any sort would not be tolerated and the law and order situation in the state would not be allowed to be disturbed. Seeking the PM’s intervention to resolve the issue, the CM said any further delay on part of the Centre would trigger further unrest among the agitating farmers.Meanwhile, Muktsar SSP D Sudarvizhi said no BJP leader had yet given a statement over the incident. “We are registering a case on the statement of SP (H) Gurmail Singh, who suffered injuries in the head, elbows and legs, and is admitted to the Malout Civil Hospital.” The case is being registered against 250-300 persons, including seven by name, at the Malout City police station under Sections 307, 353, 186, 188, 332, 342, 506,148 and 149 of the IPC.With tensions between the Centre, led by the BJP, and farmers, intensifying, a number of incidents of protests against BJP leaders were reported from different parts of Punjab today.(With inputs from Muktsar)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-promises-strict-action-250-booked-231416
28-03-2021||---||Centre accepts Punjab's plea, now wheat procurement from April 10||New Delhi, March 27The Centre has approved Punjab Government’s request to reschedule wheat procurement in the wake of a Covid-19 surge in the state and resultant challenges and restrictions.“The request made by Government of Punjab for rescheduling wheat procurement period during rabi marketing season (RMS) 2021-22 due to late maturity of crop and a surge in Covid-19 cases in the state has been considered and approved by Government of India,” a government statement said today. The wheat procurement period in Punjab has now been rescheduled to April 10 to May 31, 2021, in place of April 1 to May 25, 2021. Meanwhile, the SAD has condemned the Congress government for delaying procurement by 10 days, saying it must begin from April 1. Senior leaders Prem Singh Chandumajra and Daljit Singh Cheema accused the government of playing a fixed match with the Centre to teach a lesson to protesting farmers by not protesting in time against deliberate tightening of specifications for procurement of foodgrain by the FCI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-accepts-punjabs-plea-now-wheat-procurement-from-april-10-231417
28-03-2021||Anandpur Sahib||Farmers plan Hola Mohalla rally against agricultural laws today||The second phase of the Hola Mohalla started with an ‘ardas’ by Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib Jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh here today.  The international-level festival will conclude on March 29 with a procession by Nihang Sikhs in the town. While political parties have decided not to hold any conference due to Covid, the local unit of the Bhartiya Kisan Mazdoor Union will organise a farmer conference over the agricultural laws today. Convener Shamsher Singh Shera said senior leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha were expected to take part in the conference. The devotees reaching here to pay obeisance at various gurdwaras have thrown norms to the wind. Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri said one lakh face masks were being distributed by the administration to people reaching Anandpur Sahib. Ropar SSP Akhil Chaudhary said the police were ensuring that a majority of force deployed got vaccinated against Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-plan-hola-mohalla-rally-against-agricultural-laws-today-231419
28-03-2021||Barnala||BJP leaders gheraoed in Barnala||Barnala farmers today gheraoed BJP leaders at the local rest house for around five hours. After the leaders promised to raise their demands with the central government, the farmers relented and allowed them to leave.“Punjab BJP leaders are well aware that farmers are protesting against the laws. Our family members are sitting at the Delhi borders, but BJP leaders are trying to create law and order problems by visiting various places in the state. Today, we gheraoed them,” said Chamkaur Singh, a BKU (Ugrahan) leader from Barnala.BJP leader Parveen Bansal along with Barnala chief Yadwinder Shanty and in charge Vijay Singla had reached the local rest house to address the media against the “failures” of the Punjab Government in fulfilling its poll promises. Though the press conference concluded without any disruption, the farmers reached in front of the venue and started raising slogans. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-leaders-gheraoed-in-barnala-231420
28-03-2021||---||Punjab Government sets up Brahmin Welfare Board||Chandigarh, March 27Accepting a four-year-old demand of the community, the Punjab Government has set up a Brahmin Kalyan Board in the election year. The state has around 35 lakh Brahmins.The Governor, Punjab, issued a notification in this regard. Shri Brahmin Sabha, Punjab, has welcomed the decision.The board will have seven members who will have a tenure of two years. The board will identify the needs and problems of the community and suggest measures for their redressal. It will also act as a bridge between the community and the government and help in maintaining peace and communal brotherhood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-sets-up-brahmin-welfare-board-231421
28-03-2021||---||400 litre illicit liquor, 1.16L kg lahan seized in Amritsar village||Amritsar, March 27 In yet another haul, a huge quantity of illicit liquor was recovered during a late night operation in Chak Mishri Khan village near the border.  As many as 10 illegal working stills were busted by the police in the village during the three-hour raid held under the supervision of Amritsar rural SSP Dhruv Dahiya. This is the fifth such seizure in this month.  The police confiscated 400-litre illicit liquor along with 1.16 lakh-kg lahan and illegal stills. The police also recovered 16 tarpaulins, a water tank of 1,000-litre capacity, 20 drums, seven gas cylinders and a car which was used in supplying illicit liquor in the rural belt of Amritsar and Tarn Taran. Those arrested during the raid included Balwinder Singh, Karnail Singh, Shamsher Singh and Sukhdev Singh, all residents of Chak Mishri Khan while the police registered eight cases under the Excise Act following the seizure. Balwinder Singh is the son of the sarpanch of the village and reportedly belongs to the ruling party. Gurpartap Singh Sahota, DSP, Attari, said the police were looking into the assets and properties of the bootleggers to further nail them.  The fact that this is the fifth such operation in this month that has led to huge recoveries of illicit liquor highlights the fact that the rot runs deeper. Despite the continuous raids under Operation Red Rose to nail bootleggers, the unscrupulous elements involved in the illegal trade are working fearlessly. SSP Dhruv Dahiya said till now, the rural police had confiscated 5.25 lakh-kg lahan and 1,891-litre illicit liquor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/400-litre-illicit-liquor-1-16l-kg-lahan-seized-in-amritsar-village-231422
28-03-2021||Bathinda||Three dupe couple of Rs 13.8L, booked for fraud||A fraud case has been filed against three persons for duping a staff nurse and her husband of Rs 13.80 lakh on the pretext of getting them Canadian Permanent Residency (PR).In a complaint to the police, Surinder Singh said his wife Binder Kaur was posted as staff nurse at the Bathinda Civil Hospital and they had come in contact with accused Nitish Gaud, a resident of Ludhiana, through a friend recently. Singh said in June 2018, Gaud introduced him to Mani Malhotra, who assured him that Nitish was their agent and all work would be done through him. “I was told to deposit Rs 7.80 lakh in Nitish’s bank account,” he said.He said he had transferred the money from his mother’s bank account on July 16, 2018 and gave his wife’s passport and other documents to the accused. In November 2018, the accused gave an offer letter in the name of his wife Binder Kaur and said they had submitted their file and soon their visa and PR would be granted.On February 12, 2019, they went to Chandigarh and gave Rs 8 lakh to Malhotra. When they checked the file number given by the accused, they did not get any information. When he sent an email to Canada immigration department, they and found out that their file was wrong due to which they had been banned for a year. The police have initiated further action by registering a case under Sections 420 and 120B of the IPC against Gaud, Dr Narinder Khera and Malhotra. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-dupe-couple-of-rs-13-8l-booked-for-fraud-231423
28-03-2021||Malout||BJP MLA Arun Narang thrashed, stripped; Capt Amarinder promises action||Irked over Centre’s adamant stand over the three farm laws, a group of farmers today allegedly thrashed BJP MLA from Abohar Arun Narang, tore his clothes and threw black ink on him at Malout in Muktsar district.When Narang reached Malout to address a press conference, he got surrounded by the protesting farmers. Police personnel and BJP workers took him inside a shop, but when they came out the farmers allegedly thrashed Narang and tore his clothes. The MLA was later escorted to a safer place by the police.Sources said a senior police officer also sustained injuries as he fell on the road in the melee, which continued for about an hour. The farmers ransacked the BJP office and burnt posters and flags. Narang said: “It is a murderous attack on me. I suspect the role of the state government. I demand a thorough probe. Those who attacked me were not farmers. They seemed to be instigated by someone.” Malout DSP Jaspal Singh said: “We will lodge an FIR after recording the statement of the local BJP president.” Muktsar SSP D Sudarvizhi said: “We will investigate the incident and take action accordingly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-mla-arun-narang-thrashed-stripped-capt-amarinder-promises-action-231483
