29-03-2021||---||Four more fatalities due to Covid-19 in Mohali; 290 new cases||Mohali, March 29Four more fatalities were witnessed in the Mohali district during the past 24 hours taking the total count to 427.Meanwhile, fresh 290 Covid cases surfaced till Monday evening taking the total number of positive cases to 26,166 while 239 patients have been cured and discharged from different hospitals in the district.Out of the total fresh cases, 175 cases came were from Mohali urban, five each from Gharuan and Lalru, 8 from Kurali, 29 from Dhakoli, 31 from Kharar while 37 cases surfaced in Dera Bassi.As of now, 22,395 had been discharged. There are 3,344 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-more-fatalities-due-to-covid-19-in-mohali-290-new-cases-232136
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||59 Covid deaths, 2,914 coronavirus cases in Punjab||Coronavirus claimed 59 more lives in Punjab on Monday as 2,914 fresh infections took the state’s case count to 2,34,602, according to a medical bulletin. So far, the virus has killed 6,749 people in the state since its outbreak last year.On Monday, the maximum 13 deaths were reported from Jalandhar, followed by 11 in Ludhiana and 10 in Hoshiarpur.Jalandhar also reported the maximum 360 cases followed Amritsar (357), Ludhiana (343), Patiala (290) and Mohali (286), according to the bulletin. The number of active cases increased from 23,917 on Sunday to 24,143 on Monday.As many as 2,583 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 2,03,710, the bulletin said.There are 37 patients on ventilator while 341 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 58,70,655 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.Meanwhile, Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said it is mandatory for all labs and hospitals to immediately inform the Civil Surgeon’s office about the detection of any virus-affected person for strengthening the containment measures. Sidhu said it is of utmost importance that each and every case of COVID-19 is isolated, provided appropriate treatment and their contacts to be traced at the earliest to break the chain of transmission.Support and cooperation of the private sector is also vital in this regard, he said in a statement here. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/59-covid-deaths-2-914-coronavirus-cases-in-punjab-232134
29-03-2021||New Delhi||Farmers celebrate Holi, Hola Mohalla on protest sites at Delhi borders||The farmers protesting against the three contentious farm laws at the Delhi borders -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- on Monday celebrated Holi and Hola Mohalla.The protesting farmers maintained that their agitation will continue till the farm laws are repealed and a separate law on minimum support price is enacted.They celebrated the festival with cultural programmes and a drama ‘Uthan Da Vela’ by Lok Kala Manch Mandi Mullampur.“We celebrated Holi at all the protest sites. Sikhs also celebrated Hola Mohalla festival. Women from nearby villages of Haryana came to the protest sites and played Holi in traditional way by playfully hitting the protesters with a cloth whip,” farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar told PTI.Advocate Joginder Singh Toor also launched a book titled “In Kanuno Me Kala Kya”, which explains the agri laws in a detailed manner.The farmers on Sunday burnt copies of the new farm laws during ‘Holika Dahan’, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of over 40 farmers’ unions, said in a statement. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-celebrate-holi-hola-mohalla-on-protest-sites-at-delhi-borders-232128
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure safety of BJP leaders: Punjab govt to district authorities||The Punjab government has asked deputy commissioners and district police chiefs to ensure safety and security of BJP leaders during their scheduled programmes, after a party MLA was assaulted by a group of farmers protesting against the Centre’s agri laws.According to an order issued by the state home affairs department, additional personnel of the India Reserve Battalion, the Punjab Armed Police and commandos may be sought wherever required.BJP MLA from Abohar in Fazilka district Arun Narang was allegedly thrashed and his clothes ripped off by a group of protesting farmers in Muktsar’s Malout on Saturday. The BJP leader had gone to Malout to address a press conference.“All DCs (Deputy Commissioners) and SSPs (Senior Superintendents of Police) are directed to personally ensure that such an incident does not happen anywhere in the state in future,” according to the order issued by the Additional Chief Secretary (Home) on Sunday.“In view of the extremely surcharged atmosphere when such BJP programmes are scheduled in your districts, DCs, CPs (Commissioners of Police), and SSPs must ensure the maintenance of public order and communal harmony and ensure the safety and security of visiting BJP leaders,” it said.After the Muktsar incident, the BJP had held protests at many places in the state against the attack on Narang.Several Punjab BJP leaders had even staged a sit-in outside the official residence of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh here on Sunday.Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore too had condemned the attack on Narang and had sought a report from the Congress-led government in the state.The governor had called up the Punjab Chief Minister, who holds the home portfolio, and conveyed his serious concern over the incident.Several political parties had already condemned the incident.BJP leaders in Punjab are facing the ire of farmers demanding the withdrawal of the Centre’s three new agricultural laws for the last four months. The agitating farmers have even disrupted programmes of BJP leaders on a few occasions. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-safety-of-bjp-leaders-punjab-govt-to-district-authorities-232127
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||Virus scare dampens Holi mood in Punjab, Haryana||Holi celebrations remained muted across Punjab and Haryana on Monday as people stayed indoors with the authorities prohibiting gatherings at public places due to the coronavirus scare.In Chandigarh too, people celebrated the festival at home as the administration prohibited the celebrations at public parks, Sukhna Lake and the Sector 17 Plaza. Clubs and hotels were also barred from holding any gathering.The restrictions had been imposed in the wake of a recent surge in the virus cases in the region.Police personnel in adequate strength were deployed and barricades were set up at several places to prevent hooliganism, check drunken driving and ensure COVID-appropriate behaviour, said officials.A police official in Punjab’s Mohali said they impounded vehicles of those who indulged in hooliganism.Police personnel even carried out patrolling to check gatherings at public places, the officials further said.However, a large number of people paid obeisance at Gurdwara Kesgarh Sahib in Anandpur Sahib on the occasion of Holla Mohalla, a religious fair.“Nihangs”, traditional Sikh warriors, displayed the “gatka”, a traditional martial art form.Meanwhile, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh greeted people on the occasion of Holi.“Wishing you all a very safe and #HappyHoli. I pray and wish the festival of colours heralds a year of joy and happiness for everyone, especially our farmers. Request everyone to observe all #Covid19 safety precautions in your Holi celebrations,” said Amarinder in a tweet.Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar also extended greetings to the people of his state on this occasion. May the festival of Holi bring immense happiness, prosperity and new enthusiasm in people’s lives, he tweeted. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/virus-scare-dampens-holi-mood-in-punjab-haryana-232122
29-03-2021||New Delhi||69 more die in Punjab as nation sees highest single-day Covid cases in 5 months||India saw 68,020 new coronavirus cases in a span of 24 hours, the highest single-day rise so far this year, taking the country's Covid tally to above 1.2 crore, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday.Registering a steady increase for the 19th day in a row, the active cases have increased to 5,21,808, which comprise 4.33 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 94.32 per cent, the data stated.A total of 68,020 new cases were reported in a day, the highest recorded since October 11 last year, taking the country's tally of cases to 1,20,39,644, while the death toll increased to 1,61,843 with 291 fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.As many as 74,383 new cases were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 11.The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12 comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,13,55,993, while the case fatality rate has further has dropped to 1.34 per cent, the data stated.According to the Indian Council for Medical Research, 24,18,64,161  samples have been tested up to March 28 with 9,13,319 samples being tested on Saturday. The 291 new fatalities include 108 from Maharashtra, 69 from Punjab, 15 from Chhattisgarh, 12 each from Kerala and Karnataka, and 11 each from Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.A total of 1,61,843  deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 54,181 from Maharashtra, 12,670 from Tamil Nadu, 12,504 from Karnataka, 11,006 from Delhi, 10,324 from West Bengal, 8,786 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,205 from Andhra Pradesh and 6,690 from Punjab. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/69-more-die-in-punjab-as-nation-sees-highest-single-day-covid-cases-in-5-months-232060
29-03-2021||---||Farmers burn copies of farm laws on Holika Dahan||Sonepat/Karnal & Palwal, March 28Farmers, who have been protesting at Delhi borders for the past four months, today burnt copies of the farm laws as part of the “Holika Dahan” celebrations at the Singhu border, the Peont toll plaza on the NH-709A in Karnal district and at a dharna site near Palwal’s Antoha village.They termed the laws “anti-farmer” and “anti-people”, and said they would not step back until the Centre repealed the three laws.Meanwhile, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha condemned the Haryana Government for passing the “protesters to pay” law.Dr Darshan Pal, a member of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, said: “The Haryana Recovery of Damages to Property during Disturbance to Public Order Act, 2021, contains such dangerous provisions that will undermine democracy. By bringing in this law, the state government wants to derail the farmers’ movement.”Under the Act, the loss of private or public property during protests would be recovered from agitators.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, meanwhile, decided to observe April 5 as the “FCI Bachao Diwas”. In view of the privatisation of the Food Corporation of India (FCI), its offices across the country will be gheraoed from 11 am to 5 pm.At the Peont toll plaza, the farmers remembered those who died during the protest. Sukhwinder Singh, a farmer leader from Assandh, said: “More than 300 farmers have lost their lives ever since the agitation started. We cannot celebrate any festival as our brothers and elderly persons have sacrificed their lives during the agitation.”“To keep the momentum, duties have been assigned to farmers as per villages. One vehicle is on duty to pick and drop farmers from two villages daily, so that the numbers do not dwindle,” he added.Meanwhile, another farmer leader Chander Pal said, “We have burnt copies of the laws in protest against Central Government’s ‘rigid attitude’ towards our demands.”At the dharna site in Palwal district, protesters said burning the copies of the laws was like burning demons unleashed by the Central Government.Former minister Karan Singh Dalal condemned the police for booking farmers for blocking a national highway. He demanded a fair probe into the matter.The Congress leader alleged the Centre was leaving no stone unturned to crush the agitation. “The BJP will face defeat in the in the Assembly elections in five states,” he claimed.Thousands of farmers are protesting against the three laws passed by the Centre at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border for the past 122 days. Theyare demanding repeal of the laws and legal guarantee on the MSP.The talks with the Union Government have not been held for the past two months after the 12th round of the talks on January 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-burn-copies-of-farm-laws-on-holika-dahan-231989
29-03-2021||Abohar||Wall paintings spread cleanliness message||Student enrolment call from gurdwaraPatiala: Education Secretary Krishan Kumar has lent a new dimension to the ongoing enrolment drive ‘Each One, Bring One’. On Sunday, after paying obeisance at Gurdwara Sahib at Baran village, he made an announcement using the public address system to mobilise villagers to motivate them to enrol their children in government schools. The Department of School Education has launched a drive to sensitise people to the changes taking place in government schools, which have been converted into smart schools. Officials of the department, school heads and teachers have been going from door to door, staging ‘nukkad nataks’ and holding enrolment camps in different areas.Loud opposition to ‘silence hour’Gurdaspur: After chanting “Go, corona, go” and banging utensils during the Covid-induced lockdown, residents were not willing to play ball when the Punjab Government asked them to observe one-hour silence for those who died because of the pandemic. People could be seen questioning the logic and efficacy of the drive. Even doctors could be heard saying the “government was leading residents up the garden path”, as the movement served no purpose at all. Residents said the infrastructure in hospitals should be upgraded and more staff should be recruited to fight the virus. The cops, however, were unfazed. SSP Nanak Singh and his colleagues took the drive seriously. The police chief monitored the situation from his office, which had become a virtual war room. It was from here that the directives were issued to the officers concerned with the modus-operandi to be adopted during the hour-long silence.Capt’s tribute to martyrsFazilka: Chief Minister Capt Amrinder Singh has announced a grant of Rs 39.5 lakh for construction of Victory Tower at Asafwala War Memorial recently. The Shaheedon Ki Samadhi Committee, which has been looking after the memorial since 1972, hailed the decision of the Chief Minister in its specially convened meeting. Committee member Karan Gilhotra said the 71-foot-tall victory tower was being raised to commemorate the sacrifice of 218 martyrs of the Army, who laid down their lives defending Fazilka in the 1971 Indo-Pak war. Gilhotra was instrumental in getting the grant for the memorial.Contributed by Karam Prakash, Raj Sadosh, Ravi Dhaliwal and Praful Chander Nagpal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wall-paintings-spread-cleanliness-message-231800
29-03-2021||---||New Jersey declares Guru’s 400th anniversary as ‘human rights day’||Amritsar, March 28The New Jersey Senate has recognised the 400th birth anniversary of ninth Sikh master, Guru Tegh Bahadur, as ‘Human Rights and Religious Freedom Day’.A resolution in this regard was passed by Senate president Steve Sweeney and Assembly Speaker Craig Coughlin while honouring activists of the Sikh Coordination Committee East Coast (SCCEC).Himmat Singh, coordinator, SCCEC, said it was a great day for the Sikh community. He said Guru Tegh Bahadur sacrificed his life against the forced conversion of Hindus by Mughal emperor Aurangzeb in 1675.Himmat Singh said New Jersey was the most diverse state in the nation and the Sikh community was proud to be an integral part of its multicultural fabric.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-jersey-declares-gurus-400th-anniversary-as-human-rights-day-231802
29-03-2021||Abohar||Drive to check dengue hotspots in Abohar district||The Health Department has started a special drive in Abohar to prevent the spread of dengue. Last year, four persons had died of dengue, while 316 had been infected.The National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme team of the state health department reached Abohar and visited the hotspots. The team, led by Atinder Singh and Deepinder Singh, discussed the situation with MC Commissioner Abhijit Kaplish and Dr Gagandeep Singh, Senior Medical Officer (SMO), Subdivisional Civil Hospital.The SMO said seven samples of larvae were taken by the team in Arya Nagar, Patel Nagar, Sukhera Basti and Prem Nagar, where the highest number of dengue patients were found last year. The authorities concerned will motivate people to clean water reservoirs and cover them. The department and MC will arrange for insecticides to ensure mosquito larvae are not produced. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drive-to-check-dengue-hotspots-in-abohar-district-231784
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||New norms for use of sports funds by DIETs||The Punjab Government has issued new instructions to the principals of District Institutes for Education and Training (DIETs) regarding the utilisation of the existing sports funds to bring more transparency in the expenditure.A spokesperson of the School Education Department said the DIET principals had been given powers up to Rs 60,000 fund utilisation whereas full powers had been granted to the head ofthe department. Thesefunds are to be utilised to raise the standard of sports in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-norms-for-use-of-sports-funds-by-diets-231801
29-03-2021||Abohar||Act against  guilty: Arora community||Senior leaders of the Arora (Arorvansh) community on Sunday strongly condemned the attack on legislator Arun Narang who had gone to Malout, 30 km from here, to address a press conference on Saturday.At a meeting held here, Arorvansh Sabha officials said the Muktsar police had failed to protect an elected representative in Malout despite the prior information. It was an attack on the democracy. Such incidents couldn’t be tolerated. The culprits needed to be identified and arrested at the earliest, they demanded. A call for Abohar Bandh might also be given if the police fail in ensuring justice, they said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/act-against-guilty-arora-community-231803
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||Keep protest peaceful, AAP urges farmers||The Aam Aadmi Party has urged farmers to hold a peaceful protest to ensure that the ongoing agitation does not lose its strength.In response to the attack on BJP MLA Arun Narang, senior AAP leader and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said in a democratic country, everyone has the right to speak. He said so far non-occurrence of any untoward incident had remained the foremost strength of the ongoing farmers’ movement.“This is the reason that this movement has become the largest peace movement in the world today. Farmers must maintain peace to gain victory over this agitation”, he stressed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/keep-protest-peaceful-aap-urges-farmers-231804
29-03-2021||Anandpur Sahib||Samyukt Kisan Morcha to give new schedule tomorrow||Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders will give a new programme to farmers of the country on March 30 to take on the Centre so that the three laws are repealed and MSP of a majority of crops fixed by the government. This was stated by BKU general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal here today.Lakhowal, who was here along with farmer leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Gurnam Singh Chadhuni, Ruldu Singh, Manjit Rai, Kuldeep Singh Bajidpur and Yograj, addressed a gathering at a Kisan Conference and said the NDA government was testing the patience of farmers. The conference was organised on the second day of Hola Mohalla by Bhartiya Kisan Mazdoor Union. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/samyukt-kisan-morcha-to-give-new-schedule-tomorrow-231805
29-03-2021||Fazilka||6-kg heroin, pistol seized in Fazilka||The BSF claimed to have recovered 6-kg heroin and ammunition from across the barbed wire fencing in Jalalabad subdivision of Fazilka district today morning.Sources said during patrol, the BSF troops observed footmarks along zero line track near NS Wala border outpost. The team searched the area and recovered four packets of the contraband weighing 6.150 kg, worth Rs 30 crore. Besides, the troops seized a Pakistan-made .30 bore pistol and two pistol magazines. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-kg-heroin-pistol-seized-in-fazilka-231791
29-03-2021||SS Chahal||Remove hurdles to help farmers reap dividends||AGRICULTURE is the engine of economic growth in our country. However, the annual growth rate of agriculture and allied sectors has shown big fluctuations with declining trends during the post-Green Revolution period. The growth rate in real terms was 2.88 per cent from 2014-15 to 2018-19, according to the Economic Survey Report 2020. Studies have revealed that stagnant investment is one of the major factors for the decline, besides the slowdown of irrigation expansion, downscaling of production due to farm fragmentation and soil degradation due to improper use of chemical fertilisers. An analysis of data reveals continuing deceleration in public investment both at the national and state levels after the 1980s ‘in’ agriculture (land development, irrigation, markets etc.) as well as ‘for’ agriculture (roads, power, transport etc.), because of which there is no desirable improvement in the structural support system. Public investment, which has declined over the years, is mostly consumed for subsidies, fertilisers, irrigation, electricity, credit etc., whereas private investment made by farmers is adversely impacted by heavy indebtedness.The share of public investment in the Gross Capital Formation (GCF) has dipped to an extremely low level. As per figures given by the Union government, the GCF in agriculture and allied sectors at the current prices for 2016-17 was estimated at Rs 64,410 crore and Rs 2,79,066 crore from public and private investments, respectively. Any increase in public investment is beyond expectations with the 7.71 per cent cut for agri-schemes in the Union Budget 2021-22. To put agri-growth in the rapid mode, there is an acute need to improve infrastructure, including transportation and storage facilities, cold storage capacity in proximity to farms, warehouses and adequate processing, marketing and export facilities, the lack of which is causing huge wastage and losses to the public exchequer as well as the farmers. A study in 2016 estimated that about 67 million tonnes of food worth Rs 92,651 crore was lost annually in farm produce wastage.To build infrastructure for curbing such losses and achieving the target of 10.4 per cent income growth rate in farming over a period from 2016-17 to 2022-23 (with 2015-16 as the base year), the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare aims at an annual investment growth rate of 12.5 per cent ‘in’ agriculture and 16.8 per cent ‘for’ agriculture. While expecting a substantial increase in private investment by farmers, attracting corporate investment, which is currently around 2 per cent of the overall investment, is a huge challenge. A growing need has been felt for corporate investment in food processing, building warehouses, scientific storage and cold storage in addition to the farm mechanisation sector, the seed sector and the horticulture and food processing sector. Further, it is prudent to develop models defining capability-based activities for qualitative improvement and sustainable flow of corporate investment.Direct contactIt is with such considerations that contract farming (CF) is promoted to involve corporate agri-business entities, bringing them directly in contact with the primary producers as well as linking farmers with the market. The CF system basically involves a pre-determined price, quality, quantity and defined acreage at a time for production and commitment for the supply of agricultural produce to the known buyer under the contract which may be total, partial or for procurement only. The system got established in the country with the advent of new seeds and production of their certified versions since the 1960s. Further, it has been pushed by growth in the international trade demanding high quality, supermarket chains, demand for organic food, drying up of state funding, the agrarian crisis and support from the industry and the banking sector. Public as well as private sector banks leveraged their interest and promoted financing for CF by formulating special policies, setting up of agricultural credit, offering quick loans, reducing interest rates, increasing direct agriculture lending portfolios and tying up for end-to-end financing through tripartite agreements between farmers, banks and the industry.Seen as an alternative to private and corporate farming, CF lowers transactional costs for both the contracting parties because many transactions become internalised. Farmers get access to new technologies and inputs and contracting agencies get assured supply of raw material. A few of the several examples of successful models include the poultry sector, the production of certified seeds of field crops and cultivation of potato, barley and sugarcane. Evidence is available for increased productivity/production, better incomes and employment through contracting, but it requires sustainability.FPOs the best betThe system suffers from bottlenecks because of which it has not attained popularity so far. Evaluating quality and grading of produce is a critical matter and often exploited for rejection or reducing the price by the contracting companies. An inbuilt provision of settlement by a state coordinator or arbitrator should help resolve such cases to the satisfaction of the parties. Small farmers are in an unfavourable position because of their limited ability to deal with big companies. In this context, the Thailand model to facilitate groups of small farmers for collectively entering into contracts has proved useful. However, the best course is that small farmers should enter into CF by forming New Generation Cooperatives commonly known as Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs). That will enhance access to a variety of resources, effectively maintaining quality standards, better application of scientific farming techniques and increase in bargaining power and capacity to pursue litigation collectively. The Centre has set a target of supporting 10,000 more FPOs in the next financial year. Some problems faced by the growers include delayed deliveries at the factory, unforeseen pest attacks raising the cost of cultivation, no legal protection for often verbal and informal contracts, monopsony and lack of strict enforceability of contractual provisions. Delayed payments are of frequent occurrence.Making payments within the stipulated time frame has been addressed in Clause 6(3) of the new law, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Prices Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020. However, restricting dispute settlement rights up to the district-level bureaucratic set-up and barring normal judicial course in the same Act (Clause 19) have not gone down well with the farmers and need reconsideration. There is visible fear among the peasantry that CF may lead to greater direct entry by corporate entities in agriculture and that would result in dispossession of their land. It is important to dispel this fear for spurring this potentially transformational system of farming.The author is former VC, Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology, UdaipurSend your feedback to letters@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/remove-hurdles-to-help-farmers-reap-dividends-231916
29-03-2021||Ravneet Singh||Debt misery hits families as youth fly abroad||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 28High cost of migration and lack of remittance back home is leaving families in rural Patiala under debt.A study on the trend of migration from rural areas of Patiala from 1950s until 2019 published in the Indian Journal of Economics and Development has stated that migration from the region has witnessed a spurt in recent years. The study shows even educated youngsters spent lakhs on the process, many leaving their families under debt.The paper, “Socio-economic and demographic analysis of international migration from rural Punjab: A case study of Patiala district”, points out that along with unemployment and the desire to earn more, the drug menace has become a significant reason for migration.Out of 297 migrants from 207 households of five randomly picked villages of Patiala, 52.03 per cent left the country due to unemployment, 46.28 per cent with a desire to earn more, 42.57 per cent for better living conditions and 9.12 per cent left due to drug menace, it said.The paper published by serving and former faculty members of Punjabi University and its colleges adds that most migrants opted for education as the purpose of migration and used family savings, took bank loans and sold their properties for it.They also spent Rs 15-20 lakh on the purpose, while some reported spending Rs 20-25 lakh as well. But only 34.12 per cent of all sent home remittances to their families, the study points out, adding that 65.88 per cent migrants sent no remittance.Dr Gian Singh, former professor, Punjabi University, said this had left over two-thirds of all such families under debt, including 4.35 per cent households reporting a debt of over Rs 20 lakh.“Among indebted households, 45.55 per cent were under a debt of Rs 5-10 lakh,” he added. The study also states that as most migrants shifted to developed countries of the west, including Canada, Australia, New Zealand, the US and Italy, as such their age, level of education and cost of migration had also significantly affected the state negatively.The study found that three-fourths of all who migrated were youths aged between 20 and 30 years, followed by those between 15-20 years and 30-35 years. Also, most were educated till secondary level or had a graduate and post-graduate degree. Dr Singh said: “This is causing brain drain, capital drain and loss of demographic dividends.”The study also evaluates migration on the basis of caste and states that 91 per cent who migrated were from general category Punjabi Jat families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/debt-misery-hits-families-as-youth-fly-abroad-231808
29-03-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Amid surge, Punjab's hospitality sector sees losses again||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, March 28A fresh surge in cases across the state has brought the hospitality sector back to square one.With the rollout of the vaccine, the sector was hopeful of business returning to normal, but with the cases rising and even employees of some private hotels also testing positive, restaurants and eating joints are facing decline in footfall.Punjab Hotel, Restaurant Association chief Satish Arora said: "The hospitality sector is facing difficult time for the past one year. Earlier, lockdown hit them hard, then bird flu scare and now restrictions on gathering and night curfew in around 10 districts is affecting the business hard."Further, he claimed that hotels and restaurants had high fixed expenses, which they had to bear even if the hotel didn't work. "We are also disappointed at no support from the Centre and the state government. We sent representation to both the governments repeatedly, but to no avail as no one has come to support us to date," he said.For weddings and social gatherings, permission has been granted for only 100 persons. The period from March to May, which is the peak season for weddings, has started witnessing cancellations. The ancillary businesses like catering, decoration, photography and video shooting, music and DJ, lighting, bar tenders, flower decoration and others have also been hit hard and are suffering losses. Arora said: "Lavish resorts and banquets have been affected badly as big fat weddings have dried up in the state, upsetting the entire event industry."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-surge-punjabs-hospitality-sector-sees-losses-again-231811
29-03-2021||---||Now, wellness centres to give jab, says Punjab Health Minister||Chandigarh, March 28To speed up the vaccination drive, Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu has said that vaccination would now be administered at all health and wellness centres, sub centres, homeopathy and ayurvedic dispensaries.The vaccine will also be made available for all persons above 45 years without any condition at all government health centres from April 1.Sidhu said nearly 7 lakh persons in the state had been vaccinated so far and to provide vaccination services at people's doorstep, such facilities would be provided at all government health centres and dispensaries/hospitals.He said activities under the campaign were undertaken in full compliance of Covid guidelines such as maintenance of social distancing, use of face masks, maintenance of proper sanitation and hygiene etc."All civil surgeons have been instructed to implement the guidelines as soon as possible so that the vaccination process can be expedited in such centres and maximum eligible persons be covered under the drive," he added.He said as per experts, the new virus was more infectious and intense so it was the moral responsibility of all to get vaccinated.Ludhiana tops toll chartLudhiana reported 10 deaths, Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar eight each, Gurdaspur six, Kapurthala, SAS Nagar, Amritsar and Bathinda four each, Ropar, SBS Nagar, Tarn Taran and Fazilka three each, Ferozepur, Patiala and Sangrur two each, and Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib and Moga reported one death each69 deaths in 24 hours||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-wellness-centres-to-give-jab-says-punjab-health-minister-231814
29-03-2021||Faridkot||Faridkot youth wins National Film Award||Budding talent Prateek Bagi (28) from Faridkot, who is an alumnus of the department of film producing, Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute, received a national film award in the category of ‘Best film on family values’. He produced a 37-minute short film, ‘Like a Midnight Dream’, as a part of his curriculum during the final year.The 67th National Film Awards were announced this week. The film is about an upper middle class, urban society family, wherein a mother discovers that she is losing her life to cancer, and at the same time, she chances upon a video on her daughter’s laptop. After seeing the video, the mother faces a dilemma. The film encourages liberal and open conservations between parents and children. The short film was the official selection of the 51st International Film Festival of India (IFFI).Prateek is also a recipient of a fellowship in filmmaking from Indiana University, USA. He has worked in multiple national and international projects in the capacity of a producer, executive producer, line producer and production coordinator with companies such as Kinetika (UK), Discovery India Network, Sun Bangla, World Wildlife Fund and Neoteny Studio (Hong Kong). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faridkot-youth-wins-national-film-award-231815
29-03-2021||---||Jobless teachers lathicharged near CM’s Patiala residence||Patiala, March 28The Patiala police lathicharged protesting unemployed ETT teachers outside the Moti Bagh residence of Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday.The police detained hundreds of teachers who had forced their way to the main gate of the CM residence and held a sit-in there. Several teachers were injured while some of them are said to have suffered fractures as well.The protesting teachers said the state government had been ignoring their demands continuously. They were protesting the decision of the Education Department to allow BEd graduates apply for posts of ETT teachers.Deepak Kamboj, president, Unemployed ETT Teachers’ Union, said, “The teachers, including women, were thrashed and lathicharged by the police for raising their voice. We have been protesting for months but the government has failed to address the issue. Many teachers have been seriously injured in the police action.”The Democratic Teachers’ Front condemned the action against the teachers. Vikram Dev, state president, said, “The Congress government has completely failed to provide jobs to qualified youth. Instead of giving job letters, the government is registering cases against them for raising their voice.” Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, state president, SAD (Democratic), condemned police lathicharge against unemployed teachers. He said, “It is shameful that the police lathicharged teachers who have been fighting for their rights since long.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-teachers-lathicharged-near-cms-patiala-residence-231821
29-03-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||7,300 farm labourers ended lives in 18 years: Study||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 28Over 7,300 farm labourers in Punjab have died by suicide between 2000 and 2018. As many as 5,765 of these (79 per cent of total suicides by farm labourers) were because of high indebtedness and inability to repay the loan.An average agricultural labour family in the state has a debt of Rs 76,017 while the agricultural labourer suicide victim family had an average debt of Rs 94,579. An overwhelming 92 per cent of this debt had been taken by the victims from non-institutional sources, mainly from large farmers and private moneylenders which made them ineligible for the state government’s debt relief scheme.What is ghastly is that suicide in the agricultural labour families was not restricted to a single member. As many as 238 families saw two members dying by suicide, 30 saw three suicides and three families saw four or more members taking their lives. Though the suicide mortality rate — number of suicides per lakh farm labourers — was the highest in Sangrur (20.80), followed by Barnala (19.05) and Mansa (18.62), the proportion of debt-related suicides was the highest in Barnala (90.17) and the lowest in Ludhiana (56.52). These are the findings of a study ‘Agrarian Crisis and Agricultural Labourer Suicides in Punjab’ commissioned by the state government to eminent economist Sukhpal Singh from Punjab Agricultural University, along with Manjeet Kaur and HS Kingra. The study gains significance as the public discourse has so far been only on farmer suicides though labourers form over 42 per cent of the total agriculture workforce in the state. Sukhpal Singh, while talking to The Tribune, says in today’s time when three farm laws have been enacted, the study signals how the economic distress will deepen once the corporatisation of agriculture begins. “The new Acts will deteriorate the economic condition of farmers as well as labourers,” he says.Short-term policy interventionsLong-term policy recommendations||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-300-farm-labourers-ended-lives-in-18-years-study-231816
29-03-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||In debt for decades, Markfed shrugs off half of its losses||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, March 28Several initiatives aimed at fiscal prudence taken by the Punjab Cooperatives Department have reduced by nearly 50 per cent the Rs 809.85-crore debt accumulated by Markfed from banks over the last more than six decades.Markfed, considered to be Asia’s leading cooperative marketing society, was established in 1954 and by April 4, 2018, it had run up a massive debt. The financial liability acted as a trigger to set off a series of measures aimed at saving the organisation. Among the initiatives taken were to plug revenue leaks, which were considered to be a big drain on Markfed’s resources. Others were to put into the fast forward mode the process to initiate recoveries of arrears from the Food Corporation of India (FCI).Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa claimed a lot of money was also locked up in Income Tax refunds. “My officials made all-out efforts to get the refunds released. This made a big difference to our fortunes. Then, there were things lying in our godowns which were of no use. In official parlance these are called ‘unserviceable’ stock articles. We decided to sell them off. The revenue thus collected helped us clear a big part of our debt.“All these factors meant that in just three years, our debts decreased to Rs 460.31 crore,” said the minister.Series of steps||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-debt-for-decades-markfed-shrugs-off-half-of-its-losses-231817
29-03-2021||---||Fulfil election promise of jobs, protesters urge Capt Amarinder Singh||Sangrur, March 28Unemployed members of five unions blocked the Sangrur-Patiala road and demanded a meeting with CM Capt Amarinder Singh over their long-pending demands.They have been sitting in front of the local residence of Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla since December 31 last year.Sukhwinder Dhilwan, President, B.Ed and TET pass unionState govt not listening to usDespite meetings and an indefinite protest, government authorities are not listening to us. We blocked the Sangrur-Patiala road and will intensify our stir in the coming days. “Despite meetings and an indefinite protest, government authorities are not listening to us. We have blocked the Sangrur-Patiala road and will intensify our agitation in the coming days,” said Sukhwinder Dhilwan, president of the BEd and TET Pass Union.“We are demanding government jobs as per our qualification. Before last elections, the Punjab CM had promised to provide jobs to all the unemployed, but now, he and his government have forgotten the promises. We want to remind them their main election issue,” said Gagandeep Kaur, a protester.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fulfil-election-promise-of-jobs-protesters-urge-capt-amarinder-singh-231819
29-03-2021||Fazilka||Fazilka liquor factory licence cancelled, agitation called off||Villagers protesting for the past 41 days over the setting up of a liquor factory at Hiran Wali village in Fazilka district lifted the dharna today after Congress MLA Davinder Singh Ghubaya announced cancellation of its licence.Ghubaya visited the dharna site and announced the government had decided to cancel the licence of the liquor unit. Ghubaya had joined the protesters and raised the issue in the Vidhan Sabha during the recent Budget session.Residents of nearly 30 villages had been blocking the highway against the construction of the factory.Land for the project was originally purchased at Gumjal village, near the Rajasthan border. After protests by dozens of panchayats, the project was shelved. The construction was subsequently planned near Ghallu village on the Abohar-Fazilka road, but the plan was dropped again after Congress and AAP activists organised rallies in protest.The construction reportedly began near Hiran Wali, but activists of all major political parties opposed it. The villagers raised concerns over its impact on the environment and social fabric.Anil Jhinjha, sarpanch, who spearheaded the agitation, said although they had lifted the dharna, the government would have to bear the consequences if they were betrayed.The protest had affected vehicular traffic besides other business activities in the area. — OC(With inputs from Abohar)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fazilka-liquor-factory-licence-cancelled-agitation-called-off-231785
29-03-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Congress evading White Paper on power purchase pacts by SAD govt||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 28Despite alleging irregularities in the signing of the power purchase agreements (PPAs) with private thermal plants by the previous SAD-BJP government, the Congress government seems to be fighting shy of bringing a White Paper on the controversial agreements even after four years of coming to power.In the 2017 Assembly poll manifesto, the party had promised to renegotiate the PPAs to ensure low cost power for consumers and name those responsible for the agreements.“Instead of renegotiating the PPAs to bring down the power rates, the power tariff has gone up. Congress MLAs are expressing concern over the issue as the party braces up to face people in the 2022 Assembly polls,” said a Cabinet minister.An effort to push a draft of the White Paper at a Cabinet meeting during the recently held Budget Session did not find favour with some ministers, who insisted on naming the “vested interests” behind the PPAs.Later, a draft of the White Paper tabled in the Cabinet Sub-Committee meeting was rejected by two Cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Bajwa, who apparently again insisted on exposing those behind the agreements.Incidentally, the CM during a recent press conference to mark four years of the Congress government in the state had stated that the PPAs were legal documents and it was difficult to touch them.Sources said that by insisting on naming the officials who were instrumental in preparing the PPAs, the government would achieve little by way of targeting Akalis, as the officials who prepared the PPAs are also part of the White Paper drafting team.“If the PPAs are watertight documents and there’s nothing on record to prove the Akalis’ complicity in the matter, the party leadership will find it hard to build a political narrative against them,” said the sources.During the previous SAD-BJP government, PPAs were signed regarding the payment of fixed charges to three power plants.Congress leaders maintain that the PPAs should have stated that the state would purchase as much power as was required. PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar said, “I believe the government is working on the legal framework to bring out the White Paper. I still believe the government should move the Supreme Court over the PPAs.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-evading-white-paper-on-power-purchase-pacts-by-sad-govt-231895
29-03-2021||Ludhiana||Beware of Centre’s divisive tactics: Farm leaders||Farmer unions’ leaders today warned against the “divisive policies” of the NDA government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the ‘Kirti Kisan Mahapanchayat’ held at Dana Mandi near Jalandhar Bypass here.Balbir Singh Rajewal, BKU (Rajewal) PresidentUnited fight can ensure justice Only a united fight by farmers, farm workers and other working classes will ensure justice from an adamant dispensation working to scuttle the ongoing stir and safeguarding the interests of big corporates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/beware-of-centres-divisive-tactics-farm-leaders-231825
29-03-2021||Our Corresopondent||BJP Punjab chief Ashwani Sharma meets Arun Narang||Abohar, March 28State BJP president Ashwani Sharma reached Abohar to meet party legislator Arun Narang at the latter’s residence. He was accompanied by farmer leaders Tikshan Sood and other party leaders.After consultations with senior functionaries here, the party decided to give a call for Abohar Bandh on Tuesday. All non-government organisations will be requested to support the call.Expressing sympathies and solidarity with Narang, the state party president enquired about the sequence of events.Sharma termed the incident unfortunate and condemnable in the strongest terms. The Muktsar police had completely failed in providing fool-proof security to Narang at the pre-schedule press meet in the party’s office at Malout. Such assaults were not possible until and unless the same are backed by the ruling Congress. Captain Amarinder Singh who also holds the charge of Home Department was directly responsible for failure of law and order situation, he must quit, he demanded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-punjab-chief-ashwani-sharma-meets-arun-narang-231827
29-03-2021||---||BJP leaders call on Governor, seek Punjab govt’s dismissal||Chandigarh, March 28A day after BJP MLA Arun Narang was stripped and thrashed at Malout, a party delegation led by party’s state president Ashwani Sharma called on Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore demanding immediate dismissal of the state government for failing to protect citizens and elected representatives.Ashwani Sharma, State BJP PresidentCong indulging in petty politics The Congress is indulging in petty politics by using farmers to target BJP leaders… with the total collapse of law and order, the state is moving towards anarchy.The party leaders later removed their clothes and staged a protest outside the CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s residence.Blaming the Congress for the incident, Sharma said with the total collapse of law and order, the state was moving towards anarchy.“Criminals such as Mukhtar Ansari are safe in Punjab, whereas lives of political leaders and elected representatives are under threat. A number of BJP leaders, including MPs, MLAs or other office-bearers, have been attacked in the past,” he said.Meanwhile, the Governor said the state government couldn’t allow such attacks on anybody. He conveyed his concern on the matter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who is also the Home Minister.The Governor also sought a report from the state government on the action being taken on these matters.The other party leaders who were part of the delegation were Madan Mohan Mittal, Tikshan Sood, Union Minister Som Prakash, Shwait Malik, Iqbal Singh Lalpura, Dinesh Sharma, Jevan Gupta, Rajesh Bagha and Janardhan Sharma.Meanwhile, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar strongly condemned the attack on the BJP MLA, saying such unlawful behaviour had no place in a democracy. He said farmer protests would be weakened with incidents like these.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-leaders-call-on-governor-seek-punjab-govts-dismissal-231830
29-03-2021||Malout (Muktsar)||Attack on Arun Narang: Call for Malout bandh today||A day after BJP MLA from Abohar Arun Narang was assaulted on the Fazilka-Delhi national highway in Malout town, saffron party leaders today gave a call for bandh on Monday.BJP activists first held a meeting and thereafter blocked a road in Malout and burnt the effigy of CM Capt Amarinder Singh. They later appealed to the traders to keep their business establishments shut on Holi till 2 pm to protest the failure of the state government and deteriorating law and order.BKU (Sidhupur) state president Jagjit Singh Dallewal today visited the Civil Hospital, Malout, to inquire about the well-being of Muktsar SP Gurmail Singh, who had some injuries in the melee yesterday.“I condemn yesterday’s violence. The ‘kisan andolan’ has become a ‘jan andolan’ and BJP leaders should refrain from giving any aggressive statement. I also appeal to the farmers to lodge protest in a peaceful manner. It is my duty to know about the well being of the police officer. The truth will come out in the investigation,” he said.Some farmer leaders claimed they had announced on March 26 that they would not allow any political outfit to hold any political rally in the district until the three farm laws were revoked.Meanwhile, the police late last night, on the statement of the injured SP, registered a case against three farmer leaders, namely ex-serviceman Avtar Singh of Fakkarsar village, Nirmal Singh of Jasseana village, Lakhanpal Sharma of Alamwala village and 300 other unidentified persons on various charges, including the attempt to murder. In the FIR, the SP claimed Fakkarsar and two-three persons tore the clothes of the MLA and threw black oil on him and policemen. Protesters even vandalised the BJP office. — TNSFour accused held||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/attack-on-arun-narang-call-for-malout-bandh-today-231774
29-03-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Farmers' protest at  proposed store of corporate giant in Sirhind||Farmers today protested in front of a building where a proposed store of a corporate giant is to come up on the Sirhind-Chandigarh Road. The protesters also burnt copies of the three farm laws on a call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.The farmers, led by Nirmal Singh Reona, raised slogans against the Modi government and forced the building owner to stop renovation work. They urged him not to give the building to the company.Bhupinder Jallah, morcha’s district president; Jagjit Singh Reona, president, Kisan Mazdoor Ekta; and Nirmal Singh Mulanpur Khurd from the Rajewal group said they would not allow the group to open the store till the laws were repealed. They said they would also not allow party leaders to organise functions and enter villages.The building owner, Madan Lal, who later joined the dharna, said he had signed a contract with the company to give the building on rent for a superstore. He was supposed to hand over the building by March 31, but he had now decided not to do so till the farm laws were repealed. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-at-proposed-store-of-corporate-giant-in-sirhind-231777
29-03-2021||New Delhi||Republic Day clash: 100 farmers out on bail||The legal team set up by the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) has managed to secure bail for more than 100 farmers who were arrested during a clash between farmers and the police on January 26.The farmers whose bails had been secured were honoured at Red Fort. A legal team of the DSGMC had been set up to get the detained protesters released. DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa had set up the team that worked from Rakabganj gurdwara.After the clash on January 26, several families from Punjab had reported that their family members were missing. Protesting farmers had deviated from a pre-approved route of the tractor rally on Republic Day and clashed with the police when they were stopped from entering parts of Central and New Delhi. — TNSRs 5l relief for deceased tikri protesterFazilka: Fazilka Congress MLA Davinder Singh Ghubaya handed over a cheque for Rs3 lakh to Sumitra Bai, the wife of late farmer Bhajan Singh who had died at the Tikri border while participating in dharna against the three farm laws. Bhajan Singh had died due to cardiac arrest on March 18 and his last rites were performed in a local gurdwara on Saturday. A cheque for Rs2 lakh was also given to the kin of the farmer at the time of his cremation. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/republic-day-clash-100-farmers-out-on-bail-231778
29-03-2021||Mansa||BKU: Women to lead stirs during harvest season||Scores of farmers under the banner of the BKU (Dakaunda) faction participated in a protest rally organised against the three agricultural laws at Burj Rathi village in Mansa district on Sunday. The protesters vowed to “fight the battle till its logical conclusion” and continue to support and contribute to the agitation in whatever way they can.Makhan Singh, a union leader, said, “Apart from boycotting the BJP in villages of the Malwa region, we will not support any other political party. We have decided that since wheat harvest will start soon, many farmers will be returning from protest venues from Delhi to their native villages. During this time, women will hold the fort there. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bku-women-to-lead-stirs-during-harvest-season-231823
29-03-2021||Tribune Reporters||BJP holds statewide protests, burns Punjab CM effigy||Bathinda/Amritsar, March 28BJP workers today gathered outside Fire Brigade Chowk and burnt an effigy of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, protesting the attack on Abohar MLA Arun Narang in Malout yesterday.Sunil Singla, BJP media co-in chargeThere’s no democracy in State There is no democracy in the state. Everyone has the right to put forward their views and roam freely, but BJP leaders are being deliberately targeted and gagged. Alleging deterioration of law and order, they raised slogans against the Congress government. BJP state media co-in charge Sunil Singla and others, who were present during the protest, alleged there was no sign of democracy in the state.BJP leaders said the Chief Minister was not capable of running the state and should resign. In Sangrur also, party leaders burnt the effigy of the Punjab Government to protest the attack on the party MLA. “The Punjab Government has failed to provide security to our leaders and its leading to repeated attacks on our leaders. We will intensify our agitation in coming days,” said Randeep Deol, Sangrur BJP chief.In Amritsar, the BJP Yuva Morcha on Sunday burnt the effigy of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.BJP leaders alleged that the incident was an outcome of the Congress-sponsored ‘goondaism’ and deep conspiracy to intimidate BJP leaders who were holding meetings in view of the Assembly elections next year.Led by Gautam Arora, the BJP Yuva Morcha held a demonstration outside the Hathi Gate area and raised slogans against the Punjab Government and Capt Amarinder.Former state BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik alleged that the attack was perpetrated by the Congress supporters as farmers did not indulge in such shameful acts. “The Congress wanted to intimidate BJP leaders as the elections were approaching near in Punjab, but we will not get afraid by such tactics. We did not get scared even during the Emergency,” he said.Condemning the incident, district BJP president Suresh Mahajan said they would meet local police authorities to ensure security of BJP workers and leaders after holding a meeting with its colleagues following Holi. BJP leader Ram Chawla said the CM should immediately resign on moral grounds for his failure to ensure security of its legislatures while there were intelligence inputs about this.In Mandi Gobindgarh, semi-clad BJP workers, led by district BJP president Pardeep Garg today organised a protest and burnt the effigy of burnt the effigy of CM Capt Amarinder Singh. BJP workers gathered at Mani Chowk of Mandi Gobindgarh and held a sit-in on the GT Road. They said the state government was provoking farmers to oppose the BJP leaders and workers to hide their failures.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-holds-statewide-protests-burns-punjab-cm-effigy-231798
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||69 more Covid deaths, 2,963 new cases in Punjab||The COVID-19 death toll in Punjab rose to 6,690 on Sunday with 69 more fatalities, while 2,963 fresh cases took the infection tally to 2,31,734, a medical bulletin issued here said.The number of active cases increased to 23,917 on Sunday from 23,271 the previous day, it said.Of the new cases, Jalandhar reported the maximum 489 cases, followed by 437 in Ludhiana, 372 in Amritsar, 307 in Patiala, 291 in Mohali and 289 in Hoshiarpur, it said.Of the new deaths, Ludhiana recorded 10 fatalities, followed by Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur with eight fatalities each, the bulletin said.A total of 2,155 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the overall recoveries to 2,01,127, as per bulletin.A total of 36 critical patients are on ventilator support and 316 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 58,48,083 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said. Punjab Health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Sunday said COVID-19 vaccine will be administered at all health and wellness centres, sub centres, homeopathy and ayurvedic dispensaries.He further said the vaccine will also be made available for everybody above the age of 45 years without any condition at all government health centres from April 1.In a statement, Sidhu said nearly 7 lakh people in the state have been vaccinated so far.He further said vaccination is being carried out in government health facilities on all the seven days of the week.Chandigarh reported 296 cases, the highest single-day spike this year, taking the total infection count to 26,194, a bulletin issued here said.On Saturday, the union territory had recorded 294 new cases.The death of three more persons took the toll to 377, according to the medical bulletin.The number of active cases rose from to 2,633 on Sunday from 2,532 the previous day.A total of 192 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 23,184, the bulletin said.A total of 3,06,217 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 2,79,003 have tested negative while reports of 201 samples were awaited, it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/69-more-covid-deaths-2-963-new-cases-in-punjab-231758
29-03-2021||New Delhi||Farmers celebrate ‘Holika Dahan' by burning copies of Centre's farm laws||Farmers camping at Delhi borders on Sunday burnt copies of the Centre's new farm laws they have been protesting against during ‘Holika Dahan', the Samyukta Kisan Morcha said.The protesting farmers celebrated Holi at the borders and maintained that their agitation will continue till the farm laws are repealed and a separate law on minimum support price is enacted, it said in a statement.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), a joint front of farmer unions, also said that it will observe "FCI Bachao Diwas" on April 5, adding that offices of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) will be gheraoed from 11 am to 5 pm across the country. “The government has made several attempts to end the minimum support price (MSP) and public distribution system (PDS) indirectly. The FCI's budget has also been reduced over the last few years. Recently, the FCI also changed the rules for procurement of crops,” the statement said. The SKM also condemned the passage of the Haryana Recovery of Damages to Property during Disturbance to Public Order Bill, 2021 by the Haryana Assembly, saying it aims to suppress agitations."It contains dangerous provisions that would surely prove fatal to democracy," the body added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-celebrate-holika-dahan-by-burning-copies-of-centres-farm-laws-231718
29-03-2021||Muktsar/Chandigarh||Punjab BJP leaders stage sit-in outside CM Amarinder's house to protest against attack on party MLA||Several Punjab BJP leaders on Sunday staged a sit-in outside the official residence of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh here to protest against the attack on party legislator from Abohar in Muktsar.BJP MLA Arun Narang was allegedly roughed up and his clothes ripped off by a group of protesting farmers at Malout in Muktsar district on Saturday. The BJP leader had gone to Malout to address a press conference.The saffron party leaders also gathered in Malout to give a call for a bandh on Monday.BJP state secretaries Sunita Garg and Sukhpal Sra said that they would first take out a protest march in Malout on Monday and appeal to everyone to observe a bandh.The BJP leaders burnt an effigy of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.They also lodged a symbolic protest for a few minutes by blocking a road in Malout town.A large number of police personnel were deployed.Also read: BJP MLA Arun Narang thrashed, stripped; Capt Amarinder promises action In Chandigarh, after meeting the Punjab Governor on Sunday morning, BJP leaders under the leadership of the chief of the party's state unit Ashwani Sharma headed towards the chief minister's residence.A few BJP leaders even took off their shirts as a mark of protest.The protesters raised slogans against the Congress-led government in the state, alleging that law and order have completely failed.“Does the opposition party (BJP) has no right to put forth its views,” asked Sharma while condemning the incident.“The voice of the BJP cannot be suppressed. We have never seen democracy being shamed this way,” he said while referring to the Muktsar incident.“What was the fault of (Arun) Narang? He had gone there to highlight the failure of the state government,” said Sharma.BJP leader Tikshan Sood demanded that Singh tender his resignation.“BJP leaders are being targeted. There is no sign of democracy in the state. We came here to tell him (the CM) that he is not capable of running the state and should resign,” said Sood.The chief minister had on Saturday strongly condemned the alleged attack on Narang and also warned of strict action against anyone trying to disturb peace in the state.BJP leaders in Punjab are facing the ire of farmers protesting against the centre's three new agri laws for the last several months. The agitating farmers have even disrupted the programmes of the saffron party leaders on a few occasions. —with PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-bjp-leaders-stage-sit-in-outside-cm-amarinders-house-to-protest-against-attack-on-party-mla-231690
29-03-2021||After receiving flak from various art and literary groups across the world||Guru’s legacy muralled on wall in Gurdwara Baba Attal Rai||There are a series of murals illustrating the life of Guru Nanak Dev based on Janamsakhi tradition. A major portion of the murals was damaged during kar sewa (restoration work) conducted by the SGPC in the ’90s. The bathroom tiles and plaster were installed on the ground floor of the tower.Murals on the wallsSatpal Danish, eminent photographer, who published a book Janam Sakhi on the murals of Gurdwara Baba Atal Rai, claimed that originally the work has been done by several ‘Nakaashs’ in the Sikh raj. Names of a few Nakaashs including Matab Singh and Gian Singh are written there. However, several names of donors are also written on the walls, which reveals that the mural work on the first floor was conducted in 1902-03. It has been learnt that Gurmukhi text written on some of the murals is “Larivaar” (without space) while others are elaborated with modern Punjabi. The restoration of these painting might have been conducted in the 1902-03.Janamsakhi of GuruThe interior walls of the first floor of the Gurdwara Baba Atal Rai have more than 40 panels of murals depicting the Janam Sakhi’s of Guru Nanak Dev. The series of Janam Sakhi is the biographical account of the life of the Guru and it has been painted beautifully on the walls.Martyrs of 18th centuryThere are two series of paintings, one representing Guru Nanak and other depicting Sikh martyrs of the 18th Century. The portraits of 18th Century martyrs Baba Deep Singh, Baba Naudh Singh, Baba Hanuman Singh and others are displayed in the inner galleries.Damage of heritageA number of murals at the ground floor have been considerably damaged. Several murals can be seen damaged at the deorhi or the first entrance to the shrine. Large panels illustrate scenes from the life of Baba Atal and Guru Nanak and various stages of the battle of Muktsar were damaged by the kar sewa (restoration work) conducted in the ’90s.Gurdwara Baba Atal RaiGurdwara Baba Atal Rai, a nine-storeyed octagonal tower, standing 40-metre high, was built during Maharaja Ranjit Singh in memory of Baba Atal Rai, son of Guru Hargobind, the sixth Sikh master. It is situated to the south of the Golden Temple near Guru Ramdas library. It is one of the tallest buildings in Amritsar.Initially, it was a small samadhi, (cenotaph), where the remains of Atal Rai were kept in 1620. Later, it transformed into a gurdwara. During Khalsa Raj, its nine-storey building was constructed to commemorate the nine years of Rai’s short life.Guru’s childhoodThere is a large painting on the curves of the window, which depicts scenes from the Guru’s childhood. Three separate scenes depicting Guru Nanak at the age of 10, where his family is consulting about his future and deciding to send him with buffaloes. The pictures depict the “Sakhi” in which buffaloes grazed the crop of a Jatt (farmer) and he complained to Rai Bullar Bhatti, noble of Talwandi. Rai Bhullar summoned Nanak and his father. But when they visited the fields, the crop was blooming.Birth of Guru NanakThe series of murals starts from the birth of Guru Nanak Dev, the first Sikh master. As it is mentioned in the Janamsakhi literature, Guru Nanak is in lap of Mata Tripta ji. The caretaker Dai Daultan and two other servants are sitting along with the Guru’s mother. Father Kalu Ji (Mehta Kalyan Das) seems in a hurry to go outside to get required things and sister Bibi Nanaki is telling something to her father in a jovial mood.Guru’s teachingsGuru Nanak spread his message around the world by recognising human race as one. In a picture, he is giving a message to people, where Hindus and Muslims are sitting together. Bala and Mardana are also with Guru Nanak Dev.His bodyAs per information, the Guru took a bed sheet and slept by saying goodbye to his devotees in 1539 and the God sprinkled flowers on the Guru’s body.Hindu and Muslim conflictWhen Guru Nanak passed away, a conflict arose between his Hindu and Muslim devotees on how his last rites should be performed. When they put the bed sheet, they found only flowers. Hindus and Muslims tore the bed sheet. Hindus cremated it and Muslims buried the sheet.EducationOne of these murals, records a school scene, depicting Nanak, at the age of seven, commencing his education. Guru Nanak, along with his father, Baba Kalu, is seated in front of teacher Mulla Kutabdeen at the start of the first lesson. The young Nanak is seen explaining the meaning of the first letter to the mullah. Some of the pupils are waiting to show their phatti to the mullah, while others are either cleaning it or writing on it. A similar scene is visible at the school of Pandha Brij Nath, where the Guru is enlightening him about the path of God.UdasisI. To spread his teachings and holy messages, the Guru started a journey called Udasis. Bhai Farinda, a rabab maker, presented a rabab to the Guru in jungle. Bahi Mardana was also siting with him, who was along with Guru Nanak throughout his journey.II. Before leaving Talwandi, Guru Nanak met Rai Bhular Bhatti along with his father and uncle Lalu. He gave a message that everything was in the order of God. Rai Bhular bowed in front of the Guru.III. During Udasi, Guru met Bhai Lalo, a poor carpenter. Malik Bhago, the landlord of the area, asked Nanak to stay at his home. The Guru took dry chapatti of Lalo in his right hand and Malik Bhago’s fried puri in his left hand. When he squeezed the right hand, people present there saw drops of milk dripping from it and when he pressed the left hand, people saw blood dripping from Malik Bhago’s puri.IV. Karoria, a revenue collector met Guru outside the village and offered that he will construct a palace for him. The Guru asked to build Kartarpur on the name of Kartar (creator).MarriageLike any ordinary marriage, sister Bebe Nanaki is feeding the mare after decorating it. The baraat (wedding procession) reached Vatala and a person is lighting the firecrackers to celebrate the arrival. The family of bride (Mata Sulakhni) is welcoming the baraat. Another mural in series shows Guru Nanak Dev sitting with baraatis and having food. The villagers are serving it.Guru in MeccaOne of the murals depicts Guru Nanak sitting outside a shrine in Mecca by wearing a blue dress. Blue dresses used to be worn by hajjis or Muslims, who went on pilgrimage in those times. Bala is siting along with the Guru, while Bhai Mardana is entering inside the building. He is also wearing a blue dress.Guru at GorakhmataIn this mural, Guru Nanak Dev is sitting along with Yogi Gorakhnath. His disciples were also there. According to Sakhis, the Guru had a long conversation with the head of Gorakhmata.Guru’s throne to Angad Dev at KartarpurAfter travelling the world, the Guru returned to Kartarpur in 1521 and stayed here till the last. Second Guru Angad Dev met here and Guru gave Guruship to Bhai Lehana and gave him the name Guru Angad. The picture depicts the ceremony of applying tilak of Gurgadi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurus-legacy-muralled-on-wall-in-gurdwara-baba-attal-rai-231518
29-03-2021||Sonepat||Farmers leave for harvesting, crowds at Singhu thinning; mahapanchayats off||The crowds gathered at Singhu, the epicentre of the farmers’ protest against the central farm laws, have been thinning over the past several days. Subsequently, Sanyukt Kisan Morcha leaders have decided to call off mahapanchayats in other states and re-focus on the Delhi borders.Intelligence sources said three to five protesters were putting up in each tractor-trailer compared to 10-15 earlier.“The decline in numbers could be due to senior leaders holding ‘kisan mahapanchayats’ across Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, MP, UP and other states and farmers returning for harvesting,” explained Gurmukh Singh of Hoshiarpur.SKM leader Harinder Singh Lakhowal claimed the crowds were thinning temporarily as farmers had been maintaining a “protest roster” at village level. “If some farmers have moved their tractor-trailers back, ‘pucca’ huts have come up as a replacement,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-leave-for-harvesting-crowds-at-singhu-thinning-mahapanchayats-off-231491
