31-03-2021||Chandigarh||AAP to hold protest on April 7 against high power tariffs in Punjab||Punjab’s main opposition party AAP on Wednesday announced it will launch an agitation from April 7 against rising electricity tariffs in the state.Punjab Aam Aadmi Party chief Bhagwant Mann said the party would force the state government to provide free power to people on the lines of Delhi.Mann said the rising electricity rates have made life miserable for the people in the state.“The Captain government is increasing power prices day by day instead of reducing them,” he added.The AAP will launch a mass agitation across Punjab over power bills and force the Amarinder Singh-led government to reduce the tariffs, Mann said.“The mass movement will be launched next week. This movement will reach every street, every village, town and city,” he said in a statement here.Mann added that volunteers and workers of the AAP would go door to door to get information about electricity bills.Power bills will also be burnt as a symbolic protest, the AAP leader added.“Earlier the Akali Dal government and now the Congress have entered into costly agreements with private companies keeping in view their personal interests,” he alleged.Party leader Jarnail Singh claimed that the Punjab government would have to “pay crores of rupees” to the three private thermal plants even if it did not buy electricity from them. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-to-hold-protest-on-april-7-against-high-power-tariffs-in-punjab-232726
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab's coronavirus testing rate higher than national average, CM Amarinder responds to Centre||Taking strong exception to the Centre's criticism of the COVID-19 management in Punjab, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said the state's rate of tests per million was higher than the national average and claimed the situation would have been better if the central government had not "delayed" the vaccination process.Had the central government acceded to the state's request for allowing vaccination of all 50-plus category population earlier, instead of delaying it by almost two months to include those aged above 45, the situation would have been better than present, he said.Singh was reacting to the Centre's charge that Punjab was not doing enough coronavirus testing and isolating infected people.In a statement on Wednesday, the chief minister said his government had put severe restrictions on social gatherings and closed all educational institutions, with night curfews imposed from 9 pm to 5 am in the severely affected 11 districts.Singh also said a decision on stricter restrictions will be taken after a review of the situation in the state on April 8.The chief minister's warning to impose harsher restrictions if the situation does not improve by next week comes amid a surge in COVID-19 cases and fatalities in the state.He said the state government had been repeatedly requesting the Centre in writing as well as in meetings attended by the chief secretary that the current strategy of immunisation needs review.Vaccination in a campaign that covers all age groups in selected areas will lead to better outcomes than the periodic cycles of vaccination targeting a small section of the population at each cycle, he stressed, underlining the need for such approach in any area where weekly testing shows a doubling of positivity rate.He reiterated his demand for permission for occupation-based immunisation for school and college students and teachers, judges, bus drivers and conductors, panches/ sarpanches, mayors, MLAs, MPs, etc. everywhere.He also took note of the delay in receiving reports of genome sequencing.Of the 874 samples sent, only 588 reports had been received so far, of which 411 samples were found positive for B.1.1.7 (the UK variant) and two samples for N440K.The implication of presence of the UK variant mutant needs to be looked into and appropriate advice is required to be shared with the state, Singh said.The chief minister said that during the first peak in September 2020, the positivity rate was around 10 and the state was testing 30,000 samples per day.Now, when the positivity is over 7 per cent, the state is testing around 40,000 samples per day. The state is consistently testing around 90 per cent RT-PCR and about 10 rapid antigen tests and its per million testing is 1,96,667 while the national average is 1,82,296, he said.The state had very limited capacity of testing RT-PCR when this pandemic started.It was about 40 samples per day and within a very short span of time, the capacity was ramped up to more than 25,000 tests per day, he said.The state is consistently utilizing its optimal RT-PCR capacity. The government of India's institutions like IISER, IMTech, PGIMER are supporting the state to the extent of only about 100 samples per day, the chief minister said, adding that the state can increase RAT testing to any level if there is need to do so.During the first peak in September 2020, Punjab had increased contact tracing to 10 contacts per positive case. Now, during the second peak, “we are tracing more than 15 contacts per positive case,” he added.Punjab has been neither conducting adequate number of tests nor been able to promptly isolate COVID-19 positive people, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-coronavirus-testing-rate-higher-than-national-average-cm-amarinder-responds-to-centre-232691
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Stricter curbs if COVID situation doesn't improve in one week: Punjab CM Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday warned of stricter restrictions in case the Covid situation in the state—which is reeling under a massive surge of cases and deaths—does not improve over the next week.The situation will be reviewed again on April 8, and the decision on further curbs may be taken in case the Covid spread continues unchecked, the Chief Minister said during a virtual review meeting with top health, administrative, and police officials. “I will watch things for a week, and then if there is no improvement, we may have to go for stricter curbs,” The Chief Minister said. Read also | Do house-to-house surveillance to contain Covid surge: Centre to Punjab, ChandigarhUnderlining the need for aggressive vaccination—particularly in areas with high case and cities with more than 300 cases—Captain Amarinder directed officials to reach out to eligible people at the Mohalla level in the worst affected districts to motivate people to get vaccinated. He also directed stricter enforcement of Covid restrictions and protocols in the worst affected cities of Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Mohali, and Amritsar.Dr KK Talwar, head of the state’s Covid expert committee, said more enforcement of restrictions was needed in the urban areas, which were reporting higher cases. DGP Dinkar Gupta said since March 19, a total of 1.30 lakh people had been taken for RTPCR testing on being found moving around without masks. Of these, 391 were found positive, he disclosed.The districts of SAS Nagar, Kapurthala, Patiala, SBS Nagar, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana are reporting the maximum positivity, while the overall positivity in the state stands at 7.6% as of March 24, 2021.Taking note of the inconvenience caused to commuters, the Chief Minister also ordered doing away with the one-hour silence on Saturdays to commemorate the Covid warriors.The Chief Minister expressed concern over the high death rate due to Covid in Punjab, which Dr Talwar said was due to patients not coming to hospitals in time and the rate of co-morbidities also being high in the state. Dr Talwar informed the meeting that 80-85% of patients dying have chronic diseases.The Chief Minister directed the administration to develop a robust mechanism to get people with co-morbidities to the hospital at the earliest, besides stricter monitoring of home isolated people.He also once again appealed to religious and political leaders of all hues to promote Covid appropriate behaviour in the interest of the people of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stricter-curbs-if-covid-situation-doesnt-improve-in-one-week-punjab-cm-amarinder-232675
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Enforcement Directorate to be set up to check illegal mining in Punjab||Decks have been cleared for the establishment of the Enforcement Directorate, announced by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh earlier this month, to check illegal mining in Punjab.The ED, to be headed by a senior police officer not below the rank of a Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG), will be set up in the Mining & Geology Wing of Water Resources Department. It will also help in ramping up the state’s revenues by curbing the menace of illegal mining.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/enforcement-directorate-to-be-set-up-to-check-illegal-mining-in-punjab-232657
31-03-2021||Lucknow||Mukhtar Ansari's wife writes to President seeking security for him during transfer from Punjab jail to UP||The wife of jailed mafia don-turned politician Mukhtar Ansari has written to President Ram Nath Kovind urging him to ensure adequate security for him when he is transferred from Punjab to Uttar Pradesh following a Supreme Court direction.In her letter released to the media on Wednesday, Afshan Ansari claimed that her husband, who is a BSP MLA from Mau, is an eyewitness in a case and the accused BJP MLC is threatening to kill him in connivance with the government machinery.Afshan Ansari said she fears that her husband might be killed "in the guise of a fake encounter" during his transfer from Ropar jail in Punjab to Uttar Pradesh's Banda prison.According to the Supreme Court's March 26 order, her husband has to be transferred to Uttar Pradesh's Banda jail in two weeks. Ansari's wife said she is frightened because of the past actions of some officers of the Uttar Pradesh government and is deeply concerned about the safety of his life."If my husband is sent to Uttar Pradesh without fixing responsibility for the safety of his life, then surely he would be killed by creating a false story. Therefore, it is a plea to the President to order that my husband is protected," Afshan Ansari said in the letter.Also read: BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari produced in Mohali court in extortion, criminal intimidation caseShe also urged that if it is required to produce Ansari in court, the President should order the government to arrange central security force personnel "to accompany him from prison to court and back".Mukhtar Ansari has been in judicial custody since October 25, 2005 in a number of criminal cases.Alka Rai, the legislator wife of BJP MLA Krishnanand Rai who was killed allegedly at the hands of the Mukhtar Ansari gang in 2005, had demanded that Ansari be transferred to a jail in Uttar Pradesh. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mukhtar-ansaris-wife-writes-to-president-seeking-security-for-him-during-transfer-from-punjab-jail-to-up-232656
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet approves running govt cattle pounds in PPP mode||In a bid to streamline the functioning of cattle pounds run by the government, and to effectively redress the menace of stray animals, the Punjab Cabinet on Wednesday approved running these cattle pounds in Public-Private Partnership (PPP) model.Twenty cattle pounds are established in Punjab (except Amritsar and Ferozepur due to court cases by villagers), in which as many as 10,024 stray cattle are managed, with the Government releasing Rs. 4385.35 lakh in a staggered manner for construction of the cattle pounds and proper upkeep of stray animals.Following the original plan, six cattle sheds were to be constructed, taking the total to 132. However, in 20 districts, only 76 cattle sheds have been constructed so far, with the other 56 yet to come up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cabinet-approves-running-govt-cattle-pounds-in-ppp-mode-232644
31-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Sunny Deol's son Rajveer to make his Bollywood debut; Dharmendra requests fans to 'shower love'||The Deol clan is nothing but excited to have the youngest Deol entering the Bollywood industry. Sunny Deol's youngest son—Rajveer Deol—is all set to make his acting debut. The film, a coming-of-age love story, will also mark the debut of Avnish S Barjatya, Suraj Barjatya's son, as a writer and director. It will be Rajshri production's 59th film.The official Instagram page of Rajshri Productions also announced Rajveer Deol's association with the project and wrote: "Rajshri Productions proudly announces the collaboration of Rajveer Deol and Avnish Barjatya in a coming-of-age love story. A beautiful journey awaits ahead."A post shared by Rajshri (@rajshrifilms)  Announcing his grandson's debut, Dharmendra took to the microblogging website, and said: "Introducing my grandson #RajveerDeol to the world of cinema along with #Avnishbarjatya directorial debut. I humbly request you all to shower the same love and affection on both the kids as you have on me. Good luck and Godbless #Rajshrifilms #barjatyas #Deols #RajveerDeol."Introducing my grandson #RajveerDeol to the world of cinema along with #Avnishbarjatya directorial debut. I humbly request you all to shower the same love and affection on both the kids as you have on me. Good luck and Godbless✨❤️#Rajshrifilms #barjatyas #Deols #RajveerDeol pic.twitter.com/59Yi21t8pR  Rajveer has studied theatre in the UK and has worked as an assistant director. He has been training under the guidance of theatre and film director Feroz Abbas Khan, known for directing plays like “Mughal-e-Azam” and "Tumhari Amrita”.Avnish said he decided to cast Rajveer as the newcomer is hard-working and has a charisma about him.“The more time we spent talking about the project, the more I began to see Rajveer as the protagonist in my film,” Avnish said in a statement here.The yet-to-be-titled film is expected to go on floors in July this year and is slated for a release in 2022. — With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunny-deols-son-rajveer-to-make-his-bollywood-debut-dharmendra-requests-fans-to-shower-love-232618
31-03-2021||Mohali||BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari produced in Mohali court in extortion, criminal intimidation case||BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari was produced in a Mohali court on Wednesday afternoon in a case related to extortion and criminal intimidation amidst heavy police presence.The gangster-turned-politician was brought from Ropar jail and waited for some time in an ambulance bearing a UP registration with police escorting the vehicle. He was taken to the court on the third floor in a wheelchair.The Supreme Court on March 26 ordered the shifting of Ansari from Ropar jail to a jail in Uttar Pradesh where he was wanted in several criminal cases.Allowing the state of Uttar Pradesh government’s petition seeking transfer of the alleged gangster, a Bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan had directed that Ansari’s custody should be handed over to UP authorities in two weeks.Also read: Mukhtar Ansari's wife writes to President seeking security for him during transfer from Punjab jail to UPAnsari’s plea to transfer the cases pending against him in Uttar Pradesh to Delhi was dismissed.The top court had said he shall be lodged in Banda Jail where the Jail Superintendent will extend him medical facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsp-mla-mukhtar-ansari-produced-in-mohali-court-in-extortion-criminal-intimidation-case-232617
31-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Diljit Dosanjh's lavish Punjabi meal in Canada has chicken tandoori, paneer tikka, more; have a look||Punjabi singer and actor Diljit Dosanjh has established himself as a self-confessed foodie. His Instagram account has stories and posts showing his cooking skills and preparing meals every now and then. Keeping up with this, the Punjabi singer took to his account to share a story featuring one of his latest meals on the sets of his upcoming movie Honsla Rakh. Diljit is currently in Canada. He was seen enjoying a lavish Punjabi lunch which included chicken tandoori, paneer tikka, chole bhature, salad and more. This meal was served by a Yogi's Kitchen- a tiffin service in Canada, known for its home-style Indian dishes. To make it special for Diljit, each and every dish was named after his popular movies like 'Rangroot', 'Good Newwz', 'Jatt and Juliet' and more. Diljit shares a video story featuring the spread and also thanked Yogi's Kitchen for the meal. Have a look:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/diljit-dosanjhs-lavish-punjabi-meal-in-canada-has-chicken-tandoori-paneer-tikka-more-have-a-look-232611
31-03-2021||Amritsar||Hola Mohalla celebrated at Golden Temple||Thousands of devotees participated in the traditional Hola Mohalla celebrations at Golden Temple on Monday evening. They showered flower petals on the beautifully decorated palanquin which carried Sikh holy book, Guru Granth Sahib to pay their obeisance.Though the Hola Mohalla celebrations at Anandpur, the birth place of Khalsa are a much larger event, the festival is also celebrated at Golden Temple every year for the last more than two centuries. The devotees from far off places visit the place to attend the annual event.Hola Mohalla was instituted by the tenth Sikh master, Guru Gobind Singh, as a martial festival beginning the day after Holi, the spring festival of colours celebrated across the country.Edu Dept stages play during Hola Mohalla celebrationsAmritsar: The district unit of the Education Department staged a play during the 82nd Hola Mohalla function celebrated at Gurdwara Bohri Sahib, Kot Khalsa. The nukkad natak titled ‘Government Schools are Pillar of Education’ was staged as part of the department’s ongoing campaign to enrol students. Parents were encouraged to enrol their children in government schools. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hola-mohalla-celebrated-at-golden-temple-232461
31-03-2021||---||Worst spike, Punjab extends curbs||Chandigarh, March 30With March turning out to be the worst month since September 2020, the Punjab Government today ordered extension of all Covid-19 restrictions till April 10.After September, March worst with 55K cases, 981 deaths in PunjabThe state has reported 54,614 infections and 981 deaths in this month so far. The figures are next only to those reported in September last year (around 60,000 cases and 2,000 deaths).Latest measuresReviewing the Covid situation with the Chief Secretary and other officials, the CM said all restrictions would now remain in force till April 10, after which these would be reviewed again.The CM also ordered the launch of a vaccination drive in prisons across the state. The step comes in the wake of 40 women inmates testing positive for Covid-19 in the Nabha Open Jail.The CM asked Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan to issue directions for carrying out testing and vaccination in busy areas. He asked all DCs and Civil Surgeons to identify places where mobile Covid vaccination centres could be pressed into service.Getting vaccination should be made easier for all eligible government employees and others, the CM said.The Principal Secretary, Health & Family Welfare, said infections and deaths were rising rapidly in some of the districts, with projections presented by the CMC, Ludhiana, showing a steep rise in the number of cases and the peak around April 6. As per estimates, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala are likely to contribute more cases.DGP Dinkar Gupta said 90,360 persons had been challaned and tested for Covid. He requested for a special vaccination drive in police lines. All districts have been ordered to increase the number of vaccination centres.Dr KK Talwar, Adviser, Health & Medical Education, suggested that routine non-Covid treatment in select private hospitals might be deferred by 2-4 weeks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/worst-spike-punjab-extends-curbs-232261
31-03-2021||Aditi Tandon||Don’t expect more exemption on online MSP payment, Punjab told||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, March 30Punjab’s non-compliance with the government order on direct online payment of minimum support price (MSP) to farmers could spell trouble for rabi procurement this year with the Centre digging in heels and saying the state would not get any further exemption in the matter. The wheat procurement in Punjab starts from April 10.Many chances given, Goyal reminds CaptDespite multiple exemptions and sufficient time, Punjab has not implemented norms for direct digital MSP payment to farmers. — Piyush Goyal, Food Minister Official records show Punjab is the only among 12 procuring states not making direct digital payment to farmers, as mandated by the Finance Ministry’s Public Finance Management System (PFMS) order issued on May 28, 2018.Punjab continues to pay farmers through arhtiyas under the Punjab Agriculture Produce Marketing Rules-1962, which, it says, mandates MSP payments through commission agents. Several states have even integrated their land records with the central procurement portal, something Punjab hasn’t done.Food Minister Piyush Goyal has now again written to Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh citing past exemptions the state was granted and urged urgent compliance.On Punjab’s concern that title issues may arise where land had been given on lease for tilling by absentee landlords, Goyal said Punjab should follow Haryana’s software that enabled details of tenant or share-cropper to be uploaded on the portal with a disclaimer that this would not be a legal proof for claiming ownership.The Tribune has, meanwhile, accessed an internal government note that shows that the Food Ministry is against granting any further waivers to Punjab.The CMD of Food Corporation of India, during his recent visit to the state, even conveyed this: “The readiness of the system in Punjab is not an issue. Willingness on the part of Punjab is still questionable.” The Secretary, Food, has spoken to the Punjab Chief Secretary and the Principal Secretary (Food), making it clear that no exemption shall be granted this year. “In the event of non-implementation, the Centre would not be obliged to reimburse the cost of procurement and other incidentals,” says the note. The note also says that in 2020, during verification of payments, the Centre had detected an alleged deduction of Rs 12 per quintal made by arthiyas from MSP payment at the cost of farmers.“The GoI stand is that the entire MSP should be transferred to farmers’ account and should not get parked into arthiya’s account,” says the note. Punjab is the top contributor to the central wheat and paddy procurement pool, which is why its compliance with online payment norms is more important, government sources said.Arhtiyas’ ‘cut’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-expect-more-exemption-on-online-msp-payment-punjab-told-232270
31-03-2021||Saurabh Malik---||Factual info between lawyer, client not ‘privileged’: HC||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, March 30 The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that purely “factual information” between a lawyer and his client cannot be termed as “privileged” and the counsel in such matters can appear as a witness for the other party. The ruling by Justice Arun Monga came in a case where “factual information” regarding an alleged compromise between the parties was being sought from an erstwhile lawyer”. It was claimed by one of the parties that the advocate had remained their counsel and could not appear as a witness against them. It was also argued that the act was contrary to Section 126 of the Indian Evidence Act.  The party’s case was that exchange of information between the erstwhile lawyer and the client was privileged. As such, the immunity envisaged under Section 126 debarred the erstwhile lawyer to appear as a witness against the client. Justice Monga asserted Section 126 indeed prohibited a lawyer from divulging any communication or professional information disclosed to him by his clients even after the professional relationship between the two ceased to exist. The only exception was consent by the client for the disclosure of the information.  Justice Monga added a fact witnessed or observed by an advocate regarding fraud having been committed was, however, not protected. As such, the immunity envisaged under Section 126 did not provide an absolute bar on the lawyer of the adversarial party from being summoned in all circumstances and certain exemptions had been provided. “What is being sought here from the erstwhile lawyer is merely the factual information with regard to an alleged compromise between the parties and/or whether the lawyer ever witnessed any such compromise and/ whether his client entered into compromise in his presence or signed the same etc. None of this factual information can be termed as privileged information having any trappings of the immunity envisaged under Section 126”. Justice Monga made it clear that the trial court would ensure that any information sought from the erstwhile lawyer at the time of testimony was not in contravention of Section 126 so as to protect the interest of his former client.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/factual-info-between-lawyer-client-not-privileged-hc-232278
31-03-2021||---||SGPC passes Rs 912-cr budget; education fund cut||Amritsar, March 30The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) unanimously passed its annual budget of Rs 912.59 crore for 2021-22 fiscal during its general assembly meeting held at Teja Singh Samundri Hall here on Tuesday.The decline in the income due to the Covid pandemic showed its impact on the budget for the second consecutive year as it was squeezed by around seven per cent this year. In 2020-21, the budget amounted Rs 981 crore while in 2019-2020, it was pegged at Rs 1,205 crore.Declare ’21 rights year, UN urgedThe SGPC on Tuesday urged the United Nations (UN) to observe 2021 as international year of human rights to mark the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur. Passing a resolution, the SGPC said Guru Tegh Bahadur made the supreme sacrifice for the religious freedom.Bhagwant Singh Sialka, general secretary, tabled Rs 40.66 crore-deficit budget in the presence of SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur and Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh. He said the SGPC would have an annual income of Rs 871.93 crore against an expenditure of Rs 912.59 crore.The budget was bifurcated into four parts: General board fund, trust fund, education fund and printing press fund.For 2021-22, the general board fund was increased from Rs 57 crore to Rs 60.60 crore, an increase by around six per cent while the trust fund was raised from Rs 37.61 crore to Rs 45 crore, which was an increase of 19 per cent. The education fund witnessed a decrease of around 12 per cent. It has come down from Rs 37.70 crore to Rs 33 crore this year.However, there was minimal increase on the proposed expenditure in the current budget for printing presses where ‘saroops’ and Sikh literature are printed and published. The budget allocated Rs 8.40 crore for four printing presses which included golden offset press, gurdwara printing press, shiromani printing press and Sri Guru Granth Sahib Mission, Shahpur (Ambala).Despite the constraints in view of a decline in revenue, the SGPC augmented funds for ‘dharam prachar’ and education among Gursikh people by allocating Rs 77 crore for the current fiscal year which was 24 per cent higher than the previous fiscal. It was Rs 58 crore last year.Similarly, there has been a slight increase of over three per cent in funds for educational institutions, pegged at Rs 223 crore this fiscal against Rs 215 crore last year.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said of the total budget, Rs 440 crore would be spent on shrines, educational institutions and salaries of SGPC staff, which was 43.42 per cent of the total budget.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-passes-rs-912-cr-budget-education-fund-cut-232279
31-03-2021||Malout||Tension in Malout over BJP’s bandh call||Tension prevailed in Malout town on Monday when BJP leaders visited various markets to make their bandh call successful and farmers, too, gathered in large numbers at Bathinda Chowk, seeking assurance from the police that they wouldn’t arrest any farmer without any concrete proof.Accused reach TikriTwo farmer leaders named in the assault FIR — Nirmal Singh Jasseana and Lakhanpal Sharma ‘Lakha’ — have reportedly reached the Tikri border. The Muktsar SSP said the probe was on.The BJP had given a call for bandh after Abohar MLA Arun Narang was assaulted on March 27. The bandh call, however, evoked a tepid response as a majority of traders kept their shops opened despite the BJP’s appeal to them to keep their establishments shut till 2 pm in protest against the state government. The police had converted the entire town into a fortress. The cops from neighbouring districts, too, were called in. IGP, Faridkot Range, Kaustubh Sharma was also present in the town. Though some diversions were made, the protest disrupted the traffic movement till late evening.Editorial: Matter of shameAttack on Abohar BJP MLA is deplorableMuktsar SP (D) Rajpal Singh assured the farmers that the police wouldn’t harass any farmer and make arrests after having concrete proof. Thereafter, the farmers lifted their protest at 7 pm. They alleged that the police raided the house of a farmer of Mohlan village who died about a year ago.As a preventive measure, a large number of policemen were deployed in the town on Tuesday as well. — TNSShops in Abohar shut for five hoursAbohar: Shops in the old walled city area were shut from 9 am to 2 pm on the BJP’s call for ‘Abohar bandh’ to protest the assault on legislator Arun Narang. Unprecedented security arrangements were personally monitored by DIG, Ferozepur Range. Riot control vans and commandos were deployed at all entry points to the town. BJP workers took out a bike rally and a march, and burnt an effigy of the state government. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tension-in-malout-over-bjps-bandh-call-232280
31-03-2021||Pathankot||2 elderly men climb tower over govt job||Two octogenarians perched themselves midway on an 80-foot telecommunication tower, giving the police the jitters even as they threatened to end life by setting themselves afire.Saram Singh (82) and Kulwinder Singh (84) climbed the BSNL tower located in Jugiyal. They claimed the Punjab Government was not providing them jobs as promised when tracts of land owned by them were acquired for the construction of the dam in 1992.Both, accompanied by protesters, had been sitting on a dharna in front of the CE office for the past 70 days.“We are mentally and physically tired now. We were left with no option but to let our elders take this step. The Punjab Government has become immune to our demands, which are genuine in nature. For the past 21 years, we have been fighting injustice meted out to us by respective state governments,” said Swaran Singh, a protester.At the time of filing the report, SSP Gulneet Singh Khurana, accompanied by senior officials, were holding talks with the protesters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-elderly-men-climb-tower-over-govt-job-232281
31-03-2021||Patiala||Protesters bring Patiala  to halt over farmer’s death||A day after a car allegedly driven by Excise and Taxation Inspector Pritpal Singh mowed down a farmer, one of the injured children, identified as two-year-old Ansh, succumbed at PGI, Chandigarh, on Tuesday.Enraged over the incident, farmers and locals held a dharna, bringing the Chief Minister’s home town to a standstill. Farmer Inderjeet Singh, 65, was killed in the accident. A pregnant woman, Renu, and her brother Rahul suffered major injuries. The woman’s two minor children, one of whom died today, were grievously injured along with two employees of Thapar institute.Alleging inaction on part of the police, farmers and residents on Tuesday morning blocked the city roads. They alleged the excise official was in an inebriated state, a charge which the police said could not be verified as the medical reports of the accused were awaited. Farmers present at the site said the police personnel remained mute spectators and even helped the excise official. They said crucial time was wasted following the accident that happened just 100 metres away from the Civil Lines police station.“CCTV cameras are not working at the crucial point. Also, the police did not take the accused to the nearest government hospital and allowed him to get treated at a private hospital,” they alleged.They demanded the deceased farmer be declared a ‘shaheed’ and his family be compensated. They said the district administration should pay for the treatment of those injured and action should be initiated against the cops in question.The police said the Excise and Taxation Officer had been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt to any person negligently), 338 (causes grievous hurt), 427 (mischief), 308 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC.“He has been shifted to Government Rajindra hospital today. He is in police custody and will be arrested after doctors declare him fit,” said DSP Yogesh Sharma. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesters-bring-patiala-to-halt-over-farmers-death-232282
31-03-2021||Sangrur||No political agenda, only want agri laws repealed, say farmers||A kisan mahasammelan at Chatha Nanhera village in the district got a good response as residents from various sections of society attended the event.  They vowed to intensify their agitation in the coming days to force the central government repeal the farm laws.  President of BKU Sidhupur and leader of Samyukt Kisan Morcha Jagjeet Singh Dallewal underlined the reasons of their protest against the laws and their future plans.  “Farmers are the backbone of the Indian economy but the government wants to destroy farming by implementing new laws to favour big corporates. When we do not need any such laws, why is the government imposing these on us? Apart from seniors, all youngsters must also reach Delhi to support the agitation,” said Dallewal. “The central government should not test our patience and must fulfil the demand for MSP and repeal of laws. We will thank the government and come back as we do not have any political agenda. But if any political party tries to rob the farmers by implementing the laws, we will protest,” Abhimanyu Kohad, a farmer leader from Haryana, said.   The members of the organising committee said the purpose of their event was to mobilise maximum support for the Delhi protest. Apart from singers and students, many international kabbadi players also attended the event.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-political-agenda-only-want-agri-laws-repealed-say-farmers-232283
31-03-2021||Amritsar||Baptism row: Akal Takht summons Chief Khalsa Diwan chief||Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has summoned Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) president Nirmal Singh and several other office-bearers on Wednesday regarding the controversy of ‘baptisation’ of its members.Besides Nirmal Singh, the other office-bearers who were summoned are CKD vice-president Inderbir Singh Nijjar, two honorary secretaries Sawinder Singh Kathunangal and Ajit Singh Basra, Harminder Singh and Freedom and Dharam Prachar Committee head Bhag Singh Ankhi. They were asked to appear before five high Sikh priests at the Akal Takht.In a communique to the organisation, the jathedar said questions were being raised over the baptisation of several office-bearers and therefore, they were summoned before the Takht to clarify the situation. Earlier, the Takht had sought necessary documents from the CKD over the issue. However, it failed to produce the same. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/baptism-row-akal-takht-summons-chief-khalsa-diwan-chief-232284
31-03-2021||Mumbai||22 held for attacking policemen at Nanded||The police arrested 22 persons in connection with an attack on policemen by a mob of sword- wielding men in Nanded after they were denied permission to hold a public procession due to the Covid pandemic, an official said on Tuesday.The Wazirabad police in Maharashtra’s Nanded district have registered three FIRs against 74 people (who have been named in the FIRs) and other unidentified persons in connection with Monday’s incident at the Sri Hazur Sahib gurdwara, he said.A viral video showed the sword-wielding mob barging out of the gurdwara, breaking the barricades put up by police and attacking the policemen.Seven cops were injured and eight vehicles were damaged in the violence. The condition of one of the injured policemen was serious, the official said. The police were also trying to ascertain if anyone from the gurdwara committee had any role in the incident, he said. “We have arrested 22 persons till now on charges of attempt to murder, rioting, and under provisions of the Arms Act and other sections. Around 74 people have been named in the FIR, while search is on for others,” DIG, Nanded Range, Nisar Tamboli said.The official on Monday said permission for the Hola Mohalla public procession was not granted due to the pandemic. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/22-held-for-attacking-policemen-at-nanded-232285
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||PSIEC directors spar over land auction||At least four Directors, including the Vice-Chairman of Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC), have registered their protest over alleged misrepresentation of the proceedings of the previous meeting related to sale of 31 acres of land of liquidated JCT Electronics in Mohali. The Directors also walked out of the meeting of the Board of Directors on March 26. The matter pertains to the role of the PSIEC for not staking Rs 161-crore claim as the unearned profit to be paid on the sale of 31 acres of prime land of liquidated JCT Electronics in Mohali. It instead agreed to claim Rs 45.28 crore as 50 per cent of the sale value. The land had been sold to a private realtor for Rs 90.56 crore. In a letter to PSIEC MD Mahesh Singal, the PSIEC Vice-Chairman said the directors never authorised the MD to execute consequential procedural and legal formalities for the realisation of the dues of PSIEC as proposed in the agenda. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/psiec-directors-spar-over-land-auction-232286
31-03-2021||Hoshiarpur||Raped, minor dies by suicide, two booked||A minor girl from a nearby village died by suicide after being allegedly abducted and raped by two persons on Sunday night. Angry family members refused to hold the last rites of the girl demanding suspects’ arrest. On the assurance of police authorities, the body was cremated on Monday evening.Police have registered a case of rape and abetment to suicide against Lovepreet Singh and Gurpreet Singh, both residents of Deowal village. The 17-year-old Dalit girl had gone to her friend’s home in connection with school work. On the way, the suspects allegedly abducted her and raped her at a tubewell.The victim later narrated the incident to her mother. Around 8 pm, she swallowed poison and was admitted to Civil Hospital, from where she was referred to a speciality hospital but she died on the way. DSP Satinderpal Chadha said raids were on to nab the suspects. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/raped-minor-dies-by-suicide-two-booked-232287
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Report infections to civil surgeons, hospitals, labs told||Amid rising number of cases, Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said it was compulsory for all labs and hospitals to immediately inform respective Civil Surgeon offices about Covid-infected persons to strengthen containment measures. Sidhu said it was mandatory to also notify such persons to district surveillance unit concerned. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/report-infections-to-civil-surgeons-hospitals-labs-told-232288
31-03-2021||Ropar||Private schools oppose closure||Members of Private School Association, Rupnagar, today flayed the government for suddenly suspending classes. “The move not only plays with the future of students, but many have also been rendered jobless,” they said. The members said the government should meet all stakeholders before issuing orders to suspend classes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/private-schools-oppose-closure-232289
31-03-2021||Karam Prakash||73 inmates +ve, Nabha prison turns hotspot||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 30With 73 inmates, including 39 women, testing positive during a routine check-up today, the new district jail in Nabha has emerged as the latest Covid hotspot of the district.Worst spike, Punjab extends curbsNow, the total infected persons in the jail stand at 78. The positive inmates had been shifted to a Covid-dedicated jail, said the Health Department. Nabha Senior Medical Officer Dr Dalbir Kaur said: “We first collected samples from the women ward. Now, our teams are conducting more tests at the jail.”A health official said: “The positivity rate among jail inmates was around 20 per cent, which is very high. So, mass Covid testing is must to curb the spread.” New district jail medical officer Dr Navinder Singh said: “Around 30 per cent of the inmates had mild fever. Besides, some of the inmates who tested positive were going out for court hearings.”Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder said women inmates who had tested positive had been already shifted to Malerkotla jail, while male inmates had been isolated at the New Nabha jail itself.Health officials said it was challenging to control the outbreak in closed environment such as jails because social distancing could not be maintained. Notably, Patiala central jail had turned Covid hotspot last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/73-inmates-ve-nabha-prison-turns-hotspot-232290
31-03-2021||Barnala||On Holi, teachers greet parents with e-brochures||On the eve of Holi, government teachers went all out to convince parents in their area to enrol their children in government schools by sending attractive pictures and e-brochures of facilities available in respective schools across Barnala district. Most teachers said the festival had specifically been chosen for the campaign. Teachers and heads sent out pictures of school buildings and other facilities to prominent personalities of the area to greet them on Holi and sought their support to increase admissions in their respective schools. The authorities had prepared e-prospectus and e-magazines. “We shared with key personalities and parents the details of our buildings, achievements and facilities at our schools through online and offline modes. We got good response,” said Rajesh Kumar, headmaster, Government High School, Barnala. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-holi-teachers-greet-parents-with-e-brochures-232291
31-03-2021||---||Punjabi University deadlock on, syndicate meet deferred||Patiala, March 30The ongoing deadlock between Punjabi University teaching faculty and the Vice-Chancellor’s office has forced yet another delay in the syndicate meeting to discuss budget for the upcoming fiscal year.Already deferred once, the meeting slated for today could not be held. This comes amid a string of mass resignations by faculty members, with 12 more teachers quitting respective posts today.Syndicate members said that they had been informed that the meeting was to be held today but no agenda was provided. “Earlier, the meeting was to be held on March 23. It was postponed to March 30, but the agenda was not set. Today, too, the meeting could not be held,” said a member. The teaching faculty have been demanding taking up of pending promotion matters in the syndicate meeting.As many as 12 teachers, including four head of departments, resigned from 14 designations. Earlier, the Dean (Academics), Registrar, Dean (Planning and Monitoring), Controller (Examinations) and others had resigned from 32 posts and left the university administration in a tight spot.The Punjabi University Teachers Association (PUTA) secretary, Dr Avneet Pal, said that they had not received a response from the Vice-Chancellor’s office regarding their resignations. “We will now hold a press conference on the issue on Wednesday,” he said. Acting Vice-Chancellor Ravneet Kaur did not comment on the issue till the filing of the report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-university-deadlock-on-syndicate-meet-deferred-232292
31-03-2021||Amritsar||Punjabi singer Diljaan killed in accident||Punjabi singer Diljaan (31) died in an accident at Jandiala Guru here around 2 am today.Diljaan was a runner-up in TV reality show ‘Sur Kshetra’ in 2012. He also participated in ‘Awaaz Punjab Di’ and released several songs over the past few years.Jandiala Guru SHO Yadwinder Singh said Diljaan was driving the car from Kartarpur in Jalandhar to Amritsar to record a song when the accident occurred. He had recently returned from Canada. The car collided with an unidentified vehicle parked on the roadside. The police were trying to gather CCTV footage of the area to identify the vehicle.“Diljaan’s wife and daughter are currently in Canada. They are expected to arrive soon. We have initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC,” the SHO said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-singer-diljaan-killed-in-accident-232293
31-03-2021||---||After September, March worst with 55K cases, 981 deaths in Punjab||Chandigarh, March 30After September last year, now March has proved to be the worst month when it comes to Covid cases.So far in 30 days, the state has reported around 54,614 cases and 981 deaths.Despite the second spike, the number of deaths is almost half as compared to September last year. In September, the state had reported around 60,000 cases and 2,000 deaths.Health officials said the reason for the low mortality rate was improvement in state’s intensive care infrastructure and expertise. “Now we have learnt from our experience and can handle critical patients in far better way than six months ago,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state’s nodal officer for Covid.He said the Health Department’s campaign to motivate people to approach hospitals as soon as possible after developing symptoms had yielded positive results.Following July, when just around 10,000 cases were reported, Covid cases started increasing massively and the state hit peak in September with around 60,000 cases. In the following months, the cases started declining. In October, the cases came down to almost 20,000. It consistently declined till the end of January when the number of cases came down to 6,754 and there were 153 deaths.In February, the cases started increasing suddenly. Last month, the state had reported as many as 8,706 cases and 216 deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-september-march-worst-with-55k-cases-981-deaths-in-punjab-232294
31-03-2021||Panchkula||BJP workers burn Punjab CM’s effigy||The BJP workers here today burnt the effigy of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to protest the assault on party MLA Arun Narang in the Malout area of Punjab on Saturday.Led by district president Ajay Sharma, the BJP workers gathered at the Sector 17-18 roundabout and raised slogans against the Punjab Government.Hitting out at the Congress-led Punjab Government Sharma said that the assault on elected representative was a shameful act.The Punjab Government failed to protect the MLA, he said, adding that Saturday’s incident proved that the protest the new agriculture laws was sponsored by the Congress and other political parties.Sharma said the Congress had stooped to cheap tactics as it foresees losing its political base in the state.He said the BJP would continue to protest against such incidents.Sharma said not only the Punjab BJP but every citizen of the country had criticized the attack on the MLA. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-workers-burn-punjab-cms-effigy-232392
31-03-2021||Vijay Mohan||Rainfall, storage in dams significantly below normal in northern region during March||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 30Rainfall over the region during spring season has been seriously deficient this year while the water level in crucial reservoirs located in the north too is significantly below normal.Data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) reveals that from March 1 to March 30 the deficiency was as high as 70 per cent in Punjab. In Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, the shortfall was 62 per cent each.During the aforementioned period, Punjab received 7.1 mm rain against the normal of 23.4 mm. Haryana recorded 4.4 mm against the normal of 11.8 mm while Himachal Pradesh received 41.7 mm against the normal of 108.9 mm for this duration.Bathinda, Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar were among the worst hit districts in Punjab, while Kangra, Hamirpur and Sirmaur remained the driest in Himachal Pradesh. On the other hand, a few districts in southern Haryana received excess rain in March, though the north-western parts of the state received little or no rain.An active western disturbance and its induced cyclonic circulation had caused fairly widespread rainfall snowfall and thunderstorms over western Himalayan region and Punjab during March 22–24, but according to the IMD, the precipitation was 5 per cent below normal.The weatherman has predicted that due to absence of any active western disturbance, rainfall activity is likely to below normal over northwest India during the first week of April, while maximum temperatures are expected to rise gradually by 4—6 degrees Celsius.As far as the water level in crucial dams is concerned, which is crucial for irrigation, domestic and industrial use as well as power generation, the present storage is reported to be 46 per cent below normal in Himachal Pradesh and 42 per cent below normal in Punjab.According to information released by the Central Water Commission (CWC), the present storage at Bhakra Dam that lies on the Sutlej in Himachal is just 20 per cent of the total reservoir capacity. The average storage at this dam at this time of the year was 38 per cent over the past 10 years.At Pong Dam on the Beas in Himachal, the present storage is 18 per cent of the total capacity as compared to the past 10-year average of 32 per cent, while at Thein Dam on the Ravi in Punjab it is 23 per cent against the 10-year average of 40 per cent, this time of the year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rainfall-storage-in-dams-significantly-below-normal-in-northern-region-during-march-232196
31-03-2021||---||Capt extends Covid curbs in Punjab till April 10, orders mobile vaccination centres in crowded places||Chandigarh, March 30As Covid cases and deaths continue to escalate, with the UK strain emerging the most prevalent in the state, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday ordered extension of curbs till April 10, while directing the Health Department to increase the number of vaccination sites to target the priority categories on urgent basis.Reviewing the Covid situation with the Chief Secretary and other top officials, the Chief Minister said all restrictions that were in place till March 31 will now remain in force till April 10, after which they would be again reviewed.The Chief Minister also ordered the launch of a vaccination drive in the prisons, in the wake of 40 women in Patiala’s Nabha Open Jail testing positive for Coronavirus.Expressing grave concern over the situation, Captain Amarinder asked Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan to issue the necessary directions for carrying out testing and vaccination in busy market areas along with other crowded places. He asked all DCs and Civil Surgeons to identify places where mobile Covid Vaccination Centres can be created, such as police lines, colleges and universities, bigger industrial units, bus stands, and railway stations, PRTC/ Punjab Roadways bus depots, market places, etc, to ramp up vaccination.All eligible govt employees, and other categories, which he had requested for inclusion in vaccine coverage (such as judges, teachers etc), should be facilitated in getting vaccination to the extent of being eligible on account of being over 45 years of age, said the Chief Minister. He directed pooling of resources available in districts with high number of cases for effective management of the pandemic and uptake of the vaccination.The latest data shows the UK strain of the virus to be the most prevalent in the state. While 326 of the 401 Covid positive samples sent initially to NCDC for genome sequencing were found positive for the UK variant, subsequently of the 95 samples sent to IGIB for genome sequencing, 85 samples were found to be positive for the samePrincipal Secretary Health and Family Welfare (PSHFW) shared the updated status of Covid pandemic and the status of vaccination of the eligible categories of beneficiaries. The meeting was informed that the positive cases and deaths were rising rapidly in some of the districts, with projections presented by CMC, Ludhiana, showing steep rise in the number of cases and peak around April 6.The number would be decreasing by mid or late May, 2021, as per the estimates, which suggest that Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala are expected to contribute more cases and positivity is likely to be high in the younger population of 40 years of age or less.DGP Dinkar Gupta apprised that since the last meeting when the decision to challan the covid protocol offenders along with RT-PCR testing was taken, 90,360 persons had been challaned and tested for Covid. He requested for a special vaccination drive in the police lines. While the availability of L2 and L3 beds in government as well as in private sectors seemed to be comfortable for now, there was need to increase the bed availability in some of the private hospitals which are treating critically-ill patients, the Chief Minister stressed.He also directed all districts to ramp up sampling in general and sampling of contacts of Covid positive patients in particular, increasing RAT to 30 per cent.Strict monitoring of home-isolation patients should be done, they should be transferred to the appropriate level of healthcare facilities if need be, directed the Chief Minister, asking all DCs and Civil Surgeons to ensure that no deaths occur in L2 facility as a rule, and there is early shifting of the patient to L3 facility once it is established that the patient needs critical care.All districts have also been asked to strengthen their teams so that the data entry of Covid sampling and transportation of samples to the designated Lab takes minimum time, and the result is made available within 24 hours.On the vaccination front, the Chief Minister directed that any photo ID shall be sufficient to approve the vaccination of eligible beneficiaries.All districts have been ordered to increase the number of vaccination centres by, including all health facilities up to the Sub-Centre level, dispensaries, Ayurvedic and Homoeopathic healthcare facilities and private empanelled hospitals.While 45+ age group shall be slated for vaccination from April 1, all the districts shall ensure that all health facilities do get started as Covid Vaccination Centres as early as possible and latest by March 31 with a view to understand the infrastructural bottlenecks, if any, so that there is smooth increase in the number of vaccination centres and the beneficiaries get hassle free vaccination experience.The Chief Minister further asked all DCs and Civil Surgeons to identify places where mobile Covid Vaccination Centres can be created, such as police lines, colleges and universities, bigger Industrial units, bus stands, and railway stations, PRTC/ Punjab Roadways bus depots, market places, etc, to ramp up vaccination.All districts have also been advised to motivate all HCWs and FLWs to get themselves vaccinated and those who do not get vaccinated, should be strictly directed to undergo Covid testing every week to ensure that they do not get infected and thereby spread infection to others, the Chief Secretary disclosed after the virtual meeting.The Chief Minister was assured that the Health department is ready to increase RT-PCR testing to 35,000 tests per day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-extends-covid-curbs-in-punjab-till-april-10-orders-mobile-vaccination-centres-in-crowded-places-232185
31-03-2021|| Amritsar||SGPC tables annual budget of Rs 912 crore||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Tuesday tabled an annual budget of Rs 912 crore for the fiscal year 2021-2022. During 2020-2021, the budget amounted to Rs 981 crore. SGPC general secretary presented the budget in the presence of Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh.SGPC also passed a resolution urging UNO to observe 2021 as an international Human Rights year to mark the 400th birth anniversary of ninth Sikh master Guru Teg Bahadur. It also urged the central government to declare his birth anniversary as ‘Religious Tolerance Day’, besides constructing a memorial on the lines of Virasat-E-Khalsa in his memory.The body condemned the passing of the three controversial farm laws that sparked protests by the farming community. It paid a tribute to those who had died during the agitation in the past four months. It urged the central government to repeal the law. SGPC urged the central government for reopening of Kartarpur Corridor which was closed down due to Covid.A judicial probe was demanded in the January 26 tractor rally incident.  The SGPC alleged that government agencies played a suspicious in the incident. It sought the immediate release of the Sikh youth and farmers arrested following the incident.The general house of SGPC also condemned the cancellation of Sikh Jatha to Pakistan to participate in the centenary of Saka Nankana Sahib at the eleventh hour. They termed it as an attack on the religious sentiments of the community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-tables-annual-budget-of-rs-912-crore-232179
31-03-2021||New Delhi||Is there any deal with China on WHO Covid report, asks Congress leader Manish Tewari||Congress leader Manish Tewari on Tuesday questioned Centre's silence on the WHO report that the coronavirus must have spread from bat to animals and then to humans and rejected all claims on it being leaked by a lab.Manish Tewari while talking to IANS alleged that China allowed proliferation of the virus and kept the world in the dark.He also questioned the joint WHO-China statement giving clean chit to China on the lab-leak on February 9 and allowing the disengagement of troops in Ladakh.Tewari alleged that when China first detected the virus in Wuhan institute of virology it locked its own cities but did not stop the international flights to curb the spread of virus.Tewari said that it is India's responsibility as the Chair of World Health Organisation's Executive Board to take the investigation into the lab leaked angle to its logical conclusion, he said, adding "I do not understand why the government is silent on it."In his tweet, he said, "Was this the Deal with China? As India Chairs the board of WHO do not object to whitewash of China's culpability in spreading COVID-19 & there would be disengagement in Ladakh? Time Line says it all 9-Feb Joint WHO-China Presser rubbishing Lab Leak."He further added that, "10th February 2021- Chinese Ministry of National Defence Senior Colonel Wu Qian announces disengagement on North South bank of Pangong - Tso. 11th February 2021 Rajnath Singh endorses China's statement in Rajya Sabha. Could this just be a coincidence? Highly Unlikely" India recorded 56,211 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, 17 per cent lower than the day before, taking the total tally to 1,20,95,855 on Tuesday.On Monday, the country recorded 68,020 cases, the highest single-day spike in daily new cases since October 11, last year.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/is-there-any-deal-with-china-on-who-covid-report-asks-congress-leader-manish-tewari-232165
31-03-2021||---||Punjabi singer Diljaan Singh killed in road accident near Amritsar||Amritsar, Tuesday 30Punjabi singer Diljaan Singh (31) died in a road accident at Jandiala Guru around 2 am this morning.The police officials at Jandiala Guru police station stated that he was heading toward Amritsar from Jalandhar in his Mahindra KUV 100 vehicle.When he reached near Jandiala his vehicle collided with a truck parked on roadside. He was rushed to a nearby private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Diljaan's wife and children are in Canada.He was a runner up in 'Sur Kshetra', a TV reality show in 2012. He also participated in 'Awaj Punjab di'.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh also expressed his condolences.Shocked at the tragic death of young and promising Punjabi singer Diljaan in a road accident earlier today. It is extremely sad to lose young lives like these on road. My condolences to the family, friends and fans. RIP! pic.twitter.com/ZLxQidrO5P||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-singer-diljaan-singh-killed-in-road-accident-near-amritsar-232149
31-03-2021||Mumbai||7 cops injured after Sikhs wielding swords attack them as they were denied permission to hold procession in Nanded gurdwara||Police have arrested 22 people on the charge of attempt to murder in connection with an attack on policemen by a mob of sword-wielding Sikhs in Nanded after they were denied permission to hold a public procession due to the COVID-19 pandemic, an official said on Tuesday.The Wazirabad police in Maharashtra’s Nanded district have identified and named 74 people in three FIRs registered in connection with Monday’s incident at the Sri Hazur Sahib gurdwara, and filed cases against over 500 unidentified people.The official said all the arrested accused and wanted persons have been booked on the charges of attempt to murder, rioting and under provisions of Arms Act.A viral video showed the sword-wielding mob barging out of the gurdwara, breaking the barricades put up by police and attacking the policemen.Seven policemen were injured and eight vehicles were damaged in the violence. The condition of one of the injured policemen was serious, the official said.The police were also trying to ascertain if anyone from the gurdwara committee had any role in the incident, he said.“We have arrested 22 people till now on charges of attempt to murder, rioting, and under provisions of the Arms Act and other sections. Around 74 people have been named in the FIRs, while search is on for others,” Deputy Inspector General of Police, Nanded Range, Nisar Tamboli told PTI.The officer on Monday said permission for the Hola Mohalla public procession was not granted due to the coronavirus pandemic.“The gurdwara committee was informed and they had assured us that they would abide by our directives and hold the event on the gurdwara premises,” he had said.However, when the Nishan Sahib was brought at the gate around 4 pm on Monday, several participants started arguing and over 300 youth stormed out of the gate, broke the barricades and began attacking the policeman, he had said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-cops-injured-after-sikhs-wielding-swords-attack-them-as-they-were-denied-permission-to-hold-procession-in-nanded-gurdwara-232142
