01-06-2021||GS Paul||In a first, Akal Takht to produce video documentary on Operation Bluestar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 1Thirty-seven years after Operation Bluestar, the Akal Takht has announced plans to make a documentary on the Army’s operation in June 1984.For the purpose, the officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has called up the surviving dramatis personae to submit their experience in a video format so that these could be compiled to recreate what happened inside the Golden Temple complex during those fateful days between June 1 and 10 in 1984.The idea behind was to have an authentic and credible account with the help of interviews with eyewitnesses, interrogation reports of the Army and the actual instructions about the Operation.Jathedar met an eyewitness Harwinder Singh Khalsa, a ‘Panth Sewak’ awardee by the Akal Takht, to know about his experience.“The Akal Takht aimed to gather the ‘first person account’ and record of the Army’s action at the instance of the then Centre government. It is believed that some startling facts were still to be explored. When I met Harwinder Khalsa, I came to know for the first time about the role played by the commorades, the conduct of the Armymen, how they were jailed and subjected to inhuman treatment,” he said.He told that the younger generation should know the truth about the armed struggle and the Army’s action. Besides those who were actively involved in the struggle, there were scores of common pilgrims who had nothing to do with it but were victimised during the operation. There was no evidence to certify the Army’s stance that the warnings were given for pilgrims to leave the Golden Temple complex before commencing their Operation.“This all should be put on record. I have appealed to those, who bore the brunt of this action and eyewitnesses, including the women, to approach Akal Takht so that their experience could be incorporated in the documentary that would be made and endorsed by the Akal Takht. They have been asked to record whatever they knew in a video clipping,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-a-first-akal-takht-to-produce-video-documentary-on-operation-bluestar-261788
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police arrests third suspected KTF operative||Punjab Police claimed to have arrested a suspected Khalistani operative who they believe was one of the main shooters involved in the murder of a follower of the Dera Sacha Sauda and the attempted murder of a priest on Tuesday---a development that comes close on the heels of the arrest of two operatives of the Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF).Kamaljeet Sharma, a resident of village Dala in Moga, was arrested by Moga Police from near village Nathuwala Jadid in Moga District and four .315 bore pistols with 10 live cartridges were recovered from his possession, Director General of Police (DGP) Punjab Dinkar Gupta said here on Tuesday.Police arrested two of his associates Lovepreet Singh and Ram Singh from Moga on May 22.Police claim the trio had been found acting on the directions of KTF’s Canada based chief, Hardeep Singh Nijjar, who has been notified as a ‘designated terrorist’ under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) by the central government.DGP Dinkar Gupta said that besides, Nijjar, three of their other KTF’s co-conspirators/masterminds, identified as Arshdip, Ramandip and Charanjit are hiding out in Surrey in Canada’s British Columbia.Punjab Police have been making all out efforts to deport them to India to face prosecution and criminal trial, said.Police said they also found motorcycles that were used in the murders of a Dera member in Bhagta Bhaika and the murder attempt made on the priest in Phillaur.  Police suspect that the three were also involved in the murders of gangster Sukha Lamme and the owner of a Moga retail store called ‘Supershine’ last year.Police claim preliminary investigations showed the suspects were wired money for the crimes through Hawala and Western Union money transfer from Canada.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-police-arrests-third-suspected-ktf-operative-261765
01-06-2021||New Delhi||Jalandhar-born Vice-Admiral Ravneet Singh assumes charge as Deputy Chief of Naval Staff||Vice-Admiral Ravneet Singh, Ati Vishisht Seva Medal (AVSM), and Nausena Medal (NM) holder, assumed charge as the Deputy Chief of Naval Staff on Tuesday.According to the Defence Ministry, he was commissioned into the Indian Navy on July 1, 1983, and specialised in aviation. The Flag Officer is a qualified flying instructor with Master Green instrument rating.He has flown HT-2, Kiran HJT 16, TS 11 Iskra, Hunter, Harrier Gr 3, Jet Provost, Chetak, Gazelle, Hawk, and Mig 29 KUB aircraft during his illustrious career.The Admiral has held various challenging Staff, Command, and Diplomatic assignments during his distinguished naval career, and has had wide-ranging experience onboard diverse platforms.He has commanded various frontline ships and Naval Air Squadrons including INS Himgiri, INS Ranvijay, INS Ranvir, INAS 551B, INAS 300 as well as the premier Air Base, INS Hansa. Additionally, he was also appointed as the Indian Defence Advisor for Kenya, Tanzania, and Seychelles, from 2005 to 2008.On promotion to Flag rank, he has held key assignments of Assistant Controller Carrier Project and Assistant Controller Warship Production and Acquisition at IHQ MoD(N), Flag Officer Goa Area/Flag Officer Naval Aviation at Goa, and Flag Officer Commanding Western Fleet at Mumbai, the ministry informed.In the rank of Vice-Admiral, the Flag Officer has tenanted the appointments of Chief of Staff at Headquarters Western Naval Command, Mumbai, Director General Project Seabird, and Chief of Personnel at IHQ MoD (N).The Admiral has undergone various courses in India and abroad, including the flying instructor courses at Tambaram, Staff Courses at DSSC Wellington, Harrier Conversion Courses at Royal Air Force Base, Withering UK and Project management Programme at IIM Ahmedabad".He was awarded commendation by the Chief of the Naval Staff in 2000 and has been decorated with the Nausena Medal (Gallantry) in 2004 and AVSM in 2017.He relieves Vice Admiral MS Pawar, a Param Vishisht Seva Medal (PVSM), AVSM, Vishisht Seva Medal (VSM) holder, who superannuated on May 31. — ANI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-born-vice-admiral-ravneet-singh-assumes-charge-as-deputy-chief-of-naval-staff-261753
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Congress' priorities have nothing to do with people: Harsimrat||Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Tuesday attacked the ruling Congress in Punjab, saying its government and leaders, instead of focusing on preventing deaths due to Covid, are trying to sort out "differences" in the party's state unit.The Congress has formed a three-member committee to resolve the infighting in the party's Punjab unit, and legislators and ministers are meeting the panel led by Rajya Sabha member Mallikarjun Kharge since Monday in Delhi.Instead of holding meetings in Delhi to sort out differences within @INCPunjab, focus should have been on preventing more #COVID deaths in the state! Shame that the Congress party's priorities have nothing to do with people! 2/2  "Instead of holding meetings in Delhi to sort out differences within @INCPunjab, focus should have been on preventing more #COVID deaths in the state!  Shame that the Congress party's priorities have nothing to do with people!” opposition Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Harsimrat Badal tweeted.Slamming the Amarinder Singh government over the number of Covid deaths, she also questioned Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over the state government's "dismal" performance."For 34 days continuously, the Covid toll in Punjab has remained at more than 100/day & mortality rate is DOUBLE the national average. Has @capt_amarinder taken a single step to mitigate the crisis? Why is @RahulGandhi quiet on his govt's dismal performance?" asked the SAD's Bathinda MP in another tweet.The committee, formed by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, also has AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former MP J P Aggarwal as its members.On Monday, it had met around 25 party leaders from Punjab, including state chief Sunil Jakhar and ministers.The panel has been tasked with addressing differences between Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu.Sidhu, who represents Amritsar East in the Punjab assembly, has been attacking his party's government in the state for failing to take action against those involved in the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib in 2015 and subsequent firing incidents in Kotkapura in Faridkot.     On Monday, the opposition in Punjab had slammed the Congress government, saying ministers and MLAs have "abandoned" the state's people in the midst of the Covid pandemic and gone to Delhi "to save their chairs". Punjab has so far registered 5,67,607 infections and 14,550 fatalities due to the viral disease. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-priorities-have-nothing-to-do-with-people-harsimrat-261745
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||For Punjab-born German poet, charity amidst pandemic lies at heart; here's what he said||As Punjab-born German writer and four-times Poet-Laureate, Rajvinder Singh, saw painful images of Covid-19 patients dying due to lack of oxygen or hospital beds in India, he instantly looked for ways to help.He got in touch with a Sikh shrine in Ghaziabad's Indirapuram that had started the "oxygen langar" for the needy people to save their lives and also with Delhi-based Shaheed Bhagat Singh Sewa Dal of Jatinder Singh Shunty of giving free of cost cremations or ambulance service. Singh told IANS over phone from Berlin on Tuesday that he immediately transferred whatever he had on his personal account to support the "oxygen langar". "Only afterwards I spoke to members of the Punjabi Association, Berlin of which I am President, many helped generously." He has single-handedly brought on board many Germans, particularly his Rotarians and Lions friends, to support these two initiatives—one of the 'oxygen langar' and another by Shunty. "All of them have been to India with me to further Indo-German Rotarian and Lions Dialogue which I have started a decade ago." Taking a clue from Guru Nanak's philosophy of dialogue, Singh, who was twice invited by German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier when he was the Foreign Minister during 2005-09 and 2013-17 to join him on his official visits to India, and he did accompany him, has put the socio-cultural exchange as central and indeed foundational to the larger cultural and socio-political understanding amongst various nations and political entities. "The Sikh social worldview teaches us to go beyond our personal 'self-ness' and care about the 'other-ness' as well," the poet and dubbing actor told IANS in an interview. "I am carrying the Sikh tenet of human contiguity of always praying for 'Sarbat da Bhala' (benevolence for all humanity) with me like I carry my physical features of being Indian," said Singh, whose writings are known to contain delightfully philosophical and intellectually motivating ideas. To promote an Indo-German dialogue amongst the youth, Rajvinder Singh had created Indo-German School Partnerships back in 2005 which are flourishing day by day and has brought them to India many times.  Later, as the volume grew bigger, they were brought under the auspices of German Foreign Ministry to ensure continuity and are attached now to the Max-Mueller Bhavan. "When these students heard of my initiative to help people in distress in India, they immediately decided to be part of this initiative and are actively on board now, and have spoken to their guest families they had stayed in Ghaziabad." Singh, who regularly gives creative writing workshops on Indo-German themes at schools, is glad to see the fruits of his inculcating these young students of feeling the pain of India living 8,000 km away. When asked about the practice of cremating other peoples' bodies, Singh, with close connection to his land of birth, said: "I support Shunty's benevolent act of offering a soothing balm to those who have lost their dear ones. He is upholding the principle that even in their passing, the humans are beings whose dignity ought to be respected and maintained." Feeling the pain of the pandemic, Charlotte Ueberholz, a 12th class student who came to India with Singh, said: "After the great time we experienced in India in 2019 with Mr Singh, it is terrible to see how people are faring there in the pandemic.  "We must draw our attention to the fact that in other countries people are in desperate need of vital help. Together we can change something." Added Luise Alius, a student of the 12th class who came to India when she was in her 10th class: "I'm 17, and I have been in active contact with India for two years now. "My stay in India was one of the most beautiful experiences of my life. I not only got to know Indian culture but made friends for life. To see wonderful people of India suffer in this pandemic is terrible for me. Ignorance should not be a reason not to act and show solidarity." — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/for-punjab-born-german-poet-charity-amidst-pandemic-lies-at-heart-heres-what-he-said-261741
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Government doctors observe black day to protest inaction against Ramdev||The Punjab Civil Medical Services Association (PCMSA) observed a black day on June 1 given the inaction by the government against self-styled health care expert Ramdev despite his various "derogatory, provocative and ill-intentioned statements".PCMS Doctors across the state wore black badges while on duty. State President Dr Gagandeep Singh, and other office-bearers, in a joint statement, said that this series of irresponsible statements show Ramdev's "utter lack of any respect for the law of the land"."The mockery of sacrifices by our fellow Covid warriors who met martyrdom fighting the pandemic is utterly unacceptable.Deliberate acts of public harm like vaccine denialism and promotion of unscientific remedies for COVID 19 endangers the very core of the long fight our country has been collectively fighting against this pandemic," said the statement.The PCMSA warned the government that inaction against such people not only demoralises front line warriors but also misguides the general public towards pseudoscience and superstitions."There seems a covert attempt to cover up the erratic supply and shortage of covid vaccine and failure to timely vaccinate the target population," said the statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/government-doctors-observe-black-day-to-protest-inaction-against-ramdev-261725
01-06-2021|| Mohali||Covid situation improving, Mohali administration removes odd-even restriction for shops||All shops can now open in Mohali district daily as the district administration has removed the odd-even restriction imposed in view of Covid for shopkeepers. Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the decision had been taken after a delegation of shopkeepers met him on Tuesday. He said as the Covid situation had improved in the district with minimum cases surfacing, all shops would remain open from 9 am to 5 pm. He said the directions had been given to the shopkeepers to observe Covid guidelines.Dayalan said private offices, which were functioning with 33 per cent staff, had now been allowed to increase their staff strength to 50 per cent.It is pertinent to mention here that about 12 weeks after the surge in the Covid wave, the Mohali district has witnessed 88 Covid positive cases. As many as 149 cases had surfaced on March 10.He said if the situation improved further, the restrictions would be eased to give relief to the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-situation-improving-mohali-administration-removes-odd-even-restriction-for-shops-261723
01-06-2021||New Delhi||3 farmers held in central Delhi for violating lockdown norms: Police||Police have arrested three farmers from central Delhi for allegedly violating lockdown norms, officials said on Tuesday.The three men, residents of Punjab, were arrested on Monday as they did not have movement passes, a senior police officer said. The farmers said they came to the Bangla Sahib Gurdwara at Connaught Place to pay obeisance and stayed there for two days, he added.They claimed that they were going to the Singhu border and did not have any intention to stage a protest in central Delhi, the officer said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-farmers-held-in-central-delhi-for-violating-lockdown-norms-police-261705
01-06-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Farmer’s timely help saves foot of four-year-old||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, May 31Had it not been farmer Amrik Singh’s timely support and swift action, four-year-old Diksha could have lost her foot forever. A daughter of a daily wager, she was on Saturday riding in an auto-rickshaw in Brindpur village near the RCF when she met with an accident in which her foot was severed.Amrik Singh, who happened to pass the road after working in his fields, saw a child’s shoe on the road and her severed foot just metres ahead. Vehicles were speeding down the busy Kapurthala-Sultanpur Lodhi road. He immediately picked up her foot and took it into his possession to save it from getting crushed by vehicles. He went home (which was just a few metres away), brought back his car, took along the girl and her two relatives and in 25 minutes reached a private hospital in Jalandhar for surgery.In the hospital, he made an advance payment of Rs 75,000 so that the medical procedure could be started at the earliest. While the accident took place at 11.25 am, the girl was rushed to hospital before noon. The surgery went on for six hours after which the doctors told the family that it went on well and the chances of a good recovery were bright.As her mother Sonia looks back at the two-day-old incident, she recalls, “Had it not been for the help of Amrik Singh, we would have been ruined.” She narrated the whole incident, “My uncle has expired. All my family members, including my mother-in-law and sisters-in-law and their children, were riding in an auto-rickshaw driven by my father-in-law when a truck coming from the opposite side passed by. Diksha was in my lap. Maybe her foot was hanging outside the auto that it got snapped and Diksha fell off it. We stopped and saw her sitting on the road by herself and thought she was safe. Our effort was more on stopping the trucker and taking on him, not realising what had actually happened. At this stage, Amrik Singh approached us with her foot in his hand. He drove my daughter and my mother-in-law to Jalandhar hospital in his car. By the time we followed him in the auto, the surgery had already started and he had already paid half the expenses.”Sonia says: “The only thing that worries me now is that the doctors have said that the cost of surgery is Rs 2 lakh and we need to pay another Rs 1.25 lakh. We have been told that the Ayushman card cannot be used for this treatment. So, we really do not know how things will work out.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-timely-help-saves-foot-of-four-year-old-261657
01-06-2021||---||Shops allowed to remain open till 5 pm in Patiala district||Patiala, May 31Traders in the district can heave a sigh of relief as the administration has now allowed them to run their businesses five days a week – Monday to Friday – from 9 am to 5 pm. The new regulations came into effect from today.The order came after a majority of traders reported losses due to the curbs put in place in view of Covid-19. The traders had also held a protest earlier this month demanding opening of markets.The new order has been issued for all essential and non-essential businesses.The officials though said the night curfew from 6 pm to 5 am on week days and weekend restrictions from 6 pm on Friday to 5 am on Monday would continue till June 10.Only medical services will be allowed during this time, they said.All restaurants, cafes, coffee shops, fast food outlets, dhabas, sweet shops and bakeries will be allowed to function. But they can only offer takeaway services (till 5 pm) and home delivery (till 9 pm). No dine-in will be allowed, said the officials.Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit said the courier companies and India Post would be able to deliver packages at home till 9 pm. However, delivery agents will need to carry valid curfew passes.The District Magistrate has also removed capping on seating capacity in private vehicles.A shopkeeper at Anardana Chowk said the relaxations would be beneficial as they could open their shops for a considerable time.Rakesh Gupta, president of the Patiala Beopar Mandal, said: “The relaxation will be beneficial but the timing should have been extended further as people do not venture out until evening hours during summer.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shops-allowed-to-remain-open-till-5-pm-in-patiala-district-261645
01-06-2021||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court permits import of ventilators||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 31Amidst an increasing number of Covid-19 cases, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has allowed the import of ventilators after holding that the denial of permission to bring in the life support systems was against the patients’ interests when deaths were taking place.Delay will be fatalThousands of people, who are lying admitted, are not getting oxygen or ventilators... any delay by the administration in providing the ventilators shall definitely result in fatalities. HC BenchThe Bench of Justice Jitendra Chauhan and Justice Vivek Puri added that the “State ought to have facilitated import of the ventilators” when thousands of people were lying in the hospitals. Noting that a petition on the issue was filed almost a year back, but the grievance was yet to be addressed, the Bench also described the “extreme technicality” as “highly deplorable” in difficult the times of pandemic.“Thousands of people, who are lying admitted, are not getting oxygen or ventilators, which is very vital for the treatment of Covid patients. The oxygen and ICUs are required here and now. Any delay by the administration in providing the ventilators shall definitely result into fatalities,” the Bench asserted.The direction and the observations came on a petition filed against the Union of India and other respondents by M/S SB Medical Systems. The Bench asserted the nation was witnessing a “huge number of deaths everyday” and “certain deaths have happened for want of ventilators”.“Therefore, we order that the import of ventilators in question be allowed without further delay, in case the same carry certification from the manufacturer”, the Bench added, while making it clear that the same were required to be inspected for quality.Elaborating, the Bench directed the petitioner to inform the competent authority within 24 hours of receiving the ventilators for quality inspection. This, the Bench clarified, was in the larger interest of the patients and to ensure that the ventilators were as per specifications prescribed by the competent authority.The authority, on receiving the information, would depute official concerned to determine whether the ventilators were fit to be utilized. In case the ventilators were found to be deficient as per the specifications laid down by the Government of India, the same would not be put to use. “It will be only after the certification by the competent authority, the ventilators in question be put to use,” the Bench asserted, while fixing the case for June 29.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-permits-import-of-ventilators-261566
01-06-2021||Abohar||Red dot on ‘Fateh’ kit capsules, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh takes note||On a representation received from Jain Samaj leaders over “Fateh kits” capsules bearing the red dot (non-vegetarian) marking, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today asked Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Husan Lal to look into the matter and take necessary action.Dr Pushpinder Muni of Shri Tarak Guru Jain Granthalya, Udaipur, had on Sunday written to the CM about the supply of multivitamins bearing the red dot marking in ‘Fateh kits’ being provided to Covid patients in Punjab.Muni claimed non-vegetarian multivitamin capsules were being supplied to patients. Vegetarian multivitamins were available in the market and the government needed to replace these and honour the religious sentiments of its citizens, he had said.Dr Sandeep Jain, convener, Vishwa Jain Sangathan, Punjab unit, too had sent a memorandum asserting the multivitamins had animal ingredients. “People who are vegetarian or vegan or intolerant to animal ingredients have no option. It amounts to hurting their religious sentiments. The Punjab Government must look into the matter and change the policy of supplying medicines, pictures of which had been taken in different districts,” he had said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/red-dot-on-fateh-kit-capsules-punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-takes-note-261568
01-06-2021||Sameer Singh||‘Illegal’ pathology labs mushroom in Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 31Amid the second wave of the pandemic which has claimed many lives, illegal pathology labs have started mushrooming in Bathinda district.With barely any check by the authorities concerned, illegal laboratories with unqualified staff are being set up in the city. Notably, a list of 50 illegal labs operating in Bathinda was given to the district Health Department by the Association of Pathologists and Microbiologists three years ago but the former allegedly did not initiate any action against these labs. The association representatives said inaction on the part of authorities led to opening up of several illegal labs.Moreover, with barely any check, these labs continue to fleece patients by charging them exorbitantly. A number of private pathology labs have come up near Civil Hospital, Mall Road, Amrik Singh Road, GT Road, Bibi Wala Road, Parasram Nagar, Multania Road and Partap Nagar.A senior member of the association said, “Since there is no proper licensing or regulation mechanism, not only there has been a substantial increase in number of illegal labs but they have also been minting money by charging arbitrarily amid the pandemic. The owners do not have the required degrees and majority of them just work for four to six months at a private lab and then start their own lab later.”Apart from Covid, cases of malaria and dengue have also started surfacing and a number of suspected patients are getting done medical tests from these private labs. Moreover, many labs have not displayed the rate list as instructed by the government. A renowned pathologist in the city said, “Accurate diagnosis of any disease is the first and most important step before treatment can be started but unqualified staff and inadequate medical equipment can result in wrong diagnosis, which may lead to wrong treatment. With illegal labs flourishing in the district, proper treatment of patients is not possible. In diagnostics, a person must have a degree in MLT or MD pathology, bio-chemistry or microbiology to run a pathology lab.”Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon, Civil Surgeon, Bathinda, said, “We have been conducting random checks at private labs.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/illegal-pathology-labs-mushroom-in-bathinda-261579
01-06-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar GMCH gets Oxygen plant worth Rs 1 cr||The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Amritsar claims it will be self-sufficient in medical oxygen supply for Covid-19 patients.Bathinda MP gives Rs1.5 cr for 2 plantsBathinda: MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Monday sanctioned Rs1.5 crore from her MPLAD funds for establishment of two pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants at Talwandi Sabo and Goniana to ensure adequate provision of oxygen for Covid patients in this regionEquipped with pressure swing absorption (PSA) technique, a state-of-the-art unit has been arranged through the DRDO under the PM Cares fund. Another one with the same capacity was being installed at the Government Medical College, Patiala.Costing around Rs 1 crore, the unit has a capacity to generate 1,000 litre medical oxygen per minute from atmospheric air on the hospital premises. Dr Rajiv Devgan, Principal of GMCH, Amritsar, said: “We have an arrangement of 16 MT liquid oxygen and the new generator will be an additional arrangement,” he said.Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni said ventilators and oxygen concentrators were available in sufficient number now.Two identical air-borne oxygen generation units worth Rs 1.94 crore are expected to be installed shortly in Vallah and a charitable hospital near the Shaheedan Sahib gurdwara. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-gmch-gets-oxygen-plant-worth-rs-1-cr-261580
01-06-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Sangrur: Nadampur PHC locked, staff get show-cause notice||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, May 31When the state is under medical emergency to prevent the further spread of Covid, the health staff posted at the Mini Primary Health Centre (PHC) at Nadampur, which caters to the needs of many villages, has locked the facility.No doc for yearSources in the Health Department said the Mini PHC at Nadampur had been without doctor since last June when the sole medical officer posted here was transferred.Exposes govt claimsThis sorry state of affairs belies the state government’s claim of ramping up health infrastructure. We demand strict action against the staff. - Kulwinder Singh, Nadampur ResidentOn Monday when area residents visited the centre to get medicine and consultation, they found it locked . After getting information from residents, some senior officials said they had issued show-cause notices to staff for locking the facility without any valid reasons.“When I went to PHC around 11.30 am, it was locked. Initially, I thought the staff could have gone to treat some patient or collect samples, but when none returned till 2 pm, I called the senior officials, who were unaware about it,” said Kulwinder Singh, a resident of Nadampur village.Some area residents demanded quick action against the erring staff. “My uncle has been suffering from fever for last two days. I had come here to get the help for his treatment. But since it’s locked, we are compelled to visit hospitals in Bhawanigarh or Patiala,” said Sukhpal Singh, another resident of area. Terming the news shocking, Krantikari Pendu Mazdoor Union leader Pargat Kalajhaar said the CM must immediately take quick action to ensure better health facilities.Bhawanigarh Senior Medical Officer Dr Mahesh Kumar said he had issued show cause notices to all staff members posted at Nadampur PHC. “We do not have any doctor there, but four employees posted there should not have closed the centre. We would conduct a thorough inquiry and take strict action” said the SMO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-nadampur-phc-locked-staff-get-show-cause-notice-261581
01-06-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda hospital barred from admitting Covid patients||A private hospital in Bathinda has been found guilty of violating the orders issued by the Deputy Commissioner. The hospital admitted 33 patients despite being allotted only seven beds for level-3 patients.As per the orders issued by DC B Srinivasan, Global Hospital has been completely barred from admitting new patients of Covid from June 1 to July 31, in view of the shortcomings found during an inspection conducted by the civil surgeon.He said the admitted patients would be treated by the management. The civil surgeon found shortcomings at Global Hospital while reviewing the complaints of overcharging. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-hospital-barred-from-admitting-covid-patients-261586
01-06-2021||---||Recovery rate improves in Muktsar district||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, May 31The Covid recovery rate has improved in Muktsar district in the last one month.As many as 1,570 patients recovered from Covid between May 2 and 9, while 1,784 recoveries were seen between May 9 and 16.Similarly, 2,366 patients recovered between May 16 and 23 and 2,895 got well between May 23 and 30 in the district. Health Department officials, however, warned people against lowering their guard. “We need to be careful and must follow the Covid protocol. If we fail to exercise precaution, the Covid graph may go up again,” said an official.They further said the number of fresh cases and deaths too had gone down, but the positivity rate was still high in villages of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/recovery-rate-improves-in-muktsar-district-261590
01-06-2021||Faridkot||Government hospitals lack basic facilities: SAD||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday inaugurated an air-conditioned 25-bed Covid centre at an engineering college near here. Established by the Youth Akali Dal (YAD), the centre will provide every service, including medicines, oxygen and food, to patients for free. The centre’s expesnes would be borne by the SAD president.“People are hesitating to go to government hospitals as they lack basic facilities. They face confusion as to whom they should contact when they are infected with the virus,” he said.The government needed to open Covid care centres in all blocks, he said. “It is unfortunate that Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and his ministerial colleagues instead of mitigating patients’ suffering, were engaged in a bitter internal feud,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/government-hospitals-lack-basic-facilities-sad-261591
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mobile Covid care unit set up to  serve remote villages of Mohali||The Punjab Government has set up a mobile Covid care unit (MCCU) in partnership with a private hotel chain to serve the remote villages of Mohali, said Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu while flagging off the service in the district today.Pilot projectSidhu said the MCCU would be equipped with 20 beds, 10 oxygen concentrators, on-site medical and nursing staff and medical supplies. The SAS Nagar administration will be the first to run the unit in the state. After the success of the pilot project, a few more would be pressed into service, he said.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the district administration had arranged medical and nursing staff along with supplies and consumables, while Treebo Hotels had set up a mobile base camp with oxygen concentrators. The camp would offer free service, including medication, to rural residents.“The unit aims at ensuring free quality care for the vulnerable sections. As part of our corporate responsibility, it is our duty to stand by our fellow citizens in these difficult times,” said Puneet Puri, vice president (business development), of the company. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mobile-covid-care-unit-set-up-to-serve-remote-villages-of-mohali-261594
01-06-2021||Manav Mander||Asha workers: Besides virus, unsung warriors battle govt apathy||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 31Accredited Social Health Activists (Ashas) are working on ground zero since the outbreak of the pandemic, but they are complaining of not being provided adequate safety equipment. Incidents of violence against Asha workers are common and daily nearly 10 of them are testing positive in the state.No gloves, gownsWe’ve been demanding sanitiser, gloves, gowns, N95 masks, etc. for long. Many haven’t even received the Rs2,500 honorarium. Kirandeep Kaur, President, Ashas’ AssociationWill ensure supplyIf anybody is not getting enough safety equipment, they should bring it to my notice. Payments are pending at some stations, but these will be released soon. Balbir S Sidhu, Health MnisterTo make the things worse, Asha workers in some districts have not received their Covid-related remuneration since 2020. In some districts, including Ludhiana, payments have been pending for the past two to three months.These unsung warriors are doing additional duties like spreading awareness on Covid, screening patients, keeping a check on migrant workers’ inflow, reporting suspected cases and delivering ‘Fateh’ kits to patients on their doorstep. Their regular duties include checking immunisation schedule of babies and pregnant women, distributing iron tablets among women, checking TB patients periodically, etc.Kirandeep Kaur, president, Asha Workers and Facilitators’ Association, says they are now on the duty of conducting surveys in the villages and meeting Covid positive patients as well.“Besides a 100 ml bottle of sanitiser and few masks, no safety equipment has been provided to us. We have been demanding that each worker should be given at least a liter of sanitiser, a box of N95 masks, gloves, a gown, oximeter and a steamer,” says Kiran.Asha workers have been promised Rs 2,500 honorarium for extra Covid work they are doing. “In some districts, Asha workers have not received payments since 2020,” says she.Rajvir Kaur, another Asha worker, says it is very difficult to convince villagers to go for testing or come out of their houses for the survey. “They hurl abuses and sometimes even throw stones at us as they as they think we will make them test positive,” says Rajvir.She further says in addition to this, the fear of coming in contact with the virus always looms large over them. Two Asha workers from Punjab have lost their lives while many test positive daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asha-workers-besides-virus-unsung-warriors-battle-govt-apathy-261598
01-06-2021||---||Ropar IIT develops temp data logger for ferrying vaccines||Tribune News ServiceRopar, May 31The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Ropar has developed a first of its kind IoT device, AmbiTag, to record real-time ambient temperature during the transportation of perishable products. It would secure transportation of vaccines, perishable items, blood and body organs.Device waterproofAmbiTag is waterproof and monitors ambient temperature during the transportation of vaccines, medicines, blood samples, food and dairy products, meat products and animal semen. Amit Bhatti, ScratchnestDeveloped by researchers at the IIT-Ropar Technology Innovation Hub - Agriculture and Water Technology Development Hub (AWaDH) and its Startup ScratchNest founded by four students of the institute, the device would be made available at production cost for Covid vaccine.Amit Bhatti, one of the founders and directors of ScratchNest, said AmbiTag was waterproof and monitored ambient temperature during the transportation of vaccines, medicines, blood samples, food and dairy products, meat products, and animal semen. So far, such devices were being imported from other countries.Dr Suman Kumar, coordinator of the IoT Systems Domain at AWaDH, said that AmbiTag is a USB-shaped device that continuously records the temperature of its immediate surroundings from -40 to +80 degrees in any time zone for a full 90 days on a single charge. “Most of the similar devices available in the international market record data only for a duration of 30- 60 days. AmbiTag has a range of inbuilt features to customise logging intervals, time zone and alarms,” he added.It generates an alert when the temperature goes beyond a pre-set limit. The AmbiTag temperature data log also advises the user whether the transported item is usable or the cold chain has been compromised during the transportation. This information is critical particularly for vaccines, organs and blood transportation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-iit-develops-temp-data-logger-for-ferrying-vaccines-261599
01-06-2021||Faridkot||Faridkot NGO donates 30 oxygen concentrators  to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College||World Vision India, Faridkot, donated 30 oxygen concentrators to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital on Monday. Addition of these 30 concentrators has taken the total number of such machines to 100 in the college. The five-litre capacity oxygen concentrators will be used in isolation wards.These can also be utilised in post Covid-ward facilities and for those in home isolation, said Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice Chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences. The government had decided that these could also be given on loan to patients, the VC said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faridkot-ngo-donates-30-oxygen-concentrators-to-guru-gobind-singh-medical-college-261600
01-06-2021||Aman Sood||Labour shortage looms as paddy sowing begins on June 10||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 31Amid labour shortage and depleting underground water table, farmers are all geared up to sow paddy when the season begins officially on June 10.Delay process to save water tableThe Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) claims that they are all prepared to meet the expected power demand target of 14,000 MW with an eight-hour supply for tube wells daily. “The field staff has been informed and uninterrupted power supply to the agriculture sector will be provided,” said PSPCL Chairman A Venu Prasad.With over 15 lakh tubewells extracting water for paddy, experts say groundwater was falling by 1 metre per annum and early sowing of paddy would only “put extra pressure on the soil”. In 2018, reports submitted to the NGT by an expert committee suggested that if transplantation was delayed by a week, the state could meet the demand for water of its 3 crore population for over 3.5 years.As per the committee, there are 14.5 lakh tubewells in the state. Every tubewell pumps out 30.24-lakh litre water per week with an average eight hours of power supply. This means that 14.5 lakh tubewells pump out 4,385-billion litre water per week, which will be sufficient to meet the state’s demand for 3.64 years if transplantation is delayed by a week.The PPCB, too, advocated that the government should amend the Punjab Preservation of Sub-Soil Water Act, 2009, and make June 25 as the official date for paddy sowing. In 2014, the state had issued an advisory to farmers to not transplant saplings before June 15. Earlier, the date was June 1, which was postponed to ensure more dependency on rainwater.The area under paddy was around 26 lakh hectares in 2005 but increased to 30.5 lakh hectares in 2016 and delaying paddy transplantation to June 15 helped in checking the depleting water table.Already over 108 blocks in the state are under the “dark zone” (where water table has fallen drastically) because of the increasing area under paddy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/labour-shortage-looms-as-paddy-sowing-begins-on-june-10-261601
01-06-2021||Ropar||Barring village near Morinda, power supply back in Ropar district||Forty-eight hours after a storm uprooted many trees and electricity poles and damaged several transformers in the region, the authorities said power had been restored in a majority of affected areas. Punjab State Power Corporation superintending engineer Satwinder Singh Sehmbi said the power supply would be restored in the remaining residential areas by tomorrow. “However, electricity will not be supplied to a large number of tube wells for the next few days as many transformers have been damaged,” he said.Thousands of residents of Morinda, Chamkaur Sahib and surrounding villages had to spend sleepless night after power supply was disrupted due to the storm late on Saturday night. Sehmbi said during the last two days, they were able to restore power supply to all residential areas barring Datarpur village near Morinda. The residents of Datarpur would also start getting electricity from tomorrow as the work on its power lines was going on in full swing, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/barring-village-near-morinda-power-supply-back-in-ropar-district-261602
01-06-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Farmers opt for DSR as workers seek higher pay||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 31As the skilled labour for paddy transplantation jacked up rates to unprecedented levels this year, farmers plan to go in for direct seeding of rice (DSR) in a major way.Though there is no shortage of labour, as was the case amid lockdown last year, they are demanding anything around Rs 3,500-4,500 per acre for the job. Last year, 5.50 lakh hectare was cultivated through DSR. Though initially the government had proposed to double the area to be sown through DSR, high labour rates are now forcing farmers to ditch the traditional paddy transplantation, raising hopes that almost 40-50 per cent area may be cultivated through DSR.Harwinder Singh of Rajgarh village says he will do direct seeding on 15 acres of his 29 acres under paddy. “There is no shortage of labour but the money they are asking for is too much. So, I have decided to opt for DSR. It has two-fold benefit — it is cheaper and also saves groundwater,” he said.Lachchman Singh from Bhikhi village in Mansa said even the Punjab-based labour was demanding high charges. “I am using DSR on 50 acres I will cultivate this season. If I were to use the labour for transplantation of paddy, I would end up spending Rs 2 lakh just as labour charges (at Rs 4,000 per acre). But with DSR, my expenses would be cut to just Rs 60,000 (at Rs 1,200 per acre),” he said.Anirudh Tewari, Financial Commissioner, Development, said the government had made a lot of efforts to promote DSR. “We organised 1,000 camps (one camp for every 10 villages) before the paddy-sowing season began to inform farmers about saving financial and environmental resources. Last year, DSR was used on 20 per cent of the area, but this year, the technology is likely to be used on 40-50 per cent,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-opt-for-dsr-as-workers-seek-higher-pay-261603
01-06-2021||Bathinda||Offered low price for fodder, growers protest||Farmers under the banner of BKU-Sidhupur today protested against traders for allegedly trying to buy their green fodder at low prices at the grain market here. Announcing a five-day strike, they raised slogans against the traders.They alleged that they were being forced to sell their produce for as low as Rs 100 per quintal.Jaswinder Singh, a farmer from Nehianwala, said: “Traders are publicly looting farmers. While green fodder is usually sold for a minimum of Rs 350 per quintal, we were shocked when they quoted the price as low as Rs 100 for the same quantity.”When traders said they would buy it from mandis on the outskirts, farmers said they won’t allow them to. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/offered-low-price-for-fodder-growers-protest-261604
01-06-2021||---||Killing of Jagraon ASIs: Fugitive Jaipal Bhullar’s accomplice held||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 31The Punjab Police nabbed an aide of drug smuggler Jaipal Bhullar, a fugitive wanted for the killing of CIA ASIs Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh at the Jagraon grain market on May 15.Linked to murder of two ASIsA police department spokesperson said in an intelligence-led operation, a team deputed by Ludhiana CP Rakesh Agrawal arrested Lucky Rajput, alias Lucky, from the Khanpur canal bridge. Lucky, a resident of Ludhiana, had aided the ASIs’ killers in fleeing the state. The police have recovered a .32 country-made pistol, three cartridges, two bikes and a Fiat Punto car from his possession. This comes two days after the police arrested two of the main suspects in the Jagraon case — Darshan Singh, and Baljinder Singh, alias Babbi — from Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh. Lucky, who was convicted in a 2008 murder case, is also wanted by the Dehlon police in a car snatching case of November 2020. Lucky disclosed to the police that he along with Jaipal Bhullar, Darshan Singh and Baljinder Singh had snatched an i10 car at gunpoint from the Malerkotla road (under Dehlon police station) in November 2020. The spokesperson said during his time at the Ludhiana Central Jail, Lucky came in contact with Darshan and Baljinder, who later introduced him to gangster-turned-drug smuggler Jaipal Bhullar.Whenever Jaipal used to pass through Ludhiana, Lucky and Darshan would escort his vehicle in their car to give advance information about police checkpoints en route, he said. Lucky was also wanted in the kidnapping case of Mohali resident Pritpal Singh, alias Bobby. On December 12, 2020, Lucky had thrashed Bobby and demanded Rs 1.5 crore in ransom. However, after Bobby’s condition deteriorated, Lucky and his associates left the victim in his car after snatching Rs 86,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/killing-of-jagraon-asis-fugitive-jaipal-bhullars-accomplice-held-261605
01-06-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Kotkapura case: SIT grills ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini for 4 hrs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 31Just under a month of its formation, the ADGP LK Yadav-led special investigation team into the Kotkapura police firing incident today questioned former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini for four hours at the Punjab Police Officers’ Institute, Chandigarh.Asked to reveal sequence of eventsIn the marathon sitting, the SIT, including Ludhiana Police Commissioner Rakesh Aggarwal and Faridkot DIG Surjit Singh, also questioned then ADGP (Law and Order) Rohit Chaudhary and ADGP IPS Sahota, who headed the Bureau of Investigation at the time of the incident in October 2015.The questioning came on a day when several Congress MLAs and ministers appeared before a party committee in New Delhi to resolve the ongoing discontent within the state unit. A number of MLAs, led by former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, had been targeting the Capt Amarinder government over its failure to provide justice in the Kotkpaura and Behbal Kalan police firing and sacrilege incidents. The state government is under pressure to show result in the police investigation due to legal and political necessities. The High Court has ordered completion of probe within six months. Politically, the state government is under pressure both from Opposition and Congress leaders.The SIT had summoned the officials yesterday. A notice was pasted outside the Saini’s residence yesterday, said sources.A number of other officials, including suspended IG Paramraj Singh Umranangal, were also present at the institute. The SIT, however, could not question them as the quizzing of the three top officials went on for hours. While Chaudhary and Sahota were questioned for around three hours, Saini was grilled for nearly four hours. He would be summoned again as he did not respond to all queries, said a source. Sources said the officials were asked about the sequence of events leading to the firing, besides who gave the orders to open fire at the mob that was protesting a series of sacrilege incidents. The SIT had last week questioned a number of civilians associated with the case. They were listed as private witnesses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-case-sit-grills-ex-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini-for-4-hrs-261606
01-06-2021||Jalandhar||ED top shot Niranjan Singh retires, faces probe as ‘parting gift’||On a day Deputy Director, Enforcement Directorate, Niranjan Singh, who handled high-profile drug cases and summoned bigwigs, including Punjab ministers, retired from service, the Ministry of Finance today issued a chargesheet and ordered a probe against him for allegedly failing to maintain integrity and misusing office over a case related to singer Diljit Dosanjh. The ED functions under the ministry.Could have achieved moreI believe I could have achieved more. I had desired better results out of all my investigations. - Niranjan Singh, Deputy Director (retd), EDAs per the chargesheet, the officer was investigating a FEMA case against the singer when he reportedly got him to perform at the wedding of his daughter in November 2016. Then ED Joint Director Girish Bali has been made a witness in the case. Niranjan had allegedly paid the singer Rs 2 lakh, which was quite less given the prevailing amount charged by singers, it claims.Niranjan said the singer had performed just for an hour and he paid him by cheque. A tough taskmaster, Niranjan during his stint with the ED handled some key cases, including those involving alleged drug lord Raja Kandola, dismissed DSP Jagdish Bhola and some Akali leaders. He even summoned CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s son Raninder Singh twice to his office in the alleged FEMA case. Niranjan remained in the news for taking on his own department. As many as 20 junior team members were transferred on the orders of his seniors, reportedly hampering the pace of investigation. He had approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court for a stay on his own transfer while investigating a drugs case. Amid pressure, Niranjan quit his office three years ago, only to rejoin later. On his next plans, he said: “A complete no to politics. I will also not join any other job.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ed-top-shot-niranjan-singh-retires-faces-probe-as-parting-gift-261608
01-06-2021||Patiala||Banker’s bag with Rs3.5 lakh snatched in Patiala||Unidentified men allegedly snatched a bag containing Rs 3.5 lakh in cash from a bank employee who was returning to his branch after collecting cash from shops here today.The police have registered a case against unidentified suspects and are investigating the matter.According to the police, Ashok Kumar, a bank employee, was on his way to the bank on the Sirhind road when a man allegedly snatched his bag with cash hanging from his shoulder. A case under Section 379-B of the IPC had been registered. This comes a day after bike-borne men snatched a gold chain from a woman out on an evening walk with toddler.DSP City Saurabh Jindal said they were investigating the two incidents. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bankers-bag-with-rs3-5-lakh-snatched-in-patiala-261609
01-06-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Mandi Gobindgarh: Two youths drown in Bhakra canal||Two youths who had gone out for a bath in the Bhakra canal drowned near Sondha village in Mandi Gobindgarh late last evening.Official’s car found with suicide noteRopar: The car of a Haryana health inspector, Davinder Singh Monga, missing for the past week from Sirsa, was found abandoned at Bharatgarh village on Monday. A suicide note was recovered by the police. In the note, Monga alleged three persons, including a doctor, had been harassing him due to which he was ending his life. TNSThe incident happened when a youth from a group of six sitting on the bank slipped and fell into the canal. One of his friends tried to reach out but he too fell into the water. They were washed away by the strong current.The deceased have been identified as Vikas, 18, and Vishal, 19, both students of class 12 and residents of Mandi Gobindgarh. The police later deployed divers to recover the bodies, but to no avail. Sirhind police station SHO GS Sikand said the six youths were working in local industrial units. Last evening, they had gone to Sondha village for a bath after completing their shifts at respective industrial units. They were sitting on the stairs when Vikas fell into the canal. Vishal tried to hold him by climbing down some stairs, but he too was swept away. A police team reached the scene and pressed divers into service to locate the two. They were unsuccessful in retrieving any bodies till the filing of the report. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mandi-gobindgarh-two-youths-drown-in-bhakra-canal-261610
01-06-2021||Mohali||Non-construction fee slashed to 50%||In a major relief to the allottees who could not start construction on their plots in stipulated time, the Department of Housing and Urban Development has halved the non-construction fee.Besides, the earlier provision of calculating penalty half yearly in such cases has been replaced with monthly calculation of penalty. The decision is applicable to properties of various nature such as residential, commercial, institutional, industrial, housing societies, private builders, etc. An amendment to this effect has been made in the Punjab Regional and Town Planning and Development Act, 1995.A spokesman for the department said it was deliberated that the non-construction fee being charged from the allottees was quite high and due to this at times allottees who were not able to start construction because of any genuine reason were compelled to resale the property, though he or she had purchased that with the intention of building the same. He said the decision would benefit thousands of allottees who were not able to commence construction on their plots on estates developed by government and development authorities within three years.He said while the reduced non-construction fee would encourage the allottees to deposit the dues and start construction, it in turn would also contribute to early and timely development of the project, which otherwise could not be completed because of allottees being unable to set up their establishments.He said as far as the payment of non-construction fee was concerned, in case of residential and other allotted properties except commercial sites, the allottees would be required to pay the fee on the prevalent reserve price of plots or sites in the vicinity and would not have to pay any interest.However, in case of commercial sites, the fee would be calculated on auctioned or allotment price. Delayed payment in such cases would attract compounded interest at the rate of 7 per cent per annum. The reduced non-construction charges have come into effect from April 16 and for period before it, old charges shall be applicable. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/non-construction-fee-slashed-to-50-261611
01-06-2021||Hoshiarpur||Gangster, 2 aides nabbed from Uttar Pradesh||The district police have nabbed an ‘A’ category gangster, Gurjinder Singh, alias Sonu Road Majaria, along with two of his accomplices from Tilhar city of Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh. A cache of arms and ammunition has been seized from them.Addressing a press conference, SSP Navjot Singh Mahal claimed the arrests were made after weeks of investigation and a three-day special operation.The other accused have been identified as Yogesh Kumar of Darapur and Gurjit Singh of Tayii village in Uttar Pradesh. The police have recovered seven illegal pistols and 18 live cartridges from their possession.SSP Mahal said Sonu was a close associate of notorious gangster Preet Sekhon. They had met in the Kapurthala jail and were allegedly involved in the killing of Dharminder Singh of Kunail village in Garhshankar and Jagga Bouncer at Amritsar.The SSP said based on a tip-off and subsequent investigation, a team headed by SP (PBI) Mandeep Singh apprehended Sonu and his two accomplices from Uttar Pradesh after a three-day special operation.He said Majara was active in the Doaba and Malwa regions of the state. He was facing five criminal cases in Garhshankar and onein Amritsar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gangster-2-aides-nabbed-from-uttar-pradesh-261612
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu shifts base to Patiala, creates ripples||Amid infighting in the Punjab Congress, shifting the base of his political activity from Amritsar to Patiala by Navjot Singh Sidhu has become all the more relevant.Panel keen on ‘adjusting’ Navjot Sidhu: Punjab ministersPatiala is the home turf of CM Capt Amarinder Singh, who recently challenged Sidhu to prove his mettle by contesting against him from the district. After Sidhu repeatedly attacked the Chief Minister over sacrilege and delay in justice to families of the victims of police firing, the CM had hit back, stating that Sidhu was in talks with the AAP and was damaging the Congress by taking on his government.A senior party leader, Sidhu shifting base to Patiala had political ramifications as it symbolised the cricketer-turned-politician taking on the Chief Minister on the latter’s home turf and offering himself as an alternative. Otherwise, Sidhu has been openly questioning the Chief Minister on the unfulfilled poll promises. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-shifts-base-to-patiala-creates-ripples-261613
01-06-2021||---||Morinda resident swept away saving woman||Tribune News ServiceMorinda, May 31A 40-year-old local resident was swept away when he jumped into the Bhakra canal to save a woman here today.The deceased has been identified as Birju.Local SHO Vijay Kumar said a woman, belonging to a Khamano village in Fathegarh Sahib, attempted suicide by jumping into the canal near Kajouli village.Birju, who was passing by, jumped into the canal to save her. Though he pushed her towards the bank, a strong current swept him away, said the SHO. The woman was admitted to a private hospital where she was stated to be out of danger.While the police were yet to register the woman’s statement, she reportedly told people at the spot she was being harassed by her in-laws due to which she decided to end her life, added the SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/morinda-resident-swept-away-saving-woman-261614
01-06-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Engineering College Principal assumes charge||Dr Lakhvir Singh today took over as the new Principal of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Engineering College, Fatehgarh Sahib. Dr Lakhveer Singh thanked SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur and all the trust members for his appointment and said he would strive to take the college to new heights with the help of the college staff. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/baba-banda-singh-bahadur-engineering-college-principal-assumes-charge-261529
01-06-2021||Aditi Tandon and Rajmeet Singh||Panel keen on ‘adjusting’  Navjot Sidhu: Punjab ministers||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi/ Chandigarh, May 31The AICC panel set up to strengthen party’s Punjab unit ahead of the Assembly elections began discussions with key stakeholders today. The committee, led by Mallikarjun Kharge, met 25 leaders, among them state unit chief Sunil Jakhar, ministers OP Soni, Brahm Mohindra, Rana Sodhi and Sukhjinder Randhawa and legislators Pawan Adia and Raj Kumar Verka.Navjot Sidhu shifts base to Patiala, creates ripplesThe panel aims to conclude deliberations by the weekend and submit a report to the party president for the final call on solutions to resolve the rift between CM Capt Amarinder Singh and his former Cabinet colleague Navjot Singh Sidhu.A section of ministers claimed “accommodating” Sidhu appeared high on the panel’s agenda. A combative Jakhar, after a 15-minute meeting, said, “We hope the committee takes note of certain leaders who gunned for their own government when hooch tragedy struck the Chief Minister’s constituency but are now silent on the illicit liquor bottling plant in Badal village.”A section of MLAs and ministers, including some from the CM’s camp, reportedly spoke against Captain’s coterie and claimed that bureaucracy, not elected representatives, called the shots in the state. Some spoke of CM’s “inaccessibility.” Dalit leaders flagged “under-representation”. A section of MLAs pointed out the delay in ensuring justice to the kin of victims killed in the Kotkapura police firing, sources said.Another said a resolution could include appointment of more than one deputy CM, one of them being Sidhu and the other probably from the Dalit community. Senior Dalit MLA Verka hinted: “There will be good news for Punjab Dalits soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/panel-keen-on-adjusting-navjot-sidhu-punjab-ministers-261295
