02-06-2021||Chandigarh||2,281 new Covid cases in Punjab, 99 more die||Punjab on Wednesday reported 2,281 fresh cases of the novel coronavirus, raising the tally to 5,71,970, according to a medical bulletin.With 99 more fatalities, the toll from Covid-19 climbed to 14,748 in the state, the bulletin said.In the last 24 hours, nine new deaths were reported from Fazilka, eight each from Patiala and Mohali and seven each from Amritsar, Ferozepur, Sangrur and Moga.The number of active cases dropped to 31,133 from 33,444 on Tuesday.Ludhiana reported 285 new cases, followed by 224 in Jalandhar, 180 in Bathinda and 153 in Mohali.The state’s Covid positivity rate marginally dropped to 3.33 from 3.69 per cent the day before.With 4,426 recoveries from the infection, the recovery count reached 5,26,089, according to the bulletin.There are 300 critical Covid patients who are on ventilator support, 791 other critical patients and 3,887 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 93,93,735 samples have been collected for COVID-19 testing so far in the state, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-281-new-covid-cases-in-punjab-99-more-die-262389
02-06-2021||New Delhi||Punjab Congress rift: Panel meets party’s former state chiefs, MPs||The Congress committee set up to resolve factionalism in the party’s Punjab unit on Wednesday met former state chiefs and some MPs, who are learnt to have raised issues related to governance in the state.Sources said some leaders also demanded that the organisation in Punjab be set right ahead of the 2022 assembly elections.Among the leaders who met the panel on Wednesday were former Congress Punjab chiefs Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, Pratap Singh Bajwa, Shamsher Singh Dullo, Mohinder Singh Kaypee and H S Hanspal.The panel, chaired by Mallikarjun Kharge, also met party MPs Preneet Kaur, Manish Tewari and Jasbir Singh Gill ‘Dimpa’.The sources said the committee—constituted by Congress president Sonia Gandhi—will meet Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh in a day or two. Amarinder Singh is likely to be in the national capital on Thursday, they said.The three-member panel, which has former MP JP Agarwal and All India Congress Committee general secretary Harish Rawat as its members, was formed amid an open war of words between Amarinder Singh and his former cabinet colleague Navjot Singh Sidhu.Sidhu, who represents Amritsar East in the Punjab assembly, has been attacking his party’s government in the state for failing to take action against those involved in the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib in 2015 and subsequent firing incidents in Kotkapura in Faridkot.The sources said former Punjab Congress chief Dullo is learnt to have sought the party’s “cleansing” and more accessibility of the chief minister.Some party MLAs from Punjab also met the three-member panel and they include Balbir Sidhu, Raminder Awla, Nathu Ram, Kushaldeep Dhillon, Harjot Kamal, Sunil Datti, Fateh Bajwa, Kuljit Nagra, Parminder Pinki, Sukhpal Bhullar and Dalbir Singh Goldy.Dullo is learnt to have backed for an overhaul of the party unit in the state and alleged that the party has been inactive ever since the Congress came to power in the state.He reportedly told the panel that the Congress must be revived and traditional and loyal Congressmen be promoted.The panel has been holding discussions with party leaders from the state since Monday and will wind up its deliberations by Friday. It will submit its report by the weekend.Sources said the panel is tasked with not just ending factionalism but also accommodating Sidhu in the government.Sidhu along with others may be elevated to rank of deputy chief minister. But all decisions will be taken only after consultations with the chief minister, they said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-rift-panel-meets-partys-former-state-chiefs-mps-262386
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Cabinet approves creation of Malerkotla as 23rd district||The Punjab Cabinet on Wednesday gave formal approval to the creation of Malerkotla as the state’s 23rd district.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had announced the creation of a new district of Malerkotla, carving the state’s Muslim-majority town from Sangrur district, on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr on May 14.The cabinet meeting, chaired by Singh, was held here on Wednesday.The cabinet also gave its go-ahead for upgrading Amargarh, which was part of the Malerkotla sub-division, as sub-division or tehsil.Malerkotla district would now consist of three sub-divisions—Malerkotla, Ahmedgarh and Amargarh, according to an official statement.A total of 192 villages will be included in Malerkotla district.The cabinet authorised the chief minister to approve the creation of new posts for offices of 12 departments which include police, rural development and panchayats, social justice and minorities, agriculture and farmer welfare, social security and women and child development, health, education (primary and secondary).  — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cabinet-approves-creation-of-malerkotla-as-23rd-district-262347
02-06-2021||GS Paul||Yet again, ‘missing’ posters of Navjot Sidhu emerge in Amritsar East constituency||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 2“Missing” posters of the Congress leader, Navjot Singh Sidhu, have surfaced in the East constituency represented by him as an MLA.A reward of Rs 50,000, too, has been assured to anyone who gives information about him.An NGO, Shaheed Baba Deep Singh Sewa Society, has put up these posters titled as ‘Gumshuda Di Talaash’ near Jauda Phatak in Rasoolpur Kalar area, where the train tragedy had occurred in October 2018 during Dusehra festivities that had killed scores of people.Sidhu had announced to adopt the families of this area only whose breadwinners lost lives in the train catastrophe, but never fulfilled it.Anil Vashisht, the NGO head, said: “The mounds of garbage, broken roads, filthy water ponds speak volumes about the MLA’s careless attitude towards the residents. The voters had showed faith in him and elected him multiple times as MP and MLA.”He said that the people of the East constituency were eagerly waiting for him to visit them during the trying times of Covid crisis, but in vain.“Amritsar residents have showered their blessings on him and his wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu many times, which took them to occupy plum political posts, but what have they done in return? Just nothing! We promise to give Rs 50,000 to anyone who traces him,” he said.Another resident Deepak sarcastically said that people should now ‘thoko taali” for getting him a seat in Assembly and in return they got ‘Baba Jee ka Thulu”.“Sidhu is more inclined to grab the ‘seat’ than caring about ‘development’ work. We have been forced to live in a hell-like situation and he left us in lurch for their political motives,” he alleged. This was not the first time Sidhu's ‘missing’ posters were put up here. Earlier, in September 2009 also, when he represented the Amritsar Parliamentary seat, similar posters were pasted by the Congress leaders then.Rather, an online complaint of ‘missing MP” with the police was also registered by Congress leader Dr Raj Kumar Verka. He was engaged with the TV channels as cricket commentator and comedy shows and moved frequently to New Delhi and Mumbai.In August 2013, and July 2019, too, identical 'missing' posters of the MLA was spotted across Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/yet-again-missing-posters-of-navjot-sidhu-emerge-in-amritsar-east-constituency-262293
02-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Dharmendra's Wednesday morning looks like this; shares garden, farmhouse view||Veteran actor Dharmendra on Wednesday posted a new clip from his farmhouse. The clip gives a tour of the property and the gardens.Along with this, we also see a happy Dharmendra getting an almond hair oil massage."Good Morning Friends. Almond oil massage is good in the morning I am doing it regularly," he wrote in a tweet.Good Morning 🌞 Friends. Almond oil massage 💆‍♀️ is good in the morning 👍 I am doing it regularly 🤗 pic.twitter.com/DRscPuCiQZ  In the clip, large bushes of bougainvillea could be seen with golden hues of the sun rising behind distant hills.A short glimpse of the farmhouse is also shown. The verandah is full of colourful flowers and plants, with a seating area near the door.Dharmendra's fans also wished him a good morning."Good morning my LORD DHARAM SIR Thanks For Sharing this Lovely video of yours. Keep sharing this kind of lovely videos with us.. LOVE YOU VERY VERY MUCH. TAKE CARE OF YOURSELF," wrote one."Good morning sir, aapne to farmhouse bahut sundar bana diya hai, bahut achha nazara hai, bilkul alag shanti bhara mahaul , butterfly or ye birds ki aawaz, adbhut (You made a really pretty farmhouse. Such beautiful views with peaceful atmosphere and sounds of birds and butterflies. Wonderful)," wrote another.Dharmendra's farm is in Lonavala near Mumbai. While his family—wife Hema Malini, sons Sunny and Bobby and daughters Ahana and Esha—stay in the city, he prefers to be at the farmhouse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dharmendras-wednesday-morning-looks-like-this-shares-garden-farmhouse-view-262286
02-06-2021||---||‘Remain hydrated amid heat wave’||Nawanshahr, June 1Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal has appealed to the residents of the district to take necessary precautions to avoid falling ill because of the heat wave during the scorching heat.A list has been released which says if you are not thirsty during summer, you should drink as much water as possible. Likewise, airy, light and light-coloured khadi clothes should be preferred, one must go out with the head covered and keep a water bottle along.Dr Shena Aggarwal said that people must consume ORS solution, lassi, rice water, lemon water, etc, and in case of symptoms of heat stroke such as weakness, drowsiness, headache, runny nose, sweating and seizures, a doctor should be contacted immediately.She said it was important to protect not only the people but also the animals from the heat, for which the breeders were advised to keep their animals in shade and bring maximum amount of water.In addition, keeping homes cool, using curtains, and opening windows at night can protect against heat. Similarly, the use of a fan and bathing more than once a day with cold water can also prevent the effects of heatstroke.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/remain-hydrated-amid-heat-wave-262229
02-06-2021||---||Jalandhar Administration comes to 4-year-old girl’s aid||Jalandhar, June 1In a relief to the family of a four-year-old girl whose foot was severed in a road accident in Kapurthala on Monday, DC Ghanshyam Thori on Tuesday assured complete financial assistance for her treatment by paying Rs 1 lakh to the hospital along with sponsoring medicinal expenditure from the Red Cross Society. However, treatment worth Rs 50,000 has been insured through the Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana.Jalandhar Tribune on Monday carried a story on the 4-year-old accident victim, Diksha, and highlighted the problems that her family was facing. Her foot was reattached by doctors after six hours of surgery. Thori said the family members had also approached the administration for assistance as the victim’s father was a daily wager and could not afford treatment expenses.The DC said some relatives of the victim approached him seeking help as the cost of plastic surgery to reattach her severed foot was Rs 2 lakh, which her family could not afford. He said the District Red Cross Society was asked to pay Rs 1 lakh to Joshi Hospital, where treatment of the girl was under way. He assured the family of bearing any additional expenditure so that the family did not face any problem.Hailing the efforts of the Jalandhar administration, Raj Kumar Chaudhary, a social activist, stated that he had brought the incident to the knowledge of the Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, through a WhatsApp group, which the administration had formed to connect with the NGOs.He added that acting swiftly on their request, the DC immediately approved financial assistance for the affected family, besides ensuring treatment worth Rs 50,000 under the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-administration-comes-to-4-year-old-girls-aid-262221
02-06-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Nothing more tragic than losing parents to Covid at young age||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 1Speak to anyone and you only get to hear stories of loss and despair. People have lost their loved ones to this global catastrophe and are going through a lot. In all this melee, children are the worst affected, as they are losing their parents at such young age.One such family from Chhokra village in Jalandhar is coping with the loss of their beloved family member due to Covid. Baljeet Kaur, a housewife, succumbed to the virus and left behind a 12-year-old son and 18-year-old daughter. Kaur was their strength and the family’s backbone. Jaspal Singh, Kaur’s husband, who works in an agriculture workshop and repairs machines, said life is not the same anymore, especially for his 12-year-old son Navjot Singh, who comes under the ‘intellectual disability’ category, after his mother’s death. Singh said his son doesn’t have major problems, but still is ‘slow’ compared to others.“Ever since his mother died, he keeps remembering her. He was also dependent on her for studies and other works. His mother used to sit with him during online classes because he would face difficulty while understanding online,” he said, adding that both shared a special bond. Now, his elder daughter does the job. She sits with him and teaches and guides him in his studies.Jaspal said after his wife’s death, he realised that a mother’s void can never be filled. He said Baljeet died 17 days after she was admitted to a hospital in Ludhiana. “Her health deteriorated and doctors couldn’t save her life,” he said, adding that people must take care of themselves because those who lose their family members understand the pain deeply.In another heart-wrenching incident from Ladra village, two children — aged 7 and 3 — lost their father to Covid. As per the information, the father had some trouble finding a job amid the pandemic and this was troubling him. He died in the month of March.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nothing-more-tragic-than-losing-parents-to-covid-at-young-age-262219
02-06-2021||---||Another storm disrupts power supply in Punjab||Patiala, June 1A thunderstorm hit the region for the second time in as many days on Monday, snapping power supply to several parts of Punjab. Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) officials are still working to restore power to many areas.Cotton fields, orchards inundated in AboharAbohar: Hailstorm and rain caused a widespread damage in Abohar, Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh on Monday night. Three breaches occurred in different canals, inundating recently sown cotton fields and fruit orchards spread over hundreds of acres across the region. Besides uprooting hundreds of trees, the hailstorm damaged solar panels at various places. Power supply was disrupted in many areas. OCThundershowers and strong wind snapped off power lines in parts of Fazilka, Muktsar, Bathinda, Barnala, Moga, Sangrur, Patiala, Mansa, Ludhiana and Fatehgarh Sahib, officials said.Electricity poles were reportedly damaged in many villages across the districts. Various educational institutions in Fatehgarh Sahb, including SGGS World University and BBSB Engineering College, were without power. Though the electricity supply had been restored to major parts of the district, residents complained that customer care centres and PSPCL officials were not responding to their calls. Surinder Singh Bains, Executive Engineer, PSPCL, Fatehgarh Sahib, said officials were trying to rectify the faults.“Around 10 pm on Monday, the power load of whole Punjab touched a low of 3,400 MW, which meant that most of the state faced almost a blackout-like situation. This low load in peak summer is alarming. Usually, 3,000 MW is the load during the peak winter in December and January,” a top PSPCL official said. “Our officials are working hard in the field, but due to high-velocity winds, our field staff is finding it hard to rectify the problem,” an official said.Later, senior PSPCL officials said after restoring supply to most cities in Punjab, work was under way to resume power to villages. “All officers in the field are working tirelessly as the high winds for two days have caused ample damage,” they said. Meanwhile, the PSEB Engineers’ Association announced its “Work to rules protest” from June 1. “No engineer will work beyond his normal duty hours, including in power breakdown cases. Engineers will not perform the duties of subordinate staff and will perform their duty as per their present place of posting,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/another-storm-disrupts-power-supply-in-punjab-262087
02-06-2021||Patiala||Patiala Doppler radar defunct following snag||The Doppler weather radar at the Patiala centre of the Indian Meteorological Department has been down for the past three days. Heavy rain and high-velocity winds on Sunday and Monday lashed the region, toppling over a number of trees and electricity poles.Protesters’ tents uprooted in SangrurSangrur: The storm on Monday night uprooted tents of protesting ETT and TET teachers and farmers while the PSPCL also suffered huge losses here. Later, the protesters again pegged their tents at the spot. Sources in the PSPCL said the storm affected 950 electricity poles and damaged 55 transformers in Sangrur, Sunam, Khanauri, Lehra and other areas. “In total, the storm caused Rs 1-crore damage to the PSPCL. We have restored electricity to 90 per cent areas,” said RK Mittal, Superintendent Engineer, PSPCL, Sangrur. TNSDoppler radars are remote sensing instruments used to determine the structure of storms and help predict their severity. A senior official on Tuesday shared information regarding expected strong winds and intense rain in the Chandigarh region along with Rupnagar, Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur, Amritsar, Pathankot and Gurdaspur.Met officials said a technical fault was identified at 4 am on Saturday. “We have been trying to fix it. This can take a few days as the spare parts are delivered from outside the district,” Amit Kumar, head, Doppler weather radar (DWR), Patiala said. He added the radar provided information about the motion, intensity and height of hydrometeors in a 300-km range. The IMD has forecast a spell or two of rain or thundershowers on Wednesday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-doppler-radar-defunct-following-snag-262091
02-06-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda AIIMS forms black fungus task force||To tackle increasing cases of black fungus (mucormycosis), a mucor task force has been formed by AIIMS, Bathinda. Two patients have already been operated upon, while 10 are under treatment at the institution.Dr DK Singh, Director, AIIMS, Bathinda, said: “In the present scenario, those detected with mucormycosis need the utmost and swift treatment. A mucor task force has been formed, which operated upon two patients on the very first day. Both the surgeries have been successful. We are ready to help more patients from other districts as well.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-aiims-forms-black-fungus-task-force-262095
02-06-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Sacrilege to avenge Dera Sacha Sauda head’s insult, says SIT||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 1Six years after the first ‘bir’ of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village as part of a series of over 170 sacrilege incidents in Punjab, the IG SPS Parmar-led Special Investigation Team (SIT) has reaffirmed that followers of the Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda had carried out the incidents to “avenge an alleged disrespect to dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim”.Plan & executionAn official note on the probe indicates that the dera followers led by Mohinder Pal Singh Bittu (later killed by gangsters in a Nabha jail) and his associates carried out the sacrilege incidents.The accused include Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny Kanda; Shakti Singh; Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola; Baljit Singh; Nishan Singh; Pardeep Singh, alias Raju Dhodhi; Randeep Singh, alias Neela, and a few others. Barring Neela, other accused were arrested by Parmar’s SIT on May 16 this year in an operation called “Surgical Strikes”.The note has accepted that the recent arrests had not been easy. The accused had already gone through various probe agencies and had approached different legal channels to evade arrest in the past six years. The pressure was intense because besides the Opposition, several top Congress leaders were pointing fingers at its own government.Interestingly, the list includes the same group of dera followers as accused as were mentioned in the first SIT led by DIG Ranbir Singh Khatra. The Khatra report was not upheld by the government. Even the CBI did not accept involvement of the dera followers. It, in fact, filed a closure report.In January this year, the Punjab and Haryana High Court dissolved the Khatra-led SIT. The Punjab Government appointed IG SPS Parmar as the head of the team with DIG Khatra and anti-terror expert AIG Rajinder Singh Sohal as members.The note said the genesis of the chain of sacrilege events began during a “deewan” (religious congregation) by Sikh preacher Harjinder Singh Manjhi in Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village in early 2015. He exhorted people to leave the Dera Sacha Sauda sect. Sikhism underlines Guru Granth Sahib as the living Guru and not any human being as dera followers practised. This incited the dera men, especially Mohinder Pal Singh Bittu, who led a conspiracy to take revenge.Bittu’s trusted man Sukhjinder alias Sunny Kanda stole a “bir” of Guru Granth Sahib from a gurdwara in Burj Jawahar Wala. Sunny wrote the blasphemous posters against Sikhism and scattered the torn pages of Guru Granth Sahib in Bargari village. Sunny and Shakti later gave the remaining part of the torn “bir” to Bittu. Raju Dhodhi threw about 100 torn pages of the “bir” into a canal.Calling them “Surgical Strikes”, the arrests were meticulously planned as part of a swift, secret and simultaneous operation. The operation was planned to avoid giving time to the accused to evade arrest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-to-avenge-dera-sacha-sauda-heads-insult-says-sit-262097
02-06-2021||---||Bargari stir from July 1 if ‘justice not delivered’||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, June 1As the justice in three sacrilege incidents and two police firing cases of 2015 in the district remained evasive for the past six years, leaders of various Sikh religious-cum-political groups today announced to resume their agitation at Bargari on July 1 if the government failed to do justice in the next 30 days.Move SC: YAD to CMSequence of eventsJune 1, 2015 ‘Saroop’ of Guru Granth Sahib goes missing in Burj Jawahar Singh Wala, FaridkotSept 24 Posters with derogatory language against the holy book found in BargariOct 12 Several pages of Guru Granth Sahib found strewn in BargariOct 14 Police open fire at protesters, killing twoTo mark the anniversary of the theft of a “saroop” of Guru Granth Sahib from a gurdwara in Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village of Faridkot on June 1, 2015, various Sikh and AAP party leaders today reached the gurdwara, accusing the state government of denying justice in the sacrilege and police firing cases.Accusing the state government of taking no action against the erring police officials who killed two innocent Sikh protesters on October 14, 2015, and not solving the mystery around the theft and desecration of “bir” of Sri Guru Granth Sahib, those speaking at the occasion alleged that all these incidents were part of a well-planned conspiracy. Leaders alleged that the Congress was deliberately soft-pedalling these emotive and religious issues. “Justice delayed is justice denied,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bargari-stir-from-july-1-if-justice-not-delivered-262098
02-06-2021||Balwant Garg||Sacrilege: Fresh handwriting sample of accused taken||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, June 1To negate a report of the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) of the CBI in which the agency had given a clean chit to all three prime accused of sacrilege incidents, the SIT of the Punjab Police today collected the handwriting samples of Sukhjinder Singh alias Sunny, accused of writing the blasphemous posters, in the court of Judicial Magistrate Ist Class (JMIC), Faridkot.The CFSL, in its report dated August 28, 2018, had claimed that the handwriting on the posters did not match with any of the suspects — Mohinder Pal, alias Bittu; Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny; Shakti Singh and eight others in the Burj Jawahar Singh Wala and Bargari sacrilege incidents.However, claiming that the CBI did not properly compare the handwritings of the accused with that on the posters, an SIT official today approached the JMIC court here, seeking to collect a sample of Sukhjinder’s handwriting.Before the investigation in the sacrilege cases was transferred to the SIT in January this year on the orders of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, it was being investigated by the CBI.Besides giving a clean chit to the accused in the writing of sacrilegious posters, the CBI’s CFSL had found all the accused as “truthful” in their polygraph test.While the new SIT arrested six Dera Sacha Sauda followers on May 16, the accused are relying on the CBI report, which had given them a clean chit.Nearly 75 persons underwent various tests, including forensic psychological assessment, handwriting, polygraph (lie detection test), palm/finger prints examination, layered voice analysis tests in CFSL between September 2016 and August 2018 during the investigation in three sacrilege incidents at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala between June and October, 2015.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-fresh-handwriting-sample-of-accused-taken-262099
02-06-2021||Abohar||Farmers plan stir against Abohar MLA Arun Narang||Farmer organisations have decided to stage a dharna outside BJP MLA Arun Narang’s Gaushala Road House on June 5.Narang has been keeping a low profile after he was thrashed by a gathering in Malout on March 27 when he was to address mediapersons to highlight the “failures” of the state government. He was recently distributed face masks inside a gaushala and attended a brief function also.The decision was taken at a meeting attended by senior members of the Jamhuri Kisan Sabha; BKU Ekta Ugrahan, Sidhpur, Rajewal and Lakhowal; Krantikari Kisan Union; Kulhind Kisan Sabha; All-India Kisan Sabha; Azad Kisan Morcha; Technical Services Union; Mechanical Technical Union; Tola Dhanak Mazdoor Union; Usari Union; and Revolutionary Farmers Union.Farmers said Narang had promised to inform the BJP high command about the farmers’ resentment over the farm laws, but he had done nothing in this regard. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-plan-stir-against-abohar-mla-arun-narang-262100
02-06-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Congress likely to get new Punjab affairs in charge||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 1As Punjab Congress leaders and a three-member panel appointed by party president Sonia Gandhi hold parleys to resolve infighting, the party’s organisational setup in the state is likely to see a change of guard with Harish Rawat making way for a new Punjab affairs in charge.AICC general secretary Rawat, who is a former Uttarakhand CM, is keen on focussing on the Assembly elections in his state, scheduled around the time when Punjab goes to the polls early next year. Sources say he is likely to be the party’s CM face in Uttarakhand.Rawat’s appointment as Congress’ state affairs in charge in place of Asha Kumari in September last year was seen as a big boost for the anti-Capt Amarinder camp. A Congress veteran, Rawat was tasked with bringing all factions together, especially bridging the rift between the Chief Minister and his former Cabinet colleague Navjot Singh Sidhu.The new party affairs in charge is likely to be someone already conversant with the dynamics of Punjab politics, who could strike a balance between different factions.Rajasthan revenue minister Harish Chaudhary, a former secretary, Punjab affairs in charge, during the 2017 Assembly elections, is among the names doing the rounds for the post.Party sources say amid infighting over delay in arrest of those involved in sacrilege cases and justice to families of police firing cases, former party president Rahul Gandhi is personally intervening after some of the ministers and MLA approached him through different channels.“Reacting to the distress calls by state leaders, Chaudhary’s services were used by Gandhi to take feedback from ministers and MLAs,” said a minister privy to the development. Some leaders camping in Delhi are learnt to have again talked to Gandhi.Based on the feedback being given by Punjab leaders to the panel, a large churning in the Punjab Congress and government was expected as most of the leaders had said it was not a Captain Amarinder versus Navjot Singh battle, but an issue-based fight for the survival of the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-likely-to-get-new-punjab-affairs-in-charge-262102
02-06-2021||---||Govt jobs for sons of 4 Punjab MLAs on cards||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 1Even as certain Congress ministers and MLAs have been crying foul over retired officials being adjusted in government authorities, the present infighting in the Punjab Congress has opened doors of hope for at least four MLAs, including a sitting minister, to get their sons adjusted in government jobs.Cabinet meet todayThe Punjab Cabinet is scheduled to meet on Wednesday through videoconferencing to clear the appointment of MLAs Rakesh Pandey and Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa’s sons as Tehsildar and DSP, respectively, on compassionate grounds by tweaking the rules.Amid a hue and cry over under representation to Dalit leaders, sons of at least two Dalit leaders, a sitting minister and a legislator from the Malwa region, are hopeful of being appointed in the office of the Advocate General (AG), Punjab.The Punjab Cabinet is scheduled to meet tomorrow through videoconferencing to clear the appointment of legislators Rakesh Pandey and Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa’s sons as Tehsildar and Deputy Superintedent of Police (DSP), respectively, on compassionate grounds by tweaking the rules.Sources in the government said the Home Department had recommended the appointment of Bajwa’s son Arjun Partap Bajwa as a sub-inspector, citing objection that the job on compassionate grounds could be offered if the job seeker was dependent on the person losing life or was financially poor. The Home Department is learnt to have also pointed out the contents of the FIR regarding the killing of MLA Bajwa’s father in a terrorist attack in 1987. MLA Pandey’s father Joginder Pal Pandey was killed in Ludhiana. The MLA’s son Bhisham Pandey’s case was for appointment as a tehsildar.Meanwhile, the Cabinet is expected to take a call on the implementation of the 6th pay panel recommendations regarding nearly 20 per cent hike in salaries and pensions of Punjab Government employees. Implementing the recommendations will put an extra expenditure of Rs 35,000 crore on the state exchequer. With the commission recommending an over two-fold increase in salaries of all employees from January 1, 2016, the Cabinet is expected to take a call on giving the increased salary from this year onwards and paying the arrears in installments in the next five years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-jobs-for-sons-of-4-punjab-mlas-on-cards-262103
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Doctors across Punjab protest inaction against Ramdev||In protest against government’s inaction against yoga guru Ramdev, doctors led by Punjab Civil Medical Services Association (PCMSA) today observed black day across the state.Recently, Ramdev had allegedly given derogatory and provocative statements against the medical fraternity. PCMSA president Dr Gagandeep Singh said a series of irresponsible statements showed Ramdev’s lack of respect for the law of the land. “The mockery of sacrifices of our fellow Covid warriors who died fighting the pandemic is unacceptable,” he said.Deliberate acts of public harm like vaccine denialism and promotion of unscientific remedies for Covid-19 endanger the core of the long fight against the pandemic, the PCMSA said.It warned the government that inaction against such people not only demoralises frontline warriors, but also pushes the public towards pseudoscience and superstitions. “There seems to be a covert attempt to coverup the erratic supply and shortage of Covid vaccine and the failure to timely vaccinate the target population,” said Dr Gagandeep Shergill, senior vice-president of the association. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doctors-across-punjab-protest-inaction-against-ramdev-262105
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||No space, 19 LMT  wheat stored at ‘vulnerable’ sites||A bumper wheat crop this year, when Punjab has once again regained its position as the top wheat producer in the country, has brought along with it storage woes for government agencies.Punjab has procured a record 132.15 lakh metric tonne wheat in the rabi marketing season that ended on May 13. The initial euphoria over once again regaining its position at the top in wheat production, pipping Madhya Pradesh to the second position, however, was short-lived, as the agencies are now scrambling for safe storage space.Information available from the Food Corporation of India’s Punjab office shows that 19 lakh metric tonne of wheat is stored in “vulnerable locations” as there is no scientific storage space to store it. This is because the movement of foodgrain from Punjab to the recipient states is rather slow.Officials in the FCI say they have moved 15 LMT wheat to other states and almost 10 LMT of rice out of Punjab. This is the reason the wheat stored in vulnerable locations is almost half of what it was stored on similar locations last year. “But we are working on moving more grain out of the state, which will help us store the entire wheat stock in scientific storage,” an official said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-space-19-lmt-wheat-stored-at-vulnerable-sites-262106
02-06-2021||Fazilka||Poor flowering leaves kinnow growers in Fazilka worried||Horticulturists are apprehensive of low yield of kinnow due to poor flowering in the district which is one of the largest kinnow producing belts in the region.Production may decline by 50%There is an apprehension that kinnow production will dip likely by more than 50 per cent this year. I hope farmers will be compensated as they may get higher price due to less crop. Sushil Periwal, kinnow growerThere is more than one reason for poor flowering. Tajinder Singh, Deputy Director (Horticulture), said the fluctuation in temperature was one of the reasons for the present situation. He said all of sudden temperature rose during the flowering stage in February and March, resulting in poor flowering.A producer of kinnow at Khippanwali village, Sushil Periwal, who is also a recipient of several state awards in quality production of the fruit, said there was apprehension that production would likely dip by more than 50 per cent this year. He said orchardists witnessed bumper crop last year and after the bumper crop, the yield often declined the next year. He hoped that farmers would be compensated as they might get higher price due to less crop. The crop would hit the market in December.Sources said kinnow was cultivated on 36,000 hectares in the district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poor-flowering-leaves-kinnow-growers-in-fazilka-worried-262108
02-06-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh to aid of 13-yr-old  paper bag seller||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, June 1Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has sent a cheque for Rs 2 lakh for the family of Lehra-based 13-year-old girl, who caught the district administration’s attention while selling paper bags to earn a livelihood.After the Sangrur administration’s report, the Chief Minister intervened and ensured quick financial aid to the girl’s family and also gave a contractual job to the girl’s mother. He also directed officers concerned to provide all other required assistance to the family.Sangrur Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ramvir said Lehragaga SDM Promod Singla had handed over the cheque to the family in Lehra. “After getting information about the family’s plight, we prepared a detailed report in the last week of May. After the Chief Minister’s quick intervention, the girl’s mother has also been given a contractual job at the Lehragaga Municipal Council so that family could earn their living respectfully. Besides, on the Chief Minister’s directions, a case for a pucca house for the family has also been forwarded to the Lehragaga MC and directions have been issued to the authorities concerned to take the action on the file on priority,” said the Deputy Commissioner.The girl’s father has been ill and at home for the past many years. Her mother is a homemaker. “We are thankful to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and all his officers, who acted quickly to help us. Hopefully things would take a turn for better in future,” said the family members after getting the cheque.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-to-aid-of-13-yr-old-paper-bag-seller-262109
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||SC panel puts Punjab on notice over promotions||The National Commission for Scheduled Castes has issued a notice to the government over non-adherence of reservation policy while promoting police officers from the PPS to IPS.This comes close on the heels of certain Congress Dalit leaders pointing out underrepresentation of Dalits during IAS and IPS officers’ postings. Commission chairman Vijay Sampla had on April 7 said 24 Punjab Police Service (PPS) officers were promoted to the Indian Police Service (IPS) cadre but none was from the Scheduled Caste.Sushil Kumar, a PPS officer posted as the Commandant, 1st IRB, had also informed the commission about non-adherence of the reservation policy. The commission has sought a reply within 15 days listing facts and information on the action taken. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-panel-puts-punjab-on-notice-over-promotions-262111
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Teachers’ exam result declared||The government has announced the results of the test conducted on April 11 for the recruitment of teachers in meritorious schools.A spokesperson for the School Education Department said the Directorate of Education Recruitment would recruit 67 lecturers and 13 DPEs in subjects of biology, physics, maths, chemistry, Punjabi and English in meritorious schools. The result had been uploaded after resolving the objections of the candidates related to ‘answer key’ and the candidates can see the results by logging in with their IDs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/teachers-exam-result-declared-262112
02-06-2021||Bathinda||Jobless protest in Bathinda||The joint front of unemployed youth staged a protest and burnt an effigy of the state government over its alleged failure in fulfilling its pre-poll promises and giving them jobs.The union representatives said meetings scheduled with the government were cancelled on numerous occasions and now they had decided to gherao the Moti Mahal residence of the CM in Patiala on June 8. Notably, members of the front have been sitting on an indefinite dharna outside the Education Minister’s residence since December 31. After the panel meeting with the government on May 31 remained inconsequential, they decided to protest on June 1. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-protest-in-bathinda-262113
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Test schedule for posts of teacher||The Directorate of Education Recruitment has issued a schedule for the recruitment of teachers for various posts.A spokesperson for the School Education Department said an advertisement was issued on March 31 for the recruitment in the master cadre (border area) under the door-to-door employment scheme. Accordingly, 518 posts of science, 380 posts of English and 395 posts of maths teachers will be filled. Similarly, an advertisement was issued on May 17 to fill 90 backlog posts in the physically handicapped category. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/test-schedule-for-posts-of-teacher-262114
02-06-2021||---||Another KTF man held in Moga, pistols seized||Tribune News ServiceMoga, June 1Close on the heels of the arrest of two operatives of the Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF), the Punjab Police have also nabbed their third accomplice Kamaljeet Sharma, alias Kamal, who is involved in the murder of a dera follower, a Moga businessman and Sukha Lamme, and the firing on a priest in KTF chief Hardeep Nijjar’s village.Accused of murderMoga SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said Kamaljeet Sharma, alias Kamal, received funding via hawala and Western Union from his Canada-based associates in lieu of committing murders and firing on a priestKamal, a resident of Dala village in Moga, was arrested near Nathuwala Jadid village in the district. Four .315-bore pistols with 10 live cartridges were recovered from his possession, DGP Dinkar Gupta said on Tuesday. On May 22, two associates of Kamal — Lovepreet Singh, alias Ravi, and Ram Singh, alias Sonu — were arrested from Moga.The trio had been found acting on the directions of the Canada-based KTF chief, who has been notified as a ‘designated terrorist’ under theUnlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA).The DGP said besides Nijjar, three other KTF co-conspirators — Arshdip, Ramandip and Charanjit — are hiding in Surrey (BC), Canada, and all-out efforts were being made to deport them to face prosecution and criminal trial.The police also recovered from Kamal’s possession a Mahindra Bolero, bearing a fake registration number, and three motorcycles used in the dera follower and Moga businessman’s murder and the firing incident in Phillaur.SSP Harmanbir Singh Gil said on the confession of Lovepreet Singh, they had also recovered a .32 bore pistol used in the murder of the Moga businessman. So far, a total of five .32 bore pistols, seven .315 bore pistols and one .12 bore country-made pistols had been recovered from these gangsters in the past few days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/another-ktf-man-held-in-moga-pistols-seized-262116
02-06-2021||PK Jaiswar||UP Cong leader Pintu Tiwari innocent in 3-yr-old case: SIT||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 1UP Congress leader Sandeep, alias Pintu Tiwari, who was arrested for allegedly helping a group of Punjab gangsters in September 2017, has been found “innocent” by a special investigation team (SIT) of the Bureau of Investigations, which is headed by IG (Crime) G Nageshwar Rao.2017 arrest for ‘aiding’ gangstersTiwari was arrested by the anti-terror squad of the Punjab Police after a case was registered in this regard with the State Special Operation Cell (SSOC) here.While a supplementary challan was presented in the trial court in Amritsar, a status report was submitted in the Punjab and Haryana High Court recently. The SIT was formed after Pintu’s mother Prema Tiwari approached the DGP claiming he was innocent.Pintu’s arrest by the Punjab Police team, headed by then chief of anti-terrorist squad IG Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, had ruffled many a feather as he was considered close to a top Congress leader in Delhi.Following the arrest, the police had claimed Tiwari used to provide logistic support such as money and weapons to a group of Punjab gangsters, besides offering shelter to some other gangsters.The arrest came following the mysterious disappearance of gangster Gopi Ghanshampuria, a prime suspect in the Nabha jail break case.It was alleged Tiwari facilitated the release of Gopi, who was reportedly arrested by the UP special task force. The UP Government had held a high-level probe in this regard. After probing the allegations levelled against him, the SIT found out Pintu had made phone calls to certain police officers to enquire about Gopi only at the insistence of a friend and Congress leader, Harjinder Singh Kahlon, and that he did not know about Gopi at the time.It pointed out that though Pintu, Kahlon and another individual, Amandeep, had talked about securing Gopi’s release by paying money to the UP Police, there was substantial evidence to suggest the arrest was not made by the UP Police as per their report. Tiwari was made an accused only on the basis of call details andsocial media chatting of the three, it said.When Gopi was not arrested by the UP Police, the question of paying them money did not arise, the SIT pointed out. Also, the SSOC failed to place enough evidence on record to prove the allegation. The SIT pointed out no evidence was found regarding the allegations of sheltering gangsters, supply of weapons, smuggling drugs and making arrangements of their stay. The HC has fixed August 27 as the next date of hearing, while the trial court will take upthe case on July 2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/up-cong-leader-pintu-tiwari-innocent-in-3-yr-old-case-sit-262118
02-06-2021||---||Gang rivalry behind Patti double murder||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, June 1The district police today claimed to have solved the Patti double murder case in which two residents — Amandeep Singh Fauji and Prabhdeep Singh, alias Pooran — were shot on May 27, while their third associate was injured seriously.A case under Sections 302, 307 and 34 of the IPC, and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered by the Patti city police. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the killings were the outcome of personal enmity between two groups involving gangsters.Though the police had arrested three suspects — Malkit Singh Laddoo of Patti, Paramjit Singh Pamma of Harike and Manpreet Singh, alias Manna, of Manochahal — the suspected shooters were still at large. Two pistols with nine cartridges were recovered from them.The police probed the role of NRI Lakhbir Singh Landa from Harike. He had migrated to Canada one-and-a-half years ago and faced eight criminal cases.The SSP said Landa had demanded ransom from a person from the area in Canada. Fauji, however, asked the individual not to pay the ransom. Landa then planned to kill Fauji and his associates by hiring contact killers. He contacted Preet Sanghwan from Amritsar, who demanded Rs 20 lakh for the job, but Landa paid him Rs 6 lakh, claimed the police.Laddoo gathered information about Fauji’s movement and gave it to the gangsters. They chose May 27 for the killing as Fauji used to visit a mausoleum on the outskirts of the town every Thursday.The SSP said preliminary investigation pointed to the role of two shooters. One of them was identified as Preet Sanghwan, who is at large.Meanwhile, Laddoo was produced in a Patti court, which remanded him in four-day police custody. He reportedly has a Congress background and is linked to the Majha Truck Union, Patti. The district police would soon issue lookout warrants for Canada-based Landa.A special investigation team, comprising Gurbaj Singh SP (PIB), Kamaljit Singh DSP (Investigation) and Sub-Inspector Balwinder Singh, carried out the investigation in the case, said the SSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gang-rivalry-behind-patti-double-murder-262119
02-06-2021||---||High Court stays dispossession of Ludhiana villagers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 1The Punjab and Haryana High Court has stayed the dispossession of villagers apprehending displacement following a move to acquire land for construction, maintenance, management and operation of the National Highway-5 on the Kharar-Ludhiana section.The direction by the vacation Bench of Justice Jaishree Thakur came on a petition filed against the Union of India and other respondents by Manjit Singh and other landowners in Katani Kalan village in Ludhiana district through counsel Charanpal Singh Bagri.Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, Bagri contended the competent authority under the National Highway Act only passed an award pertaining to the land. But the authority had not passed any award pertaining to the structure. As such, the authority failed to comply with the provisions of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. Bagri added the respondents were threatening to dispossess the petitioners.Issuing a notice of motion to the state and other respondents, Justice Thakur asserted: “In the meantime, dispossession of the petitioners herein is stayed.” The case will now come up for further hearing on November 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-stays-dispossession-of-ludhiana-villagers-262120
02-06-2021||---||Accused of abetting suicide, cop surrenders at Kesarisinghpur police station||Our CorrespondentAbohar/Sriganganagar, June 1A police constable, who had been evading arrest in connection with an abetment to suicide case, surrendered at the Kesarisinghpur police station on Tuesday. Earlier, members of different organisations had staged a dharna against the police over the incident.Constable Mani Ram Chauhan had been booked for abetting suicide of a married woman. In a video, she had alleged that he had been exploiting and blackmailing her for the past few months. Chauhan was deployed at Sadulshehar, 31 km from Abohar.The 30-year-old Dalit woman from Sriganganagar ended life on Friday by jumping into a canal after uploading a message on her mobile phone.She had reportedly left the house around 9 am on Friday. Her body was later found stuck in a sub-canal that emanates from the Gang canal. The police reached the spot and found her phone near the canal.In the video, she apologised to her parents, husband and three children, saying that she was fed up with her life. She had accused Chauhan of raping her repeatedly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/accused-of-abetting-suicide-cop-surrenders-at-kesarisinghpur-police-station-262122
02-06-2021||Saurabh Malik||Can’t dispense with dept inquiry for baseless reasons: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 1The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that a departmental inquiry against delinquent officials cannot be dispensed with by recording reasons having no foundation. The Bench further made it clear that a competent authority was required to examine how, and in what manner, holding of a departmental inquiry was not practicable, while dispensing with the requirement.Case pertains to dismissal of copsThe Bench also made it clear that it was not necessary to record the reasons in the order of removal itself. The reasons could be recorded on the file. The ruling by Justice Anil Kshetarpal came in a case where two police officials were dismissed from service. The Bench was told that four police officials, including the petitioners, were deputed to take two criminals from Amritsar Central Jail to the court of Jalandhar Additional Sessions Judge for appearance, but they were allowed to flee.The competent authority, vide order dated June 27, 2019, dispensed with the services of the petitioner on the ground that it would not be correct to hold a departmental inquiry against the officials as “none is likely to come forward to depose” due to their fear.Justice Kshetarpal asserted Article 311 of the Constitution of India conferred a protection upon a delinquent, which could not be dispensed with easily and arbitrarily, merely to avoid the holding of an inquiry. Its careful reading made it apparent that no public servant would be dismissed or removed from service or reduced in rank, except after holding an inquiry in which he would be informed of the charges framed against him and given a reasonable opportunity of being heard. Clause (b) enabled the authority to dispense with the requirement, if it was satisfied for the reasons to be recorded in writing that it was not reasonably practicable to hold such inquiry.Allowing the petition, Justice Kshetarpal assertedthe competent authority undoubtedly recorded that the witnesses would not come forward to give statements against the petitioners. But there was no basis for the reason. The petitioners were on the lowest rank in the police.“It is declared that the petitioners shall not be entitled to be reinstated in the service. They will continue to be under suspension. The official respondents are directed to complete the departmental inquiry in accordance with law within sixmonths positively,” Justice Kshetarpal concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cant-dispense-with-dept-inquiry-for-baseless-reasons-hc-262125
02-06-2021||Jalandhar||Willing to join party that sets up accountability panel: Niranjan Singh||Slapped with a chargesheet by his own department over violation of conduct rules on his last working day, Enforcement Directorate’s former Deputy Director Niranjan Singh today said he was ready to join politics but on certain conditions.Niranjan said he was ready to serve in a party that would promise people of the state an accountability commission. The commission would ensure accountability of all political bosses and bureaucrats who had lent support to drug, transport and sand mining mafias over the past 15-20 years.“I am ready to serve in a party in which the CM and ministers shun the helicopter culture and zip past the length and breadth of the state by road,” said the officer, while maintaining he won’t join the Congress, SAD or AAP. Asked whether he could join the BJP, he burst into laughter. Niranjan is known for his proximity to top serving and retired IPS officials who have political interests in the near future. Niranjan, who originally belongs to Moga before moving to Sangrur, said: “I was a political activist as a student. I was an SFI leader. But as of today, I have no Left or Right leaning. I am a ‘straightist’.”The ED official also confided during his career, he had faced several life threats. Recalling an incident wherein he was bringing drug lord Jagdish Bhola to Jalandhar for an inquiry from a Patiala court, he said: “The plan was to bring him to the Jalandhar office and all security arrangements had been made. But a good friend of mine shared an intelligence input that some elements had plans to eliminate Bhola en route to Jalandhar. So, I changed the plan and took Bhola to the Chandigarh ED office instead.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/willing-to-join-party-that-sets-up-accountability-panel-niranjan-singh-262126
02-06-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||2 Jalandhar officers in senior naval positions||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 1Coming as a moment of pride for Jalandhar, two senior positions in the Indian Navy are now held by officers hailing from the district.While Admiral Karambir Singh was born near Adampur in Jalandhar, Vice Admiral Ravneet Singh, who took the charge as the Deputy Chief of the Naval Staff, hails from Lajpat Nagar in Jalandhar city. The Deputy Chief’s father Avtar Manmohan Jit Singh (91) resides here and is a practising lawyer in the Punjab and Haryana High Court and Sessions Court. He has also been the member of the Jalandhar Improvement Trust.On his son’s success, the nonagenarian said, “It is such an exciting moment to know that my son has risen to such a great height. He called me to take my blessings before joining the office today. I wish that he continues to serve the nation with utmost responsibility and diligence.”Admiral Ravneet Singh lost his mother Sarabjit Kaur three years back. She had served as the Principal of Ramgarhia College, Phagwara, and was also a board member of Punjab Agricultural University. Avtar Manmohan Jit Singh said, “Ravneet studied for some years at St Joseph’s School here, where his mother was also a teacher initially. Later, he moved to Kendriya Vidyalaya and then graduated from DAV College in Jalandhar before joining the forces.” Vice Admiral Ravneet has two brothers. His elder brother served in the Army and retired as a colonel. His younger brother is settled in the US.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-jalandhar-officers-in-senior-naval-positions-262127
02-06-2021||Amritsar||Akal Takht to come up with film on Operation Bluestar||Thirtyseven years on, Akal Takht has announced a documentary on the Army’s Operation Bluestar.For the purpose, officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has asked eyewitnesses and others to submit their experiences in a video format so that these could be compiled to recreate what happened inside the Golden Temple complex between between June 1 and 10 in 1984. The idea is to have an authentic and credible account with the help of eyewitness’ interviews and interrogation reports of the Army. The Jathedar met an eyewitness, Harwinder Singh Khalsa, a ‘Panth Sewak’ awardee, to know about his experience. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akal-takht-to-come-up-with-film-on-operation-bluestar-262128
02-06-2021||Amritsar||SGPC against sale of holy ‘sainchis’ and 'pothis' online||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee has taken a grim view of the sale of holy ‘sainchis’ (volumes) of Guru Granth Sahib and ‘pothis’ by an e-commerce website.SGPC chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami said a legal notice was being sent to Amazon against the sale, which was against the Sikh principles.“Amazon has been asked to remove the link for the sale of Guru Granth Sahib 'sanchis' and 'pothis' from its website immediately or face legal action. It is unethical to sell holy scriptures online as during the delivery, no ‘rehat maryada’ can be maintained. We have received complaints from devotees following which action was taken,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-against-sale-of-holy-sainchis-and-pothis-online-262129
02-06-2021||---||Navjot Sidhu alerts panel on ‘ground realities’ in Punjab||New Delhi, June 1Days after attacking Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh on alleged lack of justice in the sacrilege and police firing cases, former state minister Navjot Singh Sidhu reiterated his stand before an AICC panel formed to resolve factionalism in the state unit.“My stand remains unchanged,” said Sidhu, who met the panel headed by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge here today for nearly two hours. “I came here to apprise the AICC committee of Punjab affairs and have alerted them about the ground realities. I have echoed the truth of Punjab eloquently,” he said, looking upbeat after emerging from the deliberations.The Amritsar MLA said all anti-Punjab forces had to be defeated. Sidhu said his agenda was that the power of the people of Punjab—the taxes they pay—should return to them and they should be made shareholders in the progress of the state.The ex-minister, who quit the state Cabinet in July 2019 after being divested of local bodies portfolio, has been in political wilderness ever since.The CM, who will meet the AICC panel on Thursday, has maintained that the SIT probe in the Kotkapura sacrilege case was ongoing and “justice would be served”. Sources say a statement from the CM could be a way out of the current stalemate and for Sidhu’s return to the Cabinet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-alerts-panel-on-ground-realities-in-punjab-261839
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab sees less than 100 fatalities, 2,184 fresh cases||Punjab on Tuesday logged 2,184 fresh cases, which took the tally to 5,69,756, while the single-day fatality count was below 100 in the state after more than a month.Ninety-four more fatalities pushed the toll to 14,649 in Punjab, according to a medical bulletin.Of the deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 13 were from Bathinda, 10 from Sangrur and seven each from Jalandhar and Gurdaspur, it said.Punjab had been witnessing more than 100 fatalities every day for over past 30 days.The number of active cases has dropped to 33,444 from 36,433 on Monday, it said.Ludhiana reported 222 fresh cases, followed by 197 in Mohali, 194 in Fazilka and 179 in Jalandhar, the bulletin said.The state’s positivity rate marginally dropped to 3.69 per cent from 3.93 per cent on Monday.With 5,039 recoveries, the number of cured persons has reached 5,21,663, the bulletin said.There are 296 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 785 other critical patients and 4,163 are on oxygen support, it said.The bulletin said that a total of 93,25,491 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state.On black fungus, it said a total of 300 cases of the infection have so far been reported in Punjab.Of these, 43 people have died while 23 have recovered and remaining patients are under treatment, according to the bulletin.Meanwhile, Chandigarh registered 108 fresh cases as compared to 124 cases the day before.With the new cases, the infection tally has reached 60,154, according to a medical bulletin.Five more people succumbed to Covid-19, taking the toll to 758.The number of active cases declined to 1,481 from 1,767 on Monday, the bulletin said.With 389 patients being discharged after they recovered from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 57,915, it said.A total of 5,10,724 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 4,49,355 tested negative while reports of 26 samples are awaited, according to the bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-punjab-sees-less-than-100-fatalities-2-184-fresh-cases-261805
02-06-2021||Aditi Tandon||Punjab Congress crisis: ‘My stand is unchanged’, says Navjot Sidhu after meeting AICC panel||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 1Days after attacking Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on lack of justice in the sacrilege issue, former state minister Navjot Singh Sidhu reiterated the same stand before the AICC panel formed to resolve internal factionalism in the state unit. The Chief Minister will meet the AICC panel on Thursday."My stand remains unchanged," said Sidhu, who met the committee headed by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge here today for nearly two hours.Emerging from the deliberations, Sidhu appeared upbeat and confident and said, "Punjab, Punjabiyat and Punjabis will win. All anti-Punjab forces have to be defeated."Power of the People must return to the People !! Every Punjabi must be made shareholder in Punjab's Progress ... Jittega Punjab, Jittegi Punjabiyat, Jittega har Punjabi !! Live from Delhi pic.twitter.com/x7MnYdpojh  Also read: Panel keen on ‘adjusting’ Navjot Sidhu: Punjab ministersThe ex-minister who quit the state Cabinet in July 2019 after being divested of the local bodies portfolio for power has been in political wilderness ever since.Of late, Sidhu has been publicly attacking the CM for absentee justice in the Bargari case that involved the desecration of Guru Granth Saheb.The CM has, however, maintained that the SIT on the issue is continuing with its probe and the courts are seized of the matter."Upon being summoned by the Congress high command, I came here to appraise the AICC committee about Punjab. I have alerted the committee to the truth of Punjab and eloquently echoed the voice of the people of the state, of the grassroots, eloquently. The most important issue is that my previous stand on Punjab and issues concerning Punjab remains unchanged," Sidhu said after meeting the committee, which has been tasked with respectably rehabilitating him considering his star appeal and vote catching abilities.Sidhu said his top agenda is that the power of the people of Punjab -- the taxes they pay -- should return to the people in whatever form possible."Today I have shone light on the truth. Truth can be eclipsed but it cannot be defeated.Punjab will win. We have to ensure the victory of Punjab. Every citizen of Punjab has to be made a participant in governance. We have defeat all anti Punjab forces," said the MLA from East Amritsar adding: "Punjab, Punjabiyat and each Punjabi will win."The AICC panel is also meeting MLAs in batches of 25 daily and is expected to meet the chief minister later before submitting a report to the high command.Sources say a clear statement from the CM about justice in the sacrilege matter could be a way out of the current stalemate and for Sidhu to return to active state politics after the panel's deliberative process.That explains PCC chief Sunil Jakhar's statements of Monday that those behind the sacrilege would be brought to book and punished.If the sacrilege issue is resolved, a consensus could be evolved with Sidhu returning to the state cabinet in a role acceptable to him and the CM.The CM, sources say, is keen on unity in the election year, and may take one step forward to accommodate Sidhu.It, however, remains to be seen whether Sidhu will also take a step forward if CM cedes some space for him.The Congress leadership does not want a situation of Sidhu's alienation after the party's rout in recent state polls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-crisis-my-stand-is-unchanged-says-navjot-sidhu-after-meeting-aicc-panel-261710
