03-06-2021||Amritsar||SGPC notice to Amazon for selling sacred Sikh texts online||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee has sent a legal notice to e-commerce giant Amazon for selling copies of holy books Guru Granth Sahib and Gutka Sahib, an office bearer said Thursday.SGPC chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami said there is “outrage” over the sale online of the Gutka Sahib, a collection of sacred verses.He said the Amazon practice went against the principles of the Sikh religion.“There is huge devotion and respect for the Gurbani in the minds of the Sikh community and there is outrage among the Sikhs over the sale of the Gutka Sahib online by Amazon,” he said Dhami asked Amazon to immediately remove the two holy books from its website and warned of legal action if the company failed to do so. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-notice-to-amazon-for-selling-sacred-sikh-texts-online-262927
03-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Don't miss Dharmendra, son Bobby Deol, wife Tanya's rare black-and-white picture; fans can't keep calm||Actor Bobby Deol shared a rare black-and-white picture with his father, veteran actor Dharmendra, and wife Tanya Deol, on his Instagram account.The actor dropped the photo on Thursday. The picture shows the trio smiling wide for the camera.Of course, the picture did not need a caption, so Bobby posted heart emojis.Rajesh Khattar, Adhyayan Suman, Darshan Kumar and Sachin Shroff, showered love on the post.A post shared by Bobby Deol (@iambobbydeol)Fans also reacted to the picture, taking to the comments section. One wrote, "Very good and great love you sir."Another said, "Wow..what a beautiful picture..thanks to Bobby sir for this beautiful pic...lots of love." A third commented, "Great photo @aapkadharam God Bless Always Deol Family."In January this year, Bobby had shared a picture on Instagram with Dharmendra and elder brother Sunny Deol.He had captioned it, "Festivals are extra special jab saath hon Apne (Festivals are extra special with near ones)." Bobby is the younger son of Dharmendra and his first wife, Prakash Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-miss-dharmendra-son-bobby-deol-wife-tanyas-rare-black-and-white-picture-fans-cant-keep-calm-262916
03-06-2021||New Delhi||Punjab man teaches children across the globe during Covid lockdown; shares heartfelt his story||Bridging the distance with digital mode, a teacher located in Punjab, Sanjeev Kumar is imparting lessons to youngsters spread right across not just India but also the world! On any given day, his online students numbering 3,500, from Class VIII to XII, can be from diverse places but predominantly they are from Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Jammu Kashmir.Of his foreign students, 80 of them are from the UAE, Kenya, Saudi Arabia and Malaysia.Sharing how it all started with the New Indian Express, Kumar said: "Since last week of March 2020, I am conducting free online classes of mathematics for students of Class VIII to XI as then I had ample time due to lockdown. The students are from various parts of the country. I conducted the first class on March 29, 2020 with just 50 students. The next day, I got 350 messages. Within 10 days, there were 600 to 700 students." By the time March 2021 came, Kumar had 2,500 students of whom 700 left, most of whom were in Class XII and had finished their studies. With 1,800 left, he had another 1,700 joining in April itself. "The maximum students are from Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and Jammu and Kashmir. We have got many requests from Telangana too. Also, more than 80 students from UAE, Saudi Arabia, Kenya, and Malaysia also joined," he told the media.Forty-three-year-old Kumar has more than 18 years of experience.The growing number of students made Kumar change his strategy. "As the number of students grew, we purchased a zoom business plan and decided to teach students to class wise. We gave them codes as per their class and just 10 minutes prior to the class, we sent them the password to join the classes on zoom. Many parents too started attending the classes to see the performance of their children," he revealed.The daily schedule includes five classes daily for one hour each besides two special extra classes per week for students from Kenya and UAE to clear their doubts. He also takes classes twice to prepare students for the National Talent Search Examination.Besides teaching himself, Kumar also invites 15 noted doctors, educationists from premier academic institutions and actors to give lectures. "From this session, I have started taking one-hour online live tests of students after teaching a chapter and giving the students feedback on their performance. We select the topper of the test and courier the child with a subject-related book worth Rs 500."Lending a helping hand to Kumar in this work is his wife, also a teacher, who sends notes to all children.Conversing to The Tribune as to why he does this work, he said: "I always thought of doing something which could bring about a change in people's lives. When the lockdown happened, I had ample time left to myself, which is when I decided to teach students online. The response I have got so far has been staggering."He went on to add: "I am very well connected to my roots. My needs have always been minimal. So, when many people try to offer me money, I politely turn it down. I will consider myself successful if I am able to inspire a few more teachers to follow the suit." — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-man-teaches-children-across-the-globe-during-covid-lockdown-shares-heartfelt-his-story-262888
03-06-2021||Patiala||Illegal under-construction building collapses, 5 labourers buried under debris in Patiala||As many as five labourers were buried under debris after an under-construction building adjacent to the New Sabzi mandi at the Sanauri adda collapsed to the ground in Patiala on Thursday afternoon.Those buried were pulled out after about two hours and rushed to the government Rajindra Hospital.Onlookers said the building spread in an area over 500 square yards had been under-construction since many days.“The first floor of the building was being constructed when the building gave away. They started the work of laying the reinforced cement concrete roof only today at about 11 am,” Parminder Singh, a worker at an adjacent site, said.While the owners and contractors were not available, MC officials said the work was being carried out illegally.The building was being constructed on a land on lease.Interestingly, the site is adjacent to a nullah which was covered by the Municipal Corporation recently.Also, the incident took place within a month of collapse of another illegally constructed roof adjacent to a nullah.The matter has raised questions over the working of Municipal Corporation’s team of the building branch.Political leaders in the city said illegal works of construction have been going on in the city under the very nose of the Municipal Corporation’s officials of the building branch and area councillors.They said, “Junior officials do not report the illegal construction. Those involved are not taken to task. Minor action after issuance of a notice is taken only after uproar.”Amarinder Singh Bazaz, former Municipal mayor said, “Illegal construction is on the rise. Hundreds of buildings have been constructed illegally. It is happening with the connivance of MC officials.”Meanwhile, officials of the building branch including the ATPs and STP were not available for comment despite repeated attempts.Municipal Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur when contacted said, “We had issued demolition orders for the under-construction site. A drive had been carried out on May 19 and 20 after which the action was directed. Before this, they were issued multiple notices as well. The building along with another set of shops adjacent to it will be razed in two to three days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/illegal-under-construction-building-collapses-5-labourers-buried-under-debris-in-patiala-262887
03-06-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Vidhan Sabha committee begins inquiry into atrocities on farmers||Tribune News ServiceMoga, June 3Punjab Vidhan Sabha Committee on atrocities on farmers on Thursday met those who were either injured or allegedly tortured by police during their agitation against the Centre's three controversial farm laws.The committee, headed by MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid along with other members of Legislative Assembly including Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa (not present in today's meeting) Kulbir Singh Zira, Saravjit Kaur Manuke and Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra, recorded the statements of the farmers who suffered injuries or allegedly faced police brutality in their protest against the three laws passed by the union government.The committee said that Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana KP Singh has constituted this committee comprising MLAs from all parties, to table a detailed report about atrocities on the farmers during the protest.The committee members said that they would visit all districts of the state and would meet each victim of atrocities by cops of Delhi and the Haryana police force. The committee assured justice to the victims and said it would highlight every atrocity before Vidhan Sabha in the report.They said that anyone who wanted to record their statement about the atrocities committed by the police could call 97791-11022 and 80544-95901 phone numbers. The next meeting would be held on June 10 at Circuit House, Bathinda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vidhan-sabha-committee-begins-inquiry-into-atrocities-on-farmers-262841
03-06-2021||---||Another Punjab farmer dies at Tikri border||Jhajjar, January 25Another Punjab farmer has died at the Tikri border.The farmer has been identified as Shant Singh (40) of Punjab’s Barnala district.His body has been brought to the Trauma Centre in Bahadurgarh town.Farmers have been protesting against Centre’s three farm laws on the Delhi borders for over six months now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/another-punjab-farmer-dies-at-tikri-border-262838
03-06-2021||---||Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroop’ damaged during Op Bluestar to be made public||Amritsar: Thirty-seven years after Operation Bluestar, the SGPC has decided to put on display the bullet-riddled ‘saroop’ of Guru Granth Sahib and the gold-plated sheets of the Golden Temple that were damaged during the Army attack in June 1984. Besides, the original ‘khu’ (well), known as ‘Akalsar’, associated with the era of Guru Hargobind Singh, would also be made open for public view. The well also bore the brunt of the attack on its outer surface. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/guru-granth-sahib-saroop-damaged-during-op-bluestar-to-be-made-public-262799
03-06-2021||Fazilka||2 held with intoxicant tablets, poppy husk in Fazilka||The Fazilka police claimed to have busted an interstate intoxicant tablet smuggling network today with the arrest of two drug peddlers and recovered 1,15,350 tablets and 51 kg poppy husk from them.Fazilka SSP Deepak Hilori and SP (Investigation) Ajay Raj Singh said on a tip-off, the police intercepted a bike and arrested Gurcharan Singh, alias Channu, of Muthianwali village and recovered 1,050 intoxicant tablets from his possession near Asafwala village. He was booked under the NDPS Act.During interrogation Gurcharan reportedly confessed that he used to bring the tablets from Ravinder Singh, alias Ravi, of Pattrewala village. Ravi was also nominated in the FIR. The police raided Ravi’s house and arrested him. As many as 20,400 intoxicant tablets, 21 kg poppy husk and Rs 1.77 lakh were recovered from his possession.Both were produced before the judicial magistrate who remanded them in two-day police custody. The police recovered another consignment of 93,900 tablets and 30 kg poppy husk from Ravi’s possession from a different location. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-held-with-intoxicant-tablets-poppy-husk-in-fazilka-262463
03-06-2021||Abohar||Four nabbed for abducting bizman||The police have arrested four persons for allegedly abducting businessman Lakhwinder Singh of Malukpura village. In his FIR to the police on May 27, Lakhwinder claimed that seven persons abducted him from his office near the tehsil complex. They thrashed him and later threw him near the police station, he said. The miscreants were also accused of ransacking his office and taking away cash.The arrested accused have been identified as Nirwair Singh, Akashdeep Singh, Gurvinder Singh and Manjit Singh. Kamaljeet Singh, Satnam Singh and Harbhajan Singh are absconding. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-nabbed-for-abducting-bizman-262468
03-06-2021||---||Mid-day meal workers’ pay hiked to Rs 22,000 a year||Faridkot, June 2Acceding to a long-standing demand of around 45,000 cook-cum-helpers of the Mid-Day Meal (MDM) scheme in government, government-aided primary and upper primary schools of the state, the School Education Department has increased the annual honorarium to these helpers from Rs 17,000 to Rs 22,000 per annum.More than 80 per cent of cook-cum-helpers for the scheme are women and they were being paid Rs 1,700 per month for 10 months ayear from May 1, 2021.This payment has now been increased to Rs 2,200 per month, 10 months a year. As there is no cooking of meal in the schools during summer (June) and winter (December) vacations, the helpers are not paid for this period.The scheme guarantees one meal for at least 200 days in a year to all 16,88,769 students in government, government-aided primary and elementary schools in the state under Samagra Shiksha, a programme of the Ministry of Human Resource Development. The helpers work in about 19,680 government and government-aided schools in the state.In May last year, the per day per student cooking cost was increased from Rs 4.48 to Rs 4.97 for primary classes and Rs 6.71 to Rs 7.45 for upper primary classes. But there was no increase in the honorarium for cook-cum-helpers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mid-day-meal-workers-pay-hiked-to-rs-22-000-a-year-262469
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||List of Punjab's best government schools out||Punjab School Education and Public Works Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Tuesday released the list of best government schools in the state for the session 2020-21. Top schools from each district have been picked up in the categories of middle, high and senior secondary.The winners in the categories of middle, high and senior secondary schools will get a prize amount of Rs 5 lakh, Rs 7.5 lakh and Rs 10 lakh, respectively. The results have been worked on the basis of grading which included results, infrastructure, co-curricular activities, contribution of school management committees and public and attendance of the students. The award money has been divided equally among the schools in the case of districts which witnessed more than one school at the top of the merit list. The list of middle schools includes the ones at Faijpura (Amritsar), Lohgarh (Barnala), Bath (Bathinda), Veere Wala Khurd and Ran Singh Wala (Faridkot), Sirhind Bara (Fatehgarh Sahib), Began Wali and Lakha Ke Musahib (Fazilka), Tara Singh Wala and Lohgarh (Ferozepur), Sallo Chahal and Pandori Bainsan (Gurdaspur), Haler (Hoshiarpur), Lohara Chahrke (Jalandhar), Hussain Pur (Kapurthala), Birk and Jaangpur (Ludhiana), Gorkhnath (Mansa), Bir Badhni (Moga), Urrang (Muktsar), Simbli Gujjran and Jaswali (Pathankot), Dedhna (Patiala), Sakhpur (Ropar), Bhangal Khurd Amargarh (SBS Nagar), Ratolan (Sangrur), Bathlana (SAS Nagar), Chak Kare Khan and Dinewal(Tarn Taran).The list of high schools includes Malowal (Amritsar), Mauran (Barnala), Behman Jassa Singh (Bathinda), Dhiman wali (Faridkot), Latour (Fatehgarh Sahib), Hira Wali (Fazilka), Chhangarai Uttar (Ferozepur), Dharamkot Bagga (Gurdaspur), Ghogra (Hoshiarpur), Raipur Rassulpur (Jalandhar), Diyal Pur (Kapurthala), Rajjowal (Ludhiana), Makha (Mansa), Patto Hira Singh (Moga), Park (Muktsar), Tharial (Pathankot), Majal Kalan (Patiala), Raipur (Roopnagar), Kot Ranjha (SBS Nagar), Kheri (Sangrur), Mauli Baidwan (SAS Nagar) and Shaheed Nayak Karamjeet Singh Sena Medal School, Chuslewarh (Tarn Taran).The list of senior secondary schools includes Nag Kalan (Amritsar), Sandhu Patti (Barnala), Maluka (Bathinda), Pakhi Kalan (Faridkot), Sirhind (Fatehgarh Sahib), Baghe Ke Uttar (Fazilka), Khai Feme Ki (Ferozepur), Sheikhpur (Gurdaspur), Railway Mandi(Hoshiarpur), Jamsher (Jalandhar), Talwandi Chaudrian (Kapurthala), Jagraon (Ludhiana), Alampur Mandran (Mansa), Khosa Kotla (Moga), Udekaran (Muktsar), Datial Feroza (Pathankot), Smart School Model Town (Patiala), Kahanpur Khuhi (Ropar), Mallewal (SBS Nagar), Chajali (Sangrur), Mubarkpur (SAS Nagar) and Shaheed Naib Subedaar Paramjit Singh GSSS, Vein Poin (Tarn Taran). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/list-of-punjabs-best-government-schools-out-262470
03-06-2021||Saurabh Malik||Consider ‘social investigation report’ in juvenile bail cases: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 2The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear to the subordinate courts that a juvenile’s bail plea cannot be decided without taking into consideration his “social investigation report” submitted by the probation officer.The Bench also made it clear that a child-friendly approach was required to be adopted in the adjudication and disposal of matters in the best interest of children. Also, the justice delivery system available for adults was not suitable for being applied to a juvenile or a child in conflict with law.The ruling by Justice Suvir Sehgal came on a petition filed by a child in conflict with law through his father challenging orders dated January 15, whereby his application for bail under Section 12 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, was declined in a murder case by the Principal Magistrate of a Juvenile Justice Board. Also challenged was another order dated February 2 passed by an Additional Sessions Judge, whereby the child’s appeal filed against the order was dismissed.Appearing before Justice Sehgal’s Bench, the juvenile’s counsel Aditya Sanghi submitted the accusation against the petitioner was that he had caught hold of the victim and inflicted injury with a wooden stick.Justice Sehgal observed the petitioner was less than 16 on the date of alleged occurrence and was in custody for more than a year. As such, the court would proceed to examine the social investigation report.It was recorded in the report that his relations with his family, friends, teachers and classmates were cordial. A matriculate, he came across as a normal child. He was neither a member of any gang, nor involved in drug peddling. He did not even have a criminal past. The reason for the alleged offence was mentioned as “peer group influence”.Directing his release on bail, Justice Sehgal asserted bail to a child in conflict with law was a rule, rejection an exception. The respondents could neither show, nor refer to, any material to explain how the petitioner, if enlarged on bail, would be exposed to moral, physical or psychological danger or would come in contact of known criminals.“Mere apprehension of the prosecution without any material on record would not be sufficient to decline the prayer for bail…. In case a juvenile was found guilty and convicted, the maximum period he can be ordered to spend in a special home is three years. The petitioner has spent more than one year in incarceration. Therefore, no purpose would be served in detaining the petitioner any further,” Justice Sehgal concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/consider-social-investigation-report-in-juvenile-bail-cases-hc-262471
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Nod to tehsil complex in Amritsar village||Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan on Wednesday gave nod to construct a tehsil complex at Lopoke in Amritsar district and develop a food street in Hoshiarpur, besides clearing several other infrastructure development projects in various parts of the state.She was chairing the 54th meeting of the empowered committee of optimum utilisation of vacant government lands (OUVGL) scheme here.To augment development projects in the state on the directions of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the meeting decided to construct the tehsil complex in Lopoke, Amritsar district.The empowered committee decided to start forthwith the work to develop the food street at Nalonian in Hoshiarpur and invite applications from interested persons for the allotment of booths and shops at the new commercial site. The Chief Secretary asked the authorities concerned to make the new food street operational by the year-end. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nod-to-tehsil-complex-in-amritsar-village-262472
03-06-2021||Our Correspondent||204 kg poppy husk seized in Abohar||Abohar,June 2The Hanumangarh police seized 204 kg poppy husk and 1,800 gm opium from two vehicles at a naka last night. The cops stopped the car in which miscreants were travelling and a pick-up van that was following it.Sunder Lal Bishnoi of Nokha, Mahabir Singh Kaku, Krishan Lal Bishnoi and Amit Bishnoi of Chohalanwali village were held under the NDPS Act. An unlicensed pistol with five cartridges was also seized. Another police team seized 36 kg poppy husk that Roshan Khan, Yakub Khan and Saddam Khan of Chak 5-DKD were reportedly going to deliver to someone in Gharsana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/204-kg-poppy-husk-seized-in-abohar-262473
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Voter awareness campaign launched in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/voter-awareness-campaign-launched-in-mohali-262474
03-06-2021||Vishav Bharti||Cases down, fatality rate up in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 2The second wave is already flattening in the state, but there seems to be no relief from Covid deaths as the state’s case fatality ratio (CFR) has started going up once again. At present the state’s CFR is 2.6 per cent, which means for every 100 confirmed cases 2.6 have passed away from the virus. Around a fortnight ago, the same had come down to 2.4.Last week (May 26 to June 1), the state reported 21,525 cases and 1,007 deaths. It means the average daily number of cases in the last week remained around 3,000, which earlier was between 8,000 and 9,000. As far as deaths are concerned, the daily average of deaths remained around 140.The state’s test positivity are has also come down to 4.5 per cent, which earlier was around 15 per cent. But the case fatality rate has increased and the last week’s fatality rate remained at 4.67 per cent, which is far higher than the state’s overall case fatality rate, which is 2.6 per cent.The fatality rate of the state still remains the highest in the country, which is 1.2 per cent. Punjab is the only state in the country, which has over 2 per cent case fatality rate. Punjab is followed by Meghalaya, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Nagaland, Goa and Maharashtra where CFR is 1.7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cases-down-fatality-rate-up-in-punjab-262449
03-06-2021||Karam Prakash||17K kids +ve in Punjab so far, but no ‘Fateh’ kits for them||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 2If the official data is to be believed, as many as 17,191 children have already been infected with Covid in the second wave across Punjab. However, there is no specific ‘Fateh’ kit for them.The Health Department, during the first wave, launched ‘Fateh’ kits that included medicines and other items for the home-isolated patients. Though the initiative has been widely acclaimed, the medicines in the kits are appropriate only for adults.WilL be ready soonIn both waves, the infection percentage among children has been around 4. Keeping the third wave in mind, we are already in the process of making special kits for children. —Dr Rajsh Bhasker, State nodal officer“My whole family was infected with Covid, including my children. We had to specially purchase syrups and medicines meant for kids as ‘Fateh’ kits is for adult patients only,” says an advocate.Health experts say a dosage of medicine for a child is different from what it is for an adult. Dr Harshinder Kaur, paediatrician, Government Rajindra Hospital, says: “We have special medicines for the paediatric age group, especially, for the children below the age of five. They should be given syrups instead of tablets.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/17k-kids-ve-in-punjab-so-far-but-no-fateh-kits-for-them-262450
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Preparing for 3rd wave, govt sets up paediatric Covid ward in Ludhiana||Preparing the state for a possible third wave of the pandemic, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday virtually inaugurated a 50-bed Paediatric Covid Care Ward, set up at CMC Hospital, Ludhiana, as a partnership initiative between the hospital and the Police Public Foundation (PPF).On the occasion, a memorandum of understanding (MoU) was also signed for setting up two oxygen plants in the district, for which 20 industries have donated Rs 1.2 crore. The two plants will become functional at the CMC, Ludhiana, and Krishna Charitable Hospital within six-eight weeks, according to CII past president Rahul Ahuja, who signed the MoU on behalf of the industry with the two hospitals. Under the agreement, 20 per cent of oxygen treatment would be subsidised for poor patients.Terming the collaborative initiatives of the state’s industry, civil society and the police as a wonderful gesture, the Chief Minister said the pandemic was a major challenge and the state had to be prepared for the worst. “Though nobody knows yet if there will be a third wave in India, Punjab is making all efforts to gear up for another possible surge, which could affect the children more,” he added.Children have to be protectedThough nobody knows if there will be a third wave in India, Punjab is making all efforts to gear up for another possible surge, which can affect the children more. —Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterCaptain Amarinder urged the industry to motivate their employees to get vaccinated. Lauding the industry’s stellar role in supporting the state government’s fight against the pandemic, the Chief Minister said the industry in Punjab had always been at the helm of extending a helping hand in every crisis. The Vardhman and Oswal industries had helped with oxygen supplies when cases were at the peak at around 9,500 plus a day, he recalled.The Chief Minister congratulated the Punjab Police Fund for the new Covid ward, for which it has provided financial assistance for medical infrastructure, as per the MoU signed by it with CMC Hospital. The hospital has provided space, manpower services, administrative & technical support for setting up of the ward, which is a Level-2 facility. Patients in this ward will be provided treatment at concessional rates, with 20 per cent of the beds have been reserved for the poor and needy patients. The ward is fully functional, and equipped with all the necessary infrastructure – patient beds, cardiac monitors, oxygen concentrators and UPS system. The ward has been completed within a month of signing of the MoU.CMC Director William Bhatti thanked the Ludhiana citizens for once again coming out to help in these testing times, while Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said the public and industry support had proved a major asset in the fight against Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/preparing-for-3rd-wave-govt-sets-up-paediatric-covid-ward-in-ludhiana-262451
03-06-2021||Raj Sadosh||3 days on, no vaccine in Abohar||Abohar, June 2The staff at the vaccine centre set up in Government Girls Senior Secondary School had no work to do as Covishield vaccine was out of stock for the third consecutive day. Hundreds of people had to return empty-handed since no information was uploaded on the social media.Ashok Garg, state executive member of Akhil Bhartiya Grahak Panchayat, said the state government had increased daily targets for vaccination and sampling, but necessary infrastructure was not made available. Notably, the highest number of infections and deaths due to the fatal virus in Fazilka district were reported in Abohar.Sources said people in the 18-44 and above 45 age groups could not be vaccinated as supply expected on Monday was still awaited. The vaccination for 18 plus has not yet been started for all, but a lot of categories have been fixed in it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-days-on-no-vaccine-in-abohar-262452
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t overcharge, Punjab Govt tells pvt hospitals||To stop overcharging for Covid-19 treatment by private hospitals, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today directed all Civil Surgeons to ensure the display of treatment charges that should not exceed the capping proposed by the Punjab Government.Sidhu clarified that no private hospital could charge more than the notified treatment charges and if anyone took more than the government notified rates, such a person could complain to the DC or Civil Surgeon concerned. The government has already issued the instructions to district administrations in this regard.The minister said it had been brought to his notice that even after directions issued by the government, some hospitals had been overcharging Covid patients. He said that taking notice of such incidents, FIRs have been registered against the private hospitals across the state under Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act. — TNS243 getting black fungus treatmentStressing the government was committed to saving the lives of patients suffering from mucormycosis (black fungus), Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said 300 such cases had been reported in the state so far. He said 23 patients got cured and 234 were under treatment However, 43 patients died.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-overcharge-punjab-govt-tells-pvt-hospitals-262453
03-06-2021||Archit Watts||Allow gyms to open for few hours: Owners||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, June 2Facing financial crisis, gym owners have requested the administration to allow them open their facilities with some restrictions. They said when buses were plying with 50 per cent passengers and liquor shops were also allowed to open, the gyms should also be opened with five persons per hour.“Gyms are good for health and mind, whereas liquor is harmful in all aspects. Everyone knows the facts but still there is no decision to open the gyms. We demand permission to open them with five persons per hour. It will help us to manage the rent of the building and pay salary to trainers. Most of us are under debt, facing huge financial burden,” said owner of a famous gym on Bathinda Road on the outskirts of Malout town.He said of the total 20 gyms in Malout town, seven had permanently closed. “We urge the administration to pay heed to our genuine request and permit us to open gyms for some hours daily. Nobody is worried about our families. Most of the gyms are running from rental buildings. We are unable to meet daily expenses of our families,” said Deepak, a gym trainer in Muktsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/allow-gyms-to-open-for-few-hours-owners-262454
03-06-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Covid +ve granthi attends bhog, distributes ‘parsad’ to hundreds||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, June 2In a major lapse on the part of Health Department officials, a Covid positive granthi not only attended a bhog, but also distributed ‘parsad’ to hundreds of area residents at Sakraudi village on Tuesday. After the granthi and his wife’s reports came out Covid positive last evening, they isolated themselves at their residence.Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla and former Sangrur MLA Parkash Chand Garg too attended the bhog of farmer leader Karmjit Singh at the village gurdwara.“After I developed some cough and fever, I went for Covid testing on May 31. The report came out positive on the evening of June 1. I attended the bhog and distributed ‘parsad’ by keeping my face covered. The reports of all my contacts are negative,” said the granthi.Testing attendeesToday we took 30 swab samples and all tested negative. We will hold another camp on Thursday and test all area residents. —Surinder Kaur, Asha workerMany residents criticised the granthi for attending the bhog without getting his Covid report. “The granthi and his wife should have kept themselves in isolation to prevent the further spread of Covid. There is resentment in the village. Today we took 30 swab samples and all are negative. Tomorrow we would organise another camp and conduct the sampling of all area residents,” said Surinder Kaur, an Asha worker at Sakraudi village.Singla confirmed that he attended the bhog and appealed to area residents to get themselves tested. “I appeal to all area residents to get tested immediately to prevent the spread of virus. We have already lost many our friends and relatives, who did not get tested .I have directed the Civil Surgeon to provide all necessary facilities in the village” said Singla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-ve-granthi-attends-bhog-distributes-parsad-to-hundreds-262455
03-06-2021||New Delhi||DSGMC donates Rs 2.6-cr gold, silver for hospital at Bala Sahib Gudwara||Gold and silver ornaments worth about Rs 2.60 crore were donated by the Delhi Sikh Gudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) for a 125-bed Covid facility at an existing semi-finished hospital building at Bala Sahib Gudwara along Ring Road here.The ornaments were donated to Baba Bachan Singh, ‘Kar Sewa Wale’. “The gold and silver ornaments were donations from devotees made to gurdwaras over the years,” said DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa. The approximate price of one kg of gold is about Rs 50 lakh while silver is valued at nearly Rs 68,000 per kg.The 125-bed facility with an ICU would be at the same building where the free kidney dialysis centre was opened some months ago.The French Government has donated an oxygen plant for the hospital that is arriving next week. Apart from that, a oxygen plant donated by a devotee is currently being installed. “The local government of New York has contacted us and virtual meeting has been done, they are also keen to help,” said Sirsa. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dsgmc-donates-rs-2-6-cr-gold-silver-for-hospital-at-bala-sahib-gudwara-262456
03-06-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Sikh outfits protest against Cong MLA Kaka Randeep Singh in Mandi Gobindgarh||Carrying flags of farmer unions, members of Sikh outfits today protested and raised slogans against Amloh MLA Kaka Randeep Singh, when he came to inaugurate a petrol station at Mandi Gobindgarh. Interestingly, neither any farmer nor any union leader was among the protesters.Terming themselves supporters of farmers, protesters said the agitation against the three contentious farm laws had been going on at Delhi borders for the past seven months, but the Congress leaders were inaugurating and promoting the interests of businessmen, which was not tolerable. Accusing the Congress government of backstabbing the protesting farmers, they urged the Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders to oppose the opening of the pump and start an indefinite dharna.The MLA said the Congress was supporting the cause of farmers and the newly set up petrol station was owned by the senior vice-president of Mandi Gobindgarh Council. “He urged me to inaugurate it, so I couldn’t say no to him,” he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-outfits-protest-against-cong-mla-kaka-randeep-singh-in-mandi-gobindgarh-262457
03-06-2021||Moga||Farmer kills self in Moga||A 52-year old debt-ridden farmer allegedly shot himself at Nathuwala Garbi village in Nihalsinghwala sub-division of Moga district.The deceased has been identified as Gurbhej Singh. His wife Jaswinder Kaur told the police that Gurbhej had taken loan of around Rs 35 lakh from various sources, which he was not being able to pay back and was under depression. Late on Tuesday evening, Gurbhej reportedly went to his fields on his motorcycle and shot himself in the head. Labourers working in the nearby fields informed the villagers and his family about the incident. He was rushed to a nearby hospital, but doctors declared him brought dead. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-kills-self-in-moga-262458
03-06-2021||Amritsar||NGO puts up ‘Navjot Sidhu missing’ posters in Amritsar||‘Missing’ posters of Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu surfaced in the East constituency represented by him as an MLA. A reward of Rs 50,000, too, has been assured to anyone who gives information about him.NGO Shaheed Baba Deep Singh Sewa Society has put up these posters titled ‘gumshuda di talaash’ near Jauda Phatak in the Rasoolpur Kalar area, where a train tragedy had occurred in October 2018 during Dasehra festivities that had killed scores of people. Sidhu had announced adopting the families of the area whose breadwinners lost lives in the train catastrophe, but never fulfilled it, the NGO alleged.NGO head Anil Vashisht said: “The mounds of garbage, broken roads and filthy ponds speak volumes about the MLA’s careless attitude. The voters had showed faith in him and elected him multiple times as an MP and MLA.” He said people of the East constituency were waiting for him to visit them during the trying times of Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ngo-puts-up-navjot-sidhu-missing-posters-in-amritsar-262459
03-06-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Amid lockdown, women labourers take to organic farming||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, June 2Repeated losses after the outbreak of Covid and increase in annual lease rate of one and half acres of the panchayat land have failed to dampen the spirits of the women of Changaliwala village in the district.Having formed a group, they are struggling to gain financial independence through organic farming.“We earned profit in 2019, but in 2020 the village panchayat increased the annual lease money from Rs 55,000 to Rs 78,000, while hailstorm also caused losses of around Rs 1.50 lakh. Later, Covid further multiplied our problems. It’s disheartening, but we will not give up as we want to set an example for other illiterate women of the area by becoming self dependent,” said Gurmeet Kaur, who sells organic vegetables near Lehra town of the district.For fiscal freedomBefore launching their own group comprising 10 members in 2019, they used to work as labourers. With time, many quit and now with only four members left, they are determined to defeat all problems.“Our input cost has increased, but sales have declined due to Covid. Though only four of us are left in the group, which also means our contribution has increased, we will prove ourselves by gaining profit in future,” said Harbans Kaur, another member of the group.She said in 2019 they had taken a loan of Rs 55,000 from a bank and earned good profit, but in 2020 they had to take loan of Rs 78,000. Though they repaid the entire amount, Covid decreased their profit margin. In the current year, they have taken a loan of Rs 80,000. “To date, we are struggling on our own without any government help. The state government should help us immediately if its authorities are really serious about uplifting rural women,” said Shindar Kaur, another member of the group.Sangrur ADC Development Rajinder Batra said: “The government has been helping women through various schemes. We will see how we can help these women.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-lockdown-women-labourers-take-to-organic-farming-262460
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to set up utility firm to supply water to rural areas||The Cabinet today approved the creation of a special purpose vehicle (SPV) for operations and maintenance of large multi-village surface water supply schemes across the state.The move aims at ensuring supply of potable water on a long term sustainable basis in rural areas of water quality-affected districts. This first-of-its-kind SPV in India will be a utility company, “Punjab Rural Water (Utility) Company”, under the Water Supply and Sanitation Department.Chaired by CM Capt Amarinder Singh, the Cabinet, at a virtual meeting, also accorded approval to opening an account in the name of the SPV, with seed money of Rs 25 crore allocated from the World Bank funds (64 per cent) and state budget (36 per cent), to support its functioning in the initial five years of operations. The allocation will help meet the shortfall in revenue collection, if any, to fulfil the contractual obligations of the SPV and its administrative expenses.The Water Supply and Sanitation Department is currently in the process of executing five new multi-village surface water supply projects covering 612 villages of Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts, and another project covering 408 villages in the fluoride-affected blocks of districts Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib. These projects are under construction. — TNSMalerkotla 23rd districtWomen DC, SP postedVirtual attendance||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-set-up-utility-firm-to-supply-water-to-rural-areas-262461
03-06-2021||Balwant Garg||Sacrilege accused moves court  over writing sample||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, June 2A day after the Special Investigation Team (SIT) collected the handwriting sample of one of the accused in the sacrilege cases to compare it with those on the blasphemous posters, Sukhjinder Singh, the accused, today moved the court.He approached the court of Judicial Magistrate Ist Class (JMIC) here with a protest application, saying the comparison of the handwritings by the SIT was in violation of the Punjab and Haryana High Court orders dated January 4.The investigation in all three sacrilege cases was handed over to the CBI on November 2, 2015. “During its investigation, the CBI had taken my handwriting specimen and compared it with that on the posters. On August 27, 2018, the Central Forensics Science Laboratory in its report revealed that my writing did not match with that on the posters and this report was submitted in the CBI court on June 29, 2019,” Sukhjinder claimed in his application.After the Vidhan Sabha resolved to withdraw the investigation of all sacrilege cases from the CBI and the latter submitted its final report in the CBI court, in this “fight” over the investigation of the sacrilege cases between the Punjab Police and the CBI, Sukhjinder had challenged the police investigation in the case, pending the CBI probe.On January 4, the High Court had directed the CBI to handover all its evidence in the cases to the Punjab Police, who were asked to submit a supplementary report to the court in Faridkot. “The court would examine all the evidence and the report and pass an appropriate judgment,” Sukhjinder said in his application.He said in view of the High Court orders, the SIT was not authorised to collect his handwriting specimen as it was already on record.HC order ‘violated’Cong ‘politicised’ cases||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-accused-moves-court-over-writing-sample-262462
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||GST panel can’t take decisions for council: FM Manpreet Badal||Finance Minister Manpreet Badal has reiterated his demand for not allowing the GST Implementation Committee (GIC) to take the decisions on behalf of the GST Council.In a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Manpreet said he was not “fault finding” by raising the issue, rather was trying to enhance the GST Council’s ability to collectively make decisions, backed by consensus and unsusceptible to any future legal challenges.The letter has reportedly been written by Manpreet after the concerns on the issue raised by Punjab were reportedly not received well in the GST Council meeting held last week. Asking the Union Finance Minister to examine the issue seriously, he said the recommendations of the GIC do not amount to recommendations of the GST Council. “Their recommendations can only be advisories and not legally binding. All rules made on the basis of the recommendations are subject to judicial review,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gst-panel-cant-take-decisions-for-council-fm-manpreet-badal-262464
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Cong infighting has pushed Punjab to the brink: BJP||The BJP today alleged that infighting within the Punjab Congress has paralysed the governance and has brought the state to the brink of collapse. BJP leader Tarun Chugh said it was reflected in mismanagement of Covid-19 in the state as a result of which Punjab recorded 2.8 per cent death rate in May, highest after Delhi. “Covid spelt havoc, while the CM and his Cabinet was busy settling personal scores,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-infighting-has-pushed-punjab-to-the-brink-bjp-262465
03-06-2021||Aman Sood||PSPCL incurs Rs 8.50 crore loss due to thunderstorms||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 2Two thunderstorms in the past few days that hit the region, snapping power supply to several parts of the state, have caused a loss of over Rs 8.50 crore to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) with officials still working to restore power to many areas. Already facing a shortage of men and material, the restoration process took over 24 hours in many parts of the state.The two thundershowers and strong wind snapped off power lines in parts of Amritsar, Mohali, Nawanshahr, Fazilka, Muktsar, Bathinda, Barnala, Moga, Sangrur, Patiala, Mansa, Ludhiana and Fatehgarh Sahib, officials said.Electricity poles were reportedly damaged in many villages across Punjab, with trees causing maximum damage. As per the information gathered from officials, the 11 KV system of the PSPCL suffered maximum damage due to the storm.Around 1,145 transformers were damaged out of which 616 were in south zone which suffered a total loss worth over Rs 4.13 crore followed by 391 transformers in west zone with a total loss of Rs 3.34 crore, 69 in central with Rs 58.10 lakh, 50 in north zone causing Rs 34.50 lakh losses and 19 in border zone with the total loss pegged at Rs 16.91 lakh. “Around 6,323 poles were damaged in the state while 1,359 other power items of 11 KV system were destroyed,” said a top official. Around 10 pm on Monday, the power load of Punjab touched a low of 3,400 MW, which meant that most of the state faced almost a blackout-like situation. “This low load in peak summer was alarming as normally 3,000 MW is the load during the peak winter in December and January,” an official said.Even the 66 KV system suffered major losses with eight towers in Bathinda, two in Patiala and one in Amritsar being destroyed due to the heavy winds. “Approximately Rs 29.35 lakh worth of items were destroyed,” said the official.A senior PSPCL official said, “Basically we don’t have enough material to handle paddy season this year. And if such weather conditions occur a few more times, restoring power can become impossible”.“All officials in the field worked tirelessly to restore power in cities and villages. Due to high wind velocity and damages caused, at some places it took a little longer to restore power supply. I again say that we have no material shortage and ample stock is there, while on-the-spot purchase is allowed for field officials,” said CMD, PSPCL, A Venu Prasad.Ajay Pal Singh Atwal, general secretary, PSEB Engineers’ Federation, flagged the issue of material shortage in a letter to the PSPCL management claiming: “Distribution transformers, insulators, cables and cable boxes are in limited supply.”Govt betrayed people on power issue: AAPChandigarh: AAP MLA from Delhi Raghav Chadha on Wednesday said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had tried several times to betray the people of the state on the electricity issue. Chadha said Capt Amarinder had befooled the people of Punjab with his promises of issuing a white paper and cancelling the faulty power purchase agreements, which were just false claims. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pspcl-incurs-rs-8-50-crore-loss-due-to-thunderstorms-262466
03-06-2021||---||Canal breach in Mansa, crop damaged||Mansa, June 2A major breach was reported in New Dhandaal Canal near Bhagwanpura Hingna village, Sardulgarh sub-division, in Mansa district on Wednesday. As a result , approximately 100 acres of land was submerged. Cotton crop and vegetables in around 15 acres of agricultural land were damaged due to waterlogging.Notably, this is the second breach reported in the same canal within 20 days. The residents of villages alleged the authorities concerned did not repair the canal properly after the first breach was reported that led to the second breach in a short span.Officials of the Canal Department claimed that a leakage in the embankment led to a breach in the canal and all arrangements had been made to plug it. Residents said since the breach was a major one, the flow of water was intense. Apart from fields, it also submerged the road between the Jhunir and Ahalupur areas.Later, the breach was plugged, but farmers are quite miffed. They alleged that the sheer negligence of the authorities had caused them severe losses. Farmers said there had been frequent breaches in the canal and the department must provide a permanent solution to the problem so that they could get uninterrupted supply of water.Gundeep Singh, SDO, Irrigation Department, said, “Leakage in embankment caused the breach. We have made all arrangements to plug the breach. We have also written to the higher authorities for a complete renovation of the canal.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/canal-breach-in-mansa-crop-damaged-262467
03-06-2021||---||‘Ecosystem restoration key to save Punjab from desertification’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 2The Pushpa Gujral Science City, jointly with the Punjab Pollution Control Board and the Centre for Environment Communication, is observing the World Environment Week by organising online quiz competitions and film festival from June 2 to 5.On the first day of the festival, an online quiz competition on “Nature, environment and sustainable development” was organised for students aged between 11 and 15 years. Saurav Gupta, IFS, Director, Directorate of Environment and Climate Change, was the chief guest on the occasion.Speaking on the occasion, he said the state government had launched “Mission Tandarust Punjab” to push the state among the healthiest ones by taking care of its air and water quality, ensuring safe food and good living environment. He said 85.44 lakh trees had been planted under the mission and 66 lakh saplings of native species had been distributed under the Ghar Ghar Haryali Programme. He called upon the students to take initiative for the restoration of ecosystem of Punjab.Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, Science City, during her introductory remarks said the celebration of the World Environment Day (June 5) reminds us to restore our ecosystems in every possible way. She pointed out the need of promoting education for sustainable development and said science museums such as Pushpa Gujral Science City could play a major role in this direction by reaching out to the children and their parents by simplifying complex scientific concepts and involving them in conservation in a fun way. She said: “If we all put our best foot forward to stop the rampant global warming, then we can expect certain rewards in the future. There are solutions to global warming available today and its time we put them to use. These solutions will reduce the amount of heat-trapping gases that we emit into the atmosphere.”Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, Science City, said Punjab, primarily an agrarian economy and the food bowl of the country, was facing a threat of desertification. Bad agricultural practices such as over use of pesticides and fertilizers, besides following the same crop cycle of wheat-paddy, were the factors contributing towards diminishing soil fertility. He stressed on adoption of best agricultural practices to restore ecosystems.The quiz was conducted by quizmasters Puja Ahluwalia and Shabnam Sharma, The Deens Academy, Bangalore. The First prize in online quiz competition was won by Gayatri Mahajan from Shri Guru Harkishan Public School, Pathankot, second prize was won by Chahat Chadha from Daynanda Model Senior Secondary School, Jalandhar, and Kashish Dhillon from DIPS Rayya got the third prize.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ecosystem-restoration-key-to-save-punjab-from-desertification-262660
03-06-2021||Kapurthala||Days after MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh’s plaint, Kapurthala SSP transferred||Just 10 days after Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh went public with his grouse against SSP Kanwardeep Kaur for not being able to control drug mafia in the district, the IPS officer was today transferred to the new district of Malerkotla. She has been replaced with Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh.Rana had told the mediapersons that the SSP had not taken any action against two ASIs who were reportedly involved in drug peddling. He had also alleged that the IPS officer had got reinstated an SI whom he had got removed from the Subhanpur police post. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/days-after-mla-rana-gurjeet-singhs-plaint-kapurthala-ssp-transferred-262659
03-06-2021||---||Punjab Congress ex-chiefs meet panel; Shamsher Singh Dullo says give loyalists their due||New Delhi, June 2The Congress panel on Punjab met former Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) presidents today. Many of them complained of a weak party organisation in the state, besides lack of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s accessibility.Shamsher Singh Dullo, Congress leaderParty revival mustThe party must be revived and the only way to do that is by according traditional Congress loyalists their due space.Among the ex-PPCC presidents who met the panel led by AICC veteran Mallikarjun Kharge were Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, Mohinder Singh Kaypee, Hanspal, Shamsher Singh Dullo and Partap Singh Bajwa, the latter two also sitting Rajya Sabha members.The committee also met other sitting MPs, including CM’s wife and Patiala MP Preneet Kaur, Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari and Khadoor Sahib MP JS Gill.CM Amarinder Singh is likely to reach Delhi tomorrow with the meeting expected to be scheduled on his arrival, either tomorrow or on Friday.Shamsher Singh Dullo, Congress leaderCM inaccessibleThe Chief Minister is not accessible. There is mafia rule in the state.The MLAs who were engaged by the panel today included Balbir Sidhu, Raminder Awla, Indu Bala, BS Pahra, Surjeet Dhiman, Nathu Ram, Kuljit Nagra, Kushaldeep Singh Dhillon, Gurpreet GP, Harjot Kamal, Amit Vij, Sunil Datti, Fateh Bajwa, Balwinder Laddi, Darshan Mangupur, Parminder Pinki, Sukhpal Bhullar, Joginder Singh, Dalbir Singh Goldy and Devinder Ghubaya. Dullo said he had complained of the state organisation being in a limbo and the CM being inaccessible for around four years now.“I flagged the need to revive the Punjab Congress. The PCC office has been in lockdown for three years. The CM is not accessible. There is mafia rule in the state. The Congress came to power after people were fed up with the corruption of Akali Dal, but we are now facing the same problem. The party must be revived and the only way to do that is by according traditional Congress loyalists their due space,” he said. The panel will submit a report to Sonia Gandhi next week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-ex-chiefs-meet-panel-shamsher-singh-dullo-says-give-loyalists-their-due-262520
03-06-2021||GS Paul ||‘Saroop’, gold-plated sheets damaged during Op Bluestar to be made public in Golden Temple complex||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 2Thirty-seven years after the Operation Bluestar, SGPC has decided to put on display the bullet-riddled “saroop” of Guru Granth Sahib, the gold-plated sheets of Golden Temple that were damaged during the Army attack in June 1984.Besides this, the original ‘khu’ (well) known as ‘Akalsar’ associated during the era of Guru Hargobind Singh would also be made open for public view. This well too bore the brunt of the attack on its outer surface.Visibly emotional, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said the devotees have got all rights to be apprised of the damage done to the epitome of spiritual blessings by the Army in 1984.“I beg pardon of Sikh community that we got too late to take such a decision, yet the present executive decided that this should be placed in public domain for three days -- on June 3, 4 and 5. Later on, a permanent arrangement would be made for their display,” she said.The particular Guru Granth Sahib saroop, the bullet that was pierced through the cover and the ‘angs’ (pages of holy scripture) would be enshrined at Shaheed Baba Gurbax Singh Gurdwara located at the back of Akal Takht.“This gurdwara had multiple entry-exit, so it would be convenient for the devotees to have a glimpse of the saroop. Besides this, a camera would be installed which would give live telecast transmitted on the two big screens that would be set up outside the gurdwara,” she said.Similarly, some of the damaged gold-plated sheets would be placed at Bhaura Sahib, located at the base of Akal Takht.  Citing Akalsar ‘khu’ located behind Akal Takht, she told that it was equally important for the devotees to know about its significance.“Thought came to my mind that if being president of SGPC for the fourth time, I never visited this most important ‘khu’, what to talk of a common visitors? It has been decided to make it accessible for all. This ‘khu’ made up of Nanakshahi bricks during Guru’s era, was the only source of water to be used for cleaning parikrama. Not all of the damaged gold sheets could be placed for want of proper arrangement, but their photographs would be displayed on the screen,” she said.She told that soon ‘Shaheedi Gallery’ that was started in 2017 would be made operational in which a model of damaged Akal Takht would be displayed with minute detailing. Besides this, the other memorabilia of Operation Bluestar would be preserved and presented in digitised  format for the public, the Khajana Gallery which had bullet marks has been kept ‘as it is’ and details about those who lost lives during the Army attack too would be procured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/saroop-gold-plated-sheets-damaged-during-op-bluestar-to-be-made-public-in-golden-temple-complex-262365
