04-06-2021||Amritsar||SGPC says Pakistan denies permission to jatha to visit on Guru Arjan Dev martyrdom day||A batch of Sikh pilgrims, also known as jatha, would not be able to travel to Pakistan this year to mark the martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev as the neighbouring country has not granted permission to it due to Covid-19 situation, the SGPC said on Friday.Every year, the jatha travels to Pakistan to mark the martyrdom day, or Shaheedi Diwas, of fifth Sikh master Guru Arjan Dev at Gurdwara Dehra Sahib in Lahore, which falls on June 14. This year, the jatha was scheduled to depart for Pakistan on June 6.Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur said on Friday the Pakistan government has not given permission to jatha citing the Covid-19 pandemic.“SGPC was fully prepared to send the jatha across the border to Pakistan. So far, the Indian government has also not raised any kind of restriction on the jatha,” said Bibi Jagir Kaur.SGPC's assistant secretary media Kulwinder Singh Ramdas said, “The Yatra Department of SGPC talked telephonically to Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee's (PSGPC's) president Satwant Singh, who informed that due to the Covid-19 situation, the jatha coming to Pakistan on the occasion of Shaheedi Diwas (martyrdom day) of the fifth Guru has not been given permission by the government.”Kulwinder Singh said that the jatha was scheduled to depart for Pakistan on June 6 to mark the martyrdom day on June 14.“The pilgrims who had deposited their passports for going to Pakistan on the occasion of the martyrdom day of Sri Guru Arjan Dev can collect them back from the SGPC's Yatra Department,” he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-says-pakistan-denies-permission-to-jatha-to-visit-on-guru-arjan-dev-martyrdom-day-263377
04-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||'I am Punjabi, she is Jat....': Prince Narula talks about wife Yuvika Chaudhary's casteist slur controversy||Prince Narula has finally spoken about his wife Yuvika Chaudhary's recent casteist slur controversy.This comes after an FIR was filed against Yuvika after she used a casteist remark in a video. The actress claims that she did not know what the word meant.While interacting with the paparazzi on Thursday, Prince spoke about the controversy and maintained that neither him, nor his wife are casteist. "People make a big deal out of the smallest things. And more important things are never addressed. She did not even know that the word she had used had casteist connotations. We don't believe in caste. I'm a Punjabi, she is a Jat. Had it been so, we would not have gotten married," he said.A post shared by Viral Bhayani (@viralbhayani)  Earlier, Haryana police booked Yuvika on a complaint by a Dalit rights activist for allegedly using a casteist slur in a video that went viral on social media.Police registered an FIR against the actress under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on Friday evening, according to an official.In his complaint, Dalit rights activist Rajat Kalsan alleged that the actress made some derogatory and objectionable remarks about the Scheduled Caste community in the video, a copy of which he handed over to the police.Yuvika also took to Twitter to issue an apology, saying she did not know the meaning of the word. "First of all, with folded hands, I apologise to you'll. I used the word unknowingly and I didn't know the meaning. Please forgive a mistake that happened unknowingly," she said in Hindi.Prince also supported her through a series on videos on his Instagram page. "None of us knew the meaning of the word. When we received your messages, we looked it up online and we felt really bad. Yuvi immediately edited it soon after. I hope you guys understand nothing was done intentionally. We didn't know the meaning of the word. Even I was there, if it is Yuvi's fault, it is my fault as well. We both didn't know the meaning of the word. We are really sorry if we hurt anyone, we love you guys," he said in Hindi."Hum wo last person hai jo caste mein believe karte hai (we are the last people who would believe in caste)," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/i-am-punjabi-she-is-jat-prince-narula-talks-about-wife-yuvika-chaudharys-casteist-slur-controversy-263328
04-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Mika Singh reaches Kamaal R Khan’s house, promises not to beat him up; here's what happened next||Singer Mika Singh reached self-proclaimed critic Kamaal R Khan aka KRK's residence on Thursday. Mika and KRK have been involved in an escalating war of words.  Calling KRK his 'son', Mika said that there is no personal enmity between them. Videos of Mika speaking to media outside KRK's house were shared by fan clubs online. Mika said that KRK has removed the nameplate from outside the house. Addressing KRK, Mika said, “Dekh bhai, main tere ghar ke bahar khada hoon yahaan pe. Chaati chaudi kar ke khada hoon. Tu jahaan kahega, wahaan mil leta hoon. Tu saari umar mera beta hi rahega. Meri tere se koi ladai nahi hai (See, brother, I am standing outside your house with my head held high. I am ready to meet you wherever you want. You will always be my son. I have no enmity with you) because you are my son.”“Tere ghar ke saamne khada hoon, tune apne yeh bech diya hai. Ab tere jitne aur ghar hai, woh mat bechna kyunki meri tere se personally dushmani nahi hai. Mere se darr mat, main tereko maarunga nahi, peetunga nahi (I am standing outside your house but you seem to have sold it. Now please don’t sell all your other houses because I have no personal enmity with you). But you are my son. Tereko sabak sikhana tha, itna bada sabak nahi ki tu apna ghar bech ke chala jaaye. After all, you are my padosi (I wanted to teach you a lesson but not such a big one that you sell your house and leave. After all, you are my neighbour),” he added.A post shared by POP Diaries (@ipopdiaries)A post shared by BOLLy BeaST (@bollybeast)Earlier, Mika slammed KRK as "gadha" (donkey) and "chuha" (mouse) for allegedly making personal remarks against actor Salman Khan. KRK is being sued for defamation by Salman. KRK hit back at Mika by calling him a ‘chirkut singer’ who is trying to get publicity by jumping into the matter. Mika then went on to announce a diss track against KRK.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mika-singh-reaches-kamaal-r-khans-house-promises-not-to-beat-him-up-heres-what-happened-next-263320
04-06-2021||New Delhi||Punjab sold 1.4 lakh doses to 20 private hospitals at over double the cost, alleges BJP||The BJP on Friday attacked the Punjab government led by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh over allegations that the state profiteered on Covaxin shots by getting them for Rs 400 a dose from the Centre and selling it to 20 private hospitals at Rs 1,060 a dose.Union information and broadcasting minister led the charge against the Congress led state government accusing it of “committing a sin by disregarding the needs of people at the altar of their own internal rifts.”Also read: Punjab Government withdraws vaccine stock supplied to private hospitals after 'profiteering' allegations by BJPPartap Bajwa questions CM Amarinder Singh over sale of Covaxin doses to private hospitals when state is facing shortage“A strange kind of politics is playing out in Punjab. The state continues to be affected by Covid. Covid management leaves much to be desired. The required level of government involvement needed for Covid testing is also not there in Punjab. Internal factionalism has been bogging down the Congress government in Punjab for about six months. The entire party and the government have been camping in Delhi for the past four days.So who will care about the people? Disregard of the people at the altar of internal party politics is a big sin of the Congress,” Javadekar Javadekar said on Friday.He said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi should put his own house in order in the state ruled by the Congress rather than lecture others on vaccine policy.“Dangerous and disturbing reports coming out of Punjab suggest the state government got 1,40,000 Covaxin doses, which they sold to 20 private hospitals for Rs 1,060,” said the minister.He asked “What kind of people’s governance is this where the state government wants to make profits on a vaccination drive for Covid? And Punjab is charging people Rs 1,500. Government of India has given free 22 crore doses to states till now.”Javadekar said Punjab was among the states that first sought decentralisation of procurement of vaccines and now want centralisation.“They change their stand everyday. Punjab government should urgently address people’s concerns. This is the principal urge of the people of the state,” the union minister added.Back in Delhi, CM Amarinder Singh ducked questions on the subject as he met the AICC panel on Punjab issues.It was later, Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said that his department does not deal with vaccine procurement or distribution.It is under the Chief Secretary or Covid Vaccine Nodal Officer Vikas Garg.He said that the health department only tests the quality of vaccine and then administers to public. He said that after the reports, he has already ordered an inquiry into the matter and the responsibility should be fixed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sold-1-4-lakh-doses-to-20-private-hospitals-at-over-double-the-cost-alleges-bjp-263315
04-06-2021||New Delhi||29 LMT grain in unscientific storage, all in Punjab, Haryana||With wheat procurement touching an all-time high, the Centre today said the issue regarding unscientific storage of the grain, mainly in Punjab and Haryana, would be resolved by July-end.‘100% scientific storage by July-end’“In two months (July-end) it will be 100 per cent scientific storage across the country, including Punjab and Haryana,” FCI CMD Atish Chandra said. Of the total wheat, 411.12 LMT, purchased till June 2, Punjab has contributed 132.27 LMT (32.17 per cent), which is an all-time high, Haryana 84.93 LMT (20.65 per cent), and Madhya Pradesh 128.08 LMT (31.15 per cent). Chandra said close to 97 per cent of this grain was under scientific storage.Being key producers, Punjab and Haryana “face a temporary issue of unscientific storage for a few days. “Around 3.5 per cent of the grain is under temporary storage, all in Punjab and Haryana,” he said.“Punjab and Haryana see a great volume of offloading in a short span of time, unlike other grain-producing states. This is temporary storage, and in the first instance, the grain is moved to a place where it is safe. It is a small quantity compared to the amount of grain storage. “The issue is going to be resolved before July-end to make it 100 per cent scientific storage across the country, including in Punjab and Haryana,” Chandra said. Grains under unscientific storage include around 19.6 LMT in Punjab and 9.4 LMT in Haryana, around 29 LMT (3.5 per cent) of the 880 LMT in all, according to the FCI CMD.Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said the previous record for wheat procurement was 389.92 lakh tonnes last year. “We have revised the target to 432.5 lakh tonnes,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/29-lmt-grain-in-unscientific-storage-all-in-punjab-haryana-263087
04-06-2021||---||Operation Bluestar anniversay : Security beefed up ahead of June 6 in Amritsar||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, June 3Deputy Commissioner of Police (law and order) Parminder Singh Bhandal on Thursday led the police personnel and conducted a flag march from the Hall Gate to the Golden Temple ahead of the 37th anniversay of Operation Bluestar on June 6.Bhandal said elaborate security arrangements have been made to thwart any untoward incident on the occasion. He said around 5,000 cops have been deployed in the city while 1,000 policemen would be responsible for maintaining security from the Hall Gate to the Golden Temple on June 6.He said checkpoints have been set up at entry and exit points of the city. He said the police have been asked to keep an eye on suspicious elements. A company of Punjab Armed Police and SWAT teams has been deputed in different parts of the city, said the DCP. The police teams carried out patrolling around the Golden Temple and checked hotels and inns.Meanwhile, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) informed that ‘Akhand Path’ would commence at Akal Takht from tomorrow and bhog would be held on June 6.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/operation-bluestar-anniversay-security-beefed-up-ahead-of-june-6-in-amritsar-263198
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ahead of key Delhi meet, Capt Amarinder inducts 3 AAP rebels into party||In a move aimed at his detractors within the party, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday inducted rebel AAP MLAs Sukhpal Khaira, Jagdev Singh Kamalu and Pirmal Singh into the Congress minutes before he flew to Delhi.Strategic moveThe CM is scheduled to meet the three-member panel, constituted to resolve infighting in the Punjab unit, in Delhi on Friday. Party leaders believe Capt Amarinder has communicated to the top brass that the party under his command has an edge over rival parties. A senior leader said, “By advancing the induction of Khaira and others into the party, Capt Amarinder has tried to counter the narrative being propagated by his critics that his popularity graph has taken a hit and his acceptability in the party is low.”Soon after joining the Congress, the three MLAs submitted resignation to the Speaker. After acceptance of resignations, elections to the Assembly segments need to be held within six months.Khaira, who returned to the Congress after six years, said the Congress was the only viable platform to fight the “fanatic and fascist” Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the national level and prevent the Badals from taking control over the state.It is learnt that the Congress has assured ticket to the three legislators from the constituencies currently represented by them — Khaira (Bholath), Kamalu (Maur) and Khalsa (Bhadaur). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ahead-of-key-delhi-meet-capt-amarinder-inducts-3-aap-rebels-into-party-263032
04-06-2021||New Delhi||Voices for Punjab Congress revamp grow louder||Voices for the revamp of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) have been growing louder as the AICC panel formed to resolve state’s affairs winds up its meetings over the weekend.The panel today met around 35 leaders who had contested the 2017 state elections and lost, apart from some prominent and upcoming leaders.Sources privy to discussions said a lot of MLAs, a section of sitting MPs and other stakeholders urged the Congress panel to suggest a revamp of the state unit with a probable overhaul at the very top. “In the event of inaccessibility of the Chief Minister, the PPCC should serve as a link between the party and the cadre. But that is not happening. An overhaul is required… The demands for revamp, however, have been overshadowed by the ongoing spat between CM Capt Amarinder Singh and his former Cabinet colleague Navjot Sidhu,” said sources.PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar has had to contend with a dysfunctional state unit on account of issues related to Navjot Sidhu, who has been eyeing the post himself and wants a fair share for his loyalists in the revamped organisation, something the CM has not allowed.The Congress may not like to repeat the Haryana and Kerala examples (it went into elections in both these states without a PPCC unit and lost) in Punjab and may quickly want to constitute the state unit, a major discussion point when the CM meets the AICC committee tomorrow after arriving in Delhi today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/voices-for-punjab-congress-revamp-grow-louder-263034
04-06-2021||Jalandhar||Students keen on studying abroad a worried lot||The cancellation of Class XII board examination by the Centre hasn’t gone down well with students aspiring to seek admission in foreign universities.These students were earlier upset with the postponement of examinations, which hampered their target for the September 2021 session in foreign universities. Now that it has been formally announced that there will be no board examinations this year, the students aiming for the January 2022 session are unsure if the universities will admit them without a proper exam score.Little clarity yetStudents eyeing the January 2022 session are unsure if foreign universities will admit them without their proper examsRachna Monga, Principal, Sanskriti KMV School, Jalandhar, says students keen on studying abroad are apprehensive. “Many of my Class XII students are coming to me for ‘letters of reference’ for admission in foreign universities. Since the UK and the US had regular schools, students here fear that these countries may not consider them this time as there hasn’t been a proper examination. The students are completely clueless as of now.”Even companies handling student immigration have little to offer on the subject. Manbir Singh, who runs one such company in Jalandhar, says, “There is no clarity on what rules the Canadian immigration department will frame for Indian students after the board exam cancellation. The universities may take a final call after the boards announce the modalities to work out the result. Some top universities can add new conditions for admission.”Another immigration consultant from Ludhiana, Khilandeep Singh, says, “Since many students may get 75 per cent and above owing to the easy evaluation expected after the exam cancellation, there will be tough competition among those going abroad. This factor too may affect students’ plans.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/students-keen-on-studying-abroad-a-worried-lot-263041
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Man seeks bribe from Rajpura patwari, son arrested||The Punjab Vigilance Bureau (VB) today arrested a person who was collecting money as a bribe from a revenue patwari posted at Rajpura, Patiala district. The arrested person’s father was demanding bribe by impersonating himself as an inspector of the Vigilance Bureau.Disclosing this, a spokesperson of the Vigilance Bureau said accused Balwinder Singh, alias Guddu, of Rajpura town was demanding Rs 5,00,000 as bribe from Dharampal Singh, revenue patwari, posted at Rajpura, by blackmailing him and was impersonating as an inspector of the bureau.The spokesperson said the complainant patwari approached the bureau and lodged a complaint in this regard. After finding facts of impersonation, a VB team laid a trap but accused Balwinder Singh didn’t come and sent his son Gurdhiyan Singh for receiving the money from the complainant.The VB team immediately arrested Gurdhiyan Singh on the spot near the railway bridge in Rajpura red-handed while accepting Rs 50,000 as bribe. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-seeks-bribe-from-rajpura-patwari-son-arrested-263014
04-06-2021||---||Now, deposit court fee at Sewa Kendras in Moga||Moga, June 3 Adding another dimension to the digital services being provided to people, the state government has now started the process of depositing court fee through Sewa Kendras.  Referring to a letter received from the Punjab State e-Governance Society in this regard, Moga Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans said the service had started from June 1. He said Sewa Kendras would charge Rs 3 for fee up to Rs 100, Rs 5 for up to Rs 1,000 and Rs 10 for above Rs 1,000. He said the in charge of all kendras had been informed about the initiative of the government.  He appealed to people to take full advantage of the service and said the kendras had already been providing with more than 300 services for the convenience of people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-deposit-court-fee-at-sewa-kendras-in-moga-263016
04-06-2021||---||Punjab CM to unveil new district Malerkotla on June 7||Malerkotla, June 3Amrit Kaur Gill today took charge as the Deputy Commissioner (DC), Malerkotla, which has been announced as the 23rd district by the Punjab Government.Gill said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh would formally inaugurate the new district on June 7, instead of June 5.“Public welfare schemes of the Punjab Government will be provided to the eligible beneficiaries in a timely and transparent manner,” she added.Also, Kanwardeep Kaur took over as the Senior Superintendent of Police at her office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-to-unveil-new-district-malerkotla-on-june-7-263011
04-06-2021||Praful Chander Nagpal||Fazilka turns into open dump||Fazilka, June 3Residents are peeved at garbage not being lifted in the town for the past 20 days owing to a strike by sanitation workers.As many as 190 regular and contractual workers had proceeded on a strike in support of their demands on May 13. As a result, piles of garbage can be seen littered across the town.The employees have been demanding regularisation and increase in salaries. Official sources said nearly 600 tonne garbage had piled up in different parts of the town. On average, 30 tonne garbage was collected daily from 16,000 households in the town.The situation had turned ugly on May 28 when Congress-led Fazilka Municipal Council president Surinder Sachdeva and other councillors tried to lift the garbage near Shastri Chowk using private resources, but some sanitary workers restrained them from doing so, claiming it would impact their strike.On the intervention of SDM Keshav Goyal, the MC chief and others had to step back and the lifting of garbage was stopped to ensure harmony between the sanitary workers and councillors.Foul smell has been emanating from the mounds of garbage across the town. At some places, garbage is being set on fire, causing inconvenience to residents, especially those infected by Covid-19 who face breathing problems.Sanitary inspector Naresh Khera said they would lift the garbage once the strike by the workers ends.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fazilka-turns-into-open-dump-263012
04-06-2021||---||Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroop’ damaged in 1984 op restored, put on display||Amritsar, June 3The ‘saroop’ of Guru Granth Sahib that was enshrined in the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple and damaged by a bullet during the 1984 Operation Bluestar has been showcased for public viewing after restoration by the SGPC in the complex today.Bullet mark retainedBack in public view after 37 years, the ‘saroop’ has been placed for a limited period i.e. till June 5, at Shaheed Baba Gurbax Singh Gurdwara, located at the rear of Akal Takht. Along with it, the bullet that was believed to have hit the ‘saroop’ from the southern gate of the sanctum sanctorum has also been put on display.SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur said the bullet had damaged its cover and 90 ‘angs’ (pages) before getting lodged in the ‘saroop’. The conservation of the handwritten ‘saroop’ was done by experts, who retained some damage marks on it.A specially designed paper had been arranged from overseas and would be pasted on the damaged portion of the ‘angs’. This paper has got blended with the original page in such a manner that it will be hard to locate the impairment.The original bullet mark on the cover of the holy script has been kept ‘as it is’. The holy relic was part of evidences, including the bullet marks, preserved on the facade of Teja Singh Samundri Hall and bullet-ridden rickety structure of one of the entry gates to the shrine adjacent to the Akal Takht, known as ‘Khajana Deori’.Holding the then central government liable for damages, the SGPC is fighting a legal battle in the Delhi High Court to claim compensation of Rs 1,000 crore. The case is still pending.The bullet-ridden gold plates of Golden Temple too will be displayed shortly. The SGPC had made arrangements for live telecast for wider reach. Two LCD screens have been put up outside the gurdwara.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/guru-granth-sahib-saroop-damaged-in-1984-op-restored-put-on-display-263013
04-06-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Punjab and Haryana High Court issues show-cause notice to PSPCL CMD||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, June 3The Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued a show-cause notice to PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad asking him why contempt of court proceedings should not be initiated against him for “intentional and wilful defiance of its orders”.The court has fixed July 7 as the next date of hearing. Gurdaspur-based SDO Ram Gopal had petitioned the court after he was compulsorily retired on September 4, 2020. The petitioner had claimed that he was being “punished” for flagging corrupt practices in the PSPCL.When contacted, Venu Prasad said he was aware of the case and “would abide by the court orders”.In the petition, the SDO claimed that on July 31, 2014, he had lodged a complaint against a Kahnuwan-based hotel owner for power theft. An FIR (no. 347) was registered at the Anti-Power Theft Police Station, Amritsar under the Electricity Act, 2003.The petitioner claimed that he had also brought to his seniors’ notice embezzlement worth Rs 2.50 crore pertaining to civil works in the border zone, but no action was taken.“Instead of taking action against the erring officials, I was compulsorily retired on September 4, 2020. I was also issued 18 chargesheets between 2014 and 2016,” said the petitioner.The petitioner said he approached the High Court to get justice after the PSPCL sent him into forced retirement.In the petition, he said on April 4 this year, the court ordered the PSPCL to allow him to rejoin duty. However, he had not received any information from the management so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-issues-show-cause-notice-to-pspcl-cmd-263008
04-06-2021||Bathinda||3 youths die in car mishap on  Bathinda-Dabwali road||Three youths in their mid-twenties were killed after the car in which they were travelling collided with an unidentified vehicle on the Bathinda-Dabwali road near Pathrala village. The victims belonged to Chak Ruldu Singhwala village in Sangat block of Bathinda district.The deceased were identified as Chanan Singh (24), Jagjit Singh (22) and Amandeep Singh (27). While two of them died on the spot, Amandeep succumbed to his injuries on way to the hospital.The bodies were taken to the Civil Hospital, Bathinda, for a post-mortem, following which these were handed over to the families. The police have registered a case against the unidentified driver of the second vehicle and launched a hunt.As per village residents, Amandeep was building a house where masons Chanan Singh and Jagjit Singh were working. The three had gone to a dhaba in the Doomwali area for dinner. While returning to their village, their car collided with another vehicle near Pathrala village. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-youths-die-in-car-mishap-on-bathinda-dabwali-road-263009
04-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Sriganganagar: Rs 270-crore heroin seized||Sriganganagar, June 3The BSF seized 56.5 kg contraband, suspected to be heroin, after a brief firing near the border fence in the Khajuwala area near the Sriganganagar-Bikaner highway late last night.The value of the contraband is estimated at Rs 270 crore in the international market. This is believed to be the biggest-ever seizure of heroin near the Pakistan border in Rajasthan.Bid to smuggle drugs amid stormDIG Pushpinder Singh Rathore said personnel of 127th Battalion posted in Khajuwala sector near Satrana observed some people approaching the fence during a storm around 1.30 am and challenged them. When they tried to flee, the BSF men fired two rounds. he said footprints of four-five persons were noticed on the other side of the fencing.Suspected Pakistan smugglers fled back, while the Indian accomplices failed to collect the consignment that was reportedly pushed from across the border. The BSF seized 54 packets covered by yellow tape and tied in a pipe-like cloth.DIG Pushpinder Singh Rathore said personnel of 127th Battalion posted in Khajuwala sector near Satrana observed some people approaching the fence during a storm around 1.30 am and challenged them. When they tried to flee, the BSF men fired two rounds.Rathore said footprints of four-five persons were noticed on the other side of the fencing, while footmarks of two persons were found on the Indian side of the fence.The Intelligence Branch had received inputs of possible cross-border movement in the sector and vigilance was stepped up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sriganganagar-rs-270-crore-heroin-seized-263010
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||SAD: Cong govt minting money from vaccines||Alleging a scam in the administration of Covid vaccines in Punjab, the Shiromani Akali Dal today said the state government sold the vaccines at a premium to make profits. Showing documents to support his claim, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said vaccine doses were being sold to private institutions instead of being given free of cost to the common man. He said a Covaxin dose cost the state Rs 400. It was being sold to private institutions for Rs 1,060. He said the private hospitals were further selling the dose for Rs 1,560. “This amounts to a cost of Rs 6,000 to Rs 9,000 per family for a single dose”. He said in Mohali alone, 35,000 doses were sold to private institutions to earn a profit of nearly Rs 2 crore in a single day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-cong-govt-minting-money-from-vaccines-262996
04-06-2021||Aman Sood||Aspirants rue ‘haste’ in exam, PPSC says ample time given||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 3Civil services aspirants in Punjab are surprised over the “sudden haste” shown by the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) to hold the written exam within 14 days of issuing a notice. Many candidates claimed that the move gave them only a “limited time to prepare” while the PPSC claimed that the candidates were alerted in advance.In March, the PPSC had sought applications from candidates, but delayed the examination following the Covid-induced lockdown. The PPSC issued a public notice on May 31, announcing holding of the exam on June 14 and 15.Meanwhile, candidates said a minimum two-month notice should have been given to them so that they could prepare for the exam. The PPSC will conduct the exam to fill 159 posts in various government departments.Candidates questioned the rationale behind the PPSC decision to conduct the examination in such a hurry when Class XII exams have already been cancelled by the government. “Covid-19 cases are being reported in the state and rural Punjab is still in the grip of infection. Holding of the exam in such conditions will only spread the virus,” they claimed.“Usually, the gap is of two months after the date of notification. This gives sufficient window to aspirants to prepare and even revise the vast syllabus,” they said.“This is misinformation. There are only around 4,000 candidates for the SDO exams. They will be divided in six-eight centres, with each centre having several rooms. All Covid SOPs will be followed. As per government requirement, the SDO posts need to be filled early since a large number of works are held up,” said PPSC Chairman Lt Gen Surinder Singh (retd).“As far as a two-month notice is concerned, the advertisements for the posts were published in March and April. So all candidates were aware of the exams and had enough notice. Some people always want exam delayed for their own reasons and take up such pleas,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aspirants-rue-haste-in-exam-ppsc-says-ample-time-given-262997
04-06-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Fund my treatment, Punjab jail official pleads with govt||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 3“Fund my treatment and give me a chance to live, instead of giving compensation after my death.” This poignant video appeal by Deputy Jail Superintendent Harjinder Singh from a hospital bed after having lost both lungs to the Covid-19 infection has prompted the state government to put all its might to save his life.Procedure To cost Rs 80 lakhWhile there are no government rules to fund the cost of a lung transplant, which is around Rs 80 lakh, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has agreed in principle to help the officer.DGP Dinkar Gupta tweeted that the CM had decided to support DSP’s treatment. The CM has released some funds from his discretionary quota, while Ludhiana Police Commissioner Rakesh Aggarwal has ensured free treatment for the officer at a private hospital in the city.A panel of doctors under the Ludhiana Chief Medical Officer has been formed to advice best treatment and procedure to follow in the case.The officer’s mother met the Chief Minister yesterday seeking help for transport and treatment of her son at a Chennai or Hyderabad hospital.“We are in touch with doctors at these places. They have studied the case and informed us about the cost of the treatment. There is no facility of lung transplant in Punjab or Chandigarh. With government’s help, we are trying to arrange an air ambulance and will fly him once the government provides funds,” said Harry Sharma, a family friend.Officials said there are no rules to provide such a large amount even though the state government has agreed in principle to foot the bill. Under the government guidelines for ex gratia to the family of frontline workers dying of Covid-19, a maximum sum of Rs 50 lakh can be paid.The DSP, a divorcee, has three children — a 21-year-old daughter, married and settled in Canada, and two sons, aged 16 and six. In his video appeal, the DSP says the government will pay compensation to his family and maybe give a job a member after his death, but he has a chance to survive if he gets a lung transplant immediately. I can take care of my family on my own,” he says, struggling to catch a breath.Harjinder is a DSP-rank officer on deputation with the Department of Jails. He is currently posted at Central Jail, Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fund-my-treatment-punjab-jail-official-pleads-with-govt-262999
04-06-2021||Muktsar||Burden eases at Muktsar hospitals||As the Covid graph has come down in the district, the functioning of civil hospitals has started to return to normal. For instance, the Civil Hospital, Malout, has started OPD services, which was earlier converted into a level-3 hospital.Similarly, the new admission of Covid patients has been stopped at the Drug De-addiction and Rehabilitation Centre at Thehri village. A health department official said the number of fresh Covid cases had decreased thus the hospitals were returning to their normal functioning.Rajesh Tripathi, ADC (General), Muktsar, made a special appeal to women, saying the case fatality ratio (CFR) was higher among them, thus they should not take risk and undergo Covid test and get vaccinated as well without any delay. He informed that the CFR among women in the district was 3.4 per cent. Meanwhile, in the last 24 hours, 114 people were found positive for Covid in the district. — TNS240 get jabbed Abohar: After a three-day gap, the subdivisional Civil Hospital here received Covishield vaccine, but only 400 doses. Till afternoon, 240 people in the 45-plus age group were given the first dose. In all, 160 doses will be administered on Friday. Apart from this, the second dose of Covaxin was administered to 40 people. Due to lack of vaccines, youth above in the 18-plus group could not get the jab. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/burden-eases-at-muktsar-hospitals-263000
04-06-2021||---||Workers protest orders to grow vegetables at anganwaris||Bathinda, June 3The Anganwari Workers’ Union today staged a protest against the state and central governments over being directed to plant seeds to grow vegetables in anganwari centres. They are being provided with seeds of vegetables and other items by the government under the Poshan Abhiyan scheme to make ‘poshan vatikas’ at their respective centres.Carrying packets of seeds in their hands, union members raised slogans and later submitted a memorandum of demands to the Bathinda Deputy Commissioner.“Rather than fulfiling our long-pending demands, the government is trying to deviate our attention by engaging in works not meant for us. The government has sent seed kits to anganwari centres, asking workers and helpers to prepare ‘poshan vatikas’. A majority of the centres are running from shared premises and barely have enough space to grow vegetables or make ‘poshan vatikas’ there. Moreover, there will be no one to guard these vatikas once plants will be grown,” Pratibha Sharma, a representative of the union, said. Union members in the memorandum requested that they be not coerced to make vatikas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/workers-protest-orders-to-grow-vegetables-at-anganwaris-263001
04-06-2021||---||Teachers’ body opposes work during vacations||Bathinda, June 3Members of the Joint Teachers’ Front took out a protest march on two-wheelers and burnt the effigy of the Education Minister in Bathinda on Thursday. The protesters alleged that teachers were being engaged in online trainings, meetings and other duties even during summer vacations.The protesters holding black flags started the march from Teachers’ Home and reached outside the District Administrative Complex and burnt effigies of the Education Minister and the Secretary of the Education Department.Jagpal Bangi, a union leader, said, “Teachers are being asked to take online classes, attend meetings and training programmes, distribution of books and food items and remain engaged in admission-related work during summer vacations. The government has also been delaying the report of the 6th Pay Commission.”Lachhman Singh, another leader, said, “Department officials are busy downsising so that its policy to close down government schools on permanent basis can be advanced further. Rather than regularising services of contractual teachers rendering their services for years as per new the education policy, the education sector is being affected adversely.”Resents online classesSangrur: To protest against for their demands, government teachers under the banner of the Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha organised a march in Sangrur city. They demanded withdrawal of online classes during summer vacations, distribution of books and other official work. "The authorities are harassing government teachers during summer vacation. We will intensify our agitation in coming days," said Nirbhai Singh, convener of the morcha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/teachers-body-opposes-work-during-vacations-263002
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Women panel summons singer Lehmbar Hussainpuri||Taking suo motu notice of Punjabi singer Lehmbar Hussainpuri allegedly maltreating his wife and daughter, the Punjab State Women Commission has asked him to appear before the commission on June 4.Stating this here today, commission chairperson Manisha Gulati said the matter came to her notice through media reports. In her order, she directed the Commissioner of Police, Jalandhar, to ensure compliance of the order and asked the inquiry officer concerned and both parties to appear before it at 12 noon on June 4. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/women-panel-summons-singer-lehmbar-hussainpuri-263003
04-06-2021||---||Ropar IIT 55th in varsity rankings||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-iit-55th-in-varsity-rankings-263004
04-06-2021||---||Work on Nangal RoB halted over design||Nangal, June 3Commuters will have to face traffic snarls on the Nangal Dam bridge as the authorities have to suspend work on the upcoming railway overbridge (RoB) near the dam.Officials of the PWD said there was a change in design of the project and the work would be resumed only after the new design was approved by the railway authorities.They said railway officials also wanted to construct a low height subway (LHS) under the RoB due to which the project could not be completed. Over 80 per cent of work on the project had already been completed six months ago. As the bridge, built more than 60 years ago, is not wide enough to cater to the increasing vehicular traffic, commuters get stuck in traffic jams for hours every day. The bridge is vital for the residents of Una and Hamirpur districts as it is their only link to Chandigarh. Even ambulances on way to the PGI get stuck in traffic jams.To ease out traffic congestion, the NHAI had approved a railway RoB near the Nangal Dam, a high-level bridge on the Sutlej in December 2017. Another ROB near Ajouli Mor was also approved. The work on the 1.37-km flyover and the ROB on the Sutlej were started in August 2018 and it was scheduled to be completed in August 2020. However, the work on it got affected after the lockdown was imposed due to the pandemic and the new deadline was fixed as April 30.Yuvraj Singh Bindra of the PWD (Central Works) said the project could not be completed due to the delay in decision over constructing an LHS under the bridge.He said the LHS was part of the project from beginning but they were not in its favour as it was providing direct approach only to cremation grounds even as several shopkeepers could lose their business after its construction after demolishing their properties. When the matter was taken up with the railway authorities in the past, they got ready to remove the LHS from the project. However, now on their insistence new design with the LHS had been submitted and the work on the project would be resumed only after their nod, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/work-on-nangal-rob-halted-over-design-263006
04-06-2021||Rajmeet Singh||MPs, ministers call on Capt Amarinder Singh to counter Congress dissidents||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 3As the dissident ministers and MLAs are fortifying their position against Capt Amarinder Singh while staying put in the national capital, at least three MPs, two ministers and a few MLAs met the Chief Minister after he reached his Delhi residence on Thursday.CM to appear before AICC panel todayMPs Ravneet Bittu, Gurjeet Aujla and Manish Tewari, ministers Rana Gurmeet Sodhi and Vijay Inder Singla and MLAs Ravinder Amla and Dr Raj Kumar Verka were among the leaders who called on the Chief Minister.Capt Amarinder after meeting the three-member AICC panel led by Rajya Sabha MP Mallikarjun Kharge can also meet the party’s top leadership to put forth his view point, even as the dissident group is trying to consolidate formidable numbers against the Chief Minister.Only yesterday, a move by five ministers led by Sukhjinder Randhawa and Charanjit Channi to boycott Wednesday’s virtual Cabinet meeting backfired as other ministers refused to toe the line, seen as a mark of protest against the Chief Minister.Ministers Randhawa, Channi, Sukhbinder Sarkaria, Tript Rajinder Bajwa and Gurpreet Kangar, who are camping in Delhi, wanted to send across a message to the party high command and the three-member AICC panel (hearing Punjab Congress leaders over the infighting issue) that the Cabinet was not with the Chief Minister. The timing of the move was significant as the Chief Minister is scheduled to appear before the panel on Friday.The “boycott”, however, fizzled out following disagreement among the ministers. The rationale for attending the meeting was given that since the AICC panel was in advanced stage of hearing Punjab leaders, creating unnecessary hype against the CM could signify that the dissidents did not have faith in the party high command. Six other ministers, Brahm Mohindra, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Sunder Sham Arora, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Manpreet Badal and Razia Sultana, attended the meeting from Chandigarh.Since the ministers were conveyed in the morning that only a two-point agenda was being taken up, the Cabinet meeting was wrapped up in half an hour as the three-member committee was hearing out ministers, said a senior government functionary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mps-ministers-call-on-capt-amarinder-singh-to-counter-congress-dissidents-262983
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder has lost trust of his Cabinet: Bhagwant Mann||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president and MP Bhagwant Mann today said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had lost the trust of not just the people of Punjab but also of his ministers, and therefore, he should resign immediately.Addressing a press conference, Mann and party’s Punjab affairs co-in charge Raghav Chadha said a Cabinet meeting led by Capt Amarinder Singh was held on Wednesday in which 32 resolutions were tabled by the Chief Minister on various issues but during the meeting, the ministers did not agree with Capt Amarinder and only two resolutions were passed.Chadha said non-passage of 30 Bills during the meeting proved that the CM had lost his ministers’ support. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-has-lost-trust-of-his-cabinet-bhagwant-mann-262984
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Congress only option against BJP, says Sukhpal Khaira||Rejoining Congress along in the presence of Capt Amarinder Singh, MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira on said the Congress was the only viable option that could save India from the clutches of fascist rule of the BJP. In the same vein, he said only the Congress could prevent the Badals from “looting” the state.Khaira said he and his colleagues after due diligence had decided to join the Congress in the larger interest of the country as well as Punjab. Khaira said prior to this he had for the past one year tried his best to unite all like-minded leaders on one platform, to create a Punjab-centric regional force but unfortunately he couldn’t succeed for various reasons best not disclosed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-only-option-against-bjp-says-sukhpal-khaira-262985
04-06-2021||---||AAP gheraoes Punjab CM’s house over jobs to sons of Cong MLAs||Chandigarh, June 3State AAP MLAs and leaders today gheraoed the residence of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh against the decision to give government jobs to the sons of Congress MLAs by “flouting rules”.Martyrs’ families, terror-hit ignoredRaising slogans against the state government, the AAP leaders claimed that Capt Amarinder Singh had promised to give ‘Ghar-Ghar Rozgar’ to people before the 2017 elections and now he was fulfilling the promise by giving government jobs to the sons and daughters of Congress leaders, while the sons and daughters of the common man in the state were being humiliated in the name of job fairs. AAP MLAs Principal Budhram, Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer, Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Jai Kishan Singh Rodi, Amarjit Singh Sandoa, Youth Wing co-president Anmol Gagan Mann and party’s state treasurer Neena Mittal were present on the occasion.The AAP leaders said the state government in its tenure had earlier given the job of DSP to MP Ravneet Bittu’s brother. Now Congress MLA Fateh Jung Bajwa’s son had been recommended for appointment as DSP, MLA Rakesh Pandey’s son had been recommended for appointment as Tehsildar, while Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid’s sons had been recommended for appointment in the AG office, which was highly reprehensible, said the leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-gheraoes-punjab-cms-house-over-jobs-to-sons-of-cong-mlas-262986
04-06-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Jolt for senior Maur leaders as AAP MLA Jagdev Singh Kamalu joins Congress||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, June 3With AAP MLA from Maur Jagdev Singh Kamalu joining the Congress, the political equation has changed in the Assembly segment. The move has come as a big jolt to senior Congress leaders who had been nurturing Maur.Among them former minister Harminder Singh Jassi, who had been taking care of the constituency after unsuccessfully contesting from here in the 2017.Divided houseThe Congress is a divided house in the Maur segment. Only time will tell whether Jagdev Singh Kamalu ’s joining the Congress will end the factionalism in the party or further muddle the situation.Even former MLA Mangat Rai Bansal and his wife Manju Bansal had also increased their political activities in Maur for past some time. Manju lost the Assembly election from Mansa in 2017, while Mangat Rai unsuccessfully contested the polls from the Maur segment in 2012.The Congress is a divided house in the Maur segment. Only time will tell whether Kamalu’s joining the Congress would end the factionalism in the party or lead to creation of another group.In the 2017 elections, the Congress had finished behind the AAP and SAD. AAP candidate Kamalu had defeated then Akali MLA Janmeja Singh Sekhon and Jassi. Later, Kamalu had joined the AAP breakaway group headed by Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira, who launched the Punjab Ekta Party. During the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, when Khaira contested from the Bathinda parliamentary segment, Kamalu had openly supported him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jolt-for-senior-maur-leaders-as-aap-mla-jagdev-singh-kamalu-joins-congress-262987
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Fraud with voters: SAD on Bholath MLA Sukhpal Khaira’s move||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said the Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) were playing a fixed match and the AAP had continuously allowed its MLAs to shift their loyalties to the Congress as a part of an unofficial tie-up with it, playing a constitutional and democratic fraud with the people of the state.The SAD president said, “This proves beyond doubt that the Congress and AAP are one and the same. The Congress routinely takes AAP legislators on deputation as and when needed, particularly during elections. It has again taken three legislators on board at a time when Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh is facing a challenge to his chair.”Sukhbir said it was shocking that all constitutional requirements had been thrown to the wind with turncoat AAP legislators being allowed to keep their seats in the Vidhan Sabha only because they were supporting the Congress government. He said the rebel AAP legislators were allowed to keep their membership of the Vidhan Sabha despite leaving the parent party, forming new parties and even switching over to the Congress openly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fraud-with-voters-sad-on-bholath-mla-sukhpal-khairas-move-262988
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Two months after assault on Abohar MLA Arun Narang, Punjab BJP lying low||While the BJP looks to contest all 117 constituencies in next year’s Assembly elections, the party leadership is yet to come to terms with the March 27 Malout incident, wherein party MLA from Abohar Arun Narang was stripped and assaulted by angry farmers protesting three agriculture laws. Two months after the incident, the party is yet to hold any noticeable public activity or meeting with local leaders. As farm leaders have been quite vocal about targeting BJP leaders in their area, local leaders say the state leadership has been forced to hold secret meetings with party workers. A member of the state executive said the party had already suffered a setback in the local bodies’ elections in February. “The Malout incident has created a fear not only among BJP leaders but also workers. Nobody wants to take a chance,” he said. During the local bodies’ elections, the party had struggled to select candidates. A leader from Malwa said there was hardly any party activity in the region over the past two months. “There a strong support for farmers’ movement in our area. Even senior leaders are shying away from visiting the area. And if they do, it is kept a closely guarded secret to avoid any unwanted attention,” he said. BJP state president Ashwani Sharma could not be contacted for comment. In the February elections, the party suffered a defeat with just 48 out of over 1,000 candidates in the fray managing to win. Not a single party candidate could win in seven districts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-months-after-assault-on-abohar-mla-arun-narang-punjab-bjp-lying-low-262989
04-06-2021||---||After Preneet advises  Sidhu, Navjot hits back||Patiala, June 3 After CM Capt Amarinder Singh and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu locked horns over critical political matters, it is now the turn of their respective wives to take a dig at each other.  In response to Capt Amarinder’s wife Preneet Kaur’s advice that Sidhu should be in his constituency rather than camping in Patiala, the latter’s wife, Dr Navjot Kaur, today revealed that her husband was at his Patiala ancestral house to recuperate as he was suffering from a serious health condition.  Dr Sidhu tweeted: “.... Don’t bother about Amritsar East. It’s being handled very efficiently. He will not leave his people in lurch. He used his savings to provide ration to his people.”  She further said despite applying to rejoin as a doctor, the state government did not respond to her. “Looking at the present grave situation, I would like to join duty to serve the people of my state. During this health crisis, sitting at home and watching the sufferings is pricking my conscience. I am presently at Patiala and would like to be allotted a duty…,” reads an excerpt of the letter written to the Punjab Government on May 3 and shared on her Twitter handle.  Preneet has been upset with the Sidhu couple shifting base to Patiala, the stronghold of the Chief Minister and his family. Preneet is an MP from Patiala, while Amarinder is an MLA from Patiala (Urban). Sidhu, an MLA from Amritsar (East), has lately shifted base to Patiala where his wife has been doing some political activities along with her NGO.  In another tweet, she said: “Few months taken for recuperating from a life-threatening illness in his parental house should not disturb you. Welcome to check his medical reports.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-preneet-advises-sidhu-navjot-hits-back-262990
04-06-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab AAP struggles to keep flock together||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 3The entry of three rebel AAP MLAs — Sukhpal Singh Khaira, Jagdev Singh Kamalu and Pirmal Singh Dhaula — into the Congress fold couldn’t have come at a worse time for the principal Opposition party, which is striving to win the Assembly elections slated early next year.While the party put up a brave face at the three desertions, saying they had severed ties with them almost three years ago, the switching of loyalties is a setback for the morale of the party, hit by repeat desertions since 2018. Even as the party is “searching” for a prominent face to lead them in the upcoming elections, it is also struggling to keep its flock of MLAs together.At least another AAP MLA from Malwa and a woman legislator are reportedly under the scanner for their “growing proximity to the SAD”. Party leaders say they are also “not in touch” with another rebel MLA Kanwar Sandhu. Jarnail Singh, party in charge of Punjab affairs, tried to downplay the desertions saying they had left the party in 2018 over “autonomy in the functioning of party affairs” here.“So what happens to this demand when they join a party like the Congress, controlled by the high command in Delhi? Almost two years ago, we thought of getting these rebels back into the party fold. But our cadre were against it, saying they had breached the trust of voters by severing ties with the party and Khaira had floated his own political outfit. The betrayal will cost them dear as voters do not trust such leaders,” he said, adding the three had been hobnobbing with the Congress for a long time.Harpal Singh Cheema, Leader of the Opposition, said the party had been repeatedly asking Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana KP Singh to suspend the membership of all rebel MLAs. “We will again seek their dismissal,” he said.Hit by string of desertions since 2018||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-aap-struggles-to-keep-flock-together-262991
04-06-2021||Balwant Garg||Sacrilege: SIT misleading court, says accused||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, June 3Collecting handwriting samples of one of the accused by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Punjab Police in the court of Judicial Magistrate Ist Class (JMIC) here on Tuesday to make its comparison with the blasphemous posters in sacrilege cases has landed the SIT in difficulty.Accusing the SIT of misleading the court, one of the accused, Sukhjinder Singh, approached the JMIC court today with an application claiming the SIT already had two handwriting experts’ reports in its possession and procuring the handwriting specimen for the third time on Tuesday for the same motive were aimed at misleading the court and harassing the accused.He alleged that there were apprehensions and likelihood of the SIT procuring a false/wrong handwriting report from a laboratory under the influence of bureaucrats and political big wigs.Other than CBI’s Central Forensic Scientific Laboratory (CFSL) report about the handwritings, the SIT also has a report which it had submitted to Justice Ranjit Singh Commission of Inquiry in the sacrilege cases in June 2018. So both these forensic reports needed to be produced in the court, Sukhjinder Singh said.While Dalbir Singh, an inspector and member, SIT, denied the allegations, saying the SIT will produce all documents at the time of filing the challan in the court, Sukhjinder Singh in his complaint to the JMIC today claimed that on June 15, 2018, then chairman of the SIT had submitted the status report of the sacrilege cases to the commission of inquiry.In this status report, the SIT had claimed that the posters and samples of handwriting of Sukhjinder Singh were sent for examination to the handwriting expert. As per the report of the expert, two derogatory posters were written by Sukhjinder Singh.Other than this claim of the SIT in its status report to the commission of inquiry in June 2018 about it having the report of the handwriting experts, the CBI also has submitted its CFSL’s report in the court.The finger print examination report of the CBI’s CFSL on August 28, 2018, showed that fingerprint/palm print of 10 suspects in the sacrilege cases, including Sukhjinder Singh, did not match with the chance/latent print available on the derogatory posters.Layered voice analysis report of CFSL on September 4, 2018, also showed that no deception was indicated in the voice of the accused while denying their involvement in the sacrilege cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-sit-misleading-court-says-accused-262993
04-06-2021||Moga||Were tortured by Delhi and Haryana police, farmers tell Punjab House committee||A Punjab Vidhan Sabha Committee recently constituted to look into the alleged atrocities committed on farmers of Punjab by the Delhi and Haryana police forces during the ongoing agitation against the Union Government’s three farm laws held its maiden meeting in Moga on Thursday. It met the farmers who were either injured or allegedly tortured by the security forces.The committee headed by Congress MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid along with members Kulbir Singh Zira (Congress), Saravjit Kaur Manuke (AAP) and Harinder Pal Singh Chandumajra (SAD) recorded the statements of at least 15 farmers who suffered injuries and allegedly faced police brutality during the farm protests.One of the committee members, Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa, was not present in the meeting. He was said to be in Delhi to meet the three-member panel of the Congress high command. Vaid said Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana KP Singh had constituted the committee comprising MLAs from all parties to table a detailed report about atrocities on the farmers during the ongoing protests. No BJP legislator has been included in the committee.Amritpal Singh and Jagdeep Singh, both farmers of Tatarewala village, said they, along with 10 other youths of their village, went to Delhi on January 23 to participate in the Republic Day protest against the Union Government, but were detained by the Delhi Police on January 26. After a hue and cry was made by the state government, the Delhi Police announced they were arrested in connection with the violence. Gurpreet Singh, Daljinder Singh, Jagdish Singh, Navdeep Singh, Balvir Singh, Bhag Singh, Harjinder Singh, Ranjit Singh, Ramandeep Singh and Jaswant Singh, all residents of the same village, claimed they were arrested and tortured by the Delhi Police.Another farmer, Sukhpreet Singh, a resident of Badduwal village, told the committee that he was taken into custody by the Delhi Police from the Kundli border. He was taken to the Kalyanpuri police station and tortured for days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/were-tortured-by-delhi-and-haryana-police-farmers-tell-punjab-house-committee-262994
04-06-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Sukhpal Khaira among 3 rebel AAP MLAs join Congress, Capt presides over event before leaving for Delhi||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 3Amid the hectic political activity in Delhi, where a three-member panel is hearing Punjab Congress leaders to resolve the infighting in the state unit, Bholath MLA Sukhpal Khaira along with Bhadaur MLA Pirmal Singh and Maur MLA Jagdev Singh Kamalu after days of speculation on Thursday joined the Congress in the presence of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh at a low-key event at the Sector 2 CM's residence. Also read: Plan by 'dissident' Punjab ministers to boycott Capt-led virtual Cabinet meeting fizzles out, some colleagues refuse to toe lineThe chief minister inducted the three legislators before going to Delhi for a meeting with the three-member panel formed to resolve the infighting in the Punjab unit of the Congress.“Chief Minister @capt_amarinder Singh before leaving for Delhi today welcomed @SukhpalKhaira MLA and former Leader of Opposition and his two AAP MLA colleagues namely Jagdev Singh Kamalu, MLA Maur and Pirmal Singh Dhaula, MLA Bhadaur into the party fold,” according a tweet of the Punjab Congress.After quitting the Congress, Khaira had joined the AAP in December 2015. He was elected from Bholath Assembly seat in 2017 on AAP ticket.However, he resigned from the primary membership of the AAP in January 2019 and had also floated his own outfit, Punjabi Ekta Party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhpal-khaira-among-3-rebel-aap-mlas-join-congress-capt-presides-over-event-before-leaving-for-delhi-262807
04-06-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Plan by 'dissident' Punjab ministers to boycott Capt-led virtual Cabinet meeting fizzles out, some colleagues refuse to toe line||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 3A move by six Punjab ministers led by Sukhjinder Randhawa and Charanjit Channi to boycott Wednesday's virtual Cabinet meeting backfired as other ministers refused to toe the line, seen as a mark of protest against Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. Also read: Sukhpal Khaira among 3 rebel AAP MLAs join Congress, Capt presides over event before leaving for DelhiMinisters Randhawa, Channi, Sukhbinder Sarkaria, Tript Rajinder Bajwa and Gurpreet Kangar, camping at Punjab Bhavan in New Delhi, wanted to send across a message to the party high command and the three-member AICC panel (hearing Punjab Congress leaders over the infighting issue) that the Cabinet was not with Capt Amarinder. The timing of the move was significant as the Chief Minister is scheduled to appear before the panel on Thursday.The "boycott" fizzled out following disagreement among the ministers present in Delhi as some of them refused to be party to the move.The rationale for attending the meeting was given that since the panel led by Rajya Sabha MP Mallikarjun Kharge was in advanced stage of hearing Punjab leaders, there was no point in creating unnecessary hype against the Chief Minister as it could backfire and signify that the dissident ministers did not have faith in the party high command. After confirming to the Chief Minister's office that they would be attending the meeting from Delhi, arrangement was made for the same. Six other ministers, Brahm Mohindra, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Sunder Sham Arora, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Manpreet Badal and Razia Sultana, attended the meeting from Chandigarh.Sources said before the start of the meeting, the annoyed group of six ministers led by Randhawa and Channi persuaded their fellow colleagues to boycott the meeting, confirmed a minister from the Malwa region who was present there. But a few ministers, including Aruna Chaudhary, did not agree to the boycott move and the move fizzled out.As the preparation for the meeting was going on in Tript Bajwa’s room, Vijay Inder Singla came to the room with a message from the Chief Minister asking the ministers to join the meeting. The disgruntled ministers soon joined the meeting. Since the ministers were conveyed in the morning that only a two-point agenda was being taken up, the Cabinet meeting was wrapped up in half an hour as the three-member committee was hearing out Punjab ministers, said a senior government functionary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/plan-by-dissident-punjab-ministers-to-boycott-capt-led-virtual-cabinet-meeting-fizzles-out-some-colleagues-refuse-to-toe-line-262801
