05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 1,907 new Covid cases, 79 deaths||Punjab on Saturday reported 1,907 fresh cases, pushing the tally to 5,77,997, while 79 more deaths took the toll to 15,009, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases declined to 24,454 from 26,277 on Friday.Eight deaths were reported from Bathinda, seven each from Sangrur and Amritsar and six from Patiala, which took place in the last 24-hours.Ludhiana reported 201 fresh cases, followed by 184 in Jalandhar, 150 in Hoshiarpur and 147 in Patiala.The state’s positivity rate dropped to 2.84 per cent from 2.98 per cent the day before.With 3,619 recoveries from the infection, the number of those recovered reached 5,38,534, the bulletin said.There are 295 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 704 other critical patients and 3,424 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 95,98,059 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-1-907-new-covid-cases-79-deaths-263921
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab signs pact to launch use of emissions trading scheme||In a bid to address the problem of growing industrial air pollution, the Punjab government on Saturday announced partnership with the Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab (J-PAL) South Asia and the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago (EPIC India) to launch the use of an emissions trading scheme (ETS).The state's Industry and Commerce and the Science, Technology and Environment Departments would work with them to design and establish pollution markets in Punjab.The partnership includes providing technical assistance and capacity building to public officials to effectively use data and research evidence from established and functioning emissions trading market in Surat in Gujarat.As a first step in this partnership, the state government and the Punjab Pollution Control Board would also launch an ETS to regulate emissions from 200 dyeing industries in Ludhiana besides reducing particulate and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in the state.Elaborating on the partnership, Principal Secretary Industries and Commerce Alok Shekhar said, "The state government is keen to combat environmental pollution through regulation that promises a win-win situation of cleaner production, coupled with lower compliance costs for industries."ETS is one such initiative that can help regulate critically and severely polluted industrial belts in Punjab." In his address, Michael Greenstone, the Milton Friedman Distinguished Service Professor in Economics, Director of EPIC and Co-Chair of Energy, Environment and Climate Change of J-PAL, said, "Pollution reductions can be delivered -- the world's first ETS for particulate pollution in Gujarat has already shown this."Punjab is now becoming the second Indian state to adopt this pioneering vision. For various other Indian cities battling polluted air and expensive regulations, ETS has the potential to improve air quality and health, reduce the regulatory burden on industries, and decrease government enforcement expenditures."Notably, this initiative is part of an ongoing partnership between the state government and J-PAL South Asia, wherein since 2017 J-PAL South Asia has worked with state departments to facilitate rigorous, policy-relevant research  and the scale-up of successful programmes.ETS offers a market-based approach to reduce air pollution in which governments set a cap on emission levels and distribute emissions permits among firms.The approach involves using continuous emissions monitoring systems to send real-time and continuous readings of particulate emissions and enable better and more targeted regulatory oversight standards.A randomised evaluation conducted by J-PAL South Asia of the world's first ever ETS for particulate matter across 350 highly polluting industries in Surat found evidence that the scheme offers a mechanism for improving air quality  that is transparent and predictable.Moreover, it also has the potential to transform the trade-off between environmental regulation and economic growth by lowering compliance costs for firms. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-signs-pact-to-launch-use-of-emissions-trading-scheme-263884
05-06-2021||New Delhi||BJP props up Union Minister Hardeep Puri to take on Amarinder Singh over vaccine row, farmer protest||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Saturday launched Union Minister Hardeep Puri to take on Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on issues related to Punjab, including “diversion” of Covid vaccines to private hospitals and farmers' agitation against the three central farm laws.Puri, who ripped into the Punjab government claiming that private hospitals in Mohali charged Rs 3,200 and more for a Covid shot that cost much less, also took on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over his persistent attacks against the Narendra Modi government with the “where is the vaccine of our children” charge.Stating that “vaccines sold for profit in Punjab were for the 18-44 age group population,” the union minister told Rahul Gandhi that “vaccines for children are being thrown in garbage in Rajasthan and used for profiteering in Punjab”, the two Congress ruled states. There have been allegations of vaccines being “dumped” in dustbins in health centres in Rajasthan. The BJP has also accused the Ashok Gehlot government of “wasting” vaccines, a charge Rajasthan denied.Referring to Punjab Health Minister’s statement that “he was not in charge of vaccines”, Puri wondered who then took the decision and why it was rolled back.  “Why did the government roll back the decision if nothing was wrong with it? Why did the Health Minister say he does not have control over vaccines? Was there an arrangement between the Punjab government and hospitals,” he wondered, adding that he was not raising these questions as a union minister but a ‘karyakarta’ of the party from Punjab.The minister said it was “shameful” that the Punjab government was trying to profit from vaccines meant for people. “When we raised it, the Captain said to withdraw the order, which means it was fishy. Why was the decision taken in the first place?” he said.Puri said as per Punjab government officer and in-charge of Covid-19 vaccination, Vikas Garg, 4.29 lakh doses of Covishield were procured at Rs 13.25 crore, an average amount Rs 309 per dose while 1,14,190 Covaxin doses were procured at Rs 4.70 crore, averaging to Rs 412. If these figures are true then the real amount of profit is not just Rs 2.40 crore, he said.Quoting the Garg’s order, he also questioned how the government is planning to get back the vaccines already administered. The letter signed by Vikas Garg said it “has not been taken in the right spirit and is hereby withdrawn”. It also said that “private hospitals should return forthwith all the vaccine doses available with them. The doses which they have utilised as of date should also be returned once they get supplies from the manufacturers. Puri also slammed Congress for opposition to the three central farm laws and the Central Vista project. The union minister said that the “pro-farmer” Modi government had agreed to all demands by farmers and taken several steps, including DBT on MSP, for their benefit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-props-up-union-minister-hardeep-puri-to-take-on-amarinder-singh-over-vaccine-row-farmer-protest-263880
05-06-2021||---||Canter driver from Himachal charred to death in Nangal||Nangal, June 5Ajay Kumar (25), a resident of Jwali in Himachal Pradesh, was charred to death after the liquor tanker he was driving collided head-on with a tanker carrying hydrochloric acid (HCL) here on Saturday.The accident occurred in the wee hours near Bhanupali.  The liquor tanker was on its way to Kangra from Solan.According to local SHO Pawan Kumar, “The tanker carrying HCL was going from Nangal to Ludhiana when it collided head-on with the liquor canter, engulfing both the vehicles in flames.”The HCL tanker driver jumped from the vehicle and saved his life, while trapped canter driver Ajay was charred to death, said the SHO.Prima facie it appeared that Ajay lost control over the vehicle which led to the mishap, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/canter-driver-from-himachal-charred-to-death-in-nangal-263828
05-06-2021||---||Op Bluestar anniv: Security  up around Golden Temple||Amritsar, June 4A heavy police force has been deployed around the Golden Temple in view of the 37th anniversary of Operation Bluestar on June 6 here. Senior police officials held meetings to ensure that the event passes off peacefully.According to senior police authorities, over 1,000 cops were deployed near the Golden Temple and a close watch is being kept on suspicious elements. Contingents of police forces from adjoining police districts, including Amritsar rural and Tarn Taran, were also summoned for maintaining law and order in the city. Cops in civil dress were also deputed inside the shrine.Senior police officials, including Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Parminder Singh Bhandal, supervised the security arrangements.The Police Commissioner warned anti-social elements against creating law and order problems on the day. He said police officials were asked to take suspicious elements under preventive arrest if the need arises.Police officials revealed that senior police officials from the city and Amritsar rural police led by Dr Gill and SSP (Amritsar Rural) Dhruv Dahiya held meetings in the police lines and chalk out plans and issued necessary instructions to the police officials. A close watch is being kept in the places which remained a hotbed of militancy in Punjab during heydays of terrorism. These included Mehta, Majitha and Attari. The entire city, especially areas surrounding Darbar Sahib, had turned into a fortress with intensive barricading.Meanwhile, Tarn Taran police also installed check-points at the entry and exit points of the city in view of Ghallughara divas. Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman H Nimbale visited these nakas. Those who were found running away after seeing the cops were nabbed and their antecedents were being looked into.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/op-bluestar-anniv-security-up-around-golden-temple-263794
05-06-2021||---||Rana Gurjit Singh’s aide opposes Sukhpal Khaira’s re-induction into Congress||Jalandhar, June 4A protégé of Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh, Amandeep Singh Gora Gill, on Friday outrightly opposed the re-induction of Bholath MLA Sukhpal Khaira into the Congress.Addressing a press conference, Gill said Khaira had back-stabbed everyone for his personal political gains. “He left Congress to join Aam Aadmi Party which had a strong wave. He left AAP to float his own party, Punjab Ekta Party, wherein he also supported Paramjit Kaur Khalra, wife of slain human rights activist Jaswant Singh Khalra. By rejoining Congress, he had ditched Khalra again”, he said.Gill touched Khaira’s family’s political background. “Khaira has been Akali in the past. His father Sukhjinder Singh was SAD minister but the party edged Khairas out after Jagir Kaur had occupied more importance from the constituency. He had no option but to join Congress even then. But the party workers are not happy with the move and many had decided to hold a protest demanding his ouster from the party”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rana-gurjit-singhs-aide-opposes-sukhpal-khairas-re-induction-into-congress-263774
05-06-2021||---||60-year-old Tarn Taran farmer dies at Singhu border||Sonepat, june 4A 60-year-old farmer, hailing from Tarn Taran district of Punjab, was found dead in his tent near HP petrol pump on the Singhu border on Friday.The deceased has been identified as Jangeer Singh of Beeram tehsil, Patti, Tarn Taran district.A Delhi Police team reached the spot and sent the body for the post-mortem examination. It is suspected that he died after suffering a heart attack.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/60-year-old-tarn-taran-farmer-dies-at-singhu-border-263471
05-06-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda saw 857 fatalities in May||Amid a massive surge in Covid cases, Bathinda city witnessed three and a half times increase in deaths in May, as compared to the figures in the same month last year.As per the records of the Municipal Corporation Bathinda, the city reported 857 deaths in May, an increase of 350 per cent over the figure of 247 deaths reported in the same month last year. The MC records further reveal 404 and 310 deaths in April and March, respectively, against 214 and 159 reported in the respective months last year.The high number of deaths can be attributed to the Covid peak last month as most level-3 hospitals were fully occupied. An MC official in the death and birth branch said: “Due to a high number of deaths in May, the rush for death certificates has also increased. A total of 857 deaths were reported in the city last month”.The grain market cremation ground, which is the biggest in the city with a capacity of 24 pyres, saw non-stop last rites. At times Covid patients were cremated on the ground.Covid infected had a harrowing time as government hospitals in Bathinda had no ventilator bed, forcing them to get the treatment from private facilities at exorbitant prices. Despite the capping of prices by the state government, private hospitals continued to fleece patients and till now no action has been initiated by the district administration against them.As per the Health Department figures, Bathinda district witnessed 41,113 positive cases and 952 deaths till June 3 since Covid outbreak last year. On May 19, Bathinda witnessed the single-day highest deaths of 34 Covid patients in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-saw-857-fatalities-in-may-263473
05-06-2021||New Delhi||Ask Capt Amarinder to prove majority: BJP to Governor||The central BJP leadership today urged Governor VP Singh Badnore to ask Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to prove his majority in the Vidhan Sabha, claiming “most of his MLAs have rejected him”.“There is a ‘ghamasan’ (chaos) in Punjab’ Congress, the price of which people of Punjab are paying. Clearly, the party is a deeply divided house, most of the MLAs are not in favour of Capt Amarinder Singh,” said senior leader and BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh.Claiming Singh did not enjoy the majority any more, Chugh said while “people of Punjab had already shunned him, now his MLAs have also rejected him. Punjab is slipping into a crisis. I urge the Governor to ask Captain Amarinder to prove his majority so that truth can come out. ‘Doodh ka doodh aur pani ka pani ho sake’,” he said.“While people in Punjab are not getting the injection, Punjab Congress leaders are partying in five-star hotels. The CM is enjoying in the five-star hotels and his government is selling vaccine, provided for people by the Centre, at a much higher price. The people of Punjab are being looted while the CM is trying to save his government, sitting on the doorsteps of the Gandhis,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ask-capt-amarinder-to-prove-majority-bjp-to-governor-263477
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||No roll Nos. for 2L SC students as Punjab govt fails to release funds||Putting at stake the future of nearly 2 lakh Scheduled Caste (SC) students, the Joint Association of Colleges (JAC) of private educational institutions today decided to withhold roll numbers of students in protest against non-disbursal of Rs 1,549.06 crore under the SC post-matric scholarship scheme by the state government.Grant released this fiscalA few months ago, the state government had taken note of the colleges withholding the degrees of SC students due to non-reimbursement of payment of the scholarship. A high-empowered group of ministers had warned the private colleges to release the degrees at the earliest.A senior government functionary said the group of ministers under the Chairmanship of Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal had decided on the pending issues regarding the scholarship scheme for financial years 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20. “The decision to withhold the roll numbers was taken under stress. We could see no other way of getting the grant released,” said JAC chairman Dr Gurmeet Singh Dhaliwal.JAC president Jagjit Singh said: “Despite students having studied for three financial years, the government has failed to reimburse the scholarship amount to them.”JAC co-chairman Dr Anshu Kataria said the decision to withhold the roll numbers was taken during a zoom meeting, which was attended by all 13 associations representing 1,600 unaided colleges.The JAC said the Centre had paid Rs 90 crore to the state government three months ago as part of its share for the scheme for 2020-21 financial year, but the state had failed to extend the benefit to the institutions. The money was meant for students studying in various technical courses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-roll-nos-for-2l-sc-students-as-punjab-govt-fails-to-release-funds-263478
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||6th pay panel term extended till August 31||The government today extended the term of the Sixth Pay Commission till August 31. This comes days after the final report of the commission was submitted to the government.Though top officials in the government said it was a routine extension, to allow the commission to finish its second report, employees were not enthused. Sukhchain Khehra, convener, Sanjha Mulazam Manch, said employees would protest soon, as it was an indication that the implementation of the new pay scales for employees, as per the recommendations, would be delayed. The government had initially promised implementation of the pay commission recommendations from July 1.There is speculation over the recommendations made in the report, especially as it has not been shared with representatives of employees so far. Though government officials claim the report is “good”, many believe it will be less favourable towards clerical staff and more towards officers.The government officials, however, maintained the report would be brought before the Cabinet for final approval in the coming week. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6th-pay-panel-term-extended-till-august-31-263479
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Justice Mahesh Mittal Kumar takes over as NHRC member||Former Chief Justice of J&K High Court and former Acting Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana HC, Justice Mahesh Mittal Kumar, has joined as National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) member.A retired Supreme Court judge, Justice Arun Mishra, has also assumed charge as the NHRC chairperson. Initially elevated as a Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in July 2001, Justice Kumar was elevated further as the Chief Justice of J&K in June 2012. Justice Kumar was later appointed as the chairman of Company law Board, which was dissolved after the constitution of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to expedite adjudication matters under the companies’ law. Justice Kumar was then appointed as the NCLT president.Born on January 5, 1953, Justice Kumar did his LLB in 1977 before being enrolled with the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana. He went on to do LLM from the University of Birmingham (UK) in 1982. He also authored book “Control of Exclusion Clauses in England and India” in 1985 and also worked as part-time lecturer in PU from 1984 to 1990. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/justice-mahesh-mittal-kumar-takes-over-as-nhrc-member-263480
05-06-2021||Muktsar||2 held for Rs 1.5-cr ransom demand from Malout businessman||The police arrested two persons for allegedly demanding Rs 1.5 crore in ransom from a Malout businessman through an extortion letter.Sources said the suspects had sent the letter last month, identifying themselves as aides of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi. They had asked the businessman to put the money in a bag and leave it in an abandoned car at a specific location. Muktsar SP (D) Rajpal Singh said: “A Malout businessman had got an extortion letter a few days ago. Two arrests have been made and two more are yet to be nabbed. They are aides of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-held-for-rs-1-5-cr-ransom-demand-from-malout-businessman-263481
05-06-2021||Jalandhar||Kapurthala SSP shifted due to vendetta, claims AAP; officer disagrees||Terming the decision to transfer Kapurthala SSP Kanwardeep Kaur to newly formed Malerkotla district political vendetta, the district unit of AAP today passed a resolution condemning the move.A meeting was held jointly with the legal wing of the party, wherein the members passed a joint resolution condemning the transfer. AAP legal wing district in charge Nitin Mittoo said: “Days after criticism by local Congress MLA Rana Gurjit Singh, an SSP is transferred during the election year. In Kanwardeep Kaur’s tenure, 220 cases under the NDPS Act were registered and 261 drug peddlers arrested. A huge quantity of intoxicants was recovered in the past four months. The transfer reflects the government’s attempt at pleasing leaders rather than tackling the drug issue.”The AAP members lauded the SSP for “not getting influenced by political pressure” and alleged the Congress government was out to please a party leader, at whose behest the officer was transferred. AAP district in charge Gurpal Singh Indian said: “The transfer was done under political pressure.” Kanwardeep was transferred on June 2, 10 days after Rana Gurjit Singh spoke to the media, saying the SSP had been unable to control the drug problem in the district.Also read: Reaching out to our women hit by lockdown (by Kanwardeep Kaur, IPS officer)Kanwardeep, who joined as Malerkotla SSP yesterday, said: “We have had a brilliant drug recovery during my tenure in Kapurthala, but I view it as a positive development and a recognition of my efforts that I have been given charge of a newly formed district. It’s a big responsibility. I do not see any political undertones in it.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kapurthala-ssp-shifted-due-to-vendetta-claims-aap-officer-disagrees-263482
05-06-2021||Amritsar||Pakistan no to Sikh ‘jatha’ on martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev||The Pakistan Government has refused to host the Indian Sikh ‘jatha’ on the occasion of martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said due to the Covid-19 threat, the Pakistan Government had denied permission for the ‘jatha’ this year. “There was no restriction from the Indian side, but the Pakistan authorities conveyed us not to send any jatha,” she said.As per annual routine, the SGPC was fully prepared to send the ‘jatha’ across the border. It was scheduled to depart for Pakistan on June 6 to mark the martyrdom day on June 14. SGPC’s assistant secretary Kulwinder Singh Ramdas said, “The Yatra Department of the SGPC had a telephonic talk with Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) president Satwant Singh, who informed that due to the grim Covid situation, the jatha could not be allowed by the government.” The pilgrims who had deposited their passports can collect them back from the SGPC’s Yatra Department.Keeping in view the prevailing situation, there is negligible chance of a pilgrimage on the occasion of Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s martyrdom that falls in the end of June.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pakistan-no-to-sikh-jatha-on-martyrdom-day-of-guru-arjan-dev-263483
05-06-2021||Abohar||Vet hospital to come up in Abohar||The ‘bhumi pujan’ ceremony for the construction of the first phase of the Multi-Specialty Veterinary Hospital and Regional Research and Training Centre at Sappanwali village on the Abohar-Sriganganagar road was organised on Friday.Dr Inderjit Singh, Vice Chancellor, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), was also present. GADVASU has taken an initiative to extend specialised veterinary services through the establishment of multi-specialty veterinary hospitals and regional research and training centres at various locations in the state. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vet-hospital-to-come-up-in-abohar-263484
05-06-2021||Amritsar||Bluestar anniversary: Shun gatherings, appeals Giani Harpreet Singh||In the wake of the Covid-19 threat, Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh appealed to the Sikh community to stay indoors and remember those who laid down their lives during the June 1984 Operation Bluestar.On the other hand, to mark the event, an ‘akhand path’ was initiated by the SGPC. The ‘bhog’ will be held on June 6.On the occasion, an ‘ardas’ was offered by Bhai Sukhdev Singh while additional head granthi of Akal Takht Bhai Malkit Singh recited the holy ‘hukamnama’ for the devotees. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bluestar-anniversary-shun-gatherings-appeals-giani-harpreet-singh-263485
05-06-2021||Faridkot||Faridkot: Constable among seven held for arms smuggling||With the arrest of seven persons, the Faridkot police today claimed to have busted an inter-state gang involved in the smuggling and sale of illegal weapons.The police also recovered five fire weapons and live cartridges from the accused. The accused were smuggling the weapons from Uttar Pradesh to Punjab and selling it to anti-social elements at exorbitant prices, said Bhupinder Singh, SP (Operations), Faridkot.The SP said during the search of a car at a police naka, the police recovered two illegal pistols from the four accused, including a jawan of the 5th Commando Battalion of the Punjab Police.The questioning of the accused led the police to recover three more pistols from Mansa, Bathinda and Tappa areas. The accused have been identified as Aalam Singh, Jasdev Singh, Satnam Singh and Constable Bhpinder Singh. The accused belong to Mansa, Bathinda and Barnala districts. The police have also arrested three persons who had purchased these weapons. The weapons were smuggled from Agra, Uttar Pradesh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faridkot-constable-among-seven-held-for-arms-smuggling-263486
05-06-2021||Muktsar||Nab spurious liquor factory owner in Badal village: AAP||AAP activists, led by three party MLAs, today gheraoed the Lambi police station and blocked the Malout-Delhi national highway in protest against the government’s alleged failure in taking action against those running an illegal liquor bottling plant in Badal village.On May 22, a team of the Excise Department from Chandigarh had busted an illegal liquor factory running from an orchard. Four persons were booked and three of them arrested from the spot. However, neither the fourth accused has been arrested nor their patron identified to date.AAP MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan and others lodged a protest and demanded a probe into the case.Rajpal Singh, SP (D), Muktsar, said: “The probe is underway. The DSP (D) has not yet received the record about ownership of the orchard. Efforts are afoot to arrest the fourth accused.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nab-spurious-liquor-factory-owner-in-badal-village-aap-263487
05-06-2021||Mansa||BJP leader Vijay Sampla faces farmers’ protest in Mansa||BJP’s former Union Minister and National Commission for Scheduled Castes chairman Vijay Sampla today faced a protest from farmers over the three agriculture laws.Sampla was here to visit the house of Dalit youth Manpreet Singh, whose family had accused the Budhlada police of assault leading to his death, at Faffa Bhaike village. The farmers initially gheraoed the local rest house and then blocked the road by staging a dharna outside the village. On learning about Sampla’s plan to visit Faffa Bhaike village, farm unions blocked the entry points and raised slogans against the Modi government.SHO suspendedThe Budhlada police station SHO has been placed under suspension and a probe marked against other police officials over the death.A large posse of police arrived at the scene, but Sampla could not visit the village. Later, with the efforts of the district police administration, the youth’s family was brought to the Police Lines, where they met the SC panel chairman. Sampla told the family a case had been registered against the erring police officials and the family would be given Rs 8.5 lakh in compensation and a job. He said the cost of his younger brother’s education would be borne by the government.IGP Jaskaran Singh, DC Mahinderpal and SSP Surender Lamba were among those present at the Police Lines. Meanwhile, BJP district unit president Makhan Lal said Sampla had planned to visit the village to express his condolences to the family, but to maintain peace in the area, he met the victim’s family in Mansa.Meanwhile, the police have registered a case against seven farm leaders and 200 unidentified protesters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-leader-vijay-sampla-faces-farmers-protest-in-mansa-263488
05-06-2021||Sujanpur (Pathankot)||Anuradha Bali elected Sujanpur MC chief||Anuradha Bali of the Congress was unanimously elected the first-ever woman president of the Sujanpur Municipal Committee. Surinder Manhas, an Independent who joined the Congress after winning the polls, was elected the vice-president.Sujanpur was the only civic body in Punjab that was yet to decide on the top two posts. Covid and factionalism had already forced two postponements.Insiders said PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar had a tough task taking the final call. Earlier, the elections were postponed twice because the party failed to arrive at a consensus. “Despite the fact that Bali was the proverbial dark horse, the PPCC choice fell on her because of her experience as a two-term councillor,” said a councillor. Bali’s husband Mahinder Suri Bali is a three-term councillor. The Balis are considered to be Jakhar loyalists. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anuradha-bali-elected-sujanpur-mc-chief-263489
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Food and Supply Department demotes official, minister stays order||Punishment awarded to a Food and Supply Department official 10 days ago by the then Principal Secretary, on charges of gross dereliction of duty in allowing registration of a fictitious rice mill, has now been stayed by the minister.The official was awarded demotion for approving the temporary registration of the fake mill allegedly “without having any authority”. After the approval, paddy was also allotted to the (non-existent) mill for shelling for two years.When Principal Secretary Food and Supplies KAP Sinha was replaced by Rahul Tiwari, the punishment was stayed. Satvir Singh was demoted from DFSO to AFSO. He was officiating as the DFSC, Mohali, on the day of the approval as DFSC Renu Bala Verma was on leave.However, the demotion order has been stayed. “The officer has pleaded his case before the minister. Till the time his case is decided, the orders regarding his punishment may be stayed,” reads the order.The department’s vigilance committee, in its probe, observed that a rice mill in Kharar fabricated records to get a fake one registered to get more paddy for milling. Based on the committee’s report, Sinha, in his order, dated May 26, found five officers — Renu Bala Verma, Paramjit Singh, Satvir Singh, Vikram Singh and Manpreet Singh — guilty. In his order, Sinha said Renu Bala Verma and inspector Vikram Singh shouldn’t get two increments with cumulative effect. A 10 per cent cut in pension was recommended for Paramjit Singh, who retired as FSO, and Manpreet Singh (retired as AFSO). Verma has also filed an appeal against the punishment. Minister Ashu said, “The punishment of demotion is harsh. I will hear him (Satvir Singh) out before taking a final call.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/food-and-supply-department-demotes-official-minister-stays-order-263490
05-06-2021||Sriganganagar||Pakistan balloon found in fields in Sriganganagar||An airplane-shaped balloon bearing the Pakistan International Airlines logo and the country’s national flag landed at Rampura Niyol village, near Suratgarh, in Sriganganagar today.Officials said a farmer informed the police about the balloon in the fields. However, nothing objectionable was found on examination of the 18-inch balloon.The gas-filled balloon was apparently released at a nearby border village and it dropped on the Indian side.Balloons and birds, especially pigeons, from across the border are regularly seized by the authorities here. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pakistan-balloon-found-in-fields-in-sriganganagar-263491
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Under fire, Punjab govt halts vax sale to pvt hospitals||Facing heat over its decision of selling Covid vaccine to private hospitals, the state government today took a U-turn and withdrew the order.On the directions of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the state government today issued an order to take back vaccines from private hospitals with immediate effect.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said: “The instructions of providing one-time limited vaccine doses to private hospitals has been withdrawn by the state and all these vaccines will be administered free of cost to those aging 18 to 44 years at government vaccination centres.”Now, direct supply from manufacturersSidhu said as per information provided by Vikas Garg, state in-charge for Covid vaccination, around 42,000 doses had been allotted to private hospitals from which only 600 had been administered to people. “Instructions have been issued to all civil surgeons that no fresh allotment should be made to any private hospital and the private hospitals should return forthwith all the vaccine doses available with them,” he said.The minister said private hospitals would now get direct supplies of vaccine from the manufacturers. “The amount deposited by the private hospitals in the vaccine fund will be refunded shortly,” he said.In the order withdrawing vaccine, the Covid vaccination in-charge said: “The order of providing one-time limited vaccine doses to 18-44 age group population through private hospitals has not been taken in the right spirit and so hereby withdrawn.” The order further said the doses private hospitals had utilised should also be returned after they get direct supplies from manufacturers.Meanwhile, Finance Minister of State Anurag Thakur had on Thursday alleged that the Punjab and Rajasthan Governments were black marketing vaccine. He alleged: “The Centre buys vaccines from manufacturers and sells those to the states at Rs 400 per dose, but Punjab is selling those to private hospitals at Rs 1,060 for which those hospitals are collecting Rs 1,560 from the public.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/under-fire-punjab-govt-halts-vax-sale-to-pvt-hospitals-263438
05-06-2021||New Delhi||Punjab govt failed people: Prakash Javadekar||Hours before the Punjab Government withdrew the controversial sale of Covaxin doses to 20 private hospitals at a profit, the BJP attacked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh-led dispensation for “committing a sin by disregarding people’s aspirations and failing them in Covid-19 times.”Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar led the charge against the Congress government, saying: “A strange kind of politics is playing out in Punjab. Covid management in the state leaves much to be desired. The required level of government involvement needed for Covid testing and response is not there. Internal factionalism has been bogging the Congress in Punjab for six months. The entire party and the government have been camping in Delhi for four days. Who will care about the people?”The minister said “disregard of Punjab’s people at the altar of internal rifts was a big sin of the Congress in Punjab.” He said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi should put his own house in order in the state rather than ‘lecture others on the vaccine policy”.“Dangerous reports have come out of Punjab suggesting the state government got 1,40,000 Covaxin doses for Rs 400 each and sold these to 20 private hospitals for Rs 1,060 each,” Javadekar said. The minister said Punjab was among the states that first sought decentralisation of vaccine procurement and are now demanding centralisation. “They change their stand daily,” said Javadekar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-failed-people-prakash-javadekar-263439
05-06-2021||Muktsar||Dismiss Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu: SAD||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today demanded a criminal case against Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and his immediate dismissal. He said a judicial probe be conducted into the multi-crore vaccine scam.Sukhbir said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh also encouraged the vaccine “scam” by not taking timely action. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dismiss-punjab-health-minister-balbir-singh-sidhu-sad-263440
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Book all involved in sale of Covid vaccines: BJP||The BJP today slammed the Congress government for allegedly commercialising the sale of Covid vaccines at a time when Punjab had recorded the highest mortality rate in the country.National general secretary Tarun Chugh said a criminal case needed to be registered against all those involved in the vaccine “scam” under which the doses provided by the Centre were sold on commercial rates to private hospitals, which in turn, made a huge profit out of it at the cost of poor and needy people.Chugh said this was black marketing by the government. “All this has been happening when Punjab last month recorded 2.7 per cent death rate which is among the highest in the country,” he said, urging the Centre to take action. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/book-all-involved-in-sale-of-covid-vaccines-bjp-263441
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Hold time-bound inquiry into vaccine sale to private hospitals: Partap Singh Bajwa||Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa has sought a time-bound inquiry and action against those who sanctioned the sale of 40,000 Covaxin doses to private hospitals in the state.In a letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Bajwa said the sale of vaccines to private hospitals at Rs 1,060 a dose was uncalled for especially at a time when the state was in the middle of the second wave. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hold-time-bound-inquiry-into-vaccine-sale-to-private-hospitals-partap-singh-bajwa-263442
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Another scam: AAP||Criticising the state government for selling government quota vaccines to private hospitals, AAP Punjab affairs co-in charge Raghav Chadha today said the government had committed another major vaccine scam, robbing the people of the state of crores of rupees. Chadha asked Capt Amarinder Singh and the Congress national president to answer questions related to the vaccine “scam”.He alleged Capt Amarinder Singh was following in the footsteps of Prime Minister Narendra Modi by sensing ‘opportunity’ in a ‘disaster’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/another-scam-aap-263443
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Centre liable for Covid mishandling: Punjab Cong president Sunil Jakhar||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Sunil Jakhar has said Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government is liable for criminal mismanagement of the Covid pandemic.The Centre had totally left people on their own, Jakhar said, targetting the Centre for failing to do its responsibility in this gravest hour and failing to provide medicines, vaccines and other necessary supplies to citizens.Jakhar said the Congress today submitted memorandum to the President through Governor’s office to give voice to the demand of each and every citizen of the country for urgent availability of vaccines to safeguard lives. The memorandum was submitted to the Governor’s office. Besides, district bodies of the party also submitted these memorandums to the respective Deputy Commissioners.Jakhar said the Centre’s vaccine policy was the sum of unbearable errors of judgement on part of the Modi regime. The BJP government had forsaken its duty towards the nation, he said. Arbitrary pricing, failing to gauge the number of jabs needed, and then abjectly failing to place orders in advance were grave mistakes, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-liable-for-covid-mishandling-punjab-cong-president-sunil-jakhar-263444
05-06-2021||Abohar||No place for dead at Abohar Civil Hospital||The mortuary at the Sub-divisional Civil Hospital here is packed with bodies. Today, there was no freezer to keep the bodies of two persons — both accident victims.In the absence of space, two bodies had to kept in one freezer. Later, a freezer was borrowed from the Nar Sewa Narayan Sewa Samiti.The in-charge of the mortuary said seven unidentified bodies had been received in the past three days. The identity of only one had been established so far. Currently, the mortuary has five freezers and bodies are to be kept for 72 hours for identification. After that, the police initiate action and cremate the unidentified bodies with the help of the Nar Sewa samiti. Today, the police allowed the cremation of two such bodies. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-place-for-dead-at-abohar-civil-hospital-263445
05-06-2021||Karam Prakash||In Punjab, many get Covid vaccine faking as construction workers||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 4Thousands of ineligible persons are said to have got themselves vaccinated faking as construction workers in Punjab. The state had put construction workers in the priority group for vaccination.Records reveal that around 1.5 lakh unregistered “construction workers” and their family members have been vaccinated by the state Health Department so far. Majority of them are, reportedly, fake. The vaccination of such persons was allegedly undertaken without proper verification. The Health Department, however, claims the beneficiaries were vaccinated in the presence of labour officers.The Tribune team talked to some of the persons vaccinated under the construction workers’ category. It was found they were not construction workers or in any way associated with such work. In Tarn Taran, one such beneficiary turned out to be a housewife from a business family. The Labour Department is now verifying the data.VK Janjua, Principal Secretary, Labour Department, said, “Majority of the vaccinated unregistered construction workers are turning out to be traders and the like. We will fund only for the vaccination of genuine workers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-punjab-many-get-covid-vaccine-faking-as-construction-workers-263656
05-06-2021||---||PCC overhaul, role for Navjot Singh Sidhu discussed||New Delhi, June 4Reorganisation of the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) and accommodation of former Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu today came up for discussion at a meeting between CM Amarinder Singh and the AICC panel set up to review Punjab affairs. The meeting lasted nearly three hours.Capt defends govtThe CM defended his government’s four-year record, informing the panel that the probe into the Bargari sacrilege issue was still on and the law would take its course. Captain’s detractors have publicly criticised him for “laxity” in bringing the Bargari culprits to justice. With today’s meeting, the AICC panel wound up its consultations. It will submit its report to Congress president Sonia Gandhi next week.The CM is learnt to have clarified his position to the panel over his alleged inaccessibility and the “excessive control of the bureaucracy”. Sources said most of the issues raised by the state leaders were “procedural” and could be addressed through “deliberative processes.”The committee members are learnt to have discussed certain organisational issues on the phone with AICC general secretary KC Venugopal while the CM spoke to the Mallikarjun Kharge-led AICC panel. Sources said a comprehensive overhaul of the state unit was expected and did not rule out the possibility of the incumbent state president’s replacement. The CM’s view will be given due importance on the issue as the PCC chief has a key role in ticket allotment for the Assembly polls.Accommodating Sidhu remains a priority for the Congress which wants to quell dissidence to ensure another victory in Punjab. Sources said Sidhu was keen on heading the Punjab unit, but that would be a tall order given the CM’s opposition to the idea.“A possible formulation could be deputy chief ministership for Sidhu, along with key portfolios. With the Punjab BJP’s house in disarray, the Congress may want some Hindu leaders on top posts. The AICC panel’s deliberations may end up in the high command strongly messaging accommodation of all sections, including the Dalits. A comprehensive PCC reorganisation and changes in the state Cabinet are plausible,” a senior Congress leader hinted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pcc-overhaul-role-for-navjot-singh-sidhu-discussed-263652
05-06-2021||New Delhi||Explain vax ‘sale’ to pvt hospitals: Centre to Punjab||The Union Health Ministry on Friday asked Punjab to clarify allegations raised by media reports on the alleged ‘sale’ of Covaxin doses at a profit to 20 private hospitals in the state, noting that prima facie it was in violation of the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy. The Punjab Government withdrew the controversial agreement today and asked private facilities to return the vaccine stocks.Order on doses to private hospitals has been withdrawn. These will be administered free to those in 18-44 group at govt centres. BS Sidhu, Punjab Health Minister Additional Secretary (Health) Vandana Gurnani, in her letter to Punjab’s Principal Secretary, Health, wrote: “As you are aware, from May 1, 2021, the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy has come into force. According to this strategy, private sector hospitals are directly procuring Covid-l9 vaccines from the manufacturers. The state government is, therefore, requested to confirm the veracity of this news article and send a clarification to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare immediately.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/explain-vax-sale-to-pvt-hospitals-centre-to-punjab-263644
05-06-2021||New Delhi||Centre seeks explanation from Punjab government over allegations of selling Covid vaccine to private hospitals||The Centre has sought a clarification from the Punjab government following media reports alleging that it "sold" Covid-19 vaccine to private hospitals and "earned a profit".Prima facie, it is in clear violation of the Liberalized Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy, said Additional Secretary in the Health Ministry Vandana Gurnani to the principal secretary of the Punjab government's Health Department."As you are aware, from May 1, 2021, the Liberalized Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy has come into force. According to this strategy, private sector hospitals are directly procuring Covid-l9 vaccines from the vaccine manufacturers," the letter said."The state government is, therefore, requested to confirm the veracity of this news article and send a clarification to MoHFW immediately in this regard," she said.Under flak from the opposition for "diverting" Covid vaccines to private hospitals, the Punjab government on Friday asked them to return all stock meant for the 18-44 age group.The dramatic turnabout came after opposition parties—Shiromani Akali Dal, Aam Aadmi Party and Bharatiya Janata Party— slammed the Congress government for "selling" to private hospitals doses meant to be administered free."The order of providing one-time limited vaccine dose to 18-44 years age group population through private hospitals has not been taken in the right spirit and is hereby withdrawn," the government note said."Further, it has been decided that the private hospitals should return forthwith all the vaccine doses available with them," Vikas Garg, who is in charge of Punjab's Covid vaccination programme, said in the order.Once they get their own direct supplies from the manufacturers, the private hospitals will also return to the state government the doses they have already used up.Hours before the development Friday evening, state Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said he has ordered a probe into the allegations. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-seeks-explanation-from-punjab-government-over-allegations-of-selling-covid-vaccine-to-private-hospitals-263392
05-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Partap Bajwa questions CM Amarinder Singh over sale of Covaxin doses to private hospitals when state is facing shortage||Punjab Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa on Friday wrote a letter to Chief Minister Amarinder Singh over the controversy regarding the sale of Covaxin vaccine doses to private hospitals.He said that 40,000 doses of Covaxin were sold to private hospitals by Punjab government at Rs 1,060 per dose and the state government made a profit of Rs 2,64,00,000 from these sales.Also read: Punjab Government withdraws vaccine stock supplied to private hospitals after 'profiteering' allegations by BJPPunjab sold 1.4 lakh doses to 20 private hospitals at over double the cost, alleges BJPThe sale was confirmed by Punjab’s nodal officer for vaccination Vikas Garg, he said in the letter.My letter to CM Punjab @capt_amarinder ji regarding sale of 40,000 COVAXIN vaccines to private hospitals. pic.twitter.com/YwbGrTTa2s  “This policy is absolutely uncalled for especially in the middle of this second wave. There is a shortage of vaccines across the country and especially in the state of Punjab. The government of Punjab received 1.14 lakh doses of Covaxin on May 27 after the stock of Covishield was exhausted."Given the low number of people being vaccinated across the nation, the focus of the state government should have been to use these doses to vaccinate the masses. By looking to profit by selling over 1/3 of the received doses to the private hospitals, the government of Punjab in effect has failed in its duty to the people of Punjab,” Bajwa wrote in the letter.He further questioned the purpose of this profit wherein private hospitals have fixed a price of Rs 1,560 per dose.The controversy over the vaccine supplied to private hospitals in Punjab seems to be getting murkier with the government on Friday withdrawing the stock.The government has been accused of selling over 1.40 lakh doses of Covaxin, which they got at Rs 400 each, to 20 private hospitals for over Rs 1,000.Principal Secretary Hussan Lal said the government had supplied 40,000 doses and only 1,000 were administered by private hospitals. “We have taken back the remaining stock,” he said.Meanwhile, BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh has slammed the government for allegedly commercialising the sale of vaccine at a time when Punjab had recorded the highest Covid mortality rate in the country.He said a criminal case should be registered against all those involved in the alleged “vaccine scam”. He said: “The vaccine was provided by the Centre for poor working class but was sold on commercial rates to private hospitals who in turn made huge money out of it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/partap-bajwa-questions-cm-amarinder-singh-over-sale-of-covaxin-doses-to-private-hospitals-when-state-is-facing-shortage-263371
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Flying Sikh Milkha Singh better, but wife's health plummets||Legendary athlete Milkha Singh is doing better but the condition of his wife is on the decline, doctors treating them said in two different statements on Friday.  The couple, who tested positive for Covid-19 in the last week of May, are currently being treated at two different hospitals in the Tricity—the 91-year-old Milkha Singh at Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research and his 82-year-old  wife, a former captain of Indian women's volleyball team, at Fortis Hospital in Mohali. A statement from PGI, where Milkha Singh is admitted to an Intensive Care Unit, said he was doing better than before. “Flying Sikh Milka Singh Ji, being unwell due to Covid-19 was admitted in ICU of NHE Block of PGIMER yesterday i.e 3rd June 2021. On the basis of all the medical parameters today, his condition has been observed better and more stable than yesterday. He is closely being monitored by a team of three doctors at PGIMER,” an official spokesperson said in a statement.A statement from Fortis Hospital for his wife bore grimmer news: the hospital said in a statement that the health of Nirmal Milkha Singh declined as the disease progressed, leading them to increase her dosage of medical oxygen."She is presently on HFNC and NIV intermittently," the statement said.  The couple tested positive for Covid-19 in the last week of May and were admitted to Fortis hospital, Mohali. Milkha Singh was released from the hospital on May 31, but his wife had then been moved to the hospital’s ICU after her oxygen levels dipped.Milkha Singh meanwhile was admitted to PGI after his blood oxygen level plummeted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/flying-sikh-milkha-singh-better-but-wifes-health-plummets-263362
05-06-2021||New Delhi||Ask Punjab CM Amarinder Singh to prove his majority in assembly, BJP leadership urges Governor||The central BJP leadership urged Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore on Friday to ask Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to prove his majority in the Vidhan Sabha, claiming that “most of his MLAs have rejected him”.“There is a ‘ghamasan’ (chaos) in Punjab Congress, the price of which people of Punjab are paying. Clearly, the party is a deeply divided house, most of the MLAs are not in favour of Capt Amarinder Singh,” said senior Punjab leader and BJP General Secretary Tarun ChughClaiming that Singh did not enjoy the majority anymore, Chugh said while “people of Punjab had already shunned him, now his MLAs have also rejected him. Punjab is slipping into a crisis. I urge the Punjab Governor to ask Amarinder Singh to prove his majority so that truth can come out.“Doodh ka doodh aur pani ka pani ho sake (let everything be clear),” he said.The BJP, which also attacked Singh with allegations of profiteering on Covid vaccines, said that while he got a dose for Rs 400 from the Centre, the Congress government in Punjab sold it to private hospitals at more than double the cost.“The private hospitals, in turn, are charging Rs 1,500, even more, for the shot,” Chugh said, claiming that Punjab is lagging far behind in the country’s fight against Covid-19.“While people in Punjab are not getting the injection, Punjab Congress leaders are partying in five-star hotels. The CM is enjoying himself in the five-star hotels and his government is selling Rs 400 injection to people of Punjab at a much higher price. The people of Punjab are being looted while the CM is trying to save his government, sitting at the doorsteps of the Gandhis,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ask-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-to-prove-his-majority-in-assembly-bjp-leadership-urges-governor-263357
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Government withdraws vaccine stock supplied to private hospitals after 'profiteering' allegations by BJP||The controversy over the vaccine supplied to private hospitals in Punjab seems to be getting murkier with the government on Friday withdrawing the stock.The government has been accused of selling over 1.40 lakh doses of Covaxin, which they got at Rs 400 each, to 20 private hospitals for over Rs 1,000.Principal Secretary Hussan Lal said the government had supplied 40,000 doses and only 1,000 were administered by private hospitals. "We have taken back the remaining stock," he said.Punjab’s Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said later in the evening that his government had withdrawn the order of providing one-time limited vaccine doses to private hospitals and that the vaccines will be administered free of cost to ages18-44 years at government vaccination centres.About 42,000 doses have been allotted to the private hospitals from which only 600 doses have been administered to people, Sidhu said, citing information provided Vikas Garg, by the nodal officer in charge of vaccination in Punjab.Instruction has been issued to all Civil Surgeons that no fresh allotment is to be made to any private hospitals and the private hospitals should return forthwith all the vaccine doses available with them, he said.Also read: Punjab sold 1.4 lakh doses to 20 private hospitals at over double the cost, alleges BJPPartap Bajwa questions CM Amarinder Singh over sale of Covaxin doses to private hospitals when state is facing shortageCommercialising vaccines, says BJPBJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh has slammed the government for allegedly commercialising the sale of vaccine at a time when Punjab had recorded the highest Covid mortality rate in the country.He said a criminal case should be registered against all those involved in the alleged “vaccine scam”. He said: “The vaccine was provided by the Centre for poor working class but was sold on commercial rates to private hospitals who in turn made huge money out of it."Chugh said it was pure “black marketing” by the state government, adding that, "All this happening when Punjab last month recorded 2.7 per cent Covid death rate, which was the highest in the country.” He demanded the Centre to take action against the government."It's dangerous news. They (Punjab government) got over 1.40 lakh doses of Covaxin at Rs 400 each. And they gave some of the vaccines to 20 private hospitals at Rs 1,000 each. The state government wants to make a profit from the vaccination. What kind of government is this?" he charged.He said: "It is shameful that when Punjab was suffering the worst in the country due to Covid the ruling party ministers and MLAs are busy settling personal scores", adding that, the Punjab government functioning has completely collapsed and it was time for the Governor to intervene.Meanwhile, the Centre has sought a clarification from the Punjab government following media reports alleging that it "sold" Covid-19 vaccine to private hospitals and "earned a profit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-withdraws-vaccine-stock-supplied-to-private-hospitals-after-profiteering%C2%A0allegations-by-bjp-263347
05-06-2021||Aditi Tandon||Punjab Congress crisis: Navjot Sidhu's rehabilitation likely on agenda as Capt meets AICC panel||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 4Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh arrived at around 11 am to meet the AICC panel constituted to review the status of party organisation and defended the government in the face of criticism from quarters led by former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu.The CM’s meeting with the panel followed a virtual meeting the committee held with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi who was briefed about the takeaways from several days of deliberations with Punjab leaders.‘The Tribune’ has learnt that Congress leaders Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi virtually joined the meeting of Amarinder Singh with the AICC panel on the state. Congress general Secretary organisation KC Venugopal also joined. The leaders are learnt to have discussed governance issues in the state, revamp of PCC and a role for Navjot Sidhu apart from other measures necessary to boost party’s electoral chances for 2022 as the state faces incumbency.The deliberations started on Monday and the panel is expected to submit a report to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi by the weekend for her to take the final call.The CM, sources said, presented a strong defence of the Punjab government to the panel and told the committee that the Special Investigation Team on Bargari sacrilege was doing its work and the matter was a work in progress in which the law will take its course.Sidhu, and MP Partap Singh Bajwa have been leading the offensive against the CM accusing him of laxity in the Bargari case while the CM and the government has been maintaining that the SIT probe was ongoing.On the complaint by some MLAs regarding bureaucratic stranglehold in Punjab, the CM is likely to ask what the credentials of the critics are and whether they are above board.A major point of discussion in today’s meeting would be revamp of the Punjab unit which has been in a limbo for long due to lack of consensus on what role to accord to Sidhu who wants to the state unit President.The CM for his part has offered Sidhu to return to the cabinet, even in a portfolio of his choice.An agreement between the two leaders on Sidhu’s role is still elusive with the AICC panel expected to suggest some way out.Meanwhile, The Tribune has learnt that the majority leaders who met the panel wanted the CM retained for 2022 polls and flagged procedural issues such as lack of accessibility on his part, bureaucratic hold of Punjab and lack of outreach with the cadre.This part can be worked out through delivery mechanisms and interfaces the CM may propose to create to ensure citizen outreach.Meanwhile, the PCC reorganisation could turn out to be the bigger takeaway of AICC panel meetings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-crisis-navjot-sidhus-rehabilitation-likely-on-agenda-as-capt-meets-aicc-panel-263289
