07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Punjab announces specialist group to frame paediatric treatment protocol||Rolling out a detailed action plan for a possible third wave of Covid-19, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday said a group of specialists in paediatrics will frame treatment protocols for the state.The group will comprise specialists from government medical colleges (GMCs), the Department of Health, and the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, the chief minister said.Singh directed the Health and the Medical Education departments to put into action a comprehensive plan to deal with the next wave of the coronavirus, if and when it comes.Taking stock of preparations underway for a possible next wave of the virus during a virtual meeting, the chief minister ordered creation of storage capacities for oxygen for a minimum of three days in all GMCs and said piped O2 should be made available in all government hospitals.At least 375 metric tonnes of oxygen should be available with the state at any given time, Singh said, stressing on the need to prepare for peak supply logistics.Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan informed the meeting that the state received 500 oxygen concentrators on Monday against a World Bank loan for water surface supply projects, and another 2,500 were on the way.Amarinder Singh directed deputy commissioners to identify paediatric Covid-19 level-2 and level-3 beds in the private sector, with experts to advise the district administration on paediatric treatment protocol and medicines.He asked the officials to increase the number of RT-PCR machines for Covid-19 testing of children, besides augmenting ICU and oxygen capacities, and infrastructure and manpower across the state.Amid indications that the damage caused by a third wave in some countries is almost 25 per cent higher than the second, the chief minister ordered creation of surge capacity and plugging of gaps, if any, in equipment and recruitment of doctors, specialists, nurses, technicians etc.The standard operating procedure received from the Paediatric Association of India should be strictly adhered to, Singh said, directing health experts to put into action a comprehensive plan to deal with a third surge of the pandemic.Stocks of consumables and medicines should be maintained, and capacity building of existing staff should be undertaken to ensure paediatric patient care in the next wave, he said.Singh also issued directions for continuous surveillance in both urban and rural areas, along with whole genome sequencing testing. Sero-survey should also be taken up from time to time, he added.The chief minister expressed satisfaction over the progress of the 'Corona Mukt Pendu Abhiyan' in villages, where almost 1.5 crore individuals (37 lakh households) have already been screened.These efforts had resulted in identification of 5,889 infected patients who have been assisted as per protocols.Asserting that Punjab cannot afford to let its guard down despite the decline in the caseload, Singh said the virus mutations were a matter of concern even though the CFR was lower than the first wave.Referring to the spread of black fungus, the chief minister said there are currently 381 cases of mucormycosis in the state, of which 38 have already been cured and 265 are undergoing treatment.Punjab's Covid-19 expert group head Dr K K Talwar informed the meeting that almost 30 per cent of patients is showing post-Covid complications and continue to be symptomatic.Patients are taking almost three months to get back to normal, and thus, there is a need for strict monitoring, he added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-punjab-announces-specialist-group-to-frame-paediatric-treatment-protocol-264913
07-06-2021||Mumbai||Dharmendra takes to water aerobics, yoga and light exercise; have a look||Bollywood veteran Dharmendra encouraged fans on Monday to continue working out during the pandemic in order to stay strong and healthy. The 85-year-old actor said he had started water aerobics along with yoga and some light exercise.Popular as "He-Man of Bollywood", Dharmendra shared a video that shows him warming up in a pool.Friends, with his blessings and your good wishes ...I have started water aerobics along with Yoga and light exercise . Health is his great blessing to keep going. Be happy healthy and strong 🙏 pic.twitter.com/XtjiOXW5AK"Friends, with his blessings and your good wishes... I have started water aerobics along with Yoga and light exercise. Health is his great blessing to keep going. Be happy healthy and strong," he wrote on his Twitter post.Dharmendra has also been tweeting since Sunday, requesting fans and followers to pray for the speedy recovery of 98-year-old Bollywood legend Dilip Kumar who is unwell and in hospital."Maalik se Dua keejiye mere pyaare bhai ...hamare Yusuf Sahib jald sehat yaab ho jaayen, (Please pray to the almighty that my beloved brother Yusuf Sahib gets a speedy recovery)," Dharmendra tweeted on Sunday along with a throwback black and white photograph of him with Dilip Kumar.Dharmendra again tweeted on Monday thanking netizens for their prayers for the ailing actor. —IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dharmendra-takes-to-water-aerobics-yoga-and-light-exercise-have-a-look-264906
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||No roll numbers for 2 lakh SC students: National SC Commission seeks immediate reply from Punjab govt||Taking strong notice of the decision taken by Joint Association of Colleges (JAC) of private educational institutions, to withhold roll numbers of two lakh Scheduled Caste (SC) students, National Commission for Scheduled Castes on the orders of its Chairman Vijay Sampla has issued notice to the Punjab government asking them to ensure the immediate release of the roll numbers.As is evident from the statement that JAC has stopped roll numbers in protest against non-disbursal of Rs 1,549.06 crore under the SC post-matric scholarship scheme by the state government but private colleges cannot punish two lakh SC students because of mistakes or blunders on the part of government of Punjab, said Sampla.Terming it as unacceptable, Sampla added that whatever may be the circumstances or reasons, Punjab government cannot demolish the career of two lakh SC students in Punjab.NCSC has issued notice to Chief Secretary Punjab, Principal Secretary department of social justice, empowerment and minorities and Principal Secretary department of higher education Punjab asking them to submit an action taken report to NCSC immediately.Sampla warned that stopping the roll number or withholding the degree of any student admitted under post-matric scholarship is an offense. He asked the Punjab government to take strict action against the erring government officials.Sampla concluded by saying that it is the duty of the state governments to ensure proper implementation of post-matric scholarship scheme and ensure that SC students face no hardship. He asked government of Punjab to fulfil its duty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-roll-numbers-for-2-lakh-sc-students-national-sc-commission-seeks-immediate-reply-from-punjab-govt-264887
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Students going abroad will be prioritised in Covid vaccination process: Punjab CM||Students who want to go abroad for studies from Punjab will now be prioritised in the Covid vaccination process in the 18-44 group, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Monday.At a virtual Covid review meeting, the chief minister directed the Health and Medical Education departments to allow districts to use up to 10 per cent of the doses for the 18-44 years age group for priority categories other than those approved at the state level. The move will help students going to countries where universities require them to be vaccinated. Besides students seeking to go abroad, caregivers of elderly persons and other urgent priority groups may be included in this list, an official statement quoting Singh said. Singh also asked the concerned departments to proactively vaccinate all the people in the categories already prioritised by the state government in this age group based on vaccine availability. This, he stressed, was essential to keep the risk of virus spread low as the restrictions are eased in the state, he stated.The state had initially prioritised construction labour, individuals with comorbidities and families of healthcare workers in the 18-44 age group, and has already vaccinated over 4.3 lakh individuals in these categories.  The list was subsequently expanded to include shopkeepers and their staff, staff working in the hospitality industry, industrial workers; street vendors especially those serving food items-juice, chat, fruit etc., delivery boys, LPG distribution boys; bus drivers, conductors, auto/ cab drivers; and local body leaders - mayors, councillors, sarpanches, panches. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/students-going-abroad-will-be-prioritised-in-covid-vaccination-process-punjab-cm-264879
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||SAD holds sit-in near Health Minister Sidhu's residence, demands his removal from cabinet||The opposition SAD on Monday staged a sit-in near the residence of Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu in Mohali and sought his dismissal from the cabinet over the "diversion" of coronavirus vaccine to private hospitals.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal accused the Congress-led government of "making money" by selling the vaccine to private hospitals.On the one hand, people are dying of COVID-19 and on the other, the Congress government is busy "making money" by selling vaccine, he charged.Badal asked Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to dismiss Sidhu for the alleged "vaccine scam".The Punjab government had last week asked private hospitals to return all vaccine stock meant for the 18-44 age group, following criticism.Badal also targeted the chief minister and said he was not bothered about the plight of people during the COVID-19 pandemic. He said the chief minister was apprised of overcharging by private hospitals from Covid patients and "black marketing" of medicines and injections, but he had done nothing to prevent this.Several senior SAD leaders, including Prem Singh Chandumajra, Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, N K Sharma and Daljit Singh Cheema, were present at the 'dharna' that continued for more than two hours.Some leaders of the SAD youth wing also held a protest outside the official residence of Sidhu in Chandigarh.Opposition parties have been attacking the Amarinder Singh-led government for allegedly diverting the COVID-19 vaccine to private hospitals.The Punjab government on Friday had issued an order to take back vaccine doses given to private hospitals.The health minister had then said that the instruction of providing one-time limited vaccine doses to private hospitals had been withdrawn. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-holds-sit-in-near-health-minister-sidhus-residence-demands-his-removal-from-cabinet-264864
07-06-2021||Patiala||Robbers strike at Sirhind petrol pump; loot cash, weapon||Six unidentified men looted cash and a weapon at gunpoint from a petrol pump in Sirhind on Monday.The men stopped at the petrol pump and attacked an employee after asking him to fill their Innova car with fuel. “Then they entered the cabin, robbed the cash and also took my weapon with them,” said a security guard at the pump. Anaj Mandi police station has registered a case against the unknown men.Police said that the incident took place around 2.45 am and efforts were on to nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/robbers-strike-at-sirhind-petrol-pump-loot-cash-weapon-264836
07-06-2021||Ravi S Singh||Union government mulls counter-offensive against its opponents; Punjab among states in its crosshairs||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 7The Union government mulls a counteroffensive against its opponents for allegedly creating a "false" Covid vaccine shortage narrative while ignoring its wastage and mismanagement by opposition ruled states.Opposition ruled States including Punjab, Delhi AAP and Kerala are in their cross-hairs.A concerted effort in full blast critique of the opposition parties and their governments in the states is expected soon.Well placed source on Monday said that a government's damage-control managers have compiled comprehensive data with analytics on the Central allocation of vaccine doses to states to inoculate citizens free of cost, and the alleged "truancy" and "levity of conduct" by the non-BJP governments.Also, the alleged self-contradictory stand of senior opposition leaders including Rahul Gandhi regarding vaccines has been documented and catalogued.The source said the feeling in government quarters is that the stand of opposition leaders was indulged in deliberately to first foster vaccine-hesitancy among the public, and then raise a bogey on shortage of vaccines."A well thought out toolkit was prepared and implemented as part of a political conspiracy to create a miasma of negativism on handling the second wave of Covid by the Centre with a to malign the image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi especially in view of the forthcoming elections in five states including Punjab and Uttar Pradesh," the source said.Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur recently took a jibe at the Congress for its governments' handling of the vaccines by its governments in Punjab and Rajasthan."While somewhere black marketing of vaccines, they are being dumped as garbage in another," Thakur said.Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri had also waded into the Punjab government for allegedly selling the vaccines provided by the Centre to private hospitals at higher costs.The source said that the data prepared on the country's inventory of Covid vaccines says the Punjab government vaccinated only 65 % of health workers till June 4.First dose coverage of vaccination to frontline workers and 45+ population was 91 % and 32 %respectively in Punjab.Concerning vaccine allocated by the Centre and used by the States, the doses available with Punjab was 4.4 lakh on January 21 but utilised only 60,000.Doses available in February was 10.8 lakh, but utilisation was only 1.3 lakh. Doses available in March was 13.7 lakh, but only 6.5 lakh utilised( unutilised 50 %).The dossier prepared further says that the wastage of vaccine in Punjab was 2.5 %. As many as 56.84 lakh free doses were provided to the State by Centre;1.4 lakh doses wasted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/union-government-mulls-counter-offensive-against-its-opponents-punjab-among-states-in-its-crosshairs-264831
07-06-2021||Groundwater Conservation||Short-duration paddy varieties can turn the tide||Baldev Singh Dhillon and Raj KumarPUNJAB is facing an alarming situation with respect to groundwater resources. In the report, Groundwater Resources of Punjab — as on March 31, 2017, prepared by the Central Ground Water Board and Water Resources & Environment Directorate of Punjab, it is highlighted in red, “If the present rate of extraction continues, the available groundwater resources may exhaust in 20 to 25 years.”India faced severe food shortage during the 1950s and 1960s. In the second half of the 1960s, high-yielding varieties of wheat and paddy and their complementary production-protection technology packages became available. The government formulated a landmark policy of fixing the MSP and procurement of the produce, and took many other initiatives for national food security. These developments gave an impetus to paddy cultivation in Punjab. From 1965-66 to 2019-20, the area under paddy increased 10.7 times (2.93 to 31.41 lakh hectares) and the production 43.1 times (4.39 to 189.12 lakh tonnes) in Punjab. During the same period, the number of tubewells increased from 26,000 to 14.76 lakh and the cropping intensity from 129% to 190% as a result of intensive agriculture. With these developments, Punjab became the food bowl of the country and helped the nation to not only become food-secure but also an exporter. This was, however, accompanied by some challenges of which depletion of groundwater resources is the most serious one.To tackle this situation, short-duration paddy varieties and water-saving technologies, notably laser land levelling and tar-wattar DSR (direct seeding of rice), have been developed. The state government also issued/passed an ordinance/Act in 2008-09 to ensure the transplanting of paddy after a notified date. These interventions, accompanied by campaigns on groundwater-saving, did slow down the rate of water depletion but did not fully check the same. Thus, there is an urgent need to create more awareness among the masses in this regard. With this objective, economic returns from the cropping system in two regions of the state having a similar cropping system but a contrasting groundwater table scenario is being presented.During 2018, the lowest groundwater table was observed in Sangrur district (32.4 metres) followed by its neighbouring Barnala district (29.7 metres). These districts also occupied the top positions for the rate of fall of groundwater table between 1998 and 2018. These districts, having paddy as the main kharif season crop accounting for about 91% of the area, were selected to represent the most threatened region as far as the annual fall of groundwater level and its depth are concerned and designated as Region-I (R-I). For comparison, two other contiguous districts identified are Amritsar and Tarn Taran, representing a region contrasting with R-I on the groundwater scenario but having a similar cropping system (92% of kharif area under paddy). These districts are designated as Region-II (R-II). The average annual rate of water table fall in R-II (1998 to 2018) was almost half (43-57 cm) than that in R-I (103-107 cm).Ten other districts having a higher groundwater table than Amritsar-Tarn Taran were excluded from the analysis (the exclusion of these districts is discussed in detail in PAU’s monthly magazine Progressive Farming, April 2020).Varietal patternPaddy and wheat are the predominant crops occupying about 90% of the cultivated area in both regions. Basmati was cultivated in about 7% and 56% of the kharif area in R-I and R-II, respectively. The varietal pattern of wheat and basmati is similar in both regions but in the case of parmal, there is a contrast. In R-I, long-duration paddy varieties (Pusa 44, Peeli Pusa) were cultivated on about 55% of the parmal area and the short-duration varieties (PR 121, PR 126 and PR 124) on only 21% of the area. In R-II, the shorter-duration varieties occupied 77% of the area and Pusa 44 merely 0.4%.Pusa 44 matures in about 160 days after seeding and Peeli Pusa takes one week more. On the other hand, PR 121 and PR 126, the most popular among short-duration varieties, mature in 140 and 123 days, respectively, and PR 124 matures in 135 days. These short-duration varieties need 15-25% lesser irrigations than Pusa 44. There is also saving in pesticides and labour.Farmers in R-I are probably attracted by the higher yield of long-duration varieties. Though the yields of PR 121, PR 124 and PR 126 are marginally lower than that of Pusa 44, the net income from shorter and longer-duration varieties is comparable. Paddy straw management of short-duration varieties is easier as they produce lesser biomass. By vacating the field earlier they also widen the window between paddy harvesting and wheat sowing. Further, farmers cultivating long-duration varieties are also incurring additional expenditure on deepening and installing submersible pumps. With the farmers not having to pay for electricity, the state bears the huge expenses. Above all, the underground water reservoir is being depleted which cannot be easily replenished.The average yield of wheat, parmal paddy and basmati is higher by 893, 406 and 451 kg per hectare, respectively, in R-I than in R-II. Thus, evidently, the net income is also higher in R-I. The annual returns are higher by more than Rs 20,000 per hectare in R-I than in R-II. One may be tempted to attribute the higher yield of parmal in R-I to long-duration varieties. The average yield of wheat and basmati is also higher in R-I, although there is no appreciable difference in the varietal pattern in both regions. So, the higher yield must be due to favourable agro-climatic conditions in R-I. Therefore, by adopting short-duration varieties, the returns will continue to be higher in R-I than those in R-II.Action planThe conservation of underground water resources is more badly needed in R-I than in R-II. Thus, there is an urgent need that the farmers in R-I should not only cultivate shorter-duration varieties but also transplant parmal after the notified date. We, the people of Punjab, particularly the opinion-makers, must realise that there is a need to resort to each and every practice of water conservation as this region is dangerously placed. For this, campaigns should be continuously organised for greater awareness; otherwise, we are inviting desertification.It is the duty of all to conserve the rich, inherited natural resource base. It is an investment for the survival of the farming system not only for the future generations but also for the present generation. With the present practices of groundwater extraction, the available groundwater resources of Punjab may exhaust in 20 to 25 years. Let us join hands to meet the challenge of conserving water resources by their judicious use.The authors are V-C and Principal Extension Scientist (agricultural economics), respectively, PAU, Ludhiana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/short-duration-paddy-varieties-can-turn-the-tide-264670
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura police firing: SIT to question ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini on Monday||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the Kotkapura police firing incident will conduct a second round of questioning of ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini at Punjab Police Officer's Institute in Mohali's sector 32 at 11 am on Monday.It has also summoned suspended IG Paramraj Singh Umranangal and other officers concerned with the 2015 incident in which cops opened fire at a mob protesting against the sacrilege incidents.Saini was DGP at that time.The SIT is probing who ordered the firing at the mob and whether it was justified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-police-firing-sit-to-question-ex-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini-on-monday-264810
07-06-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||No rural development fund for Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 6The Punjab Government will not get any Rural Development Fund (RDF) for the 132 lakh metric tonnes of wheat it has procured for the central pool in the just-concluded wheat procurement season.Estimated lossThe Centre, fixing the provisional economic cost of wheat, has imposed cuts on other incidental charges demanded by the Punjab Government. These include a cut in the commission given to commission agents, mandi labour charges, charges for packaging and transportation charges among others. In all, over Rs 70 per quintal has been deducted from the ex-mandi delivery price.The state was to get Rs 2,333.89 per quintal , including Rs 1,975 per quintal MSP of wheat and incidental charges. But the state, after these cuts, will get Rs 2,181.64 per quintal.While the RDF of Rs 59.25 per quintal has been cut on wheat (after it was cut on the paddy procured last year), cuts have also been imposed on deliveries to be made from mandis to FCI godowns and for deliveries from agency godowns to the FCI godowns. These cuts are on account of labour charges, transportation charges, custody and maintenance charges, besides interest charges. “If all these cuts are taken into account, the total cut imposed is Rs 150 per quintal,” said a senior officer in the Punjab government.The charges for incidentals, allowed under the provisional cost, which has been conveyed to the state government through a letter dated June 4, also says that to ensure the proper utilisation of subsidy, the FCI may insist on requisite certificates and its agencies before the release of incidentals on account of statutory charges. Punjab Food and Supply Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said there was little doubt that Punjab was being targeted by the BJP-led government for the ongoing farmers struggle.“This is like an undeclared emergency. On a government-to-government basis, there should have been some discussion before this arbitrary cut was announced,” he said, showing his displeasure. Officials in the Food and Supply Department say that since the sharp cut is not acceptable to Punjab, the state will refer the case to a committee to resolve the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-rural-development-fund-for-punjab-264707
07-06-2021||---||At 4.74%, Tarn Taran sees highest fatality rate among border districts||GurbaxpuriTarn Taran, June 6Though the districts on the international border have reported far less number of Covid cases in Punjab, Tarn Taran district has recorded one of the highest fatality rates. In the last two months, the rate had touched 4.74 per cent.The district had reported 3,474 positive cases in two months — 1,845 in April and 1,629 in May — and 165 deaths. The district has reported 7,622 positive cases since the pandemic started. The number of positive cases in the district is nearly six times less than the neighbouring Amritsar district. With 321 deaths, the district has a fatality rate of 4.21 per cent, which is far higher than the national average of 1.2 per cent.Health officials blamed lack of awareness among the public and over-reliance on quacks and semi-qualified medical practitioners for the high fatality rate. However, these are not the only factors for the high death rate. The district has insufficient infrastructure and absence of qualified medical practitioners.Harbhajan Kaur (65) of Pakhoke village fell sick in April. She continued to take medicine from a quack for 10 days. Finally, she was shifted to the Civil Hospital on May 3 where she died same day.The district does not have a single ventilator. It has to refer its patients to Amritsar. It has only two anaesthetists while it needs six. The district does not have any Intensive Care Unit. Besides, 100 posts of medical officer have been lying vacant for long.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the district administration was making every effort to contain the spread of the disease and check the fatality rate. Medical practitioners in rural areas had been instructed to refer the seriously ill patients to health centres in time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-4-74-tarn-taran-sees-highest-fatality-rate-among-border-districts-264710
07-06-2021||Parvesh Sharma||In Barnala, cops take charge of vaccination ops||Tribune News ServiceBarnala, June 6After the intervention of the police, getting Covid vaccine has become easier in Barnala. From making seating arrangements to ensuring distribution of tokens, cops are doing everything to ensure vaccination is conducted in a smooth manner.Earlier, residents were complaining that influential were getting preference. “The intervention of cops has made a big difference. Earlier, there were no arrangements for people at vaccination centres and huge crowds posed a risk of infection,” said a resident at a vaccination centre.The Health Department had started vaccination at Government High School for Boys near the Barnala Civil Hospital a few days ago, but since there was no authority managing the crowd, there was utter chaos.“After getting information about lack of facilities and that influential people were getting preference in vaccination, we decided to make required arrangements. We pitched a tent at the Government High School for Boys and arranged fans. We have also been distributing tokens,” said Sandeep Goel, Barnala SSP. The district has recorded 212 Covid deaths and still has 429 active cases.“The police are a big help in our endeavour to providing all possible facilities to Covid patients,” said Dr Jyoti Kaushal, Senior Medical Officer, Barnala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-barnala-cops-take-charge-of-vaccination-ops-264711
07-06-2021||GS Paul||Operation Bluestar tagged as ‘ghallughara’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 6Akal Takht officiating jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh emphasised maintaining unity among the Sikh community and tagged Operation Bluestar as “Chaurasi (84) Da Ghallughara” (holocaust). He was speaking during the 37th Operation Bluestar anniversary observed in the Golden Temple complex today.Despite the Covid threat and weekend lockdown, a large number of devotees throng the complex that was under tight security. Amid chanting of pro-Khalistan slogans and carrying placards of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale by separatist Sikh organisation activists, the event passed off peacefully.The ‘parallel’ acting jathedar of Akal Takht Dhyan Singh Mand, 2015 Sarbat Khalsa main organiser Jarnail Singh Sakhira, SAD (Amritsar) chief Simranjit Singh Mann and actor Deep Sidhu, who was charged for provoking the Red Fort violence, were also present.Justifying the pro-Khalistan slogans, Giani Harpreet Singh said the event could never be forgetton by the Sikhs. “It is like an irretrievable wound and such slogans help them relieving their pain and anger against the atrocities of governments”, he said.Referring to blood-stained pages of the Sikh history, he said like the earlier massacres of the Sikhs in 1746 and 1762 by the Mughal empire that were termed ‘chhota ghallughara’ and ‘vadda ghallughara’ in which 7,000 and 35,000 Sikhs were killed, the 1984 Army attack was nothing short of “ghallughara”.Delivering his customary message from the podium of Akal Takht, Giani Harpreet Singh said words like ‘Operation Blue Star’ or ‘Saka Neelataara’ must be avoided to refer the event as these terms hurt the sentiments. “Ghallughara was the appropriate terminology for it”, he said.He said many e-mails were received demanding to term it “Amritsar Sikh genocide”. “It was never restricted to Amritsar only, but 37 other Sikh shrines across the country were targeted. The genocide had started on the streets of Delhi, Kanpur, Tata Nagar and other areas between November 1-4 in 1984”, he said. He said the Sikh organisations should unite keeping aside their differences of opinion.Later on, in the presence of Takht Kesgarh Sahib Jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh, head priest of Akal Takht Giani Gurmukh Singh and SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur, the jathedar honoured Ishar Singh, son of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale, along with Bhai Manjit Singh and Satwant Kaur, brother and daughter of Shaheed Bhai Amrik Singh, former federation head, with siropa at Akal Takht.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/operation-bluestar-tagged-as-ghallughara-264712
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||AAP wants Punjab Health Minister Balbir Sidhu dismissed||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders, protesting against the government for allegedly selling Covid vaccination to private hospitals, on Sunday gheraoed the house of Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu in Mohali and burnt an effigy.They said the government had procured the vaccination on the government quota and sold these to private hospitals at higher prices. The protest was led by Deputy Leader of the Opposition Saravjit Kaur Manuke, MLAs Jai Kishan Singh Rodi, Amarjit Singh Sandoa, Youth Wing co-president Anmol Gagan Mann and senior leader Manwinder Singh Giasarpura.The leaders demanded that Sidhu should immediately be sacked from the Cabinet and a criminal case should be registered against him. Meanwhile, the Punjab Police detained the Aam Aadmi Party leaders and workers. The leaders, addressing the protesters in front of Balbir Sidhu’s residence, said the minister had proved to be a complete failure in protecting and ensuring the better health facilities for the people during the ongoing pandemic. “Now, the Health Minister is cheating the people by selling the vaccination to private hospitals,” they said.The AAP leaders said the Congress had come to power by promising to end the mafia rule and also promised to take action against the Badals, who had committed various scams during their tenure. But the Congress and its ministers too were helping the mafia to flourish in Punjab. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-wants-punjab-health-minister-balbir-sidhu-dismissed-264713
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||No profiteering from sale of vaccine to private hospitals, Ravneet Bittu snubs Hardeep Puri||Taking aim at Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu today said there’s no question of profiteering by the state from the supply of vaccine when the whole amount, paid by a few private hospitals, has been deposited in the State Vaccination Fund for the purchase of vaccines for the citizens free of cost.”Profiteering from vaccine shameful: Hardeep PuriQuestioning the minister, Bittu said, “If Hardeep Puri is speaking of Punjab as a BJP karyakarta, where was he when Punjab faced an acute shortage of oxygen and there was a risk of patients dying in Amritsar. ”Why were you silent during oxygen shortageWhere were you when Punjab faced an acute shortage of oxygen and there was a risk of patients dying in Amritsar. Did you arrange even a tanker or a cylinder for its citizens? - Ravneet Singh Bittu, Congress MP“The real issue for which the central government is squarely responsible is the inadequate supply of vaccine which the state is not getting even after placing order with the SII, Pune. Why did the BJP fail to ensure the supply of adequate vaccine to the country? All vaccine supplies, whether from domestic or foreign suppliers, are being controlled by the Union government. It’s a matter of shame that the Union government failed to negotiate supplies of vaccine with both domestic and foreign manufacturers in 2020,” alleged MP Bittu. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-profiteering-from-sale-of-vaccine-to-private-hospitals-ravneet-bittu-snubs-hardeep-puri-264715
07-06-2021||---||SGPC to sponsor studies of orphans who lost parents to Covid or farm struggle||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 6The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) will provide free education to the children, who have lost their parents to Covid or farm struggle. This announcement was made by SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur during the anniversary of Operation Bluestar.“The SGPC has decided to provide them education. It will be free of cost. This will help them becoming self-reliant and their future be secured”, she said.Earlier, the SGPC had provided Rs 1 lakh each to the surviving family members of more than 160 farmers, who had died during the agitation.She said the relics and evidence related to “84 da ghallughara” would be made public and the white paper on Army attack was being prepared. “On the line of the bullet-ridden saroop of Guru Granth Sahib, the damaged gold sheets of the Golden Temple, hit by bullets and the historic ‘khu’ behind Akal Takht that was related to Guru Hargobind, would also be made open for the public shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-to-sponsor-studies-of-orphans-who-lost-parents-to-covid-or-farm-struggle-264716
07-06-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Ranjit Sagar dam islands in for facelift||Tribune News ServicePathankot, June 6Hospitality honchos are eyeing the twin islands of Kalara and Naloh Tikka Pilangi in the Ranjit Sagar dam lake following Punjab Government’s decision to develop a world-class water sports and tourism hub.In 2014, then Dy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal flew in hoteliers from Delhi, Mumbai and Pune in a special flight to enable them to have a feel of things. However, the project hit a roadblock when the Union Government dithered on giving it the mandatory forest clearance. The forest clearance has now been granted following which the Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) has floated a global tender. The venture will be operated on a public-private partnership (PPP) mode.The project has been rechristened as the ‘International Standard Tourism Theme Destination in Punjab.’ The last date for submitting proposals is June 30.Sources say real-estate prices in and around the lake in the Dhar block are set to see a manifold increase. Politicians and bureaucrats, too, are keeping themselves abreast of the developments.“Convention centers, eco villas and eco resorts will be established. Nature and water sports activities will also be held in the lake,” said Sanjeev Tiwari, Divisional Forest Officer. Officials are pegging the cost of the venture at anything between Rs 300 and Rs 400 crore.“A lot of money is going to be invested. Land prices have already increased ever since the tender was published. A majority of the hoteliers had closed shop in the past two years following the Covid-induced inertia. Now they see a glimmer of hope. Moreover, the construction of new highways means tourists now cross over to the neighbouring states of HP and J&K without making a stopover in the area as they used to do earlier. Now, as the project comes up, the same hoteliers see some hope,” said a prominent businessman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ranjit-sagar-dam-islands-in-for-facelift-264717
07-06-2021||Patiala||SAD seeks SC inquiry into  operation Bluestar||Senior SAD leader Prem Singh Chandumajra today demanded a probe by Supreme Court judges into Operation Bluestar.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said guilty must be brought to book. Chandumajra, who is a former MP, wrote: “Here’s a request to order a high-level judicial probe, comprising at least three sitting or retired judges of the Supreme Court, into the Army attack on Golden Temple in June 1984.”He said, “There continues to be a question mark on several aspects of this action, including the number of those killed in the shrine between June 3 and 7, 1984. The truth must prevail.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-seeks-sc-inquiry-into-operation-bluestar-264718
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Relax age limit for police job, Capt Amarinder Singh urged||A large number of unemployed youths have urged CM Capt Amarinder Singh to increase the age limit for recruitment in the Punjab Police.A delegation has submitted a memorandum to the CM through his OSD Ankit Bansal, requesting the relaxation in the age limit. They said the police department had announced the recruitment of nearly 10,000 constables and sub-inspectors. As no recruitment was conducted by the police in the last four years, many youths, who were waiting for the job, had gone overage. “If the state increases age limit to 32 years, nearly 2.5 lakh youths will get a chance for job,” the memorandum said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/relax-age-limit-for-police-job-capt-amarinder-singh-urged-264719
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||BJP leader Anil Joshi takes on Centre over farmers’ protest||There seems to be no end to the internal problems of the BJP as Anil Joshi, former Cabinet minister, today alleged that people sitting on top positions in the party had failed to realise the ground situation and the party would have to pay the price for the situation.Can cost party dearThe party will have to pay the price for the stubborn attitude of the central leadership in the 2022 elections. - Anil Joshi, BJP LeaderSpeaking on mishandling of farmers’ issue by the party’s state leadership, he said in the very beginning, he tried to brought the issue to the knowledge of top leaders in Delhi as nobody was ready to listen. He said he didn’t have any post in the party, even then he contacted the state president and requested him to invite leaders and listen to them. He said, “We have failed to convince the people that we are sincere about the issue.” The party would have to pay the price for the adamant attitude of the party leadership in the 2022 elections. Earlier, thesame concerns were expressed by former minister Mohan Lal and BJP leader Shewat Malik. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-leader-anil-joshi-takes-on-centre-over-farmers-protest-264721
07-06-2021||Rajmeet Singh||BJP ‘woos’ Congress Dalit leaders with CM post||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 6A programme launched by the BJP to woo Dalits by promising a Dalit Chief Minister in the state has set the alarm bells ringing in the Congress, with the 2022 Assembly elections due early next year.‘Yug parivartan’ programmeThe three-member Mallikarjun Kharge panel that concluded its hearing of the Punjab Congress leaders on Friday was informed about the BJP and RSS leaders wooing prominent Dalit faces in the party with the promise of being made the Chief Minister or the Deputy Chief Minister. The Shiromani Akali Dal has also promised the Deputy Chief Minister post to a Dalit leader.To prove mobilisation by the BJP at the grassroots level, the party leaders have pointed towards “ardas” by a preacher, Gurmel Singh Khalsa, a former Dalit sarpanch of Bir Talab Gurdwara in Bathinda, where he can be heard in a video wishing the next Punjab CM should be from Scheduled Caste and the BJP deserved appreciation for making a similar announcement.Similar “ardas” has been performed in some other gurdwaras, it has been pointed out. “It is part of ‘yug parivartan’ programme being undertaken by the saffron party,” said a Dalit leader from Doaba.In Punjab’s poll arena, Dalits with 33 per cent vote share hold sway. Political analysts believe that the BJP, to neutralise the main political parties in the rural hinterland, could throw the bait to Dalit leaders, pointing out that Jats with 19 per vote share have been dominating the political arena, pushing aside the Dalits and other backward class leaders. The same card could be used for polarisation of the Hindu vote bank, they opined.Shamsher Singh Dullo, a senior Dalit Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP, said he had been flagging the issue for long. “I have demanded that a Dalit be launched as the CM face in Punjab to checkmate the BJP. But the Congress government has been ignoring Dalit issues, including SC scholarship and adequate representation to Dalit leaders in political appointments,” he said.Dr Raj Kumar Verka, a senior Dalit leader who has been highlighting the community issues, said he was hopeful that after listening to their views the party high command would do the needful.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-woos-congress-dalit-leaders-with-cm-post-264722
07-06-2021||Karam Prakash||Not informed of work allotment: MGNREGA workers||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 6Many workers are first enrolled without being informed and thereafter marked absent in the muster roll — the attendance register at the site — under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme.New plan in placeWe have developed a new mechanism wherein information will be sent to the workers’ mobile numbers. - Dr Preeti Yadav, Additional Deputy CommissionerConsequently, workers face a double whammy of not getting work under MGNREGA and then being deprived of the unemployment allowance too. Notably, if a beneficiary is marked absent in the muster roll for a week after allotment of work, he can’t claim the unemployment allowance.It is learnt that officials of the Department of Rural Development and Panchayat on purpose don’t inform MGNREGA workers so as to make them stay absent and lose their right to unemployment allowance.In one such instance, Kiranjeet Kaur of Dharoki village in Nabha town was not informed about her allotment letter of work by officials. However, the officials claimed they had issued a letter to her and had conveyed it to their leader. Ironically, the letter of work allotment, accessed by The Tribune, was issued on May 20 to Kiranjeet Kaur, but she was enrolled for the work which had already begun on May 19. The enrolment letter was handed over on Monday after The Tribune raised the issue. The officials said they would ensure that workers got 100 days of employment as guaranteed under the Act.It is learnt that the unemployment allowance has to be provided by the erring officials from their own pocket. That provision, said a source, prompts officials to use this modus operandi of first enrolling the workers without informing them and then marking them absent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-informed-of-work-allotment-mgnrega-workers-264723
07-06-2021||---||Jobless youth protest outside Vijay Inder Singla's house||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, June 6Members of five unions under the banner of the Joint Front of Unemployed today raised slogans against the government’s proposal to give jobs to sons of MLAs outside the residence of Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla.Demanding government jobs, they have been sitting here on indefinite protest since December 31.“We have passed all exams and have all mandatory qualification. We have been sitting here on indefinite protest since December 31, but the government is not taking our protest seriously and not taking any action to recruit us. But it is preparing to recruit the sons of MLAs without any competitive exams. We will not tolerate it,” said Sukhwinder Dhilwan, president of BEd and TET pass union.Members of BEd and TET pass, along with the members of four other unions — All Punjab 873 DPE teachers union, 646 PTI teachers union, Unemployed Art and Craft Union and Unemployed Multipurpose health union — have been staging the protest. “We will intensify our agitation as the recruitment of sons of MLAs is illegal,” said Harjinder Singh, another leader of the front.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-youth-protest-outside-vijay-inder-singlas-house-264724
07-06-2021||---||Regularise contractual staff: Minister Charanjit Channi to Punjab govt||Tribune News ServiceMorinda, June 6Mincing no words, Technical Education Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today said if the Congress wanted to retain power in the state, it had to regularise contractual employees.Channi, who has been raising voice over unfulfilled poll promises, alleged the state government was on a path to abolish Class-IV posts which would hit the poor.With workersI will fight for you tooth and nail and I’m ready to face any consequences. All Class-IV posts are about to be abolished and I am dead against it. - Charanjit Singh Channi, Technical Education MinisterChanni was addressing contractual employees of Punjab Roadways, Punbus and PRTC who had gheroed his house demanding regular jobs. Channi is a member of the sub-committee formed by the government to look into the policy to regularise nearly 50,000 employees working on contract basis. Around 10.30 am, hundreds of contractual workers reached in front of Channi’s residence and staged a dharna. Channi expressed his solidarity with them.He claimed he had in a Cabinet meeting even insisted that their recruitment must be on regular basis. Claiming that he only represented the poor and middle class and had nothing to do with elite class, Channi said he even asked the rich not to cast vote in his favour as he had no interest in serving them. “I am a man of revolutionary ideas born in a poor family. The poor have the first right on him,” he said. Channi, however, expressed displeasure with the security agencies, saying protesters reached his residence and set up a tent but no policeman was there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/regularise-contractual-staff-minister-charanjit-channi-to-punjab-govt-264726
07-06-2021||---||Punjab Govt doubles social security pension to Rs 1,500||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 6Decks have been cleared to increase social security monthly pension from Rs 750 to Rs 1,500 from July 1 with the issuance of a notification by the Social Security, Women and Child Development Department.Social Security Minister Aruna Chaudhary said: “The notification has paved way for doubling the pension for old age, handicapped persons, widows and destitute women, besides dependent children.” With a view to doubling the monthly pension from Rs 750 to Rs 1,500, a budgetary outlay of Rs.4,000 crore had been allocated during 2021-22, signifying an increase of 72 per cent from 2020-21 budgetary expenditure of Rs 2,320 crore.Meanwhile, the social security pensions amounting to Rs 2,089 crore were disbursed in 2019-20 and Rs 2,277 crore in 2020-21, which is three-fold of what was provided by the previous SAD-BJP government in 2016-17 (Rs 747 crore). A total of 25.55 lakh beneficiaries, including 13 lakh from the Scheduled Caste category, have been given pension during 2020-21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-doubles-social-security-pension-to-rs-1-500-264727
07-06-2021||Balwant Garg||‘Scrutiny’ clause for transfer irks Punjab teachers||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, June 6The mass transfer of about 20,000 government schoolteachers in the state in the past two months has left hundreds of teachers in difficult situation. They are burdened with the task of ‘scrutinising’ their relatives’ conflict of interests with government schools.Conflict of interestAs per the new Teachers’ Transfer Policy, in case any relative of the government teacher, including his/her husband, wife, mother, father, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, son or daughter are running any private school or any of them is a member of the management committee of such school, whether affiliated or not, within a radius of 15 km from government school of his/her posting, the teacher shall be transferred in a government school 15 km away from that private school.If any teacher transferred in 2021, falls under this rule of the new rule, he/she is duty bound to report the district nodal officer of the department so that the teacher be transferred to a school beyond 15 km of radius of the private school, reads a letter of Director, School Education (senior secondary), to all district education officers in the state.The School Education Department believes in most of such situations the business or any other interest of family members in a private school can create a conflict of interest with the government school. “There are high chances that a teacher in government school will ask his students to join private school in which his family has business or other interest,” said a senior functionary in the department.To check this ‘migration’ of students from government schools to private schools, the new clause has been added in the transfer policy. So far teachers were unaware of the new rule, until the department issued a letter to the district-level authorities to ensure its compliance.“If any teacher wilfully hides this fact, he will be punished for violating the service rules,” said the functionary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/scrutiny-clause-for-transfer-irks-punjab-teachers-264729
07-06-2021||---||Punjab tops in school education, teaching fraternity upbeat||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 6Punjab has topped the Performance Grading Index in the field of education.School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Sunday said it was the result of sustained and concentrated efforts of the Congress-led state government that Punjab had clinched the position.The grading index is released by the Union Government on the basis of 70 parameters to catalyse a transformational change in the field of school education.He said several reforms had been made to achieve optimal education outcomes. “The smart school policy, online teacher transfer policy, direct recruitment to administrator-level positions through the PPSC, introduction of pre-primary classes, recruitment of teachers, online education and distribution of free smartphones under the Punjab Smart Connect Scheme are the reasons behind improvement in the level of education in state schools,” he added. The state has improved its PGI score by 10 per cent over the previous year.Krishan Kumar, secretary, School Education, said, “This achievement is dedicated to all principals, heads and teachers who have made great efforts in bringing about quality education to government schools.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-tops-in-school-education-teaching-fraternity-upbeat-264731
07-06-2021||---||2,210 Class VIII Punjab students to get national scholarship||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, June 6The State Council of Education Research and Training (SCERT) has released the result of National Means-cum-Merit Scholarship (NMMS) scheme-2020 in form of merit lists. This exam of Class VIII students was conducted on December 20, 2020. The merit list of NMMS -2020 comprise the name and details of 2,210 students selected for the scholarship.While 1,398 students in the merit list belong to general category, the students of SC and BC categories are 552 and 221, respectively. Total 39 students with physical handicaps are selected for the scholarship in the state.Ludhiana district students has bagged maximum, 229 scholarships, followed by 159 in Hoshiarpur, 158 in Amritsar, 170 in Jalandhar. Pathankot district has least, 50 students in the merit list.The NMMS is a central sector scheme to provide scholarships for meritorious students of classes IX to XII of economically weaker sections to arrest their drop out at Class VIII and encourage them to continue their study and complete secondary stage.Under the scheme, one lakh fresh scholarships are given to the students in the country every year for study in a state government, government-aided and local body schools.An amount of Rs 12,000 per student per annum is provided to the students as scholarship under the scheme. A students whose parental income from all sources is not more than Rs 1,50,000 per annum are eligible to avail the scholarships. The student must have minimum of 55 per cent marks in Class VII examination for appearing in selection test for award of scholarship (relaxable by 5% for SC and ST students).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-210-class-viii-punjab-students-to-get-national-scholarship-264733
07-06-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||2 held for cross-border drug smuggling bid||The Border Security Force (BSF) and police have nabbed two persons who had allegedly gone to Khajuwala near the Sriganganagar-Bikaner highway to collect 54 packets of heroin that was pushed into India by Pakistan smugglers on the wee hour of Friday.Anjum Kayal, Khajuwala Circle officer, and Ramesh Sarbata, SHO, said Roop Singh Valmiki (30) of Nasira Khilchi village near Ferozepur and Harmesh Singh (20) of Ram Singh Wala village in Valtoha tehsil of Tarn Taran had been arrested.The 127 Battalion of the BSF posted at the Khajuwala sector near Satrana had observed some persons approaching the fence on the wee hours of Friday and challenged them. When they tried to flee, BSF personnel fired two rounds. Footprints of five persons were noticed on the other side of the fence.A preliminary probe suggested that four persons from Punjab had gone to Khajuwala to collect a consignment of 56.5 kg contraband. It is yet to be ascertained whether they were used as couriers or were directly involved in drug business.A Narcotics Control Board team led by Jodhpur zonal director Ugamdan Charan has started an investigation into the case along with the BSF and the police. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-held-for-cross-border-drug-smuggling-bid-264735
07-06-2021||---||Muktsar village residents pass resolution against drug peddlers||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, June 6Irate over the increasing number of deaths due to overdose of drugs, the panchayat of Shamkhera village in Lambi has appealed to drug peddlers to mend their ways and passed a resolution in this regard.Seven to eight youths from our village between the age group of 25-28 died due to drugs, especially ‘chitta’, in the past year. A boy died due to drugs a few days ago. - Pritam Singh, Sarpanch, Shamkhera VillageSpeaking over the phone, Pritam Singh, sarpanch, Shamkhera village, said, “Our village has a population of nearly 5,000 people. Seven to eight youths between the age group of 25-28 died due to drugs, especially ‘chitta’ (heroin), in the past year. Further, a boy died due to drugs a few days ago. So many newly-wed girls have become widows. We are really worried about our coming generations.” He said, “Recently, an audio clip of a girl speaking to a drug peddler to mend his ways and stop selling drugs to her father had gone viral. After this clip, we all gathered in the village and passed a resolution that if someone was found selling drugs, he/she will be responsible for his/her own misdeeds and nobody will pursue his/her case.”Sub-Inspector Jaskarandeep Singh, SHO, Kabarwala police station, said, “There are three panchayats in Shamkhera village. We have formed a joint committee with residents to nab the drug peddlers and make the village drugs-free. The problem of smuggling persists but we caught the kingpin from the village. Now, the residents have also announced that they will not come for the bail of peddlers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-village-residents-pass-resolution-against-drug-peddlers-264737
07-06-2021||---||Full-grown trees burnt, Sangrur residents fume||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, June 6Many full grown trees were burnt in Sangrur as a wheat stubble fire spread to the surrounding areas. Residents have demanded action against the persons, who had burnt the trees, and also against the officials for not taking action to prevent the burning of trees.“The resident have been burning stubble and trees on their land along the Longowal to Shahpur road. But neither the police nor the Forest Department or any other department took any action against such acts. It shows that nobody is serious to save the green cover,” said Gurmeet Singh, a resident of Sunam. The trees were burnt on Longowal to Shahpur road during the daytime.“Our environment is already facing serious problems, but some residents are still not bothered and continuing with the practise of burning stubble and axing trees recklessly. The Sangrur administration must ensure strict action to save the environment from such activities,” said Kuljeet Singh, a Longowal resident.On being contacted, Sunam SDM Manjeet Kaur said she would look into the matter. “Though I have not received any complaint in this regard, I will look into the matter as it’s a serious issue,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/full-grown-trees-burnt-sangrur-residents-fume-264738
07-06-2021||Muktsar||Punjab Roadways and PRTC staff seek regular jobs, protest||The contractual employees of the Punjab Roadways and PRTC today staged a protest near Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s residence at Badal village here demanding regularisation of jobs.We are surprised that when the state government has regularised the jobs of workers in other departments, what is wrong with us? - Kamal Kumar, Patron, Punbus Contractual Workers’ Union,Though the protesters wanted to stage a dharna in front of Manpreet’s residence, the police stopped them a few metres away.Kamal Kumar, patron, PUNBUS Contractual Workers’ Union, said they had recently met the transport minister, but to no avail. “Now we will go on strike from June 28 to 30. If the government did not announce our regularisation, we will go on an indefinite strike. We are surprised that when the state government has regularised the jobs of workers in other departments, what is wrong with us? We are getting meagre salaries and working for the past many years. A committee was formed about four-and-a-half-year ago to look into our demands, but it has not yet given the report.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-roadways-and-prtc-staff-seek-regular-jobs-protest-264741
07-06-2021||Moga||Armed men enter house in Moga, fire on occupant||A group of armed persons forcibly entered a house in the Sant Nagar area in Moga city and fired on one of the occupants, leaving him injured, and also thrashed the female members present there.Surinder Pal Singh (43), who received a bullet injury on the left thigh, was rushed to the district hospital. He is out of danger.In a police complaint, Surinder said his family had been living in the house for the past over 18 months on rent. However, the owner, Jaswinder Singh, wanted him to vacate the house without returning the advance rent paid to him. “I approached a local court and got a stay order,” he said. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/armed-men-enter-house-in-moga-fire-on-occupant-264743
07-06-2021||---||Army jawan cremated with state honours||Muktsar, June 6Army jawan Prabhjot Singh (27), who had reportedly died in a bomb explosion at the Mahajan field firing range in Rajasthan on Saturday, was cremated with full state honours at his native Bura Gujjar village here today.His father Hardeep Singh said Prabhjot had come to his residence for his wedding about four months ago. “He was scheduled to return to his home. However, his body has arrived. I had one son and a daughter,” he said.“We demand a probe into the incident. The responsibility should be fixed for this accidental bomb blast,” said Rajinder Singh, a village resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/army-jawan-cremated-with-state-honours-264744
07-06-2021||Moga||Tweak liquor licence policy: Contractors||Sandeep Hans, District Magistrate, Moga, has recently issued orders to open liquor vends till 11 pm from Monday to Friday. The liquor shops would open at 9 am, the orders stated, while adding that they would remain closed on Saturday and Sunday due to lockdown restrictions.“Liquor contractors have urged the state government that the proportionate quota of the loss of days due to curfew/lockdown period should be reduced and proportionate licence fee be waived,” said Balwinder Singh a local liquor contractor. Since liquor shops remain totally closed for two days in a week on Saturdays and Sundays, the government must waive proportionate excise and licence fee of these days, he said. The contractors have also sought a modification in the licence policy and the condition of quota be withdrawn and the excise fee must be deposited by the licensee as per the actual sales. “We have suffered heavy losses due to lockdown restrictions, therefore, the excise fee must be reduced proportionately,” said Ravinder Singh Raju, another liquor contractor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tweak-liquor-licence-policy-contractors-264746
07-06-2021||Amritsar||Bargari morcha  may be relaunched||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bargari-morcha-may-be-relaunched-264749
07-06-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Blue Star: Shaheedi samagam at Fatehgarh  Sahib||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/blue-star-shaheedi-samagam-at-fatehgarh-sahib-264750
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Govt creates eIDs of staff||The government has initiated the usage of electronic identity cards (eIDs) for its employees through the Punjab Mandi Board. Chairman Lal Singh today said these eIDs were equipped with near field communication technology — a wireless communication technology that allows data exchange between devices that are a few centimetre apart — and would be used as primary authentication tool. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-creates-eids-of-staff-264751
07-06-2021||Sangrur||Punjab's ETT and TET teachers to intensify stir||After a state-level meeting here, members of ETT and TET pass union announced to again gherao the CM’s Patiala residence on June 11, if the authorities failed to fulfil their demand for government job at the June 8 meeting. “Today we have decided to gherao the CM’s residence on June 11 if the government fails to accept our demand for government job,” said union press secretary Deep Banarasi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-ett-and-tet-teachers-to-intensify-stir-264752
07-06-2021||Abohar||Under “Chokho-Abohar” project, mini park developed||Bajwa poll-ready?Gurdaspur: RS member Partap Singh Bajwa’s statement in New Delhi recently that he will be contesting the next year’s Assembly polls has made Congress politicians “jittery”. This claim in any case was a foregone conclusion, but now it has come straight from the horse’s mouth. The interesting thing is from which seat he will contest. Insiders say in all likelihood, Bajwa will throw his hat in the electoral ring from one of the seven general category seats his former Lok Sabha constituency of Gurdaspur has. Out of these seven, six are represented by Congress legislators and nobody is going to do a favour by leaving his seat for this Congressman. The choice, hence, narrows down to Batala which does not have a sitting Congress MLA.Fazilka’s walls carry messagesFazilka: Nauzwan Samaj Sewa Sanstha, an NGO, painted about 200-ft-long wall of a park at the new Gandhi Nagar locality. Project in-charge Lachhman Dost said NGO members painted the walls with social and motivational messages. Artists Santosh Chaudhary and Raj Kumari said earlier also they painted the walls of Pratap Bagh and an area at Sadiqi BOP, where joint retreat ceremony by the Indian and Pak forces are carried out. Earlier, the parks were an eyesore as the MC failed to maintain them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/under-chokho-abohar-project-mini-park-developed-264756
07-06-2021||---||Farmers’ convoy of 2K vehicles led by Gurnam Singh Charuni reaches Singhu||Ambala, June 6Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) activists led by Gurnam Singh Charuni today left for the Singhu border from the Shambhu border here to join protesting farmers.Carrying BKU and black flags, a long cavalcade of vehicles was seen on the Ambala-Delhi National Highway. Farmers raised anti-government slogans and said the agitation would continue until the three laws were withdrawn.Farmers reached Singhu in the evening.Meanwhile, traffic on the national highway moved at a snail’s pace, causing inconvenience to commuters. Along with farmers from Ambala, a large number of peasants from Punjab joined the convoy.Charuni, who reached Ambala from Tohana, said: “There are 2,000 to 2,500 vehicles in the cavalcade. It is just a trailer from one district. Look out for June 10, when even a larger cavalcade will leave from Panipat.”On Saturday, farmers burnt the copies of farm laws in front of the residences of BJP leaders.“The BJP’s popularity has dipped over the past six months. The defeat in West Bengal is a proof of that. The party is in for another drubbing in the Uttar Pradesh elections,” said Charuni.He added, “On November 25 last year, the Delhi Chalo movement was launched from Ambala. Farmers had reached Delhi after breaking barricades and facing water cannons. Today, thousands of farmers assembled here to start another journey towards Delhi. The enthusiasm shown by farmers has infused new energy in the movement.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-convoy-of-2k-vehicles-led-by-gurnam-singh-charuni-reaches-singhu-264470
07-06-2021||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar Municipal Corporation, Health Department figures on Covid fatalities just don’t match||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 6The records of the Health Department and the Municipal Corporation, Jalandhar, show a mismatch of around 200 Covid deaths in May. The data for April also had a gap of 54 Covid deaths.The mismatch in the figures raises a question if the Covid deaths in the district are being under-reported.A Health Department official said, “The death of those in home isolation might go unreported, leading to a mismatch in Covid death figures given by the two authorities.”While the MC records say 485 persons died due to Covid-19 in the district in May, the Health Department puts the figure at 296. The Covid death figures, as per the MC and Health Department records, for April were 321 and 167, respectively. As per Health Department records, there were 195 Covid deaths in the district in March.Official spokesperson for Covid Dr TP Singh said, “We will impart special training to our teams for maintaining proper records.” MC Commissioner Karunesh Sharma said, “The cause of death in the MC certificates is recorded as per the documents provided by institutions (hospitals) where the patients died, or as per the statement of their wards and supporting documents.”As per the MC records, the total number of deaths (1,947) in the district in May this year went up by 64 per cent as compared with the figure (1,237) for May, 2020.The total number of deaths in March, April and May this year stood at 7,060, while the corresponding figure last year was 3,845, clearly an increase of about 93 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-municipal-corporation-health-department-figures-on-covid-fatalities-just-dont-match-264672
07-06-2021||---||Punjab among top five performers in education||New Delhi, June 6Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal “Nishank” today approved the Performance Grading Index (PGI) 2019-20 for states and Union Territories (UTs) in which Punjab, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Kerala have got the highest grade (A++).Performance Grading IndexThe PGI aimed at creating an environment that nudged states/UTs to improve their performance, the minister said. “I’m happy to share that 19 states and UTs have shown improvement by 10 per cent (36 points) or more in PGI domain of governance process. Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Punjab, Rajasthan and West Bengal improved by at least 20 per cent,” he said. Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Puducherry, Punjab and Tamil Nadu improved their overall PGI score by 10 per cent (100 point or more).Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep and Punjab have shown improvement of 10 per cent (eight points) or more in the “access” domain.Thirteen states and UTs have shown improvement by 10 per cent (15 points) or more in “infrastructure and facilities”, while Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Odisha have improved by 20 per cent or more.Punjab tops in school education, teaching fraternity upbeatIn “equity”, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Odisha have shown an improvement of over 10 per cent.The index was first published in 2019 with reference year 2017-18. It is finalised based on 70 parameters to “catalyse transformational change in the field of school education”.“The state-wise performance for 2019-20 shows that 33 states and UTs have improved their score as compared with previous year’s figures,” Pokhriyal said.“The difference between the maximum and minimum PGI scores in 2019-20 is over 380 points,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-among-top-five-performers-in-education-264663
07-06-2021||---||Punjab, Chandigarh among top 5 in Performance Grading Index 2019-20||New Delhi, June 6 Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ on Saturday approved the Performance Grading Index (PGI) 2019-20 for States and Union Territories (UTs) in which Punjab, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, and Kerala have got the highest grade of A++.The major purpose of PGI is indeed to create an environment that nudges States/UTs to continuously improve its performance, the minister said. “Finally, I’m happy to share that19 states and UTs have shown improvement by 10 per cent (36 points) or more in the PGI domain: Governance Process. Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Punjab, Rajasthan & West Bengal show improvement by at least 20 per cent”, he said.The ministry said most of the States/UTs improved their grade in PGI 2019-20 compared to the earlier years. Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Puducherry, Punjab and Tamil Nadu improved their overall PGI score by 10 per cent—that is 100 point or more.Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep and Punjab have shown improvement of 10 percent (eight points) or more in the ‘Access’ domain.As many as 13 states and UTs have shown improvement by 10 percent (15 points) or more in ‘Infrastructure and Facilities’ while Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Odisha have improved their scores in the domain by 20 percent or mored.In ‘Equity’, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, and Odisha have shown an improvement of more than 10 per cent.In ‘Governance Process’, 19 states have shown improvement by 10 per cent (36 points) or more. “Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Punjab, Rajasthan and West Bengal have shown improvement by at least 20 per cent (72 points or more),” the Ministry said.The PGI for States and Union Territories was first published in 2019 with reference year 2017-18.The index has been prepared with 70 parameters to “catalyse transformational change in the field of school education.”The PGI: States/UTs for 2019-20 is the third publication in this series. “The PGI exercise envisages that the index would propel States and UTs towards undertaking multi-pronged interventions that that will bring about the much-desired optimal education outcomes.“The PGI helps the States/UTs to pinpoint the gaps and accordingly prioritise areas for intervention to ensure that the school education system is robust at every level,” the Ministry said.“State-wise performance in PGI 2019-20 shows that 33 States and UTs have improved their PGI scores in 2019-20 compared to the previous year. The major purpose of PGI is indeed to create an environment that nudges States/UTs to continuously improve its performance,” said Pokhriyal.“The difference between the maximum and minimum PGI scores is more than 380 points in the year 2019-20. The main purpose of PGI is to make all the States and UTs aware of the areas where there is scope for improvement. We aim to have all the States and UTs at the highest,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-chandigarh-among-top-5-in-performance-grading-index-2019-20-264358
07-06-2021||Amritsar||Bluestar anniversary: Akal Takht tags Army attack on Golden Temple complex as ’84 da ghallughara’||Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh emphasised on maintaining unity among the Sikh community and tagged the event as “Chaurasi (84) Da Ghallughara” (holocaust) , during the 37th Operation Bluestar anniversary observed in the Golden Temple complex on Sunday.Delivering his customary ‘sandesh’ (message) from the podium of Akal Takht, he said that words like ‘Operation Bluestar’ or ‘Saka Neelataara’ must be avoided to refer to the event as it hurt the sentiments.Amid chanting of mild pro-Khalistan slogans and placards of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale, the event went peacefully. The parallel Jathedar of Akal Takht Dhyan Singh Mand, along with 2015 Sarbat Khalsa main organiser Jarnail Singh Sakhira also read out ‘sandesh’.SAD (Amritsar) chief Simranjit Singh Mann, and the prime accused of the Red Fort violence out on bail Deep Sidhu with their supporters were present on the occasion.  Referring to blood-stained pages of Sikh history, Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said that like the earlier massacres of Sikhs in 1746 and 1762 by the Mughal empire were termed as ‘chhota ghallughara’ and ‘vadda ghallughara’ in which 7,000 and 35,000 Sikhs were killed, respectively, the 1984 Army attack was nothing short of it.Comparing the Indian Army’s attack on Golden Temple and Akal Takht with the war between the two nations, he said, “Like, the earlier two ‘ghallugharas’, the third one occurred in 1984 when the Indian Army attacked the Golden Temple, the way China and Pakistan attacked India in 1962 and 1965. Upon attack, the Indian authorities did worse than what the winning forces did with the defeated nation’s citizens,” he said.He said that many emails were received demanding to term the event as “Amritsar Sikh genocide”, but the attack was not executed only on the Golden Temple complex but on 37 other Sikh shrines across the country.“It was not constrained to Amritsar only. In 1984, the genocide had started on the streets of Delhi, Kanpur, Tata Nagar and other areas between November 1-4. Hence, it should be termed as ’84 da ghallughara,” he said.Justifying the “Khalistan” slogans, he said that the event could never be forgotten and remained like an irretrievable wound and its pain is relieved with such slogans.He said that the Sikh organisations, be it SGPC, DSGMC, CKD, Takht Hazur Sahib board, Patna Sahib board and other Sikh organisations, should all unite keeping aside their differences of opinion.“It was fortunate that the Sikh community reacted promptly if any wrong was done to its significance. No voice was raised when masjid was demolished to pave way for raising mandir or Article 370 was abolished, yet when recently a Sikh was thrashed in UP, the Sikhs not only from India but from UK, US and Canada raised voice against it. This was an example of our live soul and our strength which has to be maintained,” he said.Later on, in the presence of Takht Kesgarh Sahib Jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh, and head priest of Akal Takht Giani Gurmukh Singh and SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur, the Jathedar honoured Ishar Singh, son of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale along with Bhai Manjit Singh and Satwant Kaur, the brother and daughter of Shaheed Bhai Amrik Singh, former federation head, with ‘siropa’ at the Akal Takht.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bluestar-anniversary-akal-takht-tags-army-attack-on-golden-temple-complex-as-84-da-ghallughara-264314
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Govt identifies 23 kids orphaned by contagion||Aruna Chaudhary, Social Security, Women and Child Development Minister, today said the department had found a total of 23 children who lost both their parents to Covid-19 between March 31, 2020, and May 31, 2021.Chaudhary said complying with the directions of the Chief Minister, the department had followed proper procedure and found 23 children within two weeks, including children whose both parents died of Covid or who had earlier lost one parent and the other one died of the virus, rendering the child orphaned.“In all these cases, social investigation is being done, the child and his close relatives are interviewed and their views are ascertained. Initially, most such children were taken in by their close relatives,’ she said.Chaudhary said those who had not been accepted by relatives or those who did not have one would be taken into children’s homes.She said the government would provide Rs 1,500 per month as social security pension, along with free education up to graduation, for all those orphaned in the pandemic, as well as families that lost their breadwinners from July 1, 2021, onwards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-identifies-23-kids-orphaned-by-contagion-263447
