08-06-2021||New Delhi||BJP accuses Punjab government of ‘corruption and profiteering’ in ‘Fateh’ kits procurement||Stepping up the attack, the BJP on Tuesday accused Punjab’s Congress government of indulging in “corruption and profiteering” by selling kits meant for the treatment of Covid-19 at higher prices than procurement rates, and questioned Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi over their “silence on the scam”.Party spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said the Punjab government selling Covid vaccines at a much higher price and ‘Fateh’ kit “scam” were proofs of “rampant corruption in the state”. He also demanded the resignation of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu over alleged corruption in the award of contracts for the kits to private firms. “Amarinder Singh has no right to continue as the CM and there cannot be a fair probe as long as Sidhu is the health minister,” he said.He said initially ‘Fateh’ kits were procured at Rs 837 each.“We don’t even know if they were actually procured,” he said. “Then the state government procured kits at Rs 1,226.40 per unit through the second tender, even though the company concerned does not have a medical licence. A third tender was floated to procure more kits at a price above Rs 1,338 per unit,” he added.The last tender cost nearly 60 per cent more than the first one, he said, accusing the Congress of indulging in “corruption and scams” even during the times of a pandemic.“It is a matter of shame that the Congress is doing scam during the pandemic. This is Punjab’s ‘suit-boot ki sarkar’. Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi should break the silence because the people of Punjab want answers. They want to know why the state government is profiteering from the sale of Covid vaccines and purchase of these kits and why the CM is silent on the issue,” Bhatia said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-accuses-punjab-government-of-corruption-and-profiteering-in-fateh-kits-procurement-265485
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Not for courts to judge couple’s decision to stay in live-in relationship: Punjab and Haryana HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has granted protection to a 17-year-old girl and a 20-year-old man in a live-in relationship, observing that it is not for the courts to judge them if they want to stay together without the sanctity of marriage.The order of the single judge Bench came following a petition by the couple from Punjab’s Bathinda who sought protection of their life and liberty from the family members of the former.The court also observed that honour killings were prevalent in northern parts of India, particularly in parts of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, and said it is for the state to ensure protection of such couples.The petitioners submitted that the parents of the girl wanted her to marry a person of their choice as they had come to know about her relationship. She left her parents’ home and started living with her partner.They decided to live together till such time as they could solemnise a marriage on attaining the marriageable age.The marriageable age is 18 for women and 21 for men.The petitioners submitted that they had approached the Bathinda senior superintendent of police, seeking protection but there had not been any response.Following a notice of motion, the Punjab assistant advocate general submitted that the couple seeking protection were not married and according to their own pleadings were in a live-in relationship.He said the coordinate benches have recently dismissed similar matters, where protection was sought by persons who are in live-in relationship.Justice Sant Parkash, however, said it would be a travesty of justice in case protection is denied to persons who have opted to reside together without the sanctity of marriage and such persons have to face dire consequences at the hands of persons from whom protection is sought.“In case such a course is adopted and protection denied, the courts would also be failing in their duty to provide its citizens a right to their life and liberty as enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution of India and to uphold to the rule of law,” he said in his June 3 order.“The petitioners herein have taken a decision to reside together without the sanctity of marriage and it is not for the courts to judge them on their decision,” the judge said.While observing that one cannot lose sight of honour killings prevalent in northern parts of India, particularly in parts of states of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, he said it is for the state at this juncture to ensure their protection and their personal liberty.“If the petitioners herein have not committed any offence, this court sees no reason as to why their prayer for grant of protection cannot be acceded to. Therefore, with due respect to the judgments rendered by coordinate benches, who have denied protection to couples who are in live-in relationship, this court is unable to adopt the same view,” the single judge Bench said in its order.The court directed the Bathinda SSP to grant the protection to the petitioners.Some benches have earlier given different verdicts in matters pertaining to live-in relationships.A single Bench of Justice HS Madaan in his May 11 order had said a live-in-relationship is morally and socially not acceptable while dismissing a petition of a runaway couple from Punjab, seeking protection of their life and liberty.Justice Sudhir Mittal in the May 18 order had granted protection to a Haryana couple who were in a live-in relationship while observing that social acceptance of such relationships was on the rise. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-for-courts-to-judge-couples-decision-to-stay-in-live-in-relationship-punjab-and-haryana-hc-265472
08-06-2021||Patiala||Unemployed teachers, health workers detained in Patiala for attempting to enter CM's residence||Patiala Police on Tuesday detained members of the Berozgar Sanjha Morcha who tried to force their way into Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s residence.A minor scuffle also broke between the protesters and the police.Police used mild force to disperse the protesters from the YPS roundabout.The protesters, including B.Ed TET unemployed teachers, DPE teachers, PTI teachers and multi-purpose health care workers, were demanding jobs.They said that the government has failed to provide jobs to youngsters in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unemployed-teachers-health-workers-detained-in-patiala-for-attempting-to-enter-cms-residence-265415
08-06-2021||New Delhi||NGT pulls up Punjab, Himachal, Haryana over pollution in Ghaggar river||The National Green Tribunal has come down heavily on Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana for failing to stop the discharge of untreated effluents in the Ghaggar river and said  that "if the State itself fails in implementing the law, it is nothing but breakdown of the system itself".A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said the three states and Chandigarh continue to contribute water pollution, which is a criminal offence."It is breach of public trust under public trust doctrine. We are left with a feeling that there is no commitment to the rule of law and no concern for the environment and health of the citizens on the part of the concerned authorities in the states of HP, Haryana, Punjab and UT Chandigarh," said the bench, also comprising Justice Sudhir Agarwal.The tribunal directed the Chief Secretary, Punjab and the Advisor to the Administrator, Union Territory of Chandigarh in coordination with other concerned officers to take appropriate remedial measures to comply with the mandate of law, including the directions of the Supreme Court.It also directed a joint committee of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Punjab PCB and pollution control committee of Chandigarh to inspect the drain and furnish a status report within two months by e-mail.The tribunal said that in spite of enactment of Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 making discharge of untreated effluents into a water body a criminal offence, the states are still struggling to prevent untreated sewage from being discharged into the water body at a huge cost to the environment and health and lives of citizens who have fundamental right to clean environment under the Constitution."Water pollution is a serious threat to the health of the citizens as well as other living beings who consume the water and also to the food safety for growth of which the water is used for irrigation...there can be no justification whatsoever for the State to have failed in complying with the law."If the State finds that they are unable to manage the sewage directly, there is no bar to other options being explored but there cannot be any justification not to comply with the mandate of law and protecting the health of the citizens in accordance with the Constitutional mandate," the bench said.The green panel said that no action is being taken against the erring officers and it gives an impression that there is collapse of Environmental rule of law."Who is to pay the cost of damage to the environment and public health of large number of unidentified citizens and other living creatures? Is such cost being calculated. How officers responsible for damage by their inaction or otherwise are being dealt with. Should the State be held liable vicariously for such failure and failure to punish the guilty," the bench said.The bench that the NGT has been passing repeated orders and as many as six reports have been submitted by a Monitoring Committee headed by a former High Court Judge and a former Chief Secretary, clearly recording failure of the State authorities but the higher authorities are also conveniently ignoring their responsibility."Advocates for the authorities only maintain silence before this Tribunal. If the State itself fails in implementing the law, it is nothing but breakdown of the system itself.“Is this Tribunal to just remain silent spectator for such gross failure or hold highest authorities accountable by directing their prosecution for their criminal failure and indirectly being party to the crime against the law of the land? How the law of the land is to be meaningfully enforced. We expect answers to these questions from the States," the bench said.NGT said the states should realise their responsibility to function according to the Constitution and take immediate remedial measures in punishing the guilty involved in failing to comply with the law and also take prompt measures instead of repeatedly taking the same plea of being engaged in tender process."It should not be difficult at this length of time to overcome such procedural requirements and to effectively prevent discharge of the untreated effluents after 46 years of enactment of Water Act and repeated orders of the Supreme Court and other Courts."For delay and continued violation, realistic compensation has to be recovered from the erring officers, apart from other action or in default, the compensation has to be quantified and recovered. The Executing Committee may make its recommendation in this regard,” the bench said.The tribunal was hearing a plea against failure of statutory authorities in Punjab and Chandigarh to install necessary Sewage Treatment Plant, resulting in discharge of pollution in the drain originating from Chandigarh and passing through various sectors and villages of Mohali, before merging into Ghaggar River."The pollution is affecting the eco-system, including the aquatic life and also public health. Discharge of untreated sewage into the drain is violation of Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and also citizens right to clean environment."Further, since the waste water of the drain is used for cultivation of crops and washing of the vegetables which are consumed by the residents, it is affecting the food chain and public health," the plea said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ngt-pulls-up-punjab-himachal-haryana-over-pollution-in-ghaggar-river-265392
08-06-2021||New Delhi||Punjabi rapper Jazzy B's Twitter account blocked on India's request||Microblogging platform Twitter has "withheld" the accounts of Punjabi singer Jazzy B, hip-hop artist L-Fresh the Lion and two others in response to a legal demand in India, even as it draws flak over delay in complying with the new IT rules in the country.According to an information on Lumen database, Twitter received legal request from the Indian government on June 6 for actioning four accounts, including that of JazzyB.Requests received by Twitter for withholding content are published on Lumen database - an independent research project studying cease and desist letters concerning online content.Users checking Jazzy B's account are shown a message saying "account has been withheld in India in response to a legal demand".When contacted, a Twitter spokesperson said when it receives a valid legal request, it reviews it under both the Twitter Rules and local law."If the content violates Twitter Rules, the content will be removed from the service. If it is determined to be illegal in a particular jurisdiction, but not in violation of the Twitter Rules, we may withhold access to the content in India only," the spokesperson added.The spokesperson noted that in all cases, it notifies the account holder directly so that they're aware that the company has received a legal order pertaining to the account."We notify the user(s) by sending a message to the e-mail address associated with the account(s), if available... Twitter is committed to the principles of openness, transparency, details of the requests to withhold content have been published on Lumen," the spokesperson said.Reacting to this, Jazzy B wrote: "I will always stand for the rights of my people #kisanmajdooriktazindabad #neverforget1984 #raiseyourvoice"Reports suggest that Jazzy B had frequently tweeted in support of farmers' protests.Earlier this year, more than 500 accounts were suspended and access to hundreds of others in India blocked after the government ordered the microblogging platform to restrain the spread of misinformation and inflammatory content related to farmers' protests.Over the past many months, Twitter has been embroiled in a number of issues. Twitter had drawn flak after it marked several tweets by ruling BJP leaders on an alleged strategy document of the Opposition to target the government over COVID as containing 'manipulated media', triggering a sharp rebuke from the government.The row over Twitter's handling of certain messages had recently blown up into all-out war of words between the Centre and the social media platform.Last week, the government issued a notice to Twitter giving it one last chance to "immediately" comply with the new IT rules and warned that failure to adhere to the norms will lead to the platform losing exemption from liability under the IT Act.Twitter has an estimated 1.75 crore users in India, as per data cited by the government recently.The new IT rules for social media companies that came into effect last month mandate large platforms like Facebook and Twitter to undertake greater due diligence and make these digital platforms more accountable and responsible for the content hosted by them.A post shared by Jazzy B (@jazzyb)   The rules also require significant social media intermediaries - providing services primarily in the nature of messaging - to enable identification of the "first originator" of the information that undermines the sovereignty of India, the security of the state, or public order.The new IT rules require significant social media intermediaries - those with other 50 lakh users - to appoint a grievance officer, nodal officer and a chief compliance officer. These personnel are required to be resident in India.Under the new rules, social media companies will have to take down flagged content within 36 hours, and remove within 24 hours content that is flagged for nudity, pornography etc.The Centre had said the new rules are designed to prevent abuse and misuse of platforms, and offer users a robust forum for grievance redressal.Non-compliance with the rules would result in these platforms losing their intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-rapper-jazzy-bs-twitter-account-blocked-on-indias-request-265376
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure roll numbers to SC students, NCSC tells Punjab Govt||National Commission for Scheduled Castes chief Vijay Sampla today asked Punjab to ensure immediate release of roll numbers to 2 lakh SC students in private colleges.Do your dutyIt’s the duty of the state to ensure SC students do not face any hardship. - Vijay Sampla, NCSC ChiefThe Joint Association of Colleges had announced that the roll numbers were being withheld as the Punjab Government had failed to reimburse SC post-matric scholarship funds amounting to Rs 1,549 crore. The amount pertains to the 2017-18 to 2019-20 period. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-roll-numbers-to-sc-students-ncsc-tells-punjab-govt-265251
08-06-2021||---||Joblessness no plea to deny alimony: HC||Chandigarh, June 7The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that an estranged husband cannot in any manner escape the moral and legal responsibility of maintaining his legally wedded wife and minor daughter. The Bench also made it clear that an able-bodied person could not take the plea of unemployment to avoid paying maintenance.The assertion by Justice HS Madaan came in a case where the petitioner-husband had claimed that he was unemployed and the monthly maintenance amount of Rs 9,000 awarded by the family court was on the higher side.Justice Madaan asserted the husband was an able-bodied person. He had denied working as a lecturer in some college on a monthly salary of Rs 40,000. Rather, his claim was that he was unemployed. But the fact remained he was an able-bodied person.Considering the facts and circumstances and also his probable earning capacity, the maintenance amount of Rs 9, 000 was granted. Such amount could certainly be not taken to be on the higher side keeping in view the trend of rising prices of even the basic necessities and in light of his probable income and the economic status of the parties.“It is moral as well as legal responsibility of the revisionist/petitioner to maintain his legally wedded wife, unable to maintain herself as well as his minor daughter. The revisionist cannot escape that responsibility in any manner,” Justice Madaan said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/joblessness-no-plea-to-deny-alimony-hc-264943
08-06-2021||---||Youth found dead near canal||Muktsar, June 7 A youth was found dead along a canal in Bura Gujjar village, near here, today. The victim has been identified as Sandeep Singh of Jasseana village. He had sharp injury marks on his neck. Balkaran Singh, a relative of the victim, alleged Sandeep was getting threat calls from past few days. “The information in this regard was given to the police and some village residents. However, no action was taken in this regard,” he alleged. Meanwhile, the police have started the investigation and sent the body for post-mortem. Sources said the victim was blessed with a daughter, a few days ago.  He was the sole breadwinner of his family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-found-dead-near-canal-264944
08-06-2021||Muktsar||Road dug up to lay pipeline, commuters a harried lot||Residents of Jhabelwali village, here, met the Deputy Commissioner today and apprised him of the problems being faced by commuters on the Muktsar-Kotkapura highway due to laying of an underground gas pipeline. They claimed negligence on the part of the contractor was resulting in road mishaps. “A truck overturned on Sunday evening, as the road had been dug up and neither warning boards nor reflectors had been placed there,” said the residents. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/road-dug-up-to-lay-pipeline-commuters-a-harried-lot-264945
08-06-2021||Patiala||Cash, weapon looted at petrol pump||Five to six unidentified persons looted cash and a weapon from a petrol pump at Baran village on the Sirhind road on Tuesday morning. The men stopped at the petrol pump and attacked an employee and the security guard after asking him to fill their car with fuel. “Four of them entered the cabin, robbed the cash and also took my weapon with them,” said the security guard at the petrol pump. “They robbed over Rs 10,000 and also took along a locked drawer from the petrol pump cabin, after locking us inside the room,” he said. The Anaj Mandi police station has registered a case against the unknown persons. The police said the incident took place at 2.30 am and efforts were on to nab the accused. DSP (City-2) Saurabh Jindal said they were trying to get the footage from the nearby CCTV cameras, as the petrol pump cameras had failed to pick the registration number of the vehicle. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cash-weapon-looted-at-petrol-pump-264946
08-06-2021||Malerkotla||Malerkotla set to get girls’ college||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today virtually inaugurated Malerkotla as the 23rd district of the state. Stressing women empowerment, the CM said: “We have deputed women officers in the district to help area women in best possible way.”He digitally laid the foundation stone of Nawab Sher Mohammed Khan Government Medical College at a cost of Rs 500 crore. The first instalment of Rs 50 crore has been sanctioned. He also laid the foundation stone of Government College for Girls, to come up at a cost of Rs 12 crore and a new bus stand (Rs 10 crore), besides unveiling a women police station. The CM announced a grant of Rs 6 crore for development under the Urban Environment Improvement Programme.Interestingly, the wife of Malerkotla’s last ruler Nawab Iftikhar Ali Khan, Begum Sahiba Munawwar-ul-Nisa, was not invited to the event by the administration.“Begum Sahiba couldn’t have attended the function uninvited. She has, however, thanked the CM for announcing development projects for the district. If the administration invites her in the future, she will attend the event,” said Mohd Mehmood, private secretary to the Begum.“Only a few persons were invited to the event. Owing to Begum’s old age, we decided not to invite her, keeping the pandemic in mind,” said T Benith, Malerkotla SDM.Referring to the significance of Malerkotla in Sikh history, the CM said people across the globe respected Nawab Sher Mohammed Khan for raising voice against the tyranny unleashed by then Sirhind governor Wazir Khan. Cabinet Minister Razia Sultana, the local MLA, said the Congress government had fulfilled key promises made to the people of Malerkotla. “The CM is also touch with the Agha Khan Foundation (UK) for renovation of historic Mubarak Manzil Palace,” she said.After the virtual programme, Sultana along with DC Amrit Kaur Gill and SSP Kanwardeep Kaur physically laid foundation stones. Congress’ Amargarh MLA Surjit Dhiman, who stayed away from the event, said he was “busy with personal work at Dirba”. — TNSLast ruler’s wife not invited||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/malerkotla-set-to-get-girls-college-264947
08-06-2021||---||Bank transfers Rs24L to fraudster’s account||Ropar, June 7A case of a fraudster getting Rs 24 lakh transferred into his account by posing as a businessman’s relative has come to light here.Vijay Gupta, director, MH Auto, a company dealing in two-wheelers, learnt about the fraud when a bank official rang him up to confirm whether he had asked for the transaction.The bank official had received a call from the fraudster, but was misled by the truecaller ID, which showed him as “director of MH Auto”.A sum of Rs 14.83 lakh was transferred to the fraudster’s account through two bank transactions. The amount was withdrawn immediately from two branches in Delhi and Jalandhar. A third transaction of Rs 8.9 lakh was, however, withheld by the bank after the fact came to light.Gupta said his company’s account was with a State Bank of India branch here. On June 3, a bank official contacted him to confirm whether he had asked his nephew to get the money transferred to another account.However, Rs 23.7 lakh were withdrawn from his account through three transactions. When the bank learnt about the fraud, the officials withheld the third transaction. The bank assured the customer of refunding the entire money, said Gupta.Ropar SSP Akhil Chaudhary said the bank officials had lodged a complaint in this regard. DSP Talwinder Singh had been assigned the probe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bank-transfers-rs24l-to-fraudsters-account-264948
08-06-2021||---||SIT questions more top cops||Chandigarh, June 7The special investigation team (SIT) probing the Kotkapura police firing incident has issued summons to former SAD MLA Mantar Singh Brar besides questioning a number of senior police officials regarding the sequence of events leading to the firing in October 2015 on a mob protesting sacrilege incidents.The SIT, led by ADGP LK Yadav with IG Rakesh Aggarwal and DIG Surjit Singh as the members, questioned DIGs Ranbir Singh Khatra and Amar Singh Chahal today.It also put posers to former Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Sukhmandar Singh Mann and Charanjit Singh besides Inspector Pritpal Singh.Former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini was likely to be questioned today. Sources said the panel would call him again after listening to other police officials, bureaucrats and politicians who were either on the protest site or were involved in the decision-making process to use force against protesters.Suspended IG PS Umranangal did not appear before the probe panel today. He sought excuse for today saying he was indisposed. He is likely to appear tomorrow.The special investigation team showed the officials video clips of the police firing and alleged clash with protesters. People were protesting the series of sacrilege incidents in the region. Sources said the probe panel wanted to ascertain who ordered the firing at the mob.It is also trying to know if the police opened fire at a peaceful gathering of protesters or if the mob was unruly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-questions-more-top-cops-264949
08-06-2021||---||‘Dhadis’, SGPC at odds over wages||Amritsar, June 7 A conflict has erupted between the ‘dhadis’ and the SGPC over the remuneration and performance hours at the Akal Takht. Dhadis (balladeers) are traditional performers who stage traditional ‘diwan’ and sing ballads with a ‘sarangi’, a string instrument, and a ‘dhad’, a small drum. The tradition was started by sixth Sikh master Guru Hargobind at Akal Takht. They earn their income from donations by pilgrims. Two factions — Sri Guru Hargobind Sahib Shiromani Dhadi Sabha and Miri Piri Shiromani Dhadi Sabha — have been performing at the Takht, which had set separate timing. Baldev Singh MA from Sri Guru Hargobind dhadi group said: “Amid the Covid-19 crisis, the SGPC has withdrawn the remuneration of Rs 7,500 to each jatha that was earlier being paid on every occasion of ‘sangrandh’ and ‘masya’.” The performance timing was reduced by three hours. Besides, if any jatha member was absent owing to domestic or medical reasons, the entire jatha was denied permission to perform,” he said. The Takht has constituted a three-member panel of SGPC’s Dharam Parchar Committee to resolve the issue. The ‘dhadis’ staged a protest outside the residence of SGPC panel member Sukhwarsh Singh Pannu peacefully by reciting ‘jaap’ from 11 am to 1 pm. SGPC’s Dharam Parchar committee members Ajaib Singh Abhiyaasi and Pannu said: “Since both Dhadi factions engaged in altercations, they were dissolved. As per Takht directions, a test was conducted. Of 60 jathas, only 31 qualified. As per the norms, they could be allowed to perform. They would have to comply with the dress code and perform as per the time allotted to them.” Meanwhile, Miri Piri Dhadi group head Kulwinder Singh agreed to the Takht decision, but demanded restoration of remuneration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dhadis-sgpc-at-odds-over-wages-264950
08-06-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||425-kg poppy husk seized||The Rajasthan Police seized 400 kg of poppy husk and 1,100 gm of opium by intercepting a truck and a car (bearing Punjab registration number) near Nimbahera. A team led by Shambhupura, SHO, seized the poppy husk that was packed in 16 bags and hidden under salt bags in the truck, and the opium was seized from the car. Harvinder Singh (34) of Fatehgarh Sahib and Avtar Singh (45), along with truck driver Amrik Singh (42) of Patiala, were arrested under the NDPS Act. The vehicles used to smuggle the consignment have also been impounded. Meanwhile, 25 kg of poppy husk was seized from a car that was intercepted near Daliyanwali village on Sunday. Sub-Inspector Jaiveer Singh said Jagnandan Singh  of Chak Kera village had been arrested under the NDPS Act. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/425-kg-poppy-husk-seized-264952
08-06-2021||Sangrur||Sangrur villagers block road over police ‘inaction’||Residents of Gagadpur today protested in front of the Sangrur Police Lines alleging police inaction in a case of assault on a youth, Varinder Singh. The dharna was lifted after police officers promised prompt action.“Varinder was attacked on April 14 and an FIR was registered at the Longowal police station, but the police have failed to arrest the suspects. My friend has suffered a fracture in legs and has been admitted to a hospital. We brought him here in an ambulance today to register our protest,” said Kuljinder Singh, youth’s friend.As per the allegations, four persons attacked Varinder when he was returning home from a factory at Ubhawal. The police had later booked unidentified persons. The protesters today raised slogans against the police alleging inaction and blocked the Sangrur-Barnala road.“My son was brutally assaulted and we have been taking him to various hospitals, while the suspects roam freely. We have received threats. If anything happens to our family, the police will be held responsible,” claimed Sukhwinder Kaur, Varinder’s mother.His sister Karmjit Kaur alleged: “We are from a poor family and the suspects may attack other members too. My brother had been helping a friend in a police case against the suspects, which led to the attack.”Sunam DSP Baljinder Singh said a probe was being conducted by the Sangrur SP. “The police had registered a case on April 14. During initial probe, the name of Bharpur Singh came to light. Further investigations are on. We will take further action thereafter,” said the DSP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-villagers-block-road-over-police-inaction-264953
08-06-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Rice millers wary as FCI verifies stock||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 7The suicide by a rice mill owner at Dhariwal in Gurdaspur district today, allegedly during physical verification of his paddy and rice stocks, has brought to the fore fear among millers in Punjab and their opposition to the move by the Food Corporation of India (FCI).Last week, the government foodgrain agency ordered verification of stocks — both paddy and rice — at rice mills. The FCI has even stopped accepting custom-milled rice till the time the verification is done, which started four days ago. This comes following complaints of pilferage of rice meant to be delivered to the FCI, and mismatch in stocks.Punjab had procured 203 lakh metric tonne paddy in the kharif marketing season 2020-21. This is way over the productivity of actual land under paddy cultivation, raising suspicion of bogus billing.Interestingly, the order by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution for physical verification of rice and paddy stocks was initially passed for Punjab alone. After objections were raised by Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, the ministry asked for verification in other states as well.While the FCI is within its rights to physically verify its stocks kept at rice mills for milling, industry insiders and officials in the Punjab Food and Supplies Department say the rice or paddy at most mills are more than the stocks shown in the books.“This is because the delivery of rice is not taken by the FCI on time (March 31 each year). This leads to higher levels of broken rice in the stocks because of the warmer weather after March. The mill owner is supposed to give a certain amount of rice, and because the stocks are not lifted by the FCI on time, he buys rice and gives to the FCI to make up for the broken rice,” says a senior officer in department. One of the reasons for delay in delivery of custom-milled rice from mills to the FCI godowns is lack of storage space with the FCI.‘Bogus’ billing||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rice-millers-wary-as-fci-verifies-stock-264954
08-06-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali land transferred ‘without paying’ stamp duty, probe on||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 7Eyebrows are being raised over the transfer of 120 acres of land in two villages of Mohali district allegedly without paying the stamp duty, causing a loss of several crores to the state exchequer.The Mohali Deputy Commissioner has marked an inquiry into the case and told the Additional Deputy Commissioner (General) to submit a report by Thursday.As per the information, 120-acre land in two villages of Bairampur and Manak Majra in Mohali district has been transferred from Emaar MGF to MGF Developers in pursuance of demerger of companies as per the scheme of arrangement approved by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in its 2018 judgment.Sources said MGF had filed an application to the Mohali Sub Divisional Magistrate on March 16, which was sent to the tehsildar for further action. The then tehsildar had kept the case file pending for legal verification. She had also raised objections over the non-payment of stamp duty by MGF Developers.During the pendency of the case, the then tehsildar was transferred and the land was transferred to MGF Developers by creating a new case file. When the DC asked the District Revenue Officer (DRO) to submit his report, the latter in his reply, seeking action in the case, had stated that a parallel file had been created to transfer the land, while the original case file was pending.The DRO had further quoted the NCLT order: “While approving the scheme, we further clarify that this order shall not be construed as an order in any way granting exemption from payment of stamp duty, income tax, GST or other charges, if any, and payment in accordance with law in respect of any permission/ compliance with any other requirement which may be specifically required under any law.”Further, the scheme of arrangement approved by the NCLT said: “All agreed costs (including without limitation transaction costs, taxes, stamp duties) of the reorganisation will be borne by the demerged company and resulting company as agreed.”MGF officials did not respond to the repeated calls made by this reporter.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said: “I have marked an inquiry into the case. Further action will be taken if the report finds any loss to the state exchequer.”Parallel file created to ‘avoid’ payment||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mohali-land-transferred-without-paying-stamp-duty-probe-on-264955
08-06-2021||Patiala||Form wage panel: PSPCL officials||A joint meeting of the office-bearers of the PSEB Engineers' Association, Council of Junior Engineers and PSEB Employees Joint Forum was held today to discuss the sixth Punjab Pay Commission report, which has already been submitted to the government.“A wage formulation committee should be formulated to finalise the pay scales of power sector employees. The management is deliberately delaying it. It is recklessly abolishing the posts in PSPCL in the name of restructuring and has completely failed to procure the requisite material required during the upcoming paddy season,” PSEBEA chief Jasvir Dhiman said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/form-wage-panel-pspcl-officials-264956
08-06-2021||Archit Watts
||In Muktsar, more area under cotton cultivation this season||Tribune News Service Muktsar, June 7 The state Agriculture Department has got success in increasing the area under cotton cultivation this season in Muktsar district. For instance, this year nearly 40,000 hectares have been brought under cotton cultivation in the district. The area under cotton crop last year was nearly 28,000 hectares. Though the initial figures of the department were “inflated” last year, as per Revenue Department’s survey, the total area under cotton crop in the district was assessed at nearly 28,000 hectares. “We have strictly told agriculture development officers (ADOs) to give accurate figures this time. As per our survey, the target of bringing total 40,000 hectares under the cotton cultivation in the district this season has been achieved. The main reason behind the increase in the area is MSP on cotton and direct purchase by the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) last season,” said Gurpreet Singh, Agriculture Officer, Muktsar. He said when the Revenue Department would present its survey in October, their figures about cultivation area would most likely match this time. Agriculture officials said the district had total 2.28 lakh hectares cultivable land. Some farmers said the area under cotton crop might have increased this year, but it had decreased over the years. “Earlier, 70,000 to 1 lakh hectares were under cotton cultivation in the district. We think cotton may again become popular among farmers due to its good price. Earlier, whitefly attack had decreased the area under cotton crop,” said a farmer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-muktsar-more-area-under-cotton-cultivation-this-season-264957
08-06-2021||---||BJP has failed on farm issues: Joshi||Amritsar, June 7Senior BJP leader and former Cabinet minister Anil Joshi has launched a crusade against his own party. Showing solidarity with the anti-farm laws protesters, he said the stalemate was created due to the utter failure of the party’s state unit to convey the cause of the farmers to the Centre.Talking to The Tribune, he said the Centre’s adamant attitude of not relenting to farmers’ demands would cost the party dearly. “When would we wake up? Breaking the Covid-19 norms, farmers along with their families, are risking their lives on the Delhi borders. Around 500 farmers have died. My conscience pricks me,” he said.Joshi believed it was the responsibility of state BJP leaders to act as an intermediary between farmers and the Centre to resolve the issues.“I won’t say that the farm laws are pro or against farmers, but there must be some shortcomings which have invited their ire. Despite the multiple rounds of meetings, the stand-off prevails,” he said, adding, “I presume that our state leadership is not capable of taking a stand apparently for the fear of losing their positions.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-has-failed-on-farm-issues-joshi-264958
08-06-2021||Fazilka||Kinnow growers reap double profit||Horticulturists have been fetching double the price of kinnow in advance contracts this year as compared to the previous year, in Fazilka district. Though kinnow shall hit the market in December, traders and orchardists started entering into advance contracts, about two weeks ago.Sushil Periwal, a kinnow producer, who cultivated the fruit on 80 acres in Khippanwali village, said he has signed a contract at Rs 18 -20 per kg, while last year the price was Rs 8-10 per kg. He said the horticulturists were apprehensive of low yield this year due to less flowering, but the high price was likely to make up for the loss.Prem Babber, another producer, said other lemon species, including malta and mausami, were also fetching a high price. Lachhman Singh, Assistant Director, Horticulture, said some farmers were even getting Rs 20-25 per kg. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kinnow-growers-reap-double-profit-264959
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Won’t allow political events: Union||The Kirti Kisan Union has decided to oppose all parties holding political events in rural areas. The protest will continue until the three farm laws were repealed. The decision was taken during a meeting of the union held today. “Parties should think of the future of agriculture and espouse our cause, rather than seeking votes,” said Nirbhay Singh Dhudike and Rajinder Singh Deepsinghwala, president and vice-president of the union. The union leaders blamed the parties, both ruling and those desirous of staking claim to rule the state, for favouring corporate houses and privatisation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-allow-political-events-union-264960
08-06-2021||Muktsar||SIT to probe illegal liquor factory case||The district police have formed a special investigation team (SIT), headed by SP (PBI) Muktsar Kulwant Rai, to probe the illegal liquor bottling plant case of Badal village.On May 22, the Excise Department had recovered a large number of empty and filled bottles of the Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL), country liquor, fake holograms, labels, caps, etc. from an orchard at Badal village.A senior police officer claimed as per the land records, the orchard was owned by Gurwinder Singh of Badal village. “We have summoned him to join the probe,” he said.The AAP had lodged a protest outside the Lambi police station against the Congress government’s alleged failure in taking action against those running the illegal liquor bottling plant. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-to-probe-illegal-liquor-factory-case-264961
08-06-2021||---||AAP targets govt over ‘Fateh’ kits||Chandigarh, June 7The AAP today targeted the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government by alleging a multi-crore scam in the purchase of “Fateh” kits.Addressing a press conference here today, state party president Bhagwant Mann and Punjab affairs in charge Jarnail Singh claimed the government had already embezzled crores of rupees by selling vaccines to private hospitals.They claimed the government had on April 3 completed a tender for purchase of kits at Rs 837.78 a piece to be supplied in six months. However, on April 20, the government, ignoring the first tender, agreed to procure kits at Rs 1,226.40 a piece through a second tender, they alleged.“The government procured 50,000 kits at Rs 1,226.40 per unit through the second tender, even though the company concerned does not have a medical licence,” they claimed.On May 7, a separate tender was issued for more kits and an agreement was reached to further procure kits at the rate of Rs 1,338.“Through the third tender, the Congress government procured 1.50 lakh kits at Rs 1,338 per unit,” they alleged. Mann said Captain Amarinder had no moral right to remain as the Chief Minister and must resign immediately from the post.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-targets-govt-over-fateh-kits-264962
08-06-2021||Mohali||Dismiss Health Min for ‘vax scam’: SAD||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Badal today demanded immediate dismissal of Health Minister Balbir Sidhu over “vaccine and Fateh kit scams” and asserted that in case this was not done till June 15, SAD would gherao the CM’s residence.He said, “Instead of giving free vaccines to people, the government sold vaccines at a hefty profit to private institutions and also allowed the latter to fleece people. Sidhu is directly responsible for this and in case he is not dismissed, we will approach the Governor as well as the court for justice.” He claimed that under “Fateh Kit scam”, the price of medical kits was jacked up by inviting one tender after another despite the fact that the first tender was valid for a six-month period. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dismiss-health-min-for-vax-scam-sad-264963
08-06-2021||Mohali||Akali, AAP leaders booked over protests||Hours after CM Capt Amarinder Singh directed the Director General of Police to register cases under the Disaster Management Act against the Opposition leaders and workers for staging protests in violation of the Covid guidelines, the local police booked SAD leaders for staging a protest at Phase-7, Mohali, in violation of the district magistrate’s orders today.Those booked were SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, Sahnewal MLA Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma, Banga MLA Dr Sukhwinder Singh Sukhi, Prem Singh Chandumajra, Dr Daljit Singh Cheema, Janmeja Singh Sekhon and 200 others.They have been booked under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and 51 (1)(a) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Sukhbir had addressed a two-hour symbolic protest near the residence of Health Minister Balbir Sidhu, which was attended by party’s senior leadership, including legislators, former legislators, constituency in charge and district presidents. They were demanding immediate dismissal of Sidhu over the “vaccine and Fateh kit scams”.Also, several AAP leaders, including Ropar MLA Amarjeet Sandhoa, Garhshankar MLA Jai Krishan Ruddy, Deputy Leader of Opposition in Punjab Assembly Saravjit Kaur Manuke and 150 others were booked for staging a protest against ‘vaccine scam’ outside Sidhu’s residence in violation of the district magistrate’s orders regarding Covid guidelines on Sunday. They were booked under Sections 186, 188 and 269 of the IPC and 51(1)(a) Disaster Management Act. A complaint was received today in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akali-aap-leaders-booked-over-protests-264964
08-06-2021||---||Group of paediatric specialists  to list guidelines for third wave||Chandigarh, June 7 Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today announced a group of specialists in paediatrics to frame protocols and handhold private hospitals for enhancing paediatric beds and treatment protocols, while rolling out a detailed action plan in preparation of a possible third wave of Covid in the state. The group will comprise specialists from GMCs, Department of Health, PGI & IAP Punjab Chapter, said the Chief Minister, while directing the Health and Medical Education departments to put into action a comprehensive plan to deal with the next wave, if and when it comes. Chairing a virtual Covid review meeting, the Chief Minister took stock of the preparations under way for the third wave and ordered creation of storage capacities for oxygen for a minimum of three days in all government medical colleges, with piped oxygen to be made available in government hospitals. At least 375 MT oxygen should be available with the state at any given time, he said, stressing the need to prepare for peak supply logistics. The Chief Secretary said the state had received 500 oxygen concentrators today against the World Bank Loan for Water Surface Supply projects, and another 2,500 were on the way. The CM directed DCs to identify paediatric Covid L2 and L3 beds in private sector (at least 1,000), with experts to advise the district administration on paediatric treatment protocol/medicines. He asked the officials to increase the number of RTPCR machines for Covid testing of children, besides increasing ICU and oxygen capacities, augmenting infrastructure and manpower, and increasing surveillance and testing across the state. Amid indications of damage caused by the third wave in some countries as much as 25 per cent higher than the second wave, the CM ordered creation of surge capacity in equipment, recruitment of doctors, specialists, nurses, technicians, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/group-of-paediatric-specialists-to-list-guidelines-for-third-wave-264965
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Health Dept appoints 16 medical officers||Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today handed over appointment letters to 16 medical officers (specialist).Sidhu said to provide jobs opportunities to youth under ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar Yojana’, the health department had made recruitment against 11,200 posts from 2017 to 2021. Director, Health Services, recruited 1,041 medical officers (general), 601 medical officers (specialist), 34 medical officers (dental), 324 medical laboratory technicians,1,336 multi-purpose health workers, 418 pharmacists,1,313 staff nurses,161 radiographers, eight ECG technicians, 55 operation theatre assistants and 60 steno typists. He said more recruitment would be done shortly, while walk-in interviews to recruit 242 specialists were under process to overcome the shortage of specialists in government hospitals. He said all appointments were being made by the Department of Health and Family Welfare in a transparent manner on the basis of merit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/health-dept-appoints-16-medical-officers-264966
08-06-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Cases dip, but black fungus still a concern||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, June 7Though the district is reporting a sharp decline in the fresh Covid cases, there is a steady rise in the number of those infected with black fungus. Eight deaths and 66 cases of mucormycosis have been reported in the district so far.As compared to the last month, the district has seen a steady drop in the Covid-infected persons, bringing the positivity rate down significantly. Health officials said people were being made aware of black fungus so that it could be prevented and patients could be treated at the right time.Nodal officer Dr Yadwinder Singh said: “Of the 66 cases of black fungus, half are from outside the district. There is no need to be scared of the infection, but it is important to take precautions. Patients with any other illness are more vulnerable to it.” He said the infection was being treated at AIIMS and Adesh Medical College in the district. “The treatment protocol has been worked out for optimum usage of the available drugs. While patients with severe problems will be given intravenous injections, those with mild or moderate symptoms will be treated with tablets,” he said.Dr Singh said: “The high prevalence of fungal infection in Covid-recovered patients is due to indiscriminate use of steroids and antibiotics for Covid treatment, prophylactic use of antifungals and contamination of nasal prongs and pipelines used for oxygen supply.” In Bathinda, 890 have died of Covid so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cases-dip-but-black-fungus-still-a-concern-264967
08-06-2021||Harshraj Singh||In Ludhiana, cremations with Covid norms almost double the official toll||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 7Amid the ongoing second wave of Covid-19, over 2,100 more deaths were registered by the Municipal Corporation of Ludhiana in May as compared to the deaths registered in the corresponding month in 2020 and 2019.According to the records, the birth and death registration wing of the MC registered 3,256 deaths in May, three times more as compared to the fatalities in the same month last year. In May 2020 and 2019, as many as 1,083 and 1,121 deaths were registered, respectively.In April 2021, the MC recorded 1,824 deaths as compared to 667 and 1,256 deaths in the corresponding month in 2020 and 2019, respectively. As per the media bulletin issued by the health department, 624 deaths due to Covid-19 were confirmed between May 1 and May 31 in Ludhiana district.However, the number of bodies that were cremated with Covid protocol at the six cremation grounds of the city under the MC’s jurisdiction in May 2021 is higher than the deaths confirmed by the Health Department in Ludhiana district in May 2021. Over 1,150 bodies were cremated following the Covid protocol at the cremation grounds in May.A member of marshals or volunteers’ team, which has been deployed by the MC for the cremation of the infected bodies, said they had conducted around 850 cremations with the Covid protocol at the cremation grounds in Barewal, Model Town, Dana Mandi, Daresi and Sunet in Ludhiana city during May.Besides, 318 bodies were cremated with the Covid protocol in May at the cremation ground in the Dholewal area of Ludhiana, said Ranjodh Singh, president, Ramgarhia Education Council.Sources said a number of persons who died of the virus were also cremated at the cremation grounds in various other parts and rural areas of the district.“The correct number acts as an important tool for epidemiologists and for dealing with the situation, one should understand the true number of deaths,” a city doctor said.Civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Gill said: “Sometimes, the primary cause of death is other than Covid-19. If a patient is Covid positive, but he died due to any other reason, the body is also cremated with the protocol. Our committee conducts a review meeting daily and then confirms the deaths due to Covid-19.”MC Commissioner, Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said the civic body was following the process based on the documentation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-ludhiana-cremations-with-covid-norms-almost-double-the-official-toll-264968
08-06-2021||Parvesh Sharma
||No ventilator, Sangrur saw 411 deaths last month||Tribune News Service Sangrur, June 7 The Health Department officials may have their own excuses, but the fact that the district witnessed 411 Covid deaths alone in May has confirmed the worst fears of residents that the government badly failed to ramp up the facilities here. The case fatality rate (CFR) of 5.3 per cent  here is the highest in the state. As per sources, so far, the district has witnessed 796 Covid deaths, of which the highest 121 are from Sangrur block, followed by Longowal (115), Moonak (84), Kauhrian (75) and others. Of the total 604 deaths from January to date, 411 happened in May alone. The lack of heath facilities coupled with reluctance for testing and admission for Covid treatment is proving fatal for patients. Besides, family members of the infected, too, have been facing social stigma as relatives and neighbours start distancing themselves from them. “My grandfather died with Covid last month. Our family was unwilling to go to hospital after getting information about the lack of required health facilities there,” said a resident of Sangrur. Before the elevation of Malerkotla as district this week, Sangrur had two level-2 facilities at the Civil Hospital, Sangrur, and Malerkotla, while Dhuri hospital has dedicated facilities for pregnant women. But still patients of many areas, including Khanauri, Moonak, Lehra, Kauhrian and Dirba, have to cover a long distance even for L-2 facility. In the district, authorities do not have even a single functional ventilator. The one lying at the local hospital was shifted to Rajindra hospital in Patiala for L-3 facility after the outbreak of Covid last year. “Mainly late admissions and testing are responsible for the highest CFR 5.13 percent and 411 deaths in May month. With our consistent efforts, we succeeded in increasing our testing. Ventilators are only in Level 3 facility and we have been providing all required facilities at our L-2 facilities” said Dr Anjna Gupta, Civil Surgeon Sangrur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-ventilator-sangrur-saw-411-deaths-last-month-264969
08-06-2021||Balwant Garg||Faridkot hospital struggles with ‘faulty’ machines||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, June 7Even though the second wave is showing signs of ebbing in the state, there seems no respite for Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot. From May 21 to June 5, as many as 219 persons, including 93 women, have died of Covid-19 at GGSMCH.The high deaths rate here is attributed to patients reaching the tertiary care centre in a critical condition. Having capacity of 450 beds, the medical college has presently about 140 indoor patients from nine districts of the state. Many of these patients are in critical condition and they reached the hospital after a lot of deterioration in their health, said doctors here.To make the things worse, most ventilators received through the PM CARES Fund at the medical colleges are still non-functional. Despite engineers from the Army Hospital in Ferozepur reaching here with a on-the-wheel workshop-cum-laboratory to repair the ventilators for three days and the mechanics from the ventilator-maker company making rounds to repair the machines, 51 of the total 88 ventilator received under PM CARES Fund are still defunct.As many ventilators are malfunctioning despite repeated repairs, anaesthetists are not confident of using them, said the authorities here. Now we have stopped certifying the repair of these ventilators. We have asked the visiting engineers and mechanics to let us use the ventilators for minimum 24 hours, then we will certify about its functional status, said the authorities.Army repairs ventilatorsChandigarh: The Western Command has chipped in to repair non-functional ventilators and other medical equipment at the 450-bed isolation facility in Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot. A team led by Col Parul Anand repaired 207 unserviceable medical equipment, including 70 ventilators, multi-parameter monitors, syringe infusion pumps, oxygen concentrators, nebulisers and defibrillators, worth crores of rupees. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faridkot-hospital-struggles-with-faulty-machines-264970
08-06-2021||---||Fatality rate over 3% in 9 districts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 7As the number of cases and deaths have come down, the casualty rate seems to have emerged as a new problem for the state. The case fatality rate (CFR) in the last seven days remained at 4.2 per cent. Apart from that the overall CFR of the state’s nine districts is over 3 per cent.At present state’s overall CFR is 2.6 per cent, which means for every 100 confirmed cases 2.6 have passed away from the virus. Around three weeks ago the same had come down to 2.4 per cent. Punjab’s fatality rate is the highest in the country, which is 1.2 per cent.Sangrur has the highest fatality rate of 5.3 per cent. It is followed by Tarn Taran (4.3 per cent), Barnala (3.7 per cent), Gurdaspur (3.5 per cent) and Amritsar (3.3 per cent). Among other districts which has three or higher fatality rate includes Hoshiarpur (3.2 per cent), Ferozepur (3.1 per cent), SBS Nagar and Rupnagar (3 per cent each).Mansa and SAS Nagar both with 1.5 CFR are the only districts which have less than two fatality rate. In last seven days (May 31 to June 6), the state reported 15,145 cases and 644 deaths. Thus the state’s case fatality rate in the last seven days remained 4.2 per cent.On an average daily number of cases in last week remained around 2,000, which in mid of last month was between 8,000 and 9,000. As far as deathsare concerned, the daily average of deaths remained less than 100.A senior health official said testing in some of the districts was low that was why the case fatality rate was high. He said these districts had been asked to increase their testing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fatality-rate-over-3-in-9-districts-264971
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Priority jab for students flying abroad||Students from Punjab planning to go abroad for studies will now be prioritised in the vaccination process in the 18-45 age group, CM Captain Amarinder Singh said today.At a high-level virtual Covid review meeting, the CM directed the Health and Medical Education departments to allow districts to use up to 10 per cent of the doses for the 18-45 group for priority categories other than those approved at the state level.“Besides students seeking to go abroad, caregivers of elderly persons and other urgent priority groups may be included in the list,” he said. Captain Amarinder also asked the departments concerned to proactively vaccinate all persons in the categories already prioritised by the state government in the age group, based on vaccine availability. This, he stressed, was essential to keep the risk of spread low as the restrictions were eased in the state.The state had initially prioritised construction labour, co-morbid individuals and families of healthcare workers in the 18-45 age group, and had already vaccinated over 4.3 lakh individuals in these categories. The list was subsequently expanded to include shopkeepers and their staff; and staff working in the hospitality industry (hotels, restaurants, marriage palaces, caterers), among others. — TNSFull leave credit for medicosTaking cognisance of the hard work of the medical college faculty fighting the pandemic, the CM on Monday announced full credit of earned leave in lieu of their cancelled vacations. The CM also asked senior officials to explore other incentives for healthcare workers as a token of the government’s appreciation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/priority-jab-for-students-flying-abroad-264972
08-06-2021||---||Firm donates 100 O2 concentrators||Barnala, June 7Trident Barnala today donated 100 oxygen concentrators to the Punjab Government. Oxygen concentrators with a capacity of 5 litres each will be distributed in various districts, including Barnala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka, Moga, Kapurthala and Sri Muktsar Sahib.Padma Shri Rajinder Gupta, chairman, Trident Limited, said: “We have been supporting the Punjab Government’s fight against Covid. In coming days, we will be contributing more. These are tough times and even a small contribution matters.”Barnala Deputy Commissioner TPS Phoolka, Civil Surgeon Dr Jasbir Singh Aulakh, ADC Aditya Dachalwal, SMO Dr Jyoti Kaushal were among those present on the occasion today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/firm-donates-100-o2-concentrators-264977
08-06-2021||---||Covid helpline for pregnant women||Chandigarh, June 7Covid positivity among pregnant women has emerged as a new concern for the state. During a recent screening of rural areas, 292 pregnant women have been reported as positive.Of these, 231 have been discharged and 61 cases are still active. The state has now set up a helpline in Chandigarh for pregnant women.Dr Areet Kaur, Mission Director, National Health Mission, said daily monitoring of active cases was being done from the state headquarters.The helpline numbers — 0172-2744041 and 2744040 — will be operational from 9 am to 5 pm every day.According to experts, pregnant women were already immunocompromised, making the number of cases a worry.The cases were discovered when under Punjab Government’s Corona Mukt Pind Abhiyan, a door-to-door screening programme, was launched on May 21. Till June 5, over 1.72 crore persons or nearly 60 per cent of state’s total estimated population had been screened.BoxRising mortalityIn April, six pregnant women died due to Covid, while in May, 20 lost their life||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-helpline-for-pregnant-women-264980
08-06-2021||Mohali||Vaccine scam: Sukhbir among 350 opposition leaders booked for holding protest||Several leaders from the opposition, among them Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal, were booked under several sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act for having gathered to hold a protest in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, police said.  Among those booked for holding protests over allegations of a scam in the state's vaccine distribution were several MLAs, such as SAD leaders Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, NK Sharma, Sukhwinder Singh Sukhi, AAP leaders Amarjeet Singh Sandhoa, Jai Krishan Ruddy, Deputy Leader of Opposition in the Punjab Legislative Assembly Saravjit Kaur Manuke and SAD leader Prem Singh Chandumajra. In all, some 200 leaders from SAD and 150 from AAP were booked, police said.Both parties were holding protests against Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu outside his residence in Mohali's Phase 7 in violation of orders from the district magistrate, the police said.They have been booked for disobeying a public servant (Section 188) and doing an act that is likely to spread infection (sections 269 and 270) of the Indian Penal Code as well as obstruction (section 51-A) of the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vaccine-scam-sukhbir-among-350-opposition-leaders-booked-for-holding-protest-264935
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing incident: SIT summons former Akali MLA Mantar Singh Brar||The Special Investigation Team probing the Kotkapura police firing incident has issued summons to former SAD MLA Mantar Singh Brar besides questioning a number of senior police officials regarding the sequence of events leading to the firing in October 2015 on a mob protesting sacrilege incidents.The SIT led by ADGP LK Yadav with IG Rakesh Aggarwal and DIG Surjit Singh as the members questioned DIGs Ranbir Singh Khatra and Amar Singh Chahal on Monday.It also put posers to former SSP Sukhmandar Singh Mann and Charanjit Singh besides Inspector Pritpal Singh.Former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini was likely to be questioned today. Sources said the panel will call him again after listening to the other police officials, bureaucrats and politicians, who were either on the protest site or were involved in the decision-making process to use force against protesters or not.Suspended IG PS Umranangal did not appear before the probe panel today. He sought an excuse for today saying he was indisposed. He is likely to appear tomorrow.The SIT showed the officials video clips of the police firing and alleged clash with the protesters.People were protesting against the series of sacrilege incidents in the region. Sources said the probe panel wanted to ascertain who ordered the firing at the mob. It is also trying to know if the police opened fire at a peaceful gathering of protesters or if the mob was unruly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-firing-incident-sit-summons-former-akali-mla-mantar-singh-brar-264920
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||File cases, take action against AAP and SAD over dharnas: Punjab CM to DGP||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday directed the Director General of Police to register cases under the Disaster Management Act against Opposition leaders and workers who have been staging dharnas in the state over the past few days.Terming such acts of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) as irresponsible and utter violation of the strict curbs in place in the state in view of the pandemic spread, the chief minister asked DGP Dinkar Gupta to take action against them under the law.At a time when people could not gather even for weddings and funerals, leaders and workers of these parties were behaving in a reckless manner, showing no concern for the safety and health of Punjabis, said the chief minister, adding that such behaviour could not be allowed or tolerated.Pointing out that the AAP dharna yesterday was in fact in violation of the weekend curfew in place in the state, Capt Amarinder said such dharnas and political gatherings were potential super-spreaders and had to be firmly tackled.The law should take its course, he told the DGP, adding that the political leaders had a big responsibility towards the society, which these parties had shunned, thus jeopardising the lives of Punjab’s people.This, he reiterated, was not the time to play political games and indulge in dirty politicking but to come together to fight the pandemic to the finish.It may be recalled that even before the Covid restrictions in the second wave were imposed by the chief minister, he had announced that the ruling Congress in Punjab will not hold any political gatherings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/file-cases-take-action-against-aap-and-sad-over-dharnas-punjab-cm-to-dgp-264884
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab extends Covid curbs till June 15, but orders graded relaxations from tomorrow||Adopting a graded approach to reopening, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday ordered an extension of Covid restrictions in the state to June 15 with certain relaxations, including the opening of shops till 6 p.m and private offices to function at 50% strength.Night curfew will remain in force from 7 p.m. to 6 a.m. on weekdays, including Saturdays, but regular weekend curfew will continue on Sundays, the Chief Minister announced.With case positivity declining to 3.2% and active cases also coming down, the Chief Minister allowed gatherings of up to 20 people, including weddings and cremations. Entry restrictions (negative Covid test/vaccination) for arrivals in the state have also been done away with.Recruitment exams will be allowed to be held subject to adherence to social distancing and other Covid appropriate norms, though the Chief Minister said online mode should be preferred. Sports training for national and international events has also been permitted and the Department of Sports and Youth Affairs has been asked to issue the necessary instructions and guidelines, which shall have to be strictly adhered to.Reviewing the Covid situation virtually, with ministers, senior police and administrative officials and health experts, the Chief Minister said district administration may determine the opening of non-essential shops, including on weekend, based on the local situation, while ensuring that crowding leading to the spread of Covid are avoided. On government offices, he said that attendance can be decided by the head of the concerned office but co-morbid/disabled employees at risk may be exempted.Further relaxations will be allowed in the coming weeks depending on the outcomes if the cases continue to decline, said Captain Amarinder, adding that Gyms and Restaurants could be opened after a week with 50%, and other conditions as per expert advice, if the situation improves further. Owners and workers of the gyms and restaurants should get themselves vaccinated before the reopening, he added.Asserting that Punjab could not afford to let its guard down despite the decline in caseload and increasing in testing, the Chief Minister said the virus mutations were a matter of concern, even though the CFR was lower than the first wave.The Chief Minister expressed satisfaction over the progress of the Corona Mukt Pendu Abhiyan in the villages, where almost 1.5 Crore individuals (37 lakh households) have already been screened.These efforts, he said, had resulted in the identification of 5889 positive patients who have been assisted as per protocols. The week on week positivity has also reduced from 9 % to 3 %, he added, reiterating, however, the need to further strengthen the screening and testing mechanisms to free the rural areas of the state from the pandemic.Referring to the spread of Black Fungus (Mucormycosis), the Chief Minister said there are currently 381 cases of mucormycosis in the state, of which 38 have already been cured and 265 are undergoing treatment. There is an adequate supply of drugs for treatment, he assured the people, adding that his government would continue to augment the supplies and ensure that there is no shortage of any essential drug in the state.For better management of cases, the Chief Minister asked the departments to reduce testing time. Post-Covid complications should be studied carefully for better preparation to handle those, he said, citing the example of Flying Sikh Milkha Singh, who was discharged after Covid recovery but had to be again hospitalised. He said he had been informed that 20% of patients in hospitals in Patiala are similar cases of recovered patients being readmitted.Punjab’s Covid Expert Group head Dr KK Talwar informed the meeting that almost 30% of Covid patients are having post-Covid complications and continue to be symptomatic.Patients are taking almost three months to get back to normal, and thus need to be strictly monitored, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-extends-covid-curbs-till-june-15-but-orders-graded-relaxations-from-tomorrow-264878
