10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Punjab reports 71 deaths, 1,333 fresh cases||Seventy-one more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Thursday as 1,333 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection tally to 5,84,785, according to a medical bulletin.So far, the infection has killed 15,367 people in the state.Nine deaths were reported from Bathinda, six each from Amritsar and Muktsar and five each from Patiala, Ludhiana and Ferozepur in the past 24 hours.      Jalandhar reported 152 infections, followed by 116 in Fazilka, 115 in Amritsar and 113 in Ludhiana. The number of active cases dropped to 16,244 from 17,344 on Wednesday. The state’s positivity rate stood at 2.36 per cent. With 2,337 recoveries, the number of cured persons reached 5,53,174, as per the bulletin.There are 212 critical patients who are on ventilator while 2,797 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 98,80,737 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.Meanwhile, Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, reported two deaths and 66 new cases, taking the infection tally to 60,928, according to a medical bulletin.So far, 783 people have died from the infection in the UT.The number of active cases dropped to 581 from 685 the day before, as per the bulletin. With 132 patients being discharged after they recovered from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 59,564, it said.A total of 5,33,043 samples have been taken for testing so far, of which 4,70,876 tested negative while reports of 14 samples are awaited, the bulletin added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-punjab-reports-71-deaths-1-333-fresh-cases-266428
10-06-2021||---||Pargat dares Amarinder to make public names in ‘dossiers’ submitted to AICC panel||Chandigarh, June 10Reacting to selective media reports of dossiers of rebel ministers and MLAs reportedly submitted to AICC’s Kharge panel by Capt Amarinder Singh, Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh has dared the Chief Minister to make public the names of the party leaders.“If my name is included in the dossier, then let me know,” he asked the CM. The Chief Minister was quick to thrash allegation of the MLA on keeping dossiers of party colleagues. “Never done such things in my entire political career. My mantra for governance is trust and transparency,” he said in his tweet. Read also: 'Course-correct', AICC panel to Punjab CM; wants Navjot Sidhu 'suitably accommodated'Earlier addressing a press conference, Pargat Singh questioned the Chief Minister on leakage of reports of selective minister and MLAs, he pointed towards allegation of a minister to the Chief Minister having taken double land acquisition compensation. “If we have given in writing, them it is a confessional statement that we are running a corrupt government,” he said.Pointing towards Irrigation scam, the MLA said no action had been initiated against tree IAS officers and two politicians. “In the Rs 1,200 crore scam involving engineer Suriderpal Singh Pehalwan, no bureaucrat or politician has been questioned as had involvement of more people,” he added.Considered close to Amritsar East legislator Navjot Singh Sidhu, Pargat Singh also questioned the administrative capability of Amarinder Singh in running the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pargat-dares-amarinder-to-make-public-names-in-dossiers-submitted-to-aicc-panel-266405
10-06-2021||---||Revitalisation of Punjab Congress prime purpose of AICC panel report: Ashwani Kumar||New Delhi, June 10Senior Congress leader and former minister Ashwani Kumar on Thursday said the three-member panel report on Punjab would serve to revitalise the party in an election year and provide the basis for the high command to take decisions necessary in party interest.Also read: 'Course-correct', AICC panel to Punjab CM; wants Navjot Sidhu 'suitably accommodated'“The report of the three-member committee will provide the basis for necessary decisions by the party high command. The end objective of one of the most extensive, democratic and candid conversations amongst party men is to revitalise the party and the state government through maximum accommodation of  leaders and workers towards an inclusive functioning of the party and the government,” said Kumar.He said the details of accommodation would be worked out by the high command in consultation with the Chief Minister.“I believe that at this moment there is no better alternative to Captain Amarinder Singh as Chief Minister. Now is the time to concentrate on the containment of Covid-19 and delivery of relief to people at their doorsteps. We cannot afford to be distracted from this paramount mission.Irritants in the government functioning can always be discussed and removed,” he said.Kumar said party leaders must wait for the Central leadership to devise suitable structures for adjustments and accommodation so that there is mo festering sense of justice.“We need a united party and satisfied party men to go into battle early next year,” he noted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/revitalisation-of-punjab-congress-prime-purpose-of-aicc-panel-report-ashwani-kumar-266371
10-06-2021||Mohali||SAD MLA NK Sharma lodges plaint against Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu||Led by Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma, SAD workers today lodged a written complaint with Mohali SSP Satinder Singh, seeking action against Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and others for flouting Covid norms during the swearing-in ceremony of Zirakpur MC president Udayvir Singh Dhillon.The move comes after SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, Sharma and 200 other party workers were booked for staging a protest against Sidhu in Phase 7 here on Monday. Sharma said the Mohali police framed different laws for the ruling party and the Opposition. A case was registered against SAD leaders seeking justice, instead of taking action against those responsible for the vaccine scam, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-mla-nk-sharma-lodges-plaint-against-punjab-health-minister-balbir-singh-sidhu-266108
10-06-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Farmers leave for Delhi borders to commemorate martyrdom day of Banda Singh Bahadur||To commemorate the martyrdom day of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur on Delhi borders farmers in large numbers under the banner of Krantikari Kisan Union left for the National Capital in a convoy of buses and cars today. They started from Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Engineering College campus.Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders Nirmal Singh Riona and Amrik Singh Romi said, “The morcha is commemorating the martyrdom of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur on Delhi borders.”Baba Banda Singh Bahadur abolished the feudal system and made farmers owners of the land they were cultivating, they added. The Union government wanted to make corporate houses owners by taking away land from farmers, they said. Farmers would not allow this to happen even if they had to make sacrifices, they added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-leave-for-delhi-borders-to-commemorate-martyrdom-day-of-banda-singh-bahadur-266082
10-06-2021||Mohali||Punjab Government's door-to-door job mission will train youth on AI and data science||The Punjab Government, under its door-to-door employment mission, is providing an opportunity to the youth to get trained on Artificial Intelligence (AI) and data science. The course would be conducted in collaboration with IIT Rupnagar and Punjab Skill Development Mission.The interested candidates need to have passed Class 12 exam with math as one the subjects. Aspiring students can register for the course by clicking on https://forms.gle/VxA79enrCUoE1aii6. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-governments-door-to-door-job-mission-will-train-youth-on-ai-and-data-science-266096
10-06-2021||Amritsar||When two Punjabs met||When I was about to make my journey back to Punjab in Pakistan, I asked my grandmother how will I recognise our ancestral haveli? And she replied that there was an old black peacock outside. And when I went there, the peacock was still intact, said a visibly emotional Tarunjit Singh Butalia during an online session organised by Majha House here.When I was about to make my journey back to Punjab in Pakistan, I asked my grandmother how will I recognise our ancestral haveli? And she replied that there was an old black peacock outside. And when I went there, the peacock was still intact. I spent only a few days in Pakistan, but these were so rich that they will make for memories of a lifetime. — Tarunjit Singh Butalia, an interfaith speaker and an educatorThe programme was held under the Majha House initiative of ‘Sanjha Punjab’ and was helmed by Dr Arvinder Chamak. Tarunjit Singh was sharing his memories which he collected and compiled in his book ‘A Journey Home to Lehnda Punjab: History, Experiences and Emotions’.Tarunjit Butalia is an interfaith speaker and an educator. His ancestral home is in Gujjranwala, Pakistan. His family migrated to Amritsar in 1947 and later he settled in the US.When I received an article for translation, I didn't pay much attention as it was just another job. But when I went through these, I was moved to tears by what Tarunjit had written. —  Khizar Jawad, a scholar rom LahoreHe was joined in this session by renowned scholars from Pakistan Mazhar Abbas and Khizar Jawad. “I spent only a few days in Pakistan, but they were so rich that they will make for memories of a lifetime,” said Tarunjit.Tarunjit, through his experiences, debunks many pre-formed, rigid notions that outsiders have of the people of Pakistan. We are seen as a stereotype, as backward people who dominate their women, don't let them get education or work, or force them to be in hijab, and who are not hospitable. His book shatters all myths. —  Mazhar Abbas, scholar From Lyallpur, PAKExplaining his surname, he said the word ‘butalia’ comes from the Punjabi denomination of the number 42 (batali), which marked the number of estates their family owned.He said he had planned to chart a history of his family heritage from one Punjab in Pakistan to the other in India.Sharing his experiences in Lahore during his journey there, he said when the road widened, he knew instinctively that he had entered the Mall Road, and he knew that Aitchison College, the college where his ancestors studied, was nearby. And soon, he was standing in front of the college. “When I reached our haveli, I was delighted to find that it had been converted into a school for girls. It seemed to be a fitting usage of our heritage,” remarked Tarunjit.Introducing the two scholars — Khizar from Lahore and Mazhar of Lyallpur, Pakistan — who helped him in his endeavour, Tarunjit said they were not only translators, but co-authors as their contribution to the book was immense.Khizar said: “When I received an article for translation, I didn’t pay much attention to it as it was just another job. But when I went through one and then the rest of these, I was moved to tears by what Tarunjit had written.”In his turn Mazhar said: “I took up the project simply because I was idle at that time after having submitted my Ph.D thesis. But when I went through the articles, I knew what I had in my hands was something quite unique. Tarunjit, through his experiences, debunks many pre-formed, rigid notions that outsiders have of the people of Pakistan. We are seen as a stereotype, as backward people who dominate their women, don’t let them get education or work, or force them to be in hijab, and who are not hospitable. This book shatters all these myths.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/when-two-punjabs-met-266201
10-06-2021||Amritsar||Farmers leave for Delhi with pitchers, pulses||As the temperature is soaring and farmers sitting at protest sites on Delhi borders are facing trouble, a group of 171 farmers, including women, from the border belt has left to join them.They have taken along earthen pots and around five quintals of pulses. The earthen pots would be used for drinking water while the pulses would be sent to farmers who are facing shortage of eatables on Rajasthan border.Veteran communist leader and farmer activist Rattan Singh Randhawa said, “There is no dearth of wheat flour and other items as every farmer grows these. We have received reports that farmers sitting on Rajasthan border are facing shortage of pulses. The well wishers of the community have contributed around five quintals for them.”Randhawa said farmers had been using earthen pots for storing and cooling water in the summer season. “Most of the farmers live hand to mouth. Even an earthen pot is a luxury for them. People supporting the cause should come forward to support those at the protest sites,” he said.“Even though the protest has been going on for the last more than six months and it has taken a toll on the mental and physical health of farmers their spirits are still high,” he said, adding that it is a do-or-die moment for farmers.He said, “We all know that the three laws passed by the Centre are against the farming community. Some of us who are active in political circles are opposing it just because of their political compulsions. Everyone needs to look beyond their political party obligations for once and see the truth.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-leave-for-delhi-with-pitchers-pulses-266207
10-06-2021||---||Punjab Cong MPs meet Capt Amarinder, vow support||Chandigarh, June 9Expressing full faith in Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s leadership and vision for the state, Punjab MPs today reiterated that the Congress would comfortably sweep the 2022 Assembly poll to carry forward the party’s developmental agenda for people.In a statement issued here today, Patiala MP Preneet Kaur, Khadoor Sahib MP Jasbir Singh Gill, Jalandhar MP Santokh Singh Choudhary, Fatehgarh Sahib MP Dr Amar Singh and Faridkot MP Mohammad Sadiq, who called on the Chief Minister at the latter’s residence earlier in the day to discuss the election strategy for the forthcoming poll, said the people of Punjab only wanted Capt Amarinder Singh as their Chief Minister for another term.Underlining that there was no challenge to the Congress in Punjab in the next elections, the MPs said every Punjabi would once again stamp his approval on Capt Amarinder Singh’s name.SAD to hold dharna at CM’s residenceThe SAD has announced to hold a dharna at the residence of CM Capt Amarinder Singh in Chandigarh on June 15 to demand dismissal of Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, besides a CBI probe into the alleged vaccine and Fateh kit scams||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cong-mps-meet-capt-amarinder-vow-support-265967
10-06-2021||Moga||Moga part of NITI Aayog’s 1 billion saplings project||Lauding the efforts being made to ensure Moga district’s overall development, the NITI Aayog has selected it as one of the two districts in the country where the pilot project of planting a proportionate of one billion saplings will be initiated to boost the green cover.The second district is Ranchi in Jharkhand.Ninety lakh saplings will be planted in Moga in five years. Moga District Magistrate Sandeep Hans said this was a great gift from the NITI Aayog to Moga on the occasion of World Environment Day.He said 100 crore saplings would be planted in 112 districts of the country in a phased manner. Moga was lucky to be first on the list.A blueprint was being prepared to plant 90 lakh saplings in the district. Stakeholders have been asked to identify land for the purpose. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-part-of-niti-aayogs-1-billion-saplings-project-265969
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Spurious liquor factory at Badal village: SIT an eyewash, alleges AAP||After holding a protest in front of the Lambi police station demanding the arrest of those involved in spurious liquor factory busted at Badal village, AAP has called the formation of SIT by the state government a tactic to “fool” people.Kisan Wing state president Kultar Singh Sandhwan said in the past the government had set up several SITs in the drug cases, but without any success.He said as per the demand of AAP, this case should be investigated by a serving Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court so that the real culprits could be arrested. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/spurious-liquor-factory-at-badal-village-sit-an-eyewash-alleges-aap-265971
10-06-2021||Saurabh Malik||End-to-end encrypted WhatsApp chats can be analysed: NCB||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 9Investigating a drugs case, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has made one thing clear: End-to-end encrypted WhatsApp chats can be dug into and analysed by government agencies with the help of forensic specialists.As a petition filed by an 18-year-old for regular bail in a drugs case came up for hearing before the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the NCB submitted that the entire WhatsApp chat was end-to-end encrypted. As such, it could not be opened by the NCB officers. They were, therefore, constrained to send it to forensic specialists for “opening and analysis”.The prosecution’s case was that the petitioner and his co-accused-father were found in possession of 520 grams of heroin without permit or licence. They were arrested on February 14, 2020.Justice Sudip Ahluwalia’s Bench was told the complacency/involvement of the accused in trafficking was established from his talks over phone and WhatsApp communications with a Nigerian handler/supplier of contraband.Screenshots from the petitioner’s phone regarding his alleged interaction on WhatsApp with the supplier were filed along with the NCB reply. The Bench was told there was an exchange of text messages and audio and video chats from February 8 to 14, 2020.The petitioner’s counsel submitted that the recordings of the alleged WhatsApp conversations between the petitioner/ holder of the phone at the relevant time and the contraband supplier had not been made available to show the petitioner’s involvement.The NCB counsel submitted: “Once the relevant report comes, it will be made available.” He added the WhatsApp conversations were sent for forensic analysis with the intent to submit its report at an appropriate stage. Finding no justification to release the petitioner on bail at the current stage, Justice Ahluwalia dismissed the petition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/end-to-end-encrypted-whatsapp-chats-can-be-analysed-ncb-265974
10-06-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Woman killed, 9 booked||A dispute between neighbours led to the death of a woman after she was run over by a car. The district police booked nine persons in a murder case on the complaint of Sonu, a resident of Sirhind town.As per the FIR, Sonu said he and his brother lived in Sirhind while their uncle lived in Himachal. His son Sanju was married to Kirna, daughter of Jang Singh, Sonu’s neighbour. He said two months ago, Sanju died under mysterious circumstances and now, the family came to know that he was tortured by his wife Kirna. He said Kirna and her father started quarrelling with them alleging they were supporting the family of Sanju. They allegedly attacked their house. Kirna’s brothers Badal and Rama ran over their car over Baljit Kaur, wife of his brother. She was rushed to the Civil Hospital and then to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, where she died.The police have registered a case under Sections 302, 120B, 323 and 506 of the IPC against nine persons. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-killed-9-booked-265978
10-06-2021||Mohali||Probe sought into stamp duty ‘scam’||Bir Devinder Singh, former Deputy Speaker, today urged the CM to probe the multi-crore stamp duty scam regarding the 120-acre land in two villages of Bairampur and Manak Majra in Mohali district. The land was allegedly transferred without paying stamp duty, causing a loss of several crores to the state exchequer. “When the former tehsildar objected, she was transferred and Vikash Sharma was appointed, who made a parallel file and approved it,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/probe-sought-into-stamp-duty-scam-265979
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Revenue officials to go on strike from June 21||Patwaris and kanungos of the Revenue Department have decided to go on an indefinite strike from June 21, over the alleged inability of the state government to fill over 2,800 vacancies of patwaris.A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of the unions concerned here today. The strike will begin from Mehraj, ancestral village of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, said Mohan Singh Bhedpura, secretary of the Kanungo Association of Punjab. During the meeting, patwaris and kanungos expressed anguish over non-filling of the vacancies, leading to a huge burden on the existing patwaris. Against over 4,716 posts of patwaris in the state, only 1,900 are working. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-revenue-officials-to-go-on-strike-from-june-21-265980
10-06-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda teachers protest transfer delay||Engineer promoted Chandigarh: Basant Kumar Jindal of Sangrur, who is working as Deputy Chief Engineer at Lehra Mohabbat Thermal Plant, PSPCL, has been promoted as Chief Engineer. He has been posted as Chief Engineer (Planning) at Patiala. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-teachers-protest-transfer-delay-265981
10-06-2021||Abohar||4 arrested for man’s murder near Abohar||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-arrested-for-mans-murder-near-abohar-265982
10-06-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Turncoats change political equation in Doaba||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 9This week two similar phenomena occurred in Kapurthala’s political scenario. Both Sukhpal Khaira and Sajjan Singh Cheema joined the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), respectively.Five days ago, Khaira, who used to contest from Bholath on the Congress ticket, but had moved to the AAP ahead of the 2017 Assembly poll and later, floated his own party to contest the 2019 General Elections from Bathinda, has once again started batting for the Congress from his home turf.On Monday, Sajjan Singh Cheema, who had contested from the AAP from Sultanpur Lodhi during the 2017 Assembly poll and later, joined Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), joined the AAP once again. Cheema, it’s learnt, quit the SAD as they could not afford to ignore its senior leader and ex-minister Dr Upinderjit Kaur at this juncture and set another rebellion. Dr Upinderjit has twice lost to the Congress’ Navtej Cheema. The change has made it look like as if Sultanpur Lodhi will witness a triangular contest yet again during the 2022 Assembly poll.‘Capt for 2022’ hoardings surface in Sultanpur LodhiEven Navtej Cheema has stepped up his political activities in the area. A pro-Capt Amarinder Singh camp MLA, he had hosted dinner for four other MLAs at his place, including Sukhpal Khaira, Khanna MLA Gurkirat Kotli, Gurpreet Singh GP from Bassi Pathana and Sukhpal Bhullar from Khem Karan.Today, Navtej also got installed hoardings across the Sultanpur Lodhi constituency wherein he projected Capt Amarinder Singh as ‘Captain for 2022’. The hoardings read, ‘Sada sanjha naara, Captain dubara’.Uncertainty in Jal CanttDoaba region, which remained politically quite dormant for the last four years, has all of a sudden become very active. The recent tough stance adopted by Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh challenging the position of Capt Amarinder Singh as the CM and reports of Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh teaming up with Pargat had earlier made the region come in focus yet again.The situation has led to many uncertainties, largely depending on whether Pargat would contest the 2022 Assembly elections from the Congress or not. If the situation arises wherein he decides to ultimately quit the party, there would remain a big question mark on who would contest on the Congress ticket from this segment. Other than ex-MLA Jagbir Brar, many more would contest from this seat, including AICC spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill, PUNSUP chairman Tejinder Bittu and the Kartarpur Improvement Trust chairman Rana Randhawa.If Brar, who had contested from Nakodar in 2017, gets the ticket from Jalandhar Cantonment, the party will have to pitch in a candidate from Nakodar. With Pargat being quite close to Markfed chairman and ex-Nakodar MLA Amarjit Singh Samra and now their bonding changing into a relationship with Pargat’s daughter getting engaged to Samra’s grandson, there’s also a general perception that Pargat has become a bigger leader and was gaining strength in the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/turncoats-change-political-equation-in-doaba-266127
10-06-2021||---||Punjabi singer Imran Khan arrested by Kapurthala police for hosting birthday party||Jalandhar, June 9Punjabi Singer Imran Khan, popularly known as Khan Saab, a resident of Preet Nagar in Phagwara, was arrested by the Kapurthala police for hosting a party, in violation of the Covid guidelines.Khan, who was arrested along with three of his accomplices, present at the same party, has been currently let off on bail. An FIR was lodged by the Kapurthala police here against four persons by name, while the rest of them remain unidentified.Khan (27) was arrested along with Harpreet Singh (28), Dilbar Mohammed (31), and Ijaz (23), who were also seen at the party along with him.The arrests took place after a video was released from the party venue last night, which went viral on the social media. The surprise party seems to have gone awry as the number of people present at the gathering exceeded those allowed according to the Covid protocol.In the video, blonde-haired Khan is being taken to a house with his eyes closed by a friend which then leads to a huge applause and cheers followed by dancing to a live band performance. A group of 30 to 40 persons dance together as Khan hugs many of them.An FIR was lodged at the Satnampura police station at Phagwara today under the IPC and the Disaster Management Act.SSP Kapurthala Harkamalpreet Singh said there were about 30 to 40 persons in the party in violation of Covd protocol. The singer and his friends have been identified and arrested. The singer was let off on bail later. The police are on the lookout for the rest of them who attended the party, including the band members.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-singer-imran-khan-arrested-by-kapurthala-police-for-hosting-birthday-party-266132
10-06-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Covaxin trouble for foreign-bound students?||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 9Several students from the state who have plans to pursue studies abroad are in a fix over Covid vaccination. As many of them have already taken Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin dose, they now say that since the World Health Organisation (WHO) has not given approval to the indigenous vaccine, the foreign universities will not accept them as vaccinated.They are now queuing up at the vaccination centres for getting Covishield doses, for which they are facing technical glitches. Covishield is the only vaccine available in India which has been recognised by the WHO. Since the students are expecting flights for Canada to open up any time soon for the September session, they are in a race to get their double dose taken before they leave from here.Being fully vaccinated in the state is not an issue now after the state government nod to reducing time gap between the two doses of Covishield. But the main concern now remains among students who have taken one or two jabs of Covaxin recently and realise that they should have gone for Covishield instead.District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “We have a lot of queries from foreign-bound students on this issue. As of now, we are not allowing mixing of vaccines. Anyone who had been administered Covaxin earlier, can’t be administered Covishield in the next go. We have already flagged the issue to the government and are awaiting government guidelines on this complex issue. Students are suggested to wait for sometime before we get any directions for the same.”We have a lot of queries from foreign-bound students on this issue. As of now, we are not allowing mixing of vaccines. Anyone who had been administered Covaxin earlier, can’t be administered Covishield in the next go. We have already flagged the issue to the government and are awaiting guidelines on this complex issue. Students are suggested to wait till we get any directions for the same. —Dr Rakesh Chopra, District Immunisation OfficerRadhika, a volunteer at a vaccination centre for beneficiaries of 18 to 44 age group, said: “On all those days when we get stock of Covishield vaccine, majority of the beneficiaries include the youth who are planning to move abroad. While, on the days when Covaxin is administered, the youth lot is found missing or comparatively in lower numbers. This clearly is due to the fact that Covishield being WHO-accepted is preferred by them.” She said, “There also are queries from students who had taken Covaxin and now want to switch over to Covishield and get its certification but we tell them that it is not permissible as of now.”Even some immigration company officials said they were flooded with such queries related to vaccination. “We are advising them all to go for Covishield well in time. And those who have got Covaxin should also not panic as once the flight ban ends, immigration offices of all countries would issue specific guidelines on vaccination,” said Association of Consultants for Overseas Studies president Jaspal Singh.Kuljeet Singh, a student of Sanskriti KMV School, who is planning to move to Canada said: “I will turn 18 in some weeks and thankfully I know well ahead that I have to take Covishield vaccine only. Also because the government has reduced the time gap between two shots to 28 days, there should not be much of a problem even if I get a chance to move by September.”Another student Gurreet Aujla from MGN Public School, who too intends to go to Canada, says that he has not taken any shot yet. “Obviously, the foreign universities want the students to be vaccinated by the time they board flights. But I am waiting for the availability of Sputnik V vaccine. In case it does not get available in time, I will go for Covishield.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covaxin-trouble-for-foreign-bound-students-266135
10-06-2021||---||Dreaded gangster Jaipal Bhullar, aide Jaspreet killed in Kolkata encounter||Chandigarh, June 9Punjab’s most-wanted drug smuggler and A-category gangster Jaipal Singh Bhullar, along with Jaspreet Singh (alias Jassi), who had rewards of Rs 10 lakh and Rs 5 lakh, respectively, on their heads, were killed in an encounter with the STF of the West Bengal Police in Kolkata on Wednesday.Jaipal was wanted in 40 cases, carried Rs 10L rewardThe raid at their hideout was conducted on a tip-off by the Punjab Police and coordination with central security agencies. Director General of Police (DGP), Punjab, Dinkar Gupta, while addressing a press conference here today, said both gangster-turned-drug smugglers were wanted in the killing of ASIs Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh at the grain market, Jagraon, on May 15. Jaipal was the most notorious as he had links with anti-India agencies in Pakistan.He had snatched a 9-mm pistol from ASI Sukhdev Singh of the Khanna police on the evening of May 10, when he was deployed at a naka on the GT road near Doraha. The DGP said the Punjab Police launched a massive operation, codenamed ‘Operation Jack Manhunt’, to nab Jaipal Bhullar and Jaspreet Singh. Many police teams were dispatched to various states to nab these gangsters with the help of other police forces.He said the Punjab Police had arrested Bharat Kumar of Sahnewal, Ludhiana, near the Shambhu border in the Rajpura area and recovered a.30 bore pistol along with a Honda Accord car. Bharat was providing logistic support to Jaipal in Gwalior after he and Jassi fled from Punjab.The DGP said Bharat revealed that Jaipal and Jassi were holed up in a rented apartment in Kolkata. “The Punjab Police immediately dispatched a special team for Kolkata by flight. In the meanwhile, we also coordinated with the Kolkata police to share pinpointed inputs regarding their current hideout for the arrest of the drug smugglers,” he said.The DGP said a senior police officer from the Kolkata police informed them in the afternoon that both criminals had been killed in retaliatory firing by the STF in which one of their police inspectors had sustained bullet injuries.“I am grateful to the West Bengal Police which acted on inputs provided by the Punjab Police and conducted a raid at the Kolkata apartment where Jaipal was holed up along with Jassi,” the DGP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dreaded-gangster-jaipal-bhullar-aide-jaspreet-killed-in-kolkata-encounter-265976
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kharge panel finalises report, to submit  to Sonia Gandhi today||As the three-member Mallikarjun Kharge panel is learnt to have finalised its report before submitting it to Congress president Sonia Gandhi by tomorrow, Punjab Congress leaders and their supporters have taken to digital media and hoarding campaigns to further their political interests.Amid dissidents, including some ministers putting up a strong front against the Chief Minister in front of the three-member panel, the Capt Amarinder Singh’s camp has put up hoardings projecting him as the CM face for the 2022 Assembly elections. The posters “Sada Sanjha Nahra, Captain dobara” have come up in various parts of the state.The official page of “Punjab Da Captain” has already launched campaign “Captain for 2022”. Party leaders say the hoarding war was aimed at countering the dissidents.On the other hand, Charanjit Singh Channi, who is among senior party leaders who are questioning the Chief Minister on “unfulfilled” poll promises, has come up with a campaign, “Ghar Ghar Vich Chali Gal, Channi Karda Masle Hal”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kharge-panel-finalises-report-to-submit-to-sonia-gandhi-today-265977
10-06-2021||---||Jaipal Bhullar was wanted in 40 cases, carried Rs 10L reward||Chandigarh, June 9Carrying a reward of Rs 10 lakh, most-wanted gangster Jaipal Singh Bhullar, alias Manjit Singh, was the son of a retired Assistant Sub-Inspector of the Punjab Police. Jaipal was wanted in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh for over 40 cases related to murder, extortion, kidnapping, robbery and smuggling.Dreaded gangster Jaipal Bhullar, aide Jaspreet killed in Kolkata encounterHe had succeeded in evading arrest for five years and was known as a master of surreptitious movement where he seldom used a mobile phone. Jaipal was a hammer-thrower and a budding talent at Speed Fund Academy, a Punjab Government sports training centre in Ludhiana. He met another player and small-time criminal Happy at the academy.In July 2004, they carried out the kidnapping of seven-year-old Chirag, son of a cinema hall owner in Ludhiana. After his arrest, he came in touch with other gangsters in jail. Jaipal became close to Rajiv, alias Raja, when the latter landed there in 2006 for loot and murder of three Ludhiana jewellers. Jaipal and Raja ganged up and also became partners in crime with notorious gangster Shera Khubban.In January 2009, both helped Raja flee from police custody at the Barnala bus stand. In another crime, they robbed a gun house in Hoshiarpur, looted money from banks in Panchkula and Mohali, robbed a Chandigarh businessman and a BJP leader in Panchkula, and jacked several flashy cars on highways.In June 2009, Raja and some of the gang members were arrested by the Panchkula police. A month later, Jaipal and his team were arrested by the Chandigarh police. They were taken on production warrants to 27 police stations in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi. But in most cases, they were acquitted with witnesses reluctant to speak up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jaipal-bhullar-was-wanted-in-40-cases-carried-rs-10l-reward-265973
10-06-2021||---||Centre delayed cap on vaccine prices: Punjab Health Minister||Chandigarh, June 9Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today said the Centre’s order of capping Covid vaccine prices at private hospitals came very late.He said the decision came when the private hospitals had already made huge profits even as BJP leaders kept levelling false allegations that the Punjab Government was making profit by supplying vaccines to private hospitals.On the Centre’s decision to take all vaccine purchases under its purview, he said the state/UT governments did not enjoy the unique position of the Government of India that allowed it to negotiate an appropriate price for the vaccines.He said the Modi government should ensure free vaccine to all and abolish the 25 per cent quota allocated to private players. The Centre should also refund all payments made by the state governments for Covid vaccines under the new policy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-delayed-cap-on-vaccine-prices-punjab-health-minister-265970
10-06-2021||Sameer Singh||MSP hike not enough, say farmers||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, June 9The central government’s decision to increase the minimum support price (MSP) for paddy, cotton and other crops have failed to evoke a positive response from the farming community in the Malwa region. Terming the hike “meagre”, farmers sought the prices be increased as per the recommendations of the Swaminathan report.Notably, aimed at providing relief to farmers, the Centre on Wednesday announced a hike in Kharif crops. Ramkaran Singh Raman, state general secretary, BKU (Lakhowal), said, “A meagre increase of Rs 72 on paddy and Rs 200 on cotton is nothing but a cruel joke on farmers. The input cost of farming has increased considerably. We vehemently oppose the MSP hike. It is unfortunate that the government has failed to provide fair price for the crops sold as per the ever-increasing input cost till now. As a result, farmers, especially the marginal ones, are being pushed to remain under debt all their life. The Centre must be more pragmatic in its policies and increase MSP as per the C2 formula recommended by Swaminathan report.”Hold talks, Tomar urgedSAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday urged Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar to hold fresh talks with farmers to understand why they wanted the farm laws to be repealed instead of rejecting the demandBalkaran Singh Balli, a leader of the Punjab Kisan Union, said: “Every year, a farmer spends heavily on seeds, labour, pesticides and diesel for irrigation and then the government simply washes its hands off by making a meagre increase in the MSP. Farmers who cannot bear the burden of debt end their lives.”Baldev Singh Sandoha, president, BKU (Sidhupur), said: “We oppose this meagre hike. The prices of material required for sowing of paddy and cotton have increased manifold. Besides, the prices of petrol and diesel have skyrockted in the past one year, thereby burdening farmers. The MSP hike should reflect the corresponding increase in rates of input material.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/msp-hike-not-enough-say-farmers-265968
10-06-2021||---||Pay tuition fee to get roll numbers, Punjab SC students told||Chandigarh, June 9The Joint Association of Colleges (JAC) today announced to issue roll numbers of 2 lakh SC students of the 2020-21 session enrolled under the SC Post-Matric Scholarship scheme, but with a condition that students would have to pay the tuition fee, which has already been deposited by the government in their bank accounts.Meanwhile, the government, too, released Rs 65 crore of the Rs 90 crore central fund it had withheld after the private colleges threatened to withhold the students’ roll numbers over non-disbursal of grants under the scheme.Also read: No roll numbers for 2 lakh SC students: National SC Commission seeks immediate reply from Punjab govtIn April, the Punjab Social Welfare Department had disbursed Rs 152 crore, comprising tuition fee and maintenance fee, among 1.76 lakh students enrolled under the scheme 2020-21 session. However, the tuition fee component had to be paid to the respective colleges, but the students failed to do so.JAC Co-Chairman Dr Anshu Kataria said the relaxation of releasing roll numbers had been made only for the students of 2020-21 academic session. “But for those who belong to the 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 session, the unaided colleges won’t be able to issue roll numbers as nobody has paid for their studies, neither the government nor the students,” he said.“The colleges taught them for three-four years but now they are under huge financial crunch. Because of non-payment, around 250 colleges may turn NPA this year, while 300 colleges have already been declared NPA by banks for defaulting on loan,” Kataria added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pay-tuition-fee-to-get-roll-numbers-punjab-sc-students-told-265964
10-06-2021||---||4 medical colleges to boost health infra in Punjab||Mohali, June 9Health infrastructure in the state is set to get a boost with the creation of four new government medical colleges at a cost of Rs 1,500 crore in Mohali, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Malerkotla, OP Soni, Medical Education and Research Minister, said today.500 more seatsHe said presently, there were around 1,400 MBBS seats in medical colleges (both private and government) of Punjab which would witness an increase of 500 with the opening of the four medical collegesTalking to the media after laying the foundation stone of the boundary wall of Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences (AIMS), Mohali, Soni said there would be no dearth of doctors in Punjab as soon, about 500 additional doctors would pass out every year from the upcoming government medical colleges. He said presently, there were around 1,400 MBBS seats in medical colleges (both private and government) of Punjab which would witness an increase of 500 with the opening of the four medical colleges,Land has been made available for all the colleges and AIMS, Mohali, is expected to be operationalised first. Around 80 per cent of the faculty has been recruited for the college and the process is on for recruitment of paramedics and support staff. “The NMC inspection has been applied and we are hoping to start the first batch of MBBS this year,” he said. The medical college building will house an academic block, four lecture theatres, labs, girls/boys/hostels, faculty residences, library, auditorium as well as ample space for indoor play area/community centre.Around Rs 325 crore would be spent on infrastructure while Rs 50 crore would be spent on high-tech equipment. The spade work was over and tenders would be floated for the construction of medical college and hospital building in a fortnight, said Soni.Meanwhile, consultants had been approved for Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala medical colleges and designs were being reviewed. Once the building designs were finalised, the tenders would be floated, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-medical-colleges-to-boost-health-infra-in-punjab-265965
10-06-2021||Aman Sood||Paddy transplantation in Punjab begins today||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 9Farmers will start paddy transplantation across the state from Thursday. Over 14.5 lakh tubewells will be drawing millions of litres of underground water, which is already witnessing a depletion of 2.5 feet annually.Labour pangsWhile farmers are searching for skilled labourers, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is toiling hard to make arrangements for meeting the substantial increase in power demand during the season.Every tubewell pumps out 30.24 lakh litres of water a week with an average eight hours of power supply. PSPCL has assured an uninterrupted power supply for the fields. With a record number of tubewells running in the fields to pump out underground water, the demand for power is expected to reach 13,500 MW.According to PSPCL officials, the power consumption of tubewells in 2018-19 paddy season was 7,299 million units. It was 7,800 million units in the last season. However, the power demand is expected to rise further this season.With scorching summer heat, the demand for power in Punjab has already reached around 10,000 MW and is expected to rise further in case the rains are delayed. “PSPCL is ready to provide daily eight-hour power supply to its agriculture consumers from June 10 along with 24-hour supply to all other category of consumers,” said A Venu Prasad, CMD, PSPCL.Prasad said 2,700 MW had been made available for this paddy season with the help of power arrangements and other states. Since 2013, the PSERC has been informing the state government that the PSPCL is inflating the figures of electricity supplied to agricultural consumers (tubewells) by 5 to 10 per cent to show reduced transmission and distribution (T&D) losses. The line losses determined by the PSERC are 2 per cent higher than those claimed by the PSPCL.As compared to 13,66,160 tubewells in 2018 paddy season, 14,50,960 tubewells would be functional this season. Already the falling groundwater table in the state has set alarm bells ringing as agriculture experts say that the groundwater level is falling by 1 meter per annum. Early sowing of paddy “puts an extra pressure on soil” and leads to consuming too much of groundwater. As many as 108 blocks in the state are under the “dark zone” (where water table has fallen drastically) because of the increasing area under paddy cultivation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/paddy-transplantation-in-punjab-begins-today-265966
10-06-2021||Vishav Bharti||In Punjab, active Covid cases drop below 20,000||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 9After a gap of almost 75 days, the number of active cases in Punjab dipped below the 20,000-mark at 18,546 on Tuesday. The number is one-fourth as compared to the May 12 peak, when the active cases were around 80,000.In January this year, the active cases had come down to around 2,000. With the beginning of the second wave in February, the cases started rising and the trend continued over the next three months.After the peak last month, the state started witnessing a decline in the number of daily as well as active cases.On January 8, active cases stood at 3,007. The same came down to 2,112 in February. Soon the number rose exponentially and the state added around 18,000 active cases in a few days. Between April 8 and May 8, the state’s active caseload increased by almost 50,000. As on May 8, the number of active cases was 71,948.Even as the number has gone down below 20,000, experts caution people not to lower the guard and must comply with the Covid protocol.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-punjab-active-covid-cases-drop-below-20-000-266191
10-06-2021||---||Ready for talks if farmers raise logical objections to laws: Narendra Tomar||New Delhi, June 9Hours after the government said on Wednesday that it was ready to talk to the farmers provided they logically point out their specific objections to agricultural reform laws, the Congress sought the removal of Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar, terming his remarks “insensitive”.Samyukt Kisan MorchaFarmers insist on repeal of lawsGovt’s attitude is unreasonable. We demand repeal of the 3 laws and a legislation to guarantee MSP.At the Cabinet briefing today, Tomar said the government respected the agitating farmers which was why it organised 11 rounds of talks with them.“The Government of India under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has a lot of respect for farmers and that is why the government will be ready for talks with the farmers whenever they want to talk. But, we have repeatedly urged farm unions to logically point out objections to relevant provisions of the law and we will listen to them and also attempt a resolution to their concerns,” the minister said.Narendra Singh Tomar, Agriculture MinisterGovt for farmersThe decisions taken in the last seven years to raise the income of farmers are unprecedented.He said the government had held talks with farmers 11 times and asked them what their objection to the laws was and which provision of the laws they deemed unjust.“But, neither any political party responded to the matter in the House, nor any farm union leader stated what the objection was. This is why the talks did not move forward,” Tomar said.Earlier today, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi hailed the farmers’ fearless agitation and said 500 farmers had died for the cause of justice.Gandhi sought the repeal of farm laws, saying that was the only way out.Later, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate mentioned Tomar’s previous remarks that the government was willing to talk to the farmers about anything except the repeal of laws and said, “What else will the farmers discuss with the government if not the laws? Will they discuss the weather? The Agriculture Minister must be removed for his insensitive remarks.”Tomar defended the government record on farmers, saying the country had witnessed the commitment of the PM towards farmers.“The decisions taken by the Modi government in the last seven years to raise the income of farmers and increase agriculture profitability are historic and unprecedented. No one is in a position to dismiss them. As far as Rahul Gandhi’s tweets go, even the Congress does not take them seriously. I need not comment,” Tomar said.He said all political parties wanted to enact agriculture reform laws but did not have the courage to do so.“The Modi government took this huge step to benefit the farmers and bring reforms in the farm sector, the benefits of which have gone to the farmers at many places. In between, the farmers’ agitation started. The government respects the farmers and that is why it spoke to them 11 times,” the minister said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ready-for-talks-if-farmers-raise-logical-objections-to-laws-narendra-tomar-265963
10-06-2021||New Delhi||Ready to hold talks with Centre but stand remains same: Farmer leaders||Protesting farmer leaders on Wednesday reiterated that a complete repeal of three farm laws and legal guarantee on MSP are their main demands, after the government said it was ready to resume talks and asked them to point out their objections to the provisions of legislation.“Our main demands have always been the repeal of the three laws and a written guarantee on MSP. These are the main issues, and this why we are protesting, and we will keep protesting. We are prepared to continue till 2024.Read also: Centre increases MSP for Kharif crops, paddy support price hiked by Rs 72 per quintalDifferences between farmers and govt over farm laws can be resolved by talks: SS Johl“Our stand remains the same. Repeal the three laws, give us a written guarantee on MSP, if the government is ready to talk on this, then we are ready. Now, it is up to the government to decide about the meeting,” said farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka.Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday said the government is ready to resume talks with protesting farmers but asked the unions to point out their objections to the provisions of the three farm laws with sound logic.Kakka, however, pointed out that the problems with laws had already been pointed out in the 11 rounds of talks that had happened between the government and the farmers.“The government does not want us to tell the problems with the laws. That we have already done. It essentially wants to talk to us only if it is about anything besides the black laws. We have sacrificed more than 555 farmers, and have sat in protest for over six months, so the agriculture minister’s statement today is strange and irresponsible,” the farmer leader said.The last round of talks was held on January 22 to break the deadlock and end the farmers’ protest. Talks have not resumed following widespread violence during a tractor rally by protesting farmers on January 26.Talking about the government’s approach towards resolving the deadlock on the farmers’ issue, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) in a statement on Wednesday said that the government’s attitude towards resolving the issue was “anti-farmer”.“While the prime minister superciliously says that the government is just one call away, the real anti-farmer attitude of the government is very apparent. Protesting farmers repeat and reiterate that the government’s attitude is unjustifiable and unreasonable, and is resting on ego and optics’ games. Farmers demand a full repeal of the three central laws and a new legislation to guarantee MSP for all farmers,” the SKM said in a statement.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi’s borders for more than six months in protest against the three laws that they say will end state procurement of crops at MSP. The Supreme Court has put on hold the implementation of the three laws till further orders and set up a committee to find solutions. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ready-to-hold-talks-with-centre-but-stand-remains-same-farmer-leaders-265957
10-06-2021||Bathinda||International-level karate player working as labourer in paddy fields in Punjab's Mansa||Hardeep Kaur, an international-level karate player from the region is fighting poverty and is forced to work as a labourer in this scorching heat to transplant paddy in the field in her village Gurne Kalan in Mansa district.The government had promised to give her a job but even after four years the promise remains unfulfilled.While talking to The Tribune, Hardeep Kaur said she has made a name for her district and Punjab by winning 20 medals in karate championships at Malaysia and national games at Goa and other school-level games.She recalls that when she returned after winning the gold medal in karate championship at Malaysia, then Sports Minister Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi had met her when he visited her area and announced a government job for her but now four years have gone by, but the promise remains unfulfilled.“My father works as a labourer and I am studying DPED in Patiala and to support my studies and parents, I do domestic work and now doing labour work in fields to transplant paddy in our village,” she said.Hardeep also appeals to the state government to provide her some help as she even visited Chandigarh four times to take up her job issue, but she failed to get any success.Hardeep Kaur’ father Naib Singh and mother Sukhwinder Kaur said, “Our economic condition is quite bad and we manage to earn two square meals a day by working as labourers in fields. Even our daughter despite being a sportsperson is forced to work in fields as a labourer. We demand that our daughter should be given a job or financial help at the earliest.”Harjit Singh, a farmer on whose fields Hardeep is working, said, “She has brought laurels to the state and country, so the state government under ghar-ghar rozgar scheme should provide her a job, so that she is able to live her life comfortably.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/international-level-karate-player-working-as-labourer-in-paddy-fields-in-punjabs-mansa-265928
10-06-2021||Mohali||Gangster Jaipal Bhullar, Jassi Kharar killed in encounter in Kolkata||Gangster Jaipal Bhullar and Jassi Kharar, wanted for the killing of CIA ASI Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh at Jagraon Grain Market on May 15, were killed in a joint operation by Punjab Police, West Bengal Police and central security agencies on Wednesday morning.Sources said the encounter took place at Shahpurji Enclave in Kolkata in which one STF sub-inspector was injured.Carrying an award of Rs 10 lakh, the top most-wanted gangster, Jaipal Singh Bhullar alias Manjit Singh, was a son of a retired Assistant Sub-Inspector from Punjab Police.He was wanted in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh for over 40 cases related to murder, extortion, kidnapping, robbery and smuggling.He had succeeded in evading arrest for five years at least and is known as a master of surreptitious movement where he seldom used a mobile phone.Punjab Police officials reached after two of his close aides were recently arrested from Madhya Pradesh, who were wanted in the murder case of two ASIs.Jaipal was a hammer-thrower and a budding talent at Speed Fund Academy, a Punjab government sports training centre in Ludhiana. He met another player-cum-small time criminal Happy at the academy.In July 2004, they carried out the sensational kidnapping of seven-year-old Chirag, son of a cinema-hall owner in Ludhiana.After his arrest, he came in touch with other gangsters in jail. Jaipal became especially close to Rajiv alias Raja, when the latter landed there in 2006 for loot and murder of three Ludhiana jewellers.Jaipal and Raja teamed up and also became partners in crime with notorious and infamous gangster Shera Khubban.In January 2009, both helped Raja flee from police custody at the Barnala bus stand. They robbed a gun house in Hoshiarpur, looted money from banks in Panchkula and Mohali; robbed a Chandigarh businessman and a BJP leader in Panchkula; and jacked several flashy cars on the highways. In June 2009, Raja and some of the gang members were arrested by the Panchkula Police.A month later, Jaipal and his team were arrested by the Chandigarh Police. They were taken on production warrants to 27 police stations in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi.But, in most cases, they were acquitted with witnesses reluctant to speak up. In other cases, they got bail.During their time in Chandigarh’s Burail jail, Jaipal and his gang came in touch with Fazilka’s Rocky. They formed a new gang but developed differences.Jaipal and his men were acquitted by a Chandigarh court in July 2010. Along with Shera Khubban and another gangster Gurpreet Sekhon ran a dominating gang that also smuggled drugs now. Meanwhile, Rocky entered politics and it was alleged he helped cops arrest or kill a number of gangsters.Jaipal’s gang was allegedly behind the murder of gangster Sukha Kahlon (Kahlwan), too, in January 2015.He had masterminded the May 2, 2017 Banur van robbery with Tirath Dhilwan, an ‘A-category’ gangster, in which six armed men fired gunshots and escaped with Rs 1.33 crore. Jaipal kept the maximum booty with himself and gave away only Rs 20 lakh to the others involved with him.He meticulously planned and monitored the February 17, 2020 robbery of 30kg gold from a branch of India Infoline Finance Limited (IIFL) in Ludhiana.Jaipal was waiting in the car as his accomplices took the IIFL staff at gunpoint and returned with 30kg of gold before they fled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gangster-jaipal-bhullar-jassi-kharar-killed-in-encounter-in-kolkata-265917
10-06-2021||Ludhiana||DSP who sought Rs 80 lakh from Punjab govt to fund his lung transplant post Covid-19 dies in Ludhiana||DSP Harjinder Singh, who had sought Rs 80 lakh from the Punjab government for lung transplant post Covid-19 died in SPS Apollo Hospital in Ludhiana on Wednesday.His friend, Harry Sharma, said the Punjab government could not arrange funds and means for the lung transplant.The DSP had posted a heart-rending video a few days back from the hospital saying the government should fund his treatment instead of giving ex-gratia relief after his death.“Fund my treatment and give me a chance to live, instead of giving compensation after my death,” Deputy Jail Superintendent Harjinder Singh had appealed from a hospital bed after having lost both lungs to the Covid-19 infection.Meanwhile, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had agreed in principle to help the officer.Lung transplant procedure may cost Rs 80 lakh, but there are no government rules to fund it.Under norms for ex-gratia to kin of frontline workers dying of Covid-19, up to Rs 50 lakh is given.While there are no government rules to fund the cost of a lung transplant, which is around Rs 80 lakh, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had agreed in principle to help the officer.DGP Dinkar Gupta tweeted that the CM had decided to support DSP’s treatment. The CM has released some funds from his discretionary quota, while Ludhiana Police Commissioner Rakesh Aggarwal has ensured free treatment for the officer at a private hospital in the city.The DSP, a divorcee, is survived by three children — a 21-year-old daughter, married and settled in Canada, and two sons, aged 16 and six. In his video appeal, the DSP says the government will pay compensation to his family and maybe give a job to a family member after his death, but he has a chance to survive if he gets a lung transplant immediately. I can take care of my family on my own,” he says, struggling to catch a breath.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dsp-who-sought-rs-80-lakh-from-punjab-govt-to-fund-his-lung-transplant-post-covid-19-dies-in-ludhiana-265910
10-06-2021||Vibha Sharma||Centre increases MSP for Kharif crops, paddy support price hiked by Rs 72 per quintal||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 9The Centre on Wednesday increased the Minimum Support Price of all mandated Kharif crops for marketing season 2021-22.The price of common grade paddy has been increased from Rs 1,868 a quintal to Rs 1,940 a quintal, a rise of Rs 72 a quintal. For grade A the support price has been increased from Rs 1,888 a quintal to Rs 1,960 a quintal, again an increase of Rs 72 per quintal.Elaborating the decisions by the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the Centre always said that the MSP will remain and the increase in support prices for Kharif crops is proof of that commitment.Read also: Differences between farmers and govt over farm laws can be resolved by talks: SS JohlThe expected returns to farmers over their cost of production are estimated to be highest in the case of Bajra (85%) followed by urad (65%) and tur (62%). For the rest of the crops, return to farmers over their cost of production is estimated to be at least 50%, he said. The cost of production for common grade paddy is Rs 1,293 a quintal, Tomar said, adding that the farmers will be getting a return of over 50% over the cost of production for 2021-22, which is Rs 1,293 a quintal.“The government has increased the MSP of Kharif crops to ensure remunerative prices to the growers for their produce. The increase in MSP for Kharif Crops for marketing season, 2021-22 is in line with the Union Budget 2018-19 announcement of fixing the MSPs at a level of at least 1.5 times of the All-India weighted average Cost of Production (CoP), aiming at reasonably fair remuneration for the farmers,” he said. The highest absolute increase in MSP over the previous year has been recommended for sesamum (Rs 452 per quintal) followed by tur and urad (Rs 300 per quintal each). In the case of groundnut and nigerseed, there has been an increase of Rs 275 per quintal and Rs 235 per quintal respectively in comparison to last year. The differential remuneration is aimed at encouraging crop diversification, he said.Regarding the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three central farm laws, Tomar said the Modi government will remain committed to the betterment of farmers.“We always said the MSP was there and will remain,” he said.“All political parties wanted to bring the farm laws but could not,” he added.“The Narendra Modi government is committed to farmers. It is because of our commitment and respect for farmers that we held 11 rounds of talks with union leaders and offered them several alternatives, including putting on hold the laws for one-and-a-half years.“The government is always ready for talks with the unions. We have always said if there are issues with some provisions, unions should explain with reasons and suggest alternatives, which they could not. There are no shortcomings in the laws still we gave them alternatives but they did not agree,” the Agriculture Minister said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-increases-msp-for-kharif-crops-paddy-support-price-hiked-by-rs-72-per-quintal-265904
