13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 49 more Covid deaths, 958 fresh cases||Punjab on Sunday registered 49 more Covid-related fatalities, which took the toll to 15,562, while 958 fresh cases pushed the tally to 5,87,903, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases dropped to 12,981 from 14,064 on Saturday.Seven deaths were reported from Amritsar, five from Patiala and four each from Gurdaspur, Jalandhar and Mansa, among fatalities which took place in the last 24-hours, the bulletin said.Ludhiana reported 112 fresh cases, followed by 106 in Jalandhar and 85 in Hoshiarpur.The state’s positivity rate stands at 1.78 per cent, according to the bulletin.With 1,980 recoveries, the number of cured persons has increased to 5,59,360, it said.There are 191 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 582 other critical patients and 2,567 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.It said a total of 1,00,51,022 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-records-49-more-covid-deaths-958-fresh-cases-267936
13-06-2021||Hoshiarpur||Harassed by financiers, woman ends life in Hoshiarpur||A 22-year-old woman committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance at Mohalla Bhagat Nagar area here over alleged harassment by two financiers demanding return of their money, police said on Sunday.The incident took place Saturday evening.The victim, Manisha Kumari, had allegedly borrowed Rs 70,000 at an interest rate of 10 per cent per month last year from financiers, Jatinder Kalyan and Mohit Chadha, police said.Though she had paid back Rs 1 lakh to the financiers, she was still being harassed by them, they said.Upset over the ill treatment, the woman consumed some poisonous substance at her residence on Saturday.Kumari was taken to the civil hospital from where she was referred to a private hospital where she breathed her last.A case has been registered against both the financiers under relevant sections of the IPC, police added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harassed-by-financiers-woman-ends-life-in-hoshiarpur-267919
13-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Shehnaaz Gill's tube top pictures welcoming Mumbai rains surface; 'nazar na lge', say fans||Shehnaaz Gill always leaves her fans wanting more. The Punjabi star recently posted stunning pictures of herself enjoying the Mumbai rains.The Bigg Boss 13 paired her tube top with denims. She gained praises and hearts from her Instagram family.Sharing the photos, she captioned it, “#mumbairains (sic)," along with an umbrella emoji. Shehnaaz looks breathtakingly beautiful in the photos with open tresses and her make-up is also on point.Check it out:A post shared by Shehnaaz Gill (@shehnaazgill)  One wrote: 'Pari pari hai ik pari asman se aa giri mujhe usse pyaar hogya haaaaye', another wrote: "Mashaaalllaaaaahh", one user said: "beautiful", another commented: "Your looks making us go gaga", one more wrote: "Kisi ki nazar na lge".On the work front, Shehnaaz recently shot for her upcoming Punjabi film Honsla Rakh in Canada.The film also stars Diljit Dosanjh and Sonam Bajwa in pivotal roles. It is slated to release on October 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shehnaaz-gills-tube-top-pictures-welcoming-mumbai-rains-surface-nazar-na-lge-say-fans-267850
13-06-2021||---||Jobless teachers protest ‘lathicharge’, to step up stir||Sangrur, June 12To protest against the alleged lathicharge during their protest in Patiala on June 8, unemployed members of five different unions under the banner of the Joint Front of Unemployed staged a protest in Sangrur and burnt the effigy of the state government on Saturday.“On June 8, we had gone to gherao the residence of CM Capt Amarinder Singh in Patiala to protest against the failure of the state government in giving us jobs, but the police lathicharged us. We will not lift our protest till we are given government jobs,” said Sukhwinder Singh Dhilwan, president, BEd and TET-Pass Union. They started a protest march from Singla’s residence and burnt the effigy of the government on the main road. “Our meeting has been fixed with the senior authorities on June 14. We have decided to again gherao the residence of the CM in Patiala if the government fails to accept our long-pending demand for jobs,” said Dhilwan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-teachers-protest-lathicharge-to-step-up-stir-267447
13-06-2021||Muktsar||Capt missing on Cong’s ‘Mission 2022’ hoardings||Amid a political crisis in the state Congress, some hoardings of ‘Mission 2022’ of the ruling party have come up in Malout town in which both Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar are missing. Strangely, a big photograph of former PPCC chief-cum-MP Partap Singh Bajwa can be seen along with a picture of Rahul Gandhi on the hoardings.Besides, the photos of former PMs Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi, AICC chief Sonia Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra are placed on the on the top of the hoardings. On this, Baljit Singh Chahal, spokesperson of the PPCC, said, “The Congress workers of Malout and Lambi Assembly segments have installed these hoardings with my photo on it. Basically, the Congressmen in these constituencies are feeling sidelined. We are not against any leader. But it is a fact that Capt Amarinder Singh, after contesting the Assembly election from Lambi, did not come here for even once. The party leadership did not even appoint any representative of the Lambi Assembly segment.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-missing-on-congs-mission-2022-hoardings-267448
13-06-2021||Abohar||SAD mocks Sidhu’s separate billboards||A hoarding of Navjot Singh Sidhu put up near another Congress hoarding carrying the picture of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has raised eyebrows in PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar’s hometown Abohar.Rajinder Deepa, an SAD ticket aspirant from the constituency, said the Akalis had formed a poll alliance with the BSP, further enhancing their chances to win the 2022 election and by putting up such hoardings of Sidhu and sidelining the ones with the Chief Minister’s photo, the Congress leaders had confirmed that they were a divided house and the patch-up exercise had completely failed. The situation suited the Akali Dal, he claimed. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-mocks-sidhus-separate-billboards-267449
13-06-2021||---||Don’t politicise sacrilege cases, parties urged||Amritsar, June 12Representatives of various Sikh organisations have unanimously decided to boycott parties using desecration cases for furthering their political cause in the next Assembly elections.They took the decision during a virtual seminar attended by over 100 Sikhs from India and abroad today.Jaswinder Singh, leader of Panthic Talmel Sangathan, said different committees were constituted to pursue various matters pertaining to the Sikh community. He said four resolutions had been passed in which they held the previous Parkash Singh Badal government responsible for not acting against the sacrilege accused and called upon parties to contest on public issues.They formed a panel comprising HS Phoolka, Navkiran Singh, Harpreet Singh, RS Bains and Neena Singh to act against those using Sikh issues for furthering their political agenda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-politicise-sacrilege-cases-parties-urged-267450
13-06-2021||Mansa||BJP leader booked for sexual assault||The police have registered a case against Prem Garg, a BJP leader (former district secretary of the party) and an active RSS associate, for allegedly sexually exploiting a Dalit girl in the Budhlada area of Mansa district following a complaint by the victim’s sister. The girl, in her mid-20s, had tried to commit suicide.  The victim’s sister in her complaint mentioned that Garg, a municipal councillor of the Budhlada Nagar Council and a BJP leader, had taken pictures of the girl in compromising positions and blackmailed her to establish physical relations with him, else he would release her pictures on public platforms. The victim had allegedly consumed poison in a bid to end her life, but her family managed to admit her to a hospital where she is undergoing treatment.  Surendra Lamba, SSP, Mansa, said, “We have registered a case against the accused under Sections 354, 306 and 116 of the IPC and other relevant Sections of the SC/ST Act. I have deputed a DSP-rank officer to investigate the matter following which, if need be, we will make an arrest.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-leader-booked-for-sexual-assault-267451
13-06-2021||Tribune Reporters||AAP waves black flags at Dharamsot||Fatehgarj Sahib/Bathinda, June 12AAP workers waved black flags at Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and raised slogans against the government over the SC scholarship ‘scam’ at Bassi Pathana town today.Dharamsot had gone to lay the foundation stone of a wetland park to come up at a cost of Rs 1.5 crore. While the police had made elaborate security arrangements, AAP activists managed to wave black flags and tried to ghearo his convoy, but the attempt was thwarted.Local AAP leaders NS Tiwana and Pardeep Malhotra accused the minister of embezzling Rs 64 crore in the multi-crore scam, saying the Additional Chief Secretary of his own department had indicted him in an inquiry.They asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to remove him from the Cabinet. Later, Dharamsot said the committee set up by the CM had already given him a clean chit.In Bathinda, AAP members staged a protest and burnt Dharamsot’s effigy. Party MLA Rupinder Kaur Ruby said amid mudslinging between the Centre and state government, the future of 2 lakhs SC students was in jeopardy. She dared the government to release a white paper on the matter so that “truth behind the scam could come out in the open for everyone to see”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-waves-black-flags-at-dharamsot-267452
13-06-2021||---||SHO slaps vendor in Bathinda, suspended||Bathinda, June 12Talwandi Sabo police station SHO Avtar Singh has been placed under suspension after a video of him slapping a fruit vendor went viral on the social media.The Station House Officer, along with some policemen, was seen on the roadside when he repeatedly slapped the vendor without provocation. Assistant Sub-Inspector Buta Singh, accompanying the SHO, too slapped the vendor. Action has been initiated against him as well.SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said after receiving the video, he placed the SHO under suspension as such behaviour was unacceptable.In the past, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had issued a warning after videos of police officials thrashing people surfaced on the social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sho-slaps-vendor-in-bathinda-suspended-267453
13-06-2021||Bathinda||Probe rules out drug angle in kabaddi coach’s murder||Various farmer organisations and villagers blocked the Chandigarh-Bathinda National Highway for the third day today by keeping the body of kabaddi coach Harvinder Singh of Chauke village in front of the Rampura Sadar Police Station.Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said on May 26, information was received that two groups at Chauke village were involved in a clash and Harvinder Singh and his friends had been brutally assaulted. An FIR was registered against five persons by name and 15-20 unidentified persons.He said during investigation, it came out that the cause of the clash between the two groups was the alleged theft of roosters by some of the accused from the house of Harvinder’s paternal uncle.In the probe, it had been established that there was no drug angle or rivalry due to any drug-related issue in this incident. No drug-related FIR was registered against any of the accused from the village. On the basis of the statements of witnesses and videos, more accused have been nominated in the case taking the total accused in the FIR to 18.The SSP said a special investigation team had been constituted. Disciplinary action had been taken against head constable Manpreet Singh and two Punjab Home Guard personnel for dereliction of duty. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/probe-rules-out-drug-angle-in-kabaddi-coachs-murder-267454
13-06-2021||Vishav Bharti||Base eroded, ‘faceless’ BSP may be of little help to SAD||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 12Amid eroded base, credibility crisis and faceless organisation, can the BSP sway Dalit voters in the favour of Shiromani Akali Dal? Experts have their doubts.As Punjab has the highest percentage of Dalit population among all states, it saw the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) as a new hope in 1990s. The party won nine constituencies in low-voting Assembly elections in 1992. The party had again put up a good show in the 1996 Lok Sabha elections, when it polled around 12 per cent votes in alliance with the SAD.But after the SAD joined hands with the BJP in 1997, not much options were left for the BSP and since then, it played the role of a spoiler for other parties, especially the Congress. The party had been contesting all 117 constituencies in the state, which would often benefit the SAD. Even doubts were raised about BSP chief Mayawati’s seriousness about the party in Punjab. As a result, the party kept on losing promising leaders to the SAD or Congress.Finally, AAP gave a major blow to the BSP in the last Assembly elections by sweeping away its cadre as well as the base. As a result, the party came down to 1.5 per cent vote share and it has been 25 years that the party has not sent even a single leader to the Assembly. Experts had started looking at the BSP as another ‘Left party’ in the state.Experts feel that the SAD-BSP alliance is not going to make much difference as far as electoral politics is concerned as both parties have been dealing with their own crisis.“The BSP was facing an existential crisis and at the lowest point in the history, the SAD was finding it difficult to survive,” says Prof Jagrup Sekhon, former professor of political science at GNDU, Amritsar.He said the past practice revealed that the BSP had been acting as a sleeper cell of the BJP. “Whenever there is need, they awake them. However, the local leadership of the party has its own explanations for the past decisions,” he said.BSP state president Jasvir Singh Garhi said after the SAD formed a pact with the BJP, they were left with no other option but to go solo in the past elections. “We have always longed for an alliance but the situation was never in our favour,” he said.Dr Pramod Kumar, an expert on electoral politics, looked at the development as “pragmatically” positive. “It sends the right signal as one party represents Dalits, the other upper castes. So, it fades caste fault lines,” he added.Vote share down to 1.5%||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/base-eroded-faceless-bsp-may-be-of-little-help-to-sad-267455
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Man who helped gangsters nabbed||The Punjab Police today arrested a Haryana-based man whose credentials and documents were used to hire a flat for hiding slain gangsters-turned-drug smugglers Jaipal Bhullar and Jaspreet Singh, alias Jassi, in Kolkata.The arrested person has been identified as Sumit Kumar, a resident of Meham in Haryana.The development came three days after Jaipal and Jaspreet were neutralised by the STF West Bengal Police after they fired on a police party when they raided their flat in Kolkata.Additional Director General of Police (ADGP), Counter Intelligence and Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU), Amit Prasad said they had managed to nab Sumit, a close associate-cum-business partner of Bharat Kumar, who helped Jaipal and Jaspreet in escaping from Morena, Gwalior, and arranged a hideout for them in Kolkata, after they killed ASIs Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh of the Jagraon police at the grain market, Jagraon, on May 15. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-who-helped-gangsters-nabbed-267456
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||High Court allows candidates to take SDE recruitment test||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has permitted candidates, who could not get registered due to high fee, to take exam for the post of sub-divisional engineers (SDE) in nine departments. They had moved the High Court for extending the last date for filling up the online application forms following the reduction in fee.Taking up a petition filed against the state of Punjab and other respondents by the candidates through counsel Puneet Gupta, Justice Ritu Bahri asserted that the reduction in fee had made many candidates participate in the process. The petitioners, as such, could not be denied participation in the selection process merely on the ground that they had not got themselves registered.“Since the examination is now scheduled for June 15, direction is given to the petitioners to participate in examination after getting themselves registered and depositing the fee as per public notice dated April 27 by June 11. Thereafter, they will be allowed to participate in the examination,” Justice Bahri added.The Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that the applicant-petitioners were not able to register themselves as the examination fee of Rs 3,000 per department for the general category was on the higher side. In all, posts in nine departments had been advertised.Gupta added a public notice dated April 27 was issued by the Punjab Public Service Commission after the issuance of advertisements to reduce the examination fee. A decision was also taken to have joint competitive examination for all nine departments and to refund the excess fee paid by other candidates. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-allows-candidates-to-take-sde-recruitment-test-267457
13-06-2021||Amritsar||Day after weapon seizure, police trace supply route||A day after the seizure of a huge quantity of automatic foreign-made weapons by the State Special Operation Cell (SSOC), the Punjab Police are trying to ascertain the route from where the weapons were smuggled into India.A preliminary probe pointed out that the weapons were smuggled from Pakistan for carrying out terrorist activities in Punjab. The prime suspect, Darmanjot Singh, aka Darman Kahlon, has links with banned terrorist organisations like the Babbar Khalsa International and Khalistan Liberation Force based in Pakistan and having operatives in the US, UK and Canada.Sources in the SSOC said the police were on a manhunt to nab the first courier who handed over the weapon consignment to Jagjit Singh in the Kathunangal area. “Only he would be in the knowhow from where and how such a huge quantity of weapons was pushed into the Indian territory,” a source said, adding that the use of drones could not be ruled out.The police teams are on a trail to scrutinise the CCTV cameras on all possible routes from where the first courier would have escaped. Once he was arrested, the entire nexus was likely to be exposed, the sources added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-after-weapon-seizure-police-trace-supply-route-267458
13-06-2021||---||Remove GST on all Covid items, demands Manpreet||Chandigarh, June 12Calling the Covid-19 crisis a once-in-a-century calamity, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal today said the GST’s Group of Ministers (GoM) should stop acting like a “shahenshah” of yesteryears and instead let compassion speak through its decisions.Stating that all Covid-related goods must be zero-rated during the pandemic, he, along with other Finance Ministers representing the Congress, opposed the imposition of GST on Covid-related items. “The other alternative is to charge 0.1 per cent, which is well within the powers of the GST Council, and this measure should be in place till the pandemic is over,” he said.At the 44th meeting of the GST Council, Badal urged the ruling government to include representatives of the Congress in the GoM. “It is preposterous that the principal Opposition party in both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha has been excluded from the GoM,” he said.He also urged the Chairperson to operationalise the position of Vice-Chairperson of the GST Council. “It should also have its own secretariat and it should be empowered to adjudicate on a dispute resolution mechanism where there are divergent views,” he said.Criticising the attempt to garner revenue from furnaces for crematoriums, he said this category should be even above the exemption category. “Is this how the Centre wishes to collect revenues?” he asked.“The imposition of GST on Covid-preventive materials, starting with GST on vaccines and items such as masks, PPEs, sanitisers, medical grade oxygen, testing kits, ventilators, bipap machine, and pulse oximeters among others reflect insensitiveness and lack of compassion,” he said.He cautioned that the attempt to pick and choose exemptions on the grounds of inverted duty structure or cheaper imports would end up destroying the very foundation of the GST.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/remove-gst-on-all-covid-items-demands-manpreet-267459
13-06-2021||Saurabh Malik||To eradicate menace, consider declaring child marriage void: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 12In a judgment liable to prevent bondages of childhood from turning into barred-by-law alliances, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the States of Punjab and Haryana, along with the Union Territory of Chandigarh, to consider declaring child marriage “void ab initio” or invalid from the outset.Justice Manoj Bajaj reminded the states to consider “this important issue” to eradicate “menace of child marriage”, while directing the forwarding of the judgment to the Chief Secretaries of Punjab and Haryana, along with UT Adviser.Taking up a petition by the minors for protection of life and liberty from their family opposing their live-in-relationship, Justice Bajaj asserted penal provisions were in place under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. But child marriages were taking place in violation of the provisions of the Act.“The SC in “Independent Thought’s case” has already given a suggestion to the Centre and the state government to follow the decision of the State of Karnataka, which declared child marriage void ab initio through an amendment…. This suggestion of the SC was given in 2017. But the same is yet to attract the attention of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh,” Justice Bajaj asserted.He also made it clear that a previous judgment on the protection issue did not take into consideration the petition’s maintainability. The assertion came after the petitioners’ counsel argued that there was no physical intimacy between the petitioners till date as they were waiting to attain the statutory marriageable age. As such, the relatives had no right to interfere in their life. In support of his arguments, the counsel placed reliance upon HC decisions.Justice Bajaj asserted the judicial pronouncements relied upon by the petitioners were not applicable to the present case. Despite noticing that the girl was a minor in the judgments, the maintainability of the petitions, without proper representation of the minor girl, was not examined. Also, the Supreme Court’s latest order dated June 4 was not applicable to the present case.Justice Bajaj added the girl, only 14 years and eight months old, was a minor. The boy, just over 20, was representing her, claiming himself to be the next friend of the minor. The writ petition was not signed by any of the petitioners. In support of the pleadings, only the boy’s affidavit was filed. The entire blame was put on the girl’s natural guardians. He was already an accused in case of kidnapping the minor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-eradicate-menace-consider-declaring-child-marriage-void-high-court-267460
13-06-2021||Payal||A first, all Bhikhi residents jabbed||All eligible beneficiaries of Bhikhi village in Ludhiana have been vaccinated, claimed DC Varinder Sharma. Officials led by ADC (D) Sandeep Kumar and SDM Mankanwal Singh Chahal, besides the elected members of the village civic body, were recognised for the effort during a function held here today. The village panchayat has thus emerged pioneer among civic bodies eligible for a special grant of Rs 10 lakh, announced by CM Capt Amarinder Singh earlier for achieving the target. MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha said it was due to the efforts of the ground-level healthcare workers and the panchayat members that all 905 eligible beneficiaries of Bhikhi village were persuaded and vaccinated. The SDM said the target was achieved due to coordinated efforts of officials led by tehsildar Vikasdeep Singh and BDPO Gurvinder Kaur, who were now out to get vaccinated all residents of other villages too. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/a-first-all-bhikhi-residents-jabbed-267461
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Capt counters education rank charge||Ridiculing the Delhi Deputy CM’s allegation of a political conspiracy of the Centre and Punjab Government on the issue of school education ranking, CM Capt Amarinder Singh today termed it a clear case of the AAP crying foul in the face of its imminent wipeout from Punjab in the 2022 Assembly poll. Reacting to Sisodia’s allegation of a ‘secret pact’ between PM Narendra Modi and him, the CM said the AAP leadership was so obsessed with electoral politics that it saw poll conspiracies even in something as basic as school education.  “Come to Punjab and I will show you our schools,” said Capt Amarinder to Sisodia, adding that the revamp of the state’s schools was an exercise undertaken by his government as a top priority, and the Performance Grading Index released by the Union Education Minister recently reflected the success of those efforts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-counters-education-rank-charge-267462
13-06-2021||Amritsar||Wife drowns in canal, man held||A woman drowned after her husband allegedly pushed her and their 17-year-old daughter into the Uppar Bari Doab Canal near Bohru village on Saturday. The victims were identified as Manjit Kaur (45) and Payal (17), both residents of Sultanwind village. A fire brigade team and divers from the Harike barrage fished out Manjit’s body, while there was no trace of Payal. The police have arrested Manjit’s husband Ashok Kumar for murder, said Chatiwind police station SHO Manmeet Pal Singh, adding that Kumar, who used to do a menial job, suspected his daughter of having an affair. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wife-drowns-in-canal-man-held-267463
13-06-2021||Moga||‘Harassed’ at school, 17-year-old hangs self||Depressed over alleged harassment by sports teacher and principal’s daughter, a 17-year-old girl of a school at Mehna village in the district has died by suicide, the police said today.SI Lakhvir Singh said in a suicide note, the girl, a Canadian citizen, accused her sports teacher Amandeep Singh Chahal and principal’s daughter of driving her to suicide. Her body was found hanging from the ceiling fan of a room at her grandfather’s house. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harassed-at-school-17-year-old-hangs-self-267464
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Alliance stitched, Akalis allot 20 seats to ally BSP||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) will jointly contest the 2022 Assembly elections in Punjab. The Akalis will contest 97 seats, three more than when they were in alliance with the BJP. The BSP will fight on 20 seats — eight in Doaba, seven in Malwa and five in Majha.An announcement in this regard was made today by SAD president Sukhbir Badal at a joint press conference with BSP general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra. Both the Akalis and the BSP suffered losses in the previous two elections. While the BSP vote share fell to 1.5% in the last Assembly elections from 4.29% in 2012, the SAD polled 25.2% votes in 2017 as against 34.7% in 2012. The parties had earlier forged an alliance for the 1996 Lok Sabha elections. The Akalis had won eight and the BSP three seats of the total 13 seats.The SAD, which snapped its ties with the BJP over the contentious farm laws, is counting on the 34 per cent Dalit population for a victory. The BSP, on the other hand, is depending on the Akalis’ strong rural base to win seats.SEATS WITH BSPBSP to contest from Kartarpur Sahib, Jalandhar-West, Jalandhar-North, Phagwara, Hoshiarpur, Tanda, Dasuya, Chamkaur Sahib, Bassi Pathana, Mehal Kalan, Nawanshahr, Ludhiana North, Sujanpur, Boha, Pathankot, Anandpur Sahib, Mohali, Amritsar-Central, Amritsar-North and PayalAkali MPs Naresh Gujral and Balwinder Singh Bhunder are reported to have played a key role in forging the partnership, talks for which were initiated in December last year. Mishra appealed to the disadvantaged sections to back the alliance. Sukhbir said the SAD and BSP espoused the same ideology and “have always worked for the welfare of farmers, the poor and khet mazdoor.” SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal described it as “the beginning of a secular, federal democratic revolution in the state and the country.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/alliance-stitched-akalis-allot-20-seats-to-ally-bsp-267486
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Former Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal summoned by SIT in Kotkapura case||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-punjab-chief-minister-parkash-singh-badal-summoned-by-sit-in-kotkapura-case-267487
13-06-2021||New Delhi||Samyukta Kisan Morcha forms panel for complaint redressal of women protesters||Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions, on Saturday formed committees to address complaints and issues raised by women farmers at the protest sites in the backdrop of alleged sexual assault of a woman activist.The committees formed at all the protest sites on Delhi borders will “look into redressal of any complaints,” the farmers’ body said in a statement.The announcement was first made in May to form “Mahila Suraksha Samiti”, days after the alleged sexual assault of a woman activist at Tikri border protest site, who later died due to Covid-19 at a private hospital in Haryana.“Committees have been formed at all protest sites to look into redressal of any related complaints and to prevent any occurrence of harassment or any other violation... 9818119954 is the phone number where related issues can be raised,” SKM said in the statement.It added that SKM “respects the rights of women protesters, wants their safety protected in all ways, and welcomes their active participation in the current movement”.Protesting farmer unions will be organising dharnas at governor houses across the country on June 26 to mark the completion of seven months of their agitation against the three new central agri-marketing laws.“Save Agriculture, Save Democracy” will be the main message of the day, and sit-ins will be organised at Raj Bhavans in all states and memoranda will be submitted. Detailed action plan for Mission UP and Uttarakhand will also be taken up soon within SKM,” it said.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi’s borders for more than six months now in protest against the three laws that they say will leave them at the mercy of big corporates and end the MSP regime.The government has said all these concerns are baseless and that the new laws are pro-farmer.The Supreme Court has put on hold the implementation of the laws till further orders and set up a committee to examine the issues. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/samyukta-kisan-morcha-forms-panel-for-complaint-redressal-of-women-protesters-267429
13-06-2021||Vijay Mohan||Newly commissioned Lieutenant from Punjab stands third in order of merit at Indian Military Academy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 12A newly commissioned officer from Punjab has stood third in the order of merit of the Spring Term – 2021 that passed out from the Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun, on Saturday.Lt Loveneet Singh, who belongs to Moga and is the son of an agriculturalist, has been commissioned into the Sikh Light Infantry. He did his matriculation from Punjab Public School, Nabha, and then joined the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Armed Forces Preparatory Institute (AFPI), Mohali, from where he had proceeded to the National Defence Academy, Kharakvasla. At IMA, he held the appointment of Academy Cadet Adjutant.The Army today commissioned 341 officers as Lieutenants during the passing out parade of the 148 Regular Course and 131 Technical Graduate Course. Another 84 foreign cadets also passed out of the Academy today, who will be joining the armed forces of their respective countries.Amongst the highest contributing states, Uttar Pradesh topped the tally with 66 officers followed by Haryana with 38. Uttarakhand had 37 officers while Punjab had 32.  There was no representation from eight states, while some had just a single officer.The coveted Sword of Honour for being adjudged as the overall best cadet of the term was bagged by Battalion Under Officer Mukesh Kumar from Rajasthan, who also received the silver medal for standing second in the order of merit. The gold medal for standing first went to Academy Under Officer Deepak Singh from Uttarakhand.The silver medal for standing first in the Technical Graduate Course was presented to Junior Under Officer Daksh Kumar Pant, while the silver medal for standing first among foreign cadets went to Junior Under Officer Kinley Norbu from Bhutan. The Chief of Army Staff’s Banner was awarded to Dograi Company for standing overall first amongst all 16 companies in the IMA.Exhorting the newly commissioned officers to dedicate themselves to the service of the nation, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, Lt Gen RP Singh, who was the parade’s reviewing officer, said that the external and internal challenges that our nation faces from adversarial forces are only set to increase as we rise to take our destined place in the new global order.“These are extremely challenging times while the world battles with the Covid pandemic and witnesses a host of varied conflicts across the world. You are stepping into an era typified by disruptive technologies, blurring definition of threats, expanding domains of conflict and an interplay of multi-polar complexities,” he said. “As warrior leaders of the future, your awareness, proficiency and leadership has to remain extremely dynamic and evolve constantly,” he added.Congratulating the new officers, Lt Gen Singh said that as they step into the folds of the Army, every bit of what they have imbibed at IMA shall be put to test and everyone has complete confidence that they shall come out with flying colours. Stressing that the Chetwode Motto which accords priority to the nation and the men they command must always remain at the core of their conduct, he said that character, selflessness, empathy, risk taking and firm resolve must guide them as young leaders.The ‘Pipping Ceremony’ that is pinning the badges of rank on the epaulettes, which is traditionally done by the parents of cadets, was done by instructors and staff of the IMA because of restrictions imposed due to Covid-19 protocols. Parents and family members of the passing out cadets could not attend the event.Among the Indian pass-outs, 315 were from the regular course and 26 from the technical course. The infantry, being the army’s largest arm, got the lion’s share with 125 officers followed by the Artillery with 56 and Engineers with 29.In addition, there were 84 officers from nine friendly foreign countries. These included 43 were from Afghanistan, 18 from Bhutan and 13 from Tajikistan. Mauritius and Vietnam had sent four and two cadets, respectively, while Maldives, Kyrgyzstan, Tonga and Srilanka had sent one each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/newly-commissioned-lieutenant-from-punjab-stands-third-in-order-of-merit-at-indian-military-academy-267358
13-06-2021||New Delhi||Sisodia alleges 'secret' friendship between PM Modi and Punjab CM Amarinder||AAP leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday alleged a "secret" friendship between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Punjab CM Amarinder Singh, after Punjab was ranked number one in the Performance Grading Index (PGI) 2019-20 by the Centre. "Captain (Amarinder Singh) has got the blessings of Modiji. Delhi's schools have been ranked much below. Nearly 800 government schools in Punjab have been shut down in the last five years and many schools have been handed over to private entities but Punjab has been ranked on the top," he said.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is in opposition in the Congress-governed Punjab where Assembly polls is slated for early next year. Modi's BJP is another opposition party in Punjab.Sisodia alleged that Punjab's government schools have poor educational facilities for students and parents prefer to send their children to private schools.The index is an effort to hide the incompetence of the Punjab government in the field of school education, he alleged."Maybe later, the government might release a report saying Punjab's hospitals are best. There is a secret friendship between Modiji and Captain," he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sisodia-alleges-secret-friendship-between-pm-modi-and-punjab-cm-amarinder-267344
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||SAD-BSP announce alliance ahead of Punjab polls; Mayawati's party to get 20 seats||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Saturday announced an alliance for the 2022 Assembly elections in Punjab.The parties had jointly contested the 1996 Lok Sabha elections, where the Akalis had won eight, while the BSP three out of the total 13 seats.Announcing the tie-up at a press conference, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal described it as a “new day in politics of Punjab”.“Today, is a historic day...a big turn in Punjab’s politics,” he said in the presence of BSP General Secretary Satish Chandra Mishra. He said the SAD and the BSP will jointly fight the 2022 polls and other elections together. The Mayawati-led BSP will fight 20 of the 117 Assembly seats in Punjab, while the rest will be contested by the SAD, he said.The seats include seven in Malwa, five in Majha, and eight in Doaba.  Among the seats which the BSP will contest are Kartarpur Sahib, Jalandhar-west, Jalandhar-north, Phagwara, Hoshiarpur, Tanda, Dasuya, Chamkaur Sahib, Bassi Pathana, Mehal Kalan, Nawanshahar, Ludhiana North, Sujjanpur, Boha, Pathankot,  Anandpur Sahib, Mohali, Amritsar central and north and Payal.SAD MP Naresh Gujral had reportedly held talks with Satish Mishra, All India General Secretary of the BSP, on Friday. “It will be the beginning of a new socio-political movement not just in Punjab but also in the country where minorities and under-privileged classes will come together on one platform,” he said,The Tribune had exclusively reported a series of meetings held between various leaders of both parties in December last year. The parties had agreed in-principle to contest the elections together but differences in sharing seats remained.Sources said the seat adjustment was being discussed and it seems the senior leaders will make an announcement about it. The BSP wanted 35 seats but the Akalis were offering 20. Sources said it seems the Akalis will agree to give 23 seats to the BSP. These seats were the same which went in BJP’s quota when it contested elections in partnership with the Akalis.Sources also hinted that the BSP was demanding more seats in the Doaba belt as it has a stronger base in that region. The BSP has a considerable hold over the 31 per cent Dalit votes in the state. The concentration of these votes in 23 seats of the Doaba region is more significant.The BSP was a part of a third front in the last Assembly elections. It had contested the Lok Sabha elections jointly with the Left parties, Lok Insaaf Party and Punjab Ekta Party. The party is focusing on key Dalit seats where with the support of the Akalis, it hopes to have a major impact on the elections.'Will invite you to Punjab soon'SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal later spoke to BSP chief Mayawati promising to invite her to Punjab soon.  "It is a new day in Punjab politics. Shiromani Akali Dal and Bahujan Samaj Party to fight the 2022 Punjab Legislative Assembly elections and future elections together. Out of 117 seats in the Punjab Assembly, BSP will contest on 20 seats and SAD will contest the remaining 97 seats," Badal said.BSP MP Satish Mishra also called the alliance a "historic move" in Punjab politics." He also recalled the election in 1996 when both BSP and SAD jointly fought Lok Sabha polls and 'emerged victorious on 11 of 13 seats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-bsp-announce-alliance-ahead-of-punjab-polls-mayawatis-party-to-get-20-seats-266896
