14-06-2021||Ferozepur||Slain gangster’s father writes to HC chief justice, seeks directions for another post-mortem||The father of gangster Jaipal Singh Bhullar, who was killed in an encounter with police in Kolkata, has written to the Punjab and Haryana High Court chief justice, seeking directions for post-mortem either at the PGIMER in Chandigarh or the AIIMS in Delhi.Jaipal Bhullar’s family members have refused to cremate his body, alleging that he was “tortured” before being gunned down. His post-mortem should be conducted again, they said.Bhupinder Singh Bhullar, through his counsel Simranjit Singh, has written to the chief justice, seeking post-mortem be conducted either at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi or some independent medical institute to ascertain the exact details of the injuries on Jaipal Bhullar’s body.Jaipal Bhullar and another gangster, Jaspreet Singh, involved in the killing of two policemen in Ludhiana, were gunned down by a Kolkata police team in a shootout on June 9 following “pin-point” information from the Punjab Police about their hideout at a housing society in the New Town area of the metropolis.Sub-Divisional Magistrate Amit Gupta along with other senior officials met Jaipal Bhullar’s family members again at his residence on Monday to convince them to perform the last rites. However, they refused to do so.Jaipal Bhullar’s body was brought to his hometown on Saturday evening amid tight security.Bhupinder Singh Bhullar, who is a retired Punjab Police inspector, had on Sunday submitted to the Ferozepur deputy commissioner (DC) an application to conduct post-mortem again.DC Gurpal Singh Chahal on Monday rejected the request, saying since the incident took place beyond his jurisdiction, it was not possible for him to accept such an application. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/slain-gangsters-father-writes-to-hc-chief-justice-seeks-directions-for-another-post-mortem-268415
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 629 new Covid cases, 33 more deaths||With 629 fresh Covid cases, the infection tally in Punjab reached 5,88,525 on Monday, while 33 more fatalities pushed the toll to 15,602, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases dropped to 11,913 from 12,981 on Sunday.Deaths were reported from several districts including Amritsar, Barnala, Fazilka, Bathinda, Jalandhar and Ludhiana.Jalandhar reported 98 infections, followed by 55 in Amritsar and 52 in Ludhiana, among the fresh cases.The state’s positivity rate stood at 1.45 per cent, it said.With 1,650 recoveries, the number of cured people reached 5,61,010, according to the bulletin.There are 188 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 586 other critical patients and 2,529 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 1,00,83,279 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-629-new-covid-cases-33-more-deaths-268410
14-06-2021||New Delhi||’84 riots case life convict seeks sentence suspension on medical grounds||The Delhi High Court on Monday called for a status report from the police regarding the health of a life convict in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case who has sought interim suspension of sentence for 90 days on medical grounds.A bench of Justices Navin Chawla and Asha Menon directed the police to file the fresh status report regarding the medical condition of convict Naresh Sehrawat before the next date of hearing on July 5.Advocate Dharam Raj Ohlan, representing Sehrawat, told the court that he was seeking interim suspension of sentence or parole of 90 days in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the High Powered Committee (HPC) set up for decongesting jails to prevent spread of Covid-19 among prisoners.Ohlan contended that his client was suffering from stage 4 kidney and liver ailments for which transplants were the only option and till he gets a transplant he has to be on a special diet which would not be possible while in prison.The lawyer also told the bench that in view of Sehrawat’s medical condition he was susceptible to Covid-19 infection.Opposing the plea, senior advocate R S Cheema, representing the Special Investigation Team (SIT), told the bench that Sehrawat has already received two doses of Covid vaccine and he was being well looked after.To this, Ohlan said vaccination was not a 100 per cent guarantee or protection against Covid-19 infection.Cheema also told the court that the convict was being provided all the requisite medical treatment and there was no emergency right now for grant of any relief to him.An SIT was earlier set up by the Ministry of Home Affairs to reinvestigate the riot cases.The trial court had awarded death penalty to convict Yashpal Singh and life term to Naresh Sehrawat in the case relating to the killing of two men in New Delhi during the 1984 riots—the first convictions in the cases reopened by the SIT.Sherawat has also appealed against his conviction and the sentence before the high court which is pending.The death reference as well as appeal of Singh against the capital punishment awarded to him is also pending in the high court. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/84-riots-case-life-convict-seeks-sentence-suspension-on-medical-grounds-268390
14-06-2021||---||Early monsoon comes in with an excess of downpour over the region||Vijay MohanTribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 14The early monsoon has hit the region on a hugely positive note, with the agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana receiving higher than normal rain fall in the month of June so far.From June 1 to June 14, Punjab received 38 mm rain against the normal of 14.7 mm for this period, accounting for a surplus of 158 per cent, according to data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).In Haryana, rain was for surplus by 146 per cent. The state received 33.7 mm rain against the normal of 13.7 mm for the aforementioned period. In of Himachal Pradesh, the surplus was relatively lower at 26 per cent. The hill state received 42.2 mm rain against the normal of 33.5 mm for that period.The monsoon arrived over north India about 15 days ahead of its normal date of onset, which is a significant deviation in terms of climatic conditions as well as agro-economic practices. Rains impact sowing and cropping timing as well as the demand of water from dams and electricity or diesel for running bore wells.Information released by IMD states that as on June 14 the Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) is passing through Diu, Surat, Nandurbar, Bhopal, Nowgong, Hamirpur, Barabanki, Bareilly, Saharanpur, Ambala and Amritsar, covering the entire peninsular, central, east and northeastern India and some parts of north-western India. However due to approaching of mid-latitude westerlies winds further progress  of  monsoon  over  remaining  parts  of  northwest  India  is  likely  to  be slow, according to the IMD.Earlier, the IMD had predicted normal to above normal rainfall over most parts of South Asia during the 2021 southwest monsoon season from June to September. Geographically, above-normal rainfall is most likely over north-western India and some regions along the foothills of the Himalayas.Even in May, the precipitation in the region had been good. Rain was 138 percent above normal in Haryana and 39 per cent above normal in Punjab, but deficient by four per cent in Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/early-monsoon-comes-in-with-an-excess-of-downpour-over-the-region-268359
14-06-2021||New Delhi||Noise-free environment part of right to life, its violation criminal offence: NGT||Noise-free environment is part of the right to life and its violation is a criminal offence, the National Green Tribunal has said while directing authorities to look into a plea alleging noise pollution at gurdwaras in Hoshiarpur district of Punjab.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel noted that the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the States of Punjab, Haryana and Union Territory of Chandigarh to ensure that no loudspeaker or public address system shall be used by any person, including religious bodies in Temples, Mosques and Gurdwaras without written permission of the authority.“Noise-free environment being part of the right to life and binding statutory rules having been framed on the subject, violation of which is a criminal offence and the High Court has given binding directions, no further adjudication is required. Only compliance is to be made by the concerned executive authorities. Accordingly, the District Magistrate and SSP Hoshiarpur need to look into the grievance of the applicant in accordance with the law,” the bench said.The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Punjab resident Balwinder Kaur against the failure of the statutory authorities to regulate noise pollution at Gurdwaras in Hoshiarpur district in Punjab.The plea alleged failure of the statutory authorities to regulate noise pollution in Hoshiarpur District, particularly in village Hamja, Tehsil Dasuya.States of Punjab, Haryana and UT of Chandigarh told to ensure that no loudspeaker or public address system shall be used by any person, including religious bodies, without written permission of the authorityAccording to the applicant, Management Committee of Gurdwara Chhevi Patshahi; Management Committee of Guru Nanak Dukh Bhanjan Satsang Ghar; Pastor Amanat Khan Memorial G.N. Church Kotli Khurd; Gurdwara Singh Sabha and Gurdwara Sahib Kala Kullian are using loudspeakers at high volume.In spite of the complaint of the applicant to the SDM, Dasuya and to the state pollution control board, remedial action was not being taken, the plea alleged.  PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/noise-free-environment-part-of-right-to-life-its-violation-criminal-offence-ngt-268355
14-06-2021||New Delhi||BJP mocks Akali-BSP tie-up in Punjab, terms it 'failed attempt'||Mocking the recently stitched Akali-BSP alliance in Punjab, the BJP on Monday called it a “failed attempt”.The party’s national general secretary and Punjab leader Tarun Chugh claimed that the alliance will “hardly have any effect” on poll prospects of the BJP's former ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal, in the Assembly elections next year."Akalis have broken up with a party with a higher vote share (BJP) and gone with BSP that polled just 1.5 per cent votes in the last Assembly elections," he said, adding that in 2022, BJP’s main rival will be the Congress and not the Aam Aadmi Party.The Akali Dal had broken off with the BJP last year over the three Central farm laws.Speaking on the SAD-BSP alliance and the BJP’s preparations for the Punjab Assembly elections in 2022, Chugh said: “They (Akali Dal) are trying to attract SC votes in an SC/ST dominated state with a party that polled a little over 1.5 per cent vote share in the last elections. They are also projecting a ‘jat’ face as CM and have also kept SC seats with itself."The Punjab leader also said that the “political significance of SAD has declined significantly due to Bargari (sacrilege) case”.Regarding BJP’s preparations for the elections to the 117-member Assembly, Chugh said meetings were held in two places, Jalandhar, and Amritsar, to chalk out the plan on Sunday. “Our main rival is the Congress party”, he said also dismissing “any significant advantage” to the AAP in 2022. “Their best chance was in 2017, their appeal is over,” he said.On BJP’s prospects amid continuous protests against party leaders in Punjab, Chugh said “the party is conveying its message to farmers on the issue”. “That the agitation is political, Punjab farmers understand well. The Direct Benefit Transfer of MSP has further clarified their doubts regarding the laws,” he claimed.Heckled and not allowed to hold functions in their constituencies, many party leaders are believed to have voiced concern to the leadership.The saffron party also performed poorly in the last municipal polls, winning a handful of seats.Notably, in the 2017 Assembly elections, the BSP contested 111 seats and, barring one, the majority of its candidates lost their security deposits. It polled a vote share of around 1.5 per cent on the seats it contested.The BJP, which contested on 23 seats in alliance with SAD, won three with a vote share of around 29 per cent in seats it contested. Its overall vote share was around 5.4 per cent in 2017.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-mocks-akali-bsp-tie-up-in-punjab-terms-it-failed-attempt-268340
14-06-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Leaders lend a helping hand||Wellness centre for copsFatehgarh Sahib: To keep their personnel mentally and physically fit, the district police have set up a health and wellness centre at the Police Lines in Fatehgarh Sahib. It was inaugurated by Kuldeep Singh, ADGP, Technical Service-cum-Police Governance Reforms. There will be a pharmacist, medical officer and physiotherapist to provide free medical services to the police personnel. “This centre will go a long way in helping the cops, who have been performing strenuous duties for almost entire day,” said Amneet Kondal, SSP.Power plant to aid of rural womenPatiala: Nabha Power Limited, which operates the 2x700 MW Supercritical Thermal Power Plant at Rajpura, has helped a large number of rural women double their income even as the country struggled against challenges entailed by the pandemic. Rural women working with five production centres supported by the corporate social responsibility arm of the Nabha Power to produce “phulkaris”, jute products, “kurtis” and face mask, worked from their homes during Covid restrictions and managed to double their incomes. As the demand for “phulkari”, face masks and “kurtis” picked up even during the lockdown, the income for these women went up. Widow Baljinder Kaur from Sindhran village said, “Before I started working with the production centre, I along with my daughter-in-law used to process maize crop and were paid Rs 2.5 per kg. But after joining the production centre, we started earning a good income.”Historic Clock Tower to get faceliftAbohar: In 1960, the Clock Tower (Ghanta Ghar) constructed by the British when Queen Victoria completed 60 years of her reign in 1897 was known as “Kabootar Khana”. When renowned physician Dr Shri Ram Chaudhary was elected as municipal committee president in 1961, he got the historic Clock Tower plastered with white cement. After six decades, when Abhijeet Kaplish assumed office as first Commissioner of the Abohar Municipal Corporation last year, he listed some historic buildings for renovation. Now the renovation of the Clock Tower has been approved during the first MC meeting. Mayor Vimal Thatai said Rs 6 lakh would be spent in the first phase of the renovation work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/leaders-lend-a-helping-hand-268197
14-06-2021||---||Parkash Singh Badal unlikely to appear before SIT in Kotkapura case||Chandigarh, June 13Former Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal is unlikely to appear before the SIT, probing the Kotkapura police firing case, on June 16 due to his “ill health”.SAD spokesperson Daljeet Singh Cheema said the former CM was indisposed. “He visited AIIMS-Bathinda twice recently due to chest congestion. He has been advised rest. He may not be able to appear before the probe panel on June 16.”He claimed Badal was yet to receive summons. “Besides, under Section 160 CrPc, the police should visit senior citizens for questioning instead of summoning them to police station or any other place,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parkash-singh-badal-unlikely-to-appear-before-sit-in-kotkapura-case-267964
14-06-2021||Aditi Tandon||AICC panel on Punjab meets Rahul post SAD-BSP pact||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 13The Congress appears to be in a rush to resolve the Punjab crisis with the AICC panel on the state holding an hour-long discussion with Rahul Gandhi on Sunday.The meeting assumes significance in the light of the SAD and BSP announcing a pre-poll arrangement marking a shift of political equations ahead of the 2022 state Assembly elections.AICC panel chairman Mallikarjun Kharge and members Harish Rawat and JP Agarwal discussed issues confronting the Punjab unit and the government with Rahul and answered his queries on the issue.The panel had earlier this week submitted its report to Congress president Sonia Gandhi and backed the continuance of CM Capt Amarinder Singh at the helm, suitable accommodation of former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and other sections of society and revamp of the state unit to make it ready for the polls.The SAD-BSP alliance was also discussed at today’s meeting. The pact will exert greater pressure on the Congress to project Dalit leaders in Punjab.The committee has proposed widespread revamp of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, although the decision on the nature of accommodation of leaders has been left to Sonia Gandhi.The Congress is to first decide whether it wants to replace incumbent state chief Sunil Jakhar. “There is nothing against Jakhar as such. If he is replaced, he will have to be given a suitable post,” a party source said.The CM favours a Hindu for the post of state chief or a Dalit. The party is actively considering a state president and a few working presidents for Punjab apart from more than one deputy CM. The AICC panel is likely to meet Sonia Gandhi before a final call is taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aicc-panel-on-punjab-meets-rahul-post-sad-bsp-pact-267969
14-06-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Ludhiana firms discharge effluents ‘without treatment’||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 13Effluents from more than 12 steel-based plants in the city, which use hydrochloric acid (HCl) for the pickling process, are flowing into the already polluted Buddha Nullah, the sewerage or bored deep into the earth without treatment.These plants, discharging poisonous material into the nullah, have no treatment facilities. Interestingly, these industries have an agreement for removal of effluents with JBR Technologies Private Limited, located on the Kohara-Macchiwara road, which treats sulphuric acid but not HCl.Contaminated water recycled: CompanyRajinder Singh of the JBR group said they had another plant to treat HCl in the Focal Point area. Around 30,000 litre water containing HCl was treated there daily. On being asked that more than 50 lakh litre of HCL was consumed by the industry in Ludhiana and where did the excess water go, Singh said it was the duty of the PPCB to keep a check on the industry.Following a complaint, a team of environmental engineers of the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) took samples from the pickling tanks of about 24 industries between May 31 and June 4. As many as 12 units were found to be using HCl, nine sulphuric acid and three were using both.The pickling process is done on steel for smoothening and making it rust-free. The HCl process is comparatively cheaper than the sulphuric acid process but the pollutants emitted are much more dangerous. As per information, 50 lakh litre HCl is consumed per month by the industries of Ludhiana.The JBR group is re-processing sulphuric acid and not HCl while the agreements with the industries reveal the particular company is hired on contract for treating HCl too. A sister firm was also opened by the JBR group but that never got the consent to operate. However, inspection showed that power worth lacks of rupees was consumed by the sister firm.Rajinder Singh of the JBR group said they had another plant to treat HCl in the Focal Point area. Around 30,000 litre water containing HCl was treated there daily, which was ultimately recycled.Asked about 50 lakh litre HCl consumed by the industry in Ludhiana and where the excess water went, Rajinder Singh said it was the duty of the PPCB to keep the industry and use of HCl in check.Anurag Verma, Principal Secretary, Department of Science, Technology and Environment, Government of Punjab, said a complaint had been received against many industries and teams had been formed for inspection. “Action as per law will be taken against the industries. This can include closure of units or huge environmental compensation,” said Verma.Rajesh Goyal from KISCON Industries said they had an agreement with the JBR group for lifting the HCl for treatment. “Now, we are not aware what the company does. We were giving it money for HCl treatment,” Goyal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-firms-discharge-effluents-without-treatment-267974
14-06-2021||Aman Sood||Faulty power pacts cost consumers Rs 1/unit extra in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 13Power consumers are paying approximately Rs 1.05 per unit extra due to the faulty power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed by the state in the name of making Punjab a “power-surplus state”.Fixed charge burden Rs 1,500 crThis is over and above the separate taxes and cess paid by consumers on power consumed. The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has been paying fixed costs to independent power producers (IPPs) despite its failure to draw optimum electricity from them. Till date, it has paid roughly over Rs 5,500 crore in the past over six years as per PPAs with the IPPs.“Had this not been paid, the present power rates could have been cheaper by over Rs 1.20 per unit given the cess and taxes on power,” said PSPCL sources. Starting from the year 2013-14, the PSPCL is now paying Rs 1,500 crore per annum towards fixed cost against the surrendered power. “Punjab sees peak power demand of over 10,000 MW during the paddy season only, but the IPPs are paid almost the whole year despite surrendering power,” say power experts.“If the Rs 1,500 crore fixed charges are not paid, then the tariff can be reduced by about 22 paise per unit for all categories of consumers and till date roughly over Rs 1.05 per unit tariff could have been reduced,” said All India Power Engineers Federation VK Gupta. “Many states have signed PPAs, but are using power only during the peak time. They have no clause to pay for the surrendered power,” he said.The state has three private thermal plants — Talwandi Sabo Power Plant, Nabha Power Plant and GVK Talwandi Sabo. The PSPCL has been keeping its own thermal plants shut to draw more power from the IPPs, but while doing this, the PSPCL has to pay salaries to its staff without using their services optimally.“Till 2020, the PSPCL has surrendered unutilised power worth more than Rs 4,000 crore. The per unit cost from the IPPs has been increasing. Moreover, the IPPs have been finding loopholes and indulging in litigation. The overall impact of such litigation will be around Rs 20,000 crore over the next remaining 20 years of the agreements,” reads a PSEB Engineers’ Association’s letter sent to the PSPCL management in April.Petition filed with regulator: PSPCL||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faulty-power-pacts-cost-consumers-rs-1-unit-extra-in-punjab-267975
14-06-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Labourers protest cap on wages by villages||Mandi Ahmedgarh/ Raikot, June 13Farmers and migrant labourers are trading barbs over a move to cap paddy transplantation wages in several villages.Upset over labourers demanding as high as Rs 4,500 per acre considering the last year’s wages when there was shortage of workforce amid lockdown, cultivators have decided to cap it around Rs 3,300 per acre this time. However, the workforce unions have opposed the move.Demand pay increase in consonance with support priceThe decision was announced after farmers of Akhara village in Jagraon subdivision held a joint meeting of social organisations on Friday. “The rate of paddy transplantation has been fixed at Rs 3,300 per acre. If someone pays more than this, he will be fined Rs 50,000,” read the resolution signed by villagers.“Fixing wages is no less than the axe of big corporate houses against which farmers have been protesting at the Delhi borders,” rued Paramjit Singh Pamma, who led labourers during a road blockade against the resolution on the Raikot-Jagraon road yesterday.Harjinder Singh Samra, an office-bearer of a social organisation of Chhanna village, said farmers had to pay almost double wages last year. “There is no shortage of labour this time,” he said. Lachman Singh Sewewal, general secretary, Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union, said if farmers wanted a hike in MSP, they should be willing to increase the labour rate. “Even if the rate is increased by Rs 1,000 per acre, 86 per cent small and marginal farmers (having up to 5 acres land), will spend maximum Rs 5,000 extra on the labour,” he reasoned.However, farmers say the hike in labour charges is too steep and unviable. In Talanian village of Fatehgarh Sahib, a resolution was passed by the panchayat and boards have been erected, saying rates of Rs 2,500-2,600 per acre have been determined by the farmers’ unions in Delhi.But unions were quick to deny this. Jagmohan Singh Patiala, general secretary of BKU Ekta Dakaunda, said: “The unions have not done any such thing. Rather, we are asking farmers to amicably resolve the issue.”(With inputs from Ruchika M Khanna)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/labourers-protest-cap-on-wages-by-villages-267976
14-06-2021||Bathinda||Rain lowers mercury, brings cheer to farmers||Mild to moderate spell of rain during early morning hours on Sunday brought respite from extremely sultry weather conditions in Bathinda district where maximum temperature was hovering around 47°C this week. Farmers are upbeat as rain amid paddy transplantation season is beneficial for them. Bathinda district recorded 18 mm rain on Sunday morning.  Jagshir Singh, a farmer from Goniana said: “Rain at this time of paddy transplantation is a boon for farmers. Not only will it provide needed water for sowing, but also reduce expenses incurred on diesel. The rain will take the load off the powercom department as well.” Meanwhile, many roads in the city remained waterlogged exposing the ill-preparedness of the municipal corporation ahead of monsoon season. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rain-lowers-mercury-brings-cheer-to-farmers-267977
14-06-2021||---||Number of critical Covid patients in Punjab falls||Chandigarh, June 13With the Covid cases falling, there has been a decline in number of critical patients also. This has reduced pressure on the hospitals.When last month the state was reeling under the peak of the second Covid wave, the daily average of Covid patients on ventilator support was above 400. Similarly, the number of patients on oxygen support had hit around 10,000.The number of critical patients on ventilator support as well as those on oxygen support started falling in middle of May. With every week, it kept on reducing almost at the rate of 10 to 15 per cent.Currently, the number of patients on oxygen support is around 2,500. Similarly, the patients on ventilator support is around 200.Similarly, the number of cases has reduced to just 20 per cent of the cases being reported in mid of last month. The deaths have also reduced by almost 80 per cent.In mid-May, the daily cases were around 9,000 and deaths over 200. At present, the cases have come down to around 1,000 and the deaths remain around 50.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/number-of-critical-covid-patients-in-punjab-falls-267978
14-06-2021||Balwant Garg||Health workers battle vaccine hesitancy in rural areas||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, June 13Rigid beliefs coupled with rumours are proving to be an obstacle for health workers in convincing people to take Covid-19 vaccine shots in some villages of Faridkot.As misinformation about the vaccine is prevalent in rural areas, it is difficult to convince people, wrote multipurpose health workers in government-run health sub-centre at Sadhanwala village of Faridkot to the higher authorities. The village has a population of about 2,300.The health workers said they were making repeated rounds of villages under this sub-centre to persuade people to take vaccination, but the response was poor.At Dalewala village, some panchayat members had asked the granthi and other staff members in the gurdwara not to make any announcement regarding the vaccine from the speaker as people don’t want any jab, said health workers. The department mainly relies on speakers in gurdwaras as public addressing system to invite people for vaccination.“At Nathalwala village, even sarpanch and panchayat members have not got the jab. In such a situation, it is difficult to persuade villagers to get the vaccine,” said a health worker. Every death in the village is attributed to vaccine.Last week, a 10-member team of the Health Department went to Veerewala Kalan village of the district. Health Department workers made many attempts to persuade people to get the vaccine, but to no avail. The sarpanch also avoided the vaccine, saying she has some physical problem. “People have hesitancy towards vaccination,” said Baldev Singh, a former sarpanch of the village.Despite government’s efforts to create awareness about the importance of vaccination, myths and misunderstandings circulated on social media have badly hit the drive. “Believing vaccines lead to fever, which hampers those who depend on daily wages, many daily wagers avoid vaccine,” said a senior medical officer.Other rumour doing the round is that taking the vaccine may cause loss of sexual virility. At Kanayawala village of Faridkot, an anganwari worker, who is also a panchayat member, is posing a big challenge to the Health Department. As she had fever and body aches for two days after the jab, she was able to prevail upon most of the villagers that vaccination had many side-effects.“Taking the services of teachers, panchayats, health and ASHA workers, we are putting our best efforts to dispel unfounded fears. More people in rural areas have started coming forward for vaccination,” said Vimal Setia, Deputy Commissioner, Faridkot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/health-workers-battle-vaccine-hesitancy-in-rural-areas-267979
14-06-2021||Sangrur||Deaths dip to 2 in Sangrur||Health authorities are heaving a sigh of relief in Sangrur as Covid deaths fell to two in the district today. Sangrur has witnessed 5.3 per cent Case Fatality Rate (CFR).Sangrur has to date witnessed 821 Covid deaths, including 122 in Sangrur health block, followed by Longowal (116), Moonak (87), Kauhrian (80) and Sunam (70).“The second wave has receded but the health authorities should not relax. Instead, they should prepare for the third wave. After the first wave, they failed to make required arrangements and many died due to lack of health facilities,” said a local. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/deaths-dip-to-2-in-sangrur-267980
14-06-2021||Parvesh Sharma
||Paddy season fails to deter protesters||Tribune News Service Sangrur, June 13 The start of paddy transplantation has failed to dampen the spirits of farmers and reduce their numbers at anti-farm law protest sites across the district. All sites are witnessing a healthy gathering, with family members of farmers regularly visiting these.  “Paddy transplantation would end in some days, but our fight against the farm laws would continue till these are repealed. We know it’s our fight to save the future of our coming generations. My husband and two sons are busy in paddy transplantation, while I, along with both my daughter-in-laws, have come here to attend the protest,” said Parminder Kaur, a senior citizen, at a protest site.  Khushpreet Kaur, a Class 11 student, said she, along with her younger sister, had been attending the protest for last two months. “My father and brother are in the field for paddy transplantation. My mother is also there to prepare food for them. But I and my younger sister have been coming here regularly,” she said.  Farmers said they had been working hard to ensure there’s no reduction in numbers. Indefinite protests have been going on at Sangrur, Dirba, Sunam, Kalajhar, Bhawanigarh and Lehragaga areas of the district for the past around 250 days. Besides ensuring attendance, farmers are also making required arrangements of food and milk at the protests sites.  “Farmers have formed various committees to make arrangements,” said Harjinder Singh, a farmer from Sangrur. Gobinder Singh, Sangrur block president of the BKU (Ugrahan) said: “Like other farmers, I have also been attending protests and taking care of my field, as both are of utmost importance for us.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/paddy-season-fails-to-deter-protesters-267981
14-06-2021||Sangrur||Farmers get e-training in latest techniques||Confined to their villages due to Covid, many farmers have been attending webinars and online training programmes on latest techniques of direct seeding of rice (DSR) and other things related to farming. Apart from online interaction, digital pamphlets shared by experts through WhatsApp groups and social media are also proving to be of great help to them. “Webinars being organised by various organisations like the Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Kheri, and Farm Advisory Service Centre, Sangrur, are the main source of information for us as Covid has restricted our movement,” said Jagjiwan Singh, a farmer from Ubhawal village. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-get-e-training-in-latest-techniques-267982
14-06-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab Congress mulls strategy to retain Dalit vote||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 13With the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) joining hands with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) for the 2022 Assembly polls, all eyes are on the Congress’ strategy to retain the Dalit community vote bank as Congress leader Rahul Gandhi reportedly met the three-member Mallikarjun Kharge panel today.The party is keen on balancing the power equation in the state Congress, vis-a-vis the 33 per cent Dalit vote share and other communities like Hindus and OBCs in Majha, Doaba and Malwa regions.During an interaction with the Kharge panel, Punjab Dalit leaders had already talked about the BJP’s “Yug Parivartan” programme promising a Dalit Chief Minister.Senior Congress Dalit leader Ram Lal Jassi said the Akalis and BSP were in political wilderness. “BSP under Mayawati is losing relevance. Congress is also in dilemma due to unfulfilled promises. Still, to pre-empt any move of the opponents, the party high command should do something big like announcing a Dalit CM face or a PPCC chief. The community is in rebellious mood,” he said.But as reports indicate that Capt Amarinder Singh would continue to be in the saddle, the high command could think about increasing the strength of Dalit ministers to four or five from the existing three and also include a minister representing the OBC community. But this would lead to dropping some of the ministers.“The past record, outreach among masses, loyalty and stability, and skills would be the deciding factors to choose the Dalit leader for the assigned job in the election year. Whoever is given the responsibility will have to perform,” said a prominent Dalit party leader.Dismissing the SAD-BJP alliance, he said the result of their previous alliance was known to all. “I hope Mayawati does not take offer of Parkash Singh Badal to contest from Punjab on its face value. Otherwise, BSP will have to bear the brunt of the misdeeds of Akalis,” he said.Dalit minister Charanjit Singh Channi said the BSP had been fooled by the SAD. “Going by 33 per cent vote share, the BSP should have been given at least 40 seats,” he added.Party may see 5 Dalit ministers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-mulls-strategy-to-retain-dalit-vote-267983
14-06-2021||Jalandhar||Revise seat share with SAD: BSP workers||Over 300 BSP workers today held a meeting expressing their displeasure over the seat-sharing pact between the party and the Shiromani Akali Dal for the next Assembly polls. Gathering at the community hall in Phillaur, the workers led by Ram Sarup Saroye, Sushil Virdi, Amrit Bhonsle and Khushi Ram urged the party leaders to get the seat-sharing pact revised so that the reserved seats like Phillaur, Banga, Adampur and Chabbewal could be allotted to the BSP. They also alleged that they were being repeatedly threatened since yesterday by Phillaur Akali MLA Baldev Khaira from holding a programme to express their displeasure. Sources said BSP workers were averse to supporting the MLA who they blamed for “ditching the party for his vested political interests” and joining the SAD almost five years ago. However, Khaira claimed that he would meet BSP workers soon and try to quell the discontent. Among those present at the meeting were a few BSP sarpanches, MC councillors, block samiti members and local office-bearers of the party. They said party leaders were so far not prepared to support Khaira, Adampur MLA Pawan Tinu and Banga MLA Dr Sukhwinder Sukhi, all of whom had left BSP to join the Akali Dal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/revise-seat-share-with-sad-bsp-workers-267984
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Pact opportunistic, says Randhawa||Calling the SAD-BSP alliance opportunistic, Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa said it was more of a marriage of convenience based on vote bank politics sans any ideological foundation. He questioned as to how the bigwigs of SAD, who earlier described the previous SAD-BJP pact as inseparable, would now like to christen the new association, which was merely an exercise to regain the lost political ground. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pact-opportunistic-says-randhawa-267985
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Summons to Badal right step: Bajwa||Congress Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa has termed the summoning of former CM Parkash Singh Badal by the Special Investigation Team (SIT), probing the Kotkapura police firing case, as a step in the right direction.  In the earlier probe that was set aside by the Punjab and Haryana HC, it had been observed that the previous SIT had not arraigned Badals as accused. “I had specifically stated that instead of challenging the HC judgment before the SC, a new SIT should be constituted and the investigation should be concluded within 30-45 days. The need of the hour is to conduct a fair investigation wherein the role of Badals and former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini are brought out. They should be made to face a trial for their illegal actions,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/summons-to-badal-right-step-bajwa-267986
14-06-2021||Amritsar||Will contest all 117 seats, reiterates BJP||At a time when state BJP leaders are being heckled as a fallout of the central farm laws, state party chief Ashwani Sharma has said the party will contest all 117 seats in the 2022 Assembly elections.“We will field our party candidates on all Assembly seats and intend to form a new peaceful and drug-free Punjab where the residents, traders and farmers will feel secure under the law of land, where the Dalits and backward classes would not be suppressed,” said Sharma, who was in Amritsar today.On the protest against the farm laws, he said: “Behind the agitation were the ‘forces’ whose intentions were to make political gains by prolonging it. Otherwise, the BJP-led Centre has already offered to suspend the farm laws for two years and constitute a five-member panel to end the impasse. Why didn’t farmers accept it?”On facing opposition from a few party leaders who claim the state unit failed to guide farmers, he said, “How could the 11 rounds of meeting be conducted without the intervention of state BJP leaders?” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-contest-all-117-seats-reiterates-bjp-267987
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||AAP plans fast over scholarship ‘scam’||The AAP will gherao the residence of CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday to protest the Congress government’s alleged misappropriation of post-matric scholarship money meant for Dalit students. Announcing a series of hunger strikes, senior AAP leader Manwinder Singh Giaspura said the party would continue the protest till the government released the dues of SC students to the tune of Rs 1,539 crore. In a statement, Giaspura said earlier the SAD and BJP government had robbed the rights of Dalits and now, the Congress government was doing the same. Giaspura alleged the investigation report submitted by senior IAS officer Kripa Shankar Saroj had revealed Cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot had embezzled crores of rupees in grants sent by the Centre for Dalit students and had given scholarships worth crores of rupees to two colleges. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-plans-fast-over-scholarship-scam-267988
14-06-2021||---||Candidates await appointment letters||Chandigarh, June 13Candidates recruited directly through the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) for the posts of Deputy Director in the Technical Education and Industrial Training Department have been running from pillar to post for the past one-and-a-half years to get appointment letters.In a representation to the Chief Minister’s Office, the candidates alleged due to certain vested interests in the department, the selection process was being delayed on one pretext or the other.“Fearing direct recruitment would affect in-house promotions, a faulty roster of reservation for general and reserved categories was prepared to hamper the recruitment process,” claimed Birdawinder Singh, an affected candidate.Previous representations to the Secretary, Technical Education, have not yielded results. “Five candidates, including two from SC category, were recruited through the PPSC as per the government policy. As per the reservation policy, there are separate rosters for direct recruitment and promotions,” said Birdawinder.Technical Education Minister Charanjit Channi said he had already directed the Secretary, Technical Education, to do the needful.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/candidates-await-appointment-letters-267989
14-06-2021||Aparna Banerji||Hamlet shuts door to outsiders||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 13Tired of witnessing a steady stream of city dwellers driving into the picturesque hamlet at odd hours amid the pandemic, Kukanet village in Hoshiarpur has barred the entry of outsiders.The village shut its doors to outsiders a week ago by deputing 10 to 15 men on “thikri pehra” at the entry point. Today, the villagers turned away around 400 vehicles keen on a weekend getaway.A jewel in the Shivalik hills, Kukanet has not reported a single Covid-19 case so far.Amid the pandemic, Kukanet suddenly found itself buzzing with visitors, with rowdy and often-drunk city dwellers holding night parties and pitching tents for overnight stay. Besides polluting the stream, broken bottles littered by visitors have been causing injuries to locals.A conflict last week was the tipping point when a group of boys, drunk and without masks, tried to snatch a mobile from a villager, leading to an altercation. The villagers allege the men misbehaved with policemen deputed at a checkpoint outside the village. Sarpanch Gurbachan Singh said: “Visitors are often without mask and seldom follow social distancing. We do not have Covid yet, but are scared. We don’t even have proper healthcare options here. Most visitors are from Delhi, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Bathinda and Tarn Taran.”Hoshiarpur SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said: “We have been getting plaints about nuisance and littering. The police have been asked to sensitise people. Drinking is prohibited here and those littering will face action.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hamlet-shuts-door-to-outsiders-267990
14-06-2021||Abohar||Drug supplier evading arrest for 10 months held||The Sriganganagar police have nabbed a drug supplier who had been evading arrest for the past 10 months by taking shelter in different towns in Punjab. SHO Phool Chand Sharma said today that Mandeep Singh Mannu (26) of Kalian village near Hindumalkot Road was wanted for alleged supply of 49,750 intoxicating tablets to Sucha Singh of Mateeli Rathan who was held on July 23 in a joint action by the BSF and the police last year.  In another incident, the Khuyiansarwer police at a naka near Kallarkhera village on the Abohar-Sriganganagar highway seized 119 kg of poppy husk from a truck. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drug-supplier-evading-arrest-for-10-months-held-267991
14-06-2021||Abohar||Abohar Cong leader’s son dies in road mishap||Abohar Congress leader Vinod Sharma Lali’s son and two others were killed in two road accidents.Lali’s son Anuj Sharma (35), who was driving a car, lost control of the vehicle near Latera village on NH No. 62 on Saturday. As a result, the car hit a tree on the roadside. Anuj died in the mishap while his wife Charu (32), son Arhan (8) and mother-in-law Neelam Devi (65) were injured, said Circle Inspector Ramesh Kumar Neyol. The injured have been admitted to PBM Hospital, Bikaner. Today Anuj’s body was brought to Abohar and cremated at Shivpuri.PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar, District Youth Congress ex-president Sandeep Jakhar and Mayor Vimal Thatai have mourned the death.In another mishap on the Abohar-Sriganganagar stretch of the same highway, the owner and driver of a mini-truck (Canter) died on the spot when it hit a tree near Maujgarh village last night. The deceased were identified as owner Palwinder Singh (35) and driver Bal Raj (40) who belonged to Gurdaspur district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-cong-leaders-son-dies-in-road-mishap-267992
14-06-2021||Praful Chander Nagpal||Amid staff strike, garbage set on fire||Fazilka, June 13With garbage strewn across the town a month after sanitary workers went on strike, the litter is now being set on fire, causing pollution in residential areas.As many as 190 regular and contractual workers had proceeded on strike in support of their demands on May 13. According to an estimate, 900 ton garbage had piled up in the town as 30 ton was collected daily.Mounds of garbage have been set on fire in several parts of the town. Garbage fires have been reported in the TV Tower Colony, Patwarkhana and Railway Road areas, emanating poisonous gases from polythene bags.“The smoke has is causing inconvenience to patients already battling the pandemic,” says Ajay Rai, a resident.Residents say the government has failed miserably in make alternative arrangements to lift garbage, forcing them to fend for themselves. The government has failed to persuade sanitary workers to end their strike as their demands are yet to be fulfilled.Naresh Khera, sanitary inspector, Fazilka MC, said the council would look into the allegations of garbage fires.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-staff-strike-garbage-set-on-fire-267993
14-06-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Congress MLA, mayor in saddle, infra works get fillip||Tribune News ServicePathankot, June 13With the Mayor and MLA belonging to the same political dispensation, several major developmental projects have been fast-tracked, giving a much-needed respite to locals.If major works have to be ushered, the correct political linkage between the first citizen and the MLA acts as a catalyst in setting up in such ventures. In 2015, the city had a BJP MLA in Ashwani Sharma while newly elected Mayor Avil Vasudeva belonged to the same party. Some vital projects were executed till Amit Vij, a Congressman, got elected in 2017. The slanging matches between Vij and Vasudeva were too common to go unnoticed and with it infrastructural projects like building of new roads, widening of existing ones and works pertaining to establishing new water supply and sewerage came to a grinding halt. However, all that has changed now with Congressman Heera Lal Bhatia being elected as the first citizen.Joint efforts to push development“After a long time, the drains running through the city are being desilted and subsequently, they will be covered. Bitumen is being laid on a war-footing on the Dhangu road, APK road and Lamini road,” said hotelier Ashish Vij“After a long time, the drains running through the city are being desilted and subsequently, they will be covered. Bitumen is being laid on a war-footing on the Dhangu road, APK road and Lamini road. Politicking has been relegated to the sidelines. For a normal resident, what matters is the condition of roads, proper water supply and sewerage. Nothing else matters,” said hotelier Ashish Vij.An insider disclosed MLA Vij was taking a keen interest in the civic affairs because Pathankot Assembly seat was predominantly an urban area. “Hence work done by the MC will not only reflect in his report card but will also help him garner votes in the 2022 poll,” said an MC official.Gurdaspur Parliamentary constituency has two Municipal Corporations, Pathankot and Batala, while all the other cities have committees or councils.In Batala, developmental projects like laying of sewerage and widening of existing roads are being taken up on priority. “This infrastructure upgrade is visible in Pathankot and Batala. Earlier, when the political equations between the MLA and Mayor failed to match, projects were planned and executed only on paper,” said a Batala councillor.SAD leader Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal is the sitting Batala MLA. However, Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa is the one who rules the roost while Mayor Sukhdeep Singh Teja is his handpicked man. “Both are from the Congress and hence are on the same page,” said a senior officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-mla-mayor-in-saddle-infra-works-get-fillip-267994
14-06-2021||---||Can’t deprive minor runaway bride of fundamental rights: High Court||Chandigarh, June 13Merely because the runaway bride is not of marriageable age, she cannot possibly be deprived of her fundamental rights as envisaged in the Constitution of India, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted, while directing the police to decide a couple’s protection plea before taking necessary action in accordance with law.Taking up the protection plea by the runaway couple, Justice Alka Sarin of the High Court asserted the issue before the Bench was not regarding the validity of their marriage. The petitioners were seeking protection of their life and liberty as envisaged under Article 21 of the Constitution. It provided for protection of life and personal liberty. It further made it clear that no person would be deprived of life and personal liberty except as per the procedure established by law. In the present case, the bride was a minor evident from her Aadhaar card. “However, this court cannot shut its eyes to the fact that the apprehension of the petitioners needs to be addressed. Merely because the petitioner-girl is not of marriageable age, she cannot possibly be deprived of her fundamental rights as envisaged in the Constitution of India,” Justice Sarin added.Disposing of the petition without expressing opinion on the veracity of the contents of the petition and submissions by the petitioners’ counsel, Justice Sarin directed the Hoshiarpur Senior Superintendent of Police to decide their representation dated May 31 and take necessary action as per law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cant-deprive-minor-runaway-bride-of-fundamental-rights-high-court-267995
14-06-2021||Chamkaur Sahib||Woman, paramour arrested for killing husband||The district police today claimed to have solved a murder case with the arrest of a woman and her paramour here. The accused, Jasvir Kaur and Kulwinder Singh, allegedly killed former’s husband Harjit Singh (35) with a sickle. SSP Akhil Chaudhary said Kulwinder Singh of Kandola Tapprian village had illicit relation with Jasvir, a resident of Chuhar Majra village. Some time ago. Harjit learnt about this, leading to frequent quarrels. Late last night, Jasvir with Kulwinder’s help allegedly killed Harjit with a sickle, said the SSP. She initially claimed her husband had fallen from the roof under the influence of alcohol. Suspecting foul play, a victim’s relative informed the police following which cops reached the scene and found injury marks on the victim’s head. A neighbour told the police he heard some noise from Harjit’s house around 2.30 am. Sources said when the police confronted the accused, they confessed to the crime. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-paramour-arrested-for-killing-husband-267996
14-06-2021||Anirudh Gupta||Kin refuse to cremate gangster Jaipal Singh Bhullar, want autopsy||Ferozepur, June 13Alleging foul play into the killing of gangster Jaipal Singh Bhullar, whose body was brought here last evening, his parents have refused to perform the last rites demanding another post-mortem to ascertain the facts.Jaipal along with aide Jaspreet Singh was killed in an encounter with the STF of West Bengal Police in Kolkata on Wednesday afternoon.Jaipal’s cremation was scheduled in the afternoon and his younger brother, Amritpal Singh, currently lodged in the Bathinda jail, was brought here amidst tight security for the last rights.However, Jaipal’s father Bhupinder Singh Bhullar and relatives spotted some “unusual marks” on the body, raising suspicion. Bhullar, a retired inspector in Punjab Police, later approached DC Gurpal Singh Chahal and submitted an application demanding a second post-mortem.The DC asked Assistant Commissioner Ravinder Singh Arora to look into the matter. Later, SDM Amit Gupta along with senior police officials met the family at their house in Dashmesh Nagar and urged them to cremate the body today itself, but to no avail.The SDM said they had made arrangements for cremation, but the family demanded an autopsy, which was beyond their authority as the encounter had taken place in Kolkata.A heavy police deployment had been made around Jaipal’s house in the city. Earlier, the police reportedly nabbed a youth outside the locality and seized a pistol. SSP Bhagirath Singh Meena said they were looking into the matter. Sources said the family was planning to approach the HC to seek a second post-mortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kin-refuse-to-cremate-gangster-jaipal-singh-bhullar-want-autopsy-267997
14-06-2021||Raj Sadosh||1965 war veteran passes away at 99||Abohar/Sriganganagar, June 13Maha Vir Chakra awardee Brig Raghubir Singh passed away at his home town in Jaipur due to old age illness today. He was 99.Brigadier Raghubir commanded 18 Rajputana Rifles (later 11 Mechanised Infantry) during the 1965 war with Pakistan.He led from the front, displaying extreme valour during the battle of Asal Uttar. His Maha Vir Chakra citation reads: “In the Khemkaran and Asal Uttar Sector, the attack of the enemy was extremely violent. However, the soldiers of 18 Rajputana Rifles fearlessly confronted the Pakistan army’s attack and destroyed 22 Patton tanks of the enemy. On September 9, 1965, under the able leadership of Raghubir Singh, his battalion successfully accomplished the mission and kicked out the Pakistan army that had the suspicious motive of reaching Harike in Punjab.”For this gallant act, then President of India Dr S Radhakrishnan honoured Lieut Colonel (later Brigadier) Raghubir Singh with Maha Vir Chakra, the second highest gallantry award in the country.During the 1971 war, he effectively handled the post of Provost Marshal in the Military Police with the responsibility to look after one lakh Pakistan prisoners of war in the Bangladesh surrender camp. Brigadier Raghubir Singh, or ‘Dadosa’ as he was fondly addressed, is survived by his son Maj Sangram Singh Rajawat (retd).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1965-war-veteran-passes-away-at-99-267998
14-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Strengthen canal berms, farmers urge Punjab CM||Abohar, June 13 The Kisan Sangharsh Samiti has urged Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh to order strengthening of Ferozepur Feeder Canal berms (side lanes) to prevent breaches. The canal also supplies water to West Rajasthan areas.  The Feeder canal, which emanates from the Harike headworks, has a capacity of 11,192 cusecs and was constructed in 1952-53. It runs to a length of about 51.30 km for supply of Ravi-Beas waters to two distributary systems (Mayawah and Sodhinagar), having a combined discharge of 309 cusecs. The Sirhind feeder off-taking from the Ferozepur feeder was constructed during 1954-55 and runs to a length of about 136.5 km. It has an authorised capacity of 5,264 cusecs, having a cultivable command area of 3.6 lakh hectares. Experts, in their report to the state government, had stated that the life of the Ferozepur Feeder canal was limited to 50 years. Its sidewalls and bed had collapsed at several places and leakage caused waterlogging in Punjab. After visiting the feeder, Samiti spokesman Subhash Sehgal and vice president Amar Singh Bishnoi said in a memorandum sent to the CM, the farmers’ body alleged that some people were engaged in setting up tube wells in violation of the rules related to the protected lane on both sides of the Ferozepur feeder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/strengthen-canal-berms-farmers-urge-punjab-cm-267999
14-06-2021||Vibha Sharma||Monsoon arrives in Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana, 15 days ahead of schedule||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 13The Southwest Monsoon on Sunday covered the entire Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh and parts of north Haryana, Chandigarh and north Punjab, at least 15 days ahead of its scheduled arrival over the region.According to the IMD, the seasonal rain has covered the “entire Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, and some parts of north Haryana, Chandigarh and north Punjab today, June 13”.Conditions are favourable for its further advance “into most parts of Madhya Pradesh, remaining parts of east Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, some more parts of west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab over the next 48 hours”, it added.Marking fast progress due to weather conditions in the northern Bay of Bengal since arrival over Kerala on June 3, the Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) is currently passing through Diu, Surat, Nandurbar, Bhopal, Nowgong, Hamirpur, Barabanki, Bareilly, Saharanpur, Ambala and Amritsar.Normally, the seasonal rain arrives in Delhi around June 28-29. Experts say the reason behind the sudden advancement is the formation of a low-pressure system over the northern Bay of Bengal, which has created conducive conditions for the advancement of monsoon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/monsoon-arrives-in-chandigarh-punjab-and-haryana-15-days-ahead-of-schedule-267828
