15-06-2021||Chandigarh||38 deaths, 642 fresh Covid cases in Punjab||Punjab on Tuesday reported 38 coronavirus deaths as 642 fresh cases surfaced, taking the state’s infection count to 5,89,153, according to a medical bulletin.So far, the infection has killed 15,650 people in the state. On Tuesday, deaths were reported from several districts, including Bathinda, Faridkot, Amritsar, Kapurthala and Tarn Taran.Ludhiana reported 67 infections, followed by 53 in Mohali and 47 in Amritsar.The number of active cases dropped to 10,802 from 11,913 on Monday. The state’s positivity rate stood at 1.56 per cent. With 1,691 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,62,701, the bulletin said.There are 185 critical patients who are on ventilator while 2,342 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 1,01,36,118 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/38-deaths-642-fresh-covid-cases-in-punjab-268883
15-06-2021||Vibha Sharma||Punjab BJP leaders meet Shah, Nadda||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 15With Punjab Assembly elections scheduled next year, the BJP on Monday started planning its strategy with Home Minister Amit Shah and party chief JP Nadda meeting leaders from the state amid the backdrop of the ongoing agitation against the three central farm laws and the recently stitched Akali-BSP alliance.State president Ashwani Sharma, general secretary in-charge Dushyant Gautam and Punjab leader and general secretary Tarun Chugh were among those present at the meeting. With SAD stitching an alliance with the BSP, the BJP is now looking at the changed caste equations in the SC/ST-dominated state.Though the party is expected to contest most seats on its own, sources say it is not averse to alliances with breakaway groups and “high-profile” names and paratroopers from rival parties to take on Congress’ Capt Amarinder Singh.  Apparently, “aggrieved leaders” from the Opposition party have also not been ruled out yet.The saffron party is facing a tough situation in the state that emerged as the epicentre of farmers’ protests in these past months. Heckled and not allowed to hold functions in their constituencies, many party leaders are believed to have voiced concern to the central leadership over the resistance they have been facing when they visit their constituencies. The saffron party also performed poorly in the last municipal polls, winning a handful of seats. In those terms, today’s meeting is crucial as it will decide the direction for the party’s poll strategy for the upcoming polls.  Leaders say they will continue to reach out to farmers to clear the air on all issues. “That the agitation is political, Punjab farmers understand well. The Direct Benefit Transfer of MSP has further clarified their doubts regarding the laws,” Punjab leaders say. The BJP, which contested on 23 seats in alliance with SAD won three with a vote share of around 29 pc in seats it contested. Its overall vote share was around 5.4 pc in 2017.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-bjp-leaders-meet-shah-nadda-268877
15-06-2021||---||Punjab police file criminal case against persons impersonating as Prashant Kishor||Chandigarh, June 15The Punjab Police have registered a criminal case against unknown persons for impersonating political strategist and Punjab CM’s Principal Adviser Prashant Kishor and using his name to incite some political leaders against Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.The police had received information that the said unknown persons had been making phone calls to political leaders and public representatives over the last five-seven days in the assumed identity of Prashant Kishor, according to a Punjab Police spokesperson.These unknown caller(s), speaking as Prashant Kishor, had been reportedly encouraging the politicians to make public statements against the Punjab Chief Minister and to criticise his leadership, said the spokesperson, citing confidential sources.The spokesperson further disclosed that these callers, claiming to be Kishor, had also apparently been giving assurances to the political leaders, etc., that he would take up case with the Congress High Command in Delhi, if they act on his (purportedly Kishor’s) advice.A criminal case under Sections 416, 419, 420, 109, 120-B of the IPC and section 66-D of the IT Act 2000 has been registered at PS Division no. 6, Commissionerate of Police, Ludhiana against the unknown callers, said the spokesperson.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-police-file-criminal-case-against-persons-impersonating-as-prashant-kishor-268863
15-06-2021||Sameer Singh||SC panel seeks action taken report in Mansa Dalit girl's sexual exploitation case||Tribune News ServiceMansa, June 15A day after a Dalit girl was allegedly sexually exploited by a BJP leader in Budhladha area of Mansa district, National Commission for Scheduled Castes has taken note of the matter. The NCSC director in a letter issued to Mansa Deputy Commissioner and Senior Superintendent of Police have sought ‘action taken report’ to be submitted it to it within a week.Meanwhile, the accused is on the run and police teams have been constituted to arrest him. Kaushal Kumar, NCSC Director, in the letter has asked the authorities concerned to provide details of brief details and nature of crime, name and address of the victim, details of accused, FIR sections applied, number of accused arrested and also details of compensation provided to the victim. Notably, the incident was reported in The Tribune this past week wherein it was highlighted that the police have registered a case against Prem Garg, a BJP leader (former district secretary of the party) and an active RSS associate, for allegedly sexually exploiting a Dalit girl in the Budhlada area of Mansa district following a complaint by the victim’s sister. The girl, in her mid-20s, had tried to commit suicide by consuming a poisonous substance. The victim’s sister had mentioned in her complaint that Garg, a municipal councillor of the Budhlada Nagar Council and a BJP leader, had taken pictures of the girl in compromising position and blackmailed her to establish physical relations with him, else he would release her pictures on public platforms. Following which the accused was booked under sections 354, 306 and 116 of the IPC and other relevant sections of the SC/ST Act.Surendra Lamba, SSP, Mansa said, “The accused is absconding and we are making all out efforts to arrest him. The matter is under investigation and after his arrest there will be more clarity with regard to the incident. We have been collecting medical as well as other vital evidence from the girl’s family.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-panel-seeks-action-taken-report-in-mansa-dalit-girls-sexual-exploitation-case-268844
15-06-2021||Mohali||Police use water cannons to stop SAD-BSP workers from marching to CM's residence in Mohali||Police on Tuesday used water cannons to disperse Shiromani Akali Dal and BSP leaders and workers when they were forcing their way to 'gherao' the residence of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh here.Protesters led by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal were shouting slogans against the Congress-led government over several issues, including irregularities in the purchase of Fateh kits and alleged diversion of Covid vaccine doses to private hospitals.Courted arrest with hundreds of SAD & BSP workers while marching to CM @capt_amarinder's farmhouse near Chd to demand arrest of health min @BalbirSinghMLA for vaccine & fateh kit scams besides need to give market rate to farmers whose lands are acquired for highway projects.1/2 pic.twitter.com/8YFYQpiPPY  It was the first joint protest of the SAD and BSP, days after both the parties had stitched an alliance for the 2022 Punjab Assembly polls.BSP state president Jasbir Singh Garhi was also present at the protest. Several Akali leaders, including Badal and Bikram Singh Majithia, were detained by police.Police personnel were deployed in strength and multi-layered barricades were put up on the road leading to the Chief Minister's residence.The SAD and BSP had planned to 'gherao' the CM's residence at Siswan in Mohali.Initially, scores of Akali and BSP protesters forced their way through the first layer of barricades. Police used water cannons when protesters tried to cross the second layer of barricades.In the melee, turbans of several protesters were tossed aside as police resorted to water cannons. Mohali Senior Superintendent of Police Satinder Singh was also present at the spot.Earlier, addressing the workers, SAD chief Badal slammed the state government over the issue of alleged irregularities in the purchase of Fateh kits and alleged diversion of vaccine doses to private hospitals.A 'Fateh kit' contains a pulse oximeter, thermometer, face masks, a steamer, sanitiser, Vitamin-C and zinc tablets and some other medicines for Covid patients. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/police-use-water-cannons-to-stop-sad-bsp-workers-from-marching-to-cms-residence-in-mohali-268811
15-06-2021||Patiala||Garbage piles stink Patiala as cleanliness workers protest; burn Punjab CM effigies||Garbage piles have started to pile and stinking up various parts of the state—including the Chief Minister's home district, Patiala—as workers associated with the cleanliness worker union Punjab are in protest.Apart from dumping garbage in the open, the protestors on Tuesday resorted to burning effigies of the Chief Minister and Local Bodies Minister at their respective corporation and council areas.The protestors have been holding strikes throughout the state—including Pathankot, Bathinda, Patiala, Barnala, Sangrur, Faridkot, Mohali among others—since May 13.Over 30,000 workers are associated with the Union. The Union's president Ashok Sarwan, from Faridkot, said: "The state government has not regularised our jobs for many years. We want them to put an end to the 'thekedari' system and regularise our workers. Also, promotions of previously hired employees have not been carried out for years. They are yet to release our pending Dearness allowance arrears."In Patiala city, the protestors blocked the lower mall road and burned the effigy of the local bodies minister.In Khanauri, they burned the effigies of the Chief Minister and the Local Bodies Minister.In Rajpura and Nabha municipal council areas as well, the workers carried out a protest march throughout the city, while raising slogans against the state government.Patiala President, Sunil said: "The protests are being carried out in the state and Patiala since May 13. Our contractual workers are paid a mere Rs 7,653 per month, which is way less. Many have been working for the last 10 to 15 years. We will continue the protest until the government accepts our demands."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/garbage-piles-stink-patiala-as-cleanliness-workers-protest-burn-punjab-cm-effigies-268794
15-06-2021||---||Jalandhar ex-DCP Balkar Singh joins AAP||Jalandhar, June 15Former Jalandhar DCP Balkar Singh joined the Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday. The former cop joined the party in the presence of Punjab affairs co-incharge of AAP, Raghav Chadha.Balkar Singh, who has been PPS officer, had served in the Punjab Police for nearly 32 years.Since his recent retirement, he had been actively working in the reserved Kartarpur constituency, where from the party leadership is mulling to field him in the forthcoming Assembly polls.The state will go to the polls in February or March in 2022.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-ex-dcp-balkar-singh-joins-aap-268778
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid death rate soars to 8% in Haryana, 6% in Punjab in a week||Punjab's case fatality rate (CFR), which is already highest in the country, has increased further. With 486 deaths and 8,343 cases, the state's CFR for the last week remained around 6 per cent, while the overall rate is 2.6 per cent.Similarly, the weekly mortality rate in Haryana has risen to nearly 8 per cent. The state reported 280 deaths and 3,570 cases in the past seven days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-death-rate-soars-to-8-in-haryana-6-in-punjab-in-a-week-268641
15-06-2021||New Delhi||AICC panel on Punjab likely to meet Sonia today||Punjab Congress factionalism is expected to be resolved soon with the AICC panel on the state expected to hold discussions with party president Sonia Gandhi tomorrow.Efforts are underway to strike a balance in the power equation among Punjab leaders and give every community due representation.Discussions are being held on potential replacements of PCC chief Sunil Jakhar, with CM Amarinder Singh keen on having a Hindu in the position and opposed to giving the post to ex-minister Navjot Singh Sidhu. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aicc-panel-on-punjab-likely-to-meet-sonia-today-268653
15-06-2021||Muktsar||Caseload drops in Muktsar||The Covid graph is rapidly falling in the district with 869 persons having recovered and 314 testing positive in the past one week.Data suggests the daily number of fresh cases has remained below 100 during the past one week. As many as 68 persons had tested positive on June 7; 48 on June 8; 45 on June 9; 51 on June 10; 62 on June 11; 13 on June 12 and 27 on June 13.Similarly, as many as 184 persons recovered on June 7; 120 on June 8; 117 on June 9; 138 on June 10; 72 on June 11; 134 on June 12 and 104 on June 13 in the district.The district currently has 432 active cases. Health officials said the death rate had also fallen with 19 persons succumbing to the virus in the past one week.The rural populace too has now shown willingness to get vaccinated with 98 per cent of those over 45 years at Dhulkot village having been vaccinated. A senior government doctor said collective efforts had finally borne fruit. “We still urge the public to follow the Covid guidelines,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/caseload-drops-in-muktsar-268418
15-06-2021||---||Hoteliers seek relief on pattern of Rajasthan, Gujarat||Bathinda, June 14Hit hard by the pandemic, Punjab hoteliers have sought a relief package on the pattern of Rajasthan and Gujarat. The Punjab Hotel Association has written a letter to CM Capt Amarinder Singh demanding salary of staff for six months, deferment of electricity charges for six months, deferment of water sanitation, licence fee and property tax, and waiver of the excise permit renewal fee.Association president Satish Arora said, “The Gujarat and Rajasthan Governments have waived the property tax as well as fixed charges in electricity bills of hotels, resorts, restaurants and water parks affected by the pandemic for one year. Similarly, we also want that the Punjab Government should give us a relief package for the survival of the industry in the state.”Arora said they had also appealed to PM Narendra Modi to provide relief to the hospitality industry that was on the verge of collapse.Charter of demandsArora said, “We have written a letter to the Chief Minister, seeking immediate support from the government to save the hospitality sector from ‘imminent collapse’ and have urged him to take steps for for it.” He said the condition had become so bad that five-star hotel Hyatt Regency in Mumbai had suspended its operations as it did not have money to pay salaries to its staff.Arora said, “The hospitality sector has been totally ignored in the pandemic. Due to this, a large number of hotels and eating joints have already shut down.” Arora said with businesses closing, the hotel industry was unable to repay nearly Rs 1,200 crore loans. Therefore, he urged the RBI to extend EMIs for at least a year and waive interest on the loans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hoteliers-seek-relief-on-pattern-of-rajasthan-gujarat-268419
15-06-2021||---||Pact to regulate trans-fatty acid||Chandigarh, June 14The Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Punjab, and Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to strengthen the implementation of trans-fat regulation in the state.Signing the MoU, Kumar Rahul, Commissioner, FDA, said: “Excessive use of trans fats is one of the leading risk factors of Covid-related mortalities in the state.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pact-to-regulate-trans-fatty-acid-268420
15-06-2021||Bathinda||Free coaching  for kids who lost parents to Covid||Coming to aid of students who lost their parents to COVID-19, a premier private institute that provides coaching classes for competitive exams such as IIT-JEE and NEET preparation, has decided to launch a humanitarian initiative of offering free coaching classes to them.The institute has decided to assist students who lost their mother or father that were the family’s sole breadwinners. The move will help students in resuming their dreams and reducing the looming hardships. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla’s had recently announced that students preparing for engineering or medical entrance tests who had been orphaned due to the Covid-19 crisis would be provided with free coaching and accommodation in Kota. The lower house speaker requested coaching institutes across the nation to follow suit. The institute’s free coaching proposal is in line with the request. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/free-coaching-for-kids-who-lost-parents-to-covid-268421
15-06-2021||---||IIT breathing device allows oxygen flow without power||Ropar, June 14To save lives in low resource areas and during transit, the Indian Institute of Technology-Ropar has developed a low-cost CPAP (continuous positive airway pressure) therapy device.CPAP machines use mild air pressure to keep a patient’s airways open to avoid collapse. The 3D printed, power-free device christened as “Jivan Vayu” can be used through a normal oxygen cylinder or main oxygen line to provide an accelerated flow rate without electricity.The device is ready for medical testing and the team is currently seeking industrial collaboration for commercialisation of the device.‘Jivan vayu’Dr Khushboo Rakha, who led the team, said as Covid-19 was spreading to villages and smaller towns, steady power supply was emerging as a key concern for those on medical equipment such as oxygen concentrators and ventilators. “It has been established that the use of existing CPAP machines, especially in the early stages of the infection reduces lung damage and allows patients to recover from the inflammatory effects. But doctors are concerned that if their CPAPs lose power at night, their patients may suffocate in their sleep. Power failure poses more serious issues for patients with moderate to severe respiratory infections,” she said.She added that “Jivan Vayu” could deliver high-flow oxygen while maintaining a continuous positive pressure, resulting in a low cost and accessible CPAP therapy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/iit-breathing-device-allows-oxygen-flow-without-power-268422
15-06-2021||---||No trained staff, Barnala shifts all ventilators to other districts||Barnala, June 14The lack of trained staff in Barnala has forced the health authorities to shift all eight ventilators to other districts.The district has 3.7 per cent Covid Case Fatality Rate (CFR), which is third highest in the state after Sangrur (5.3%) and Tarn Taran (4.3%), while many strongly believe that many lives could have been saved had the authorities made ventilators functional here.“The state government failed to arrange the required staff to run the ventilators and provide other required facilities, which has led to many deaths in the district. All claims of the government to have taken required steps are only on papers. We have not seen any improvement and the health department is still shifting Covid patients to other districts,” said Narain Dutt, president, Inquilabi Kendra Punjab.No Level-3 facilitySources said to date 219 locals had died of Covid, of which highest number (79) is from Barnala Urban health block, followed by Dhanaula (65), Tapa (48) and Mehal Kalan (27). Currently, 127 Covid patients are in home isolation, while 191 in Level 2.The district has only two Level-2 facilities — at Barnala and Mehal Kalan — while for L-3 patients, there is no arrangement and patients are forced to rush to either Ludhiana, Patiala or Bathinda.“My father died last month at the Sangrur Civil Hospital as we could not admit him in Barnala due to lack of facilities,” said a Barnala resident on the condition of anonymity.However, some health officials countered the allegations, saying the lack of facilities alone could not be blamed as late testing and late admission to hospital were contributing largely to deaths in both rural and urban areas.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh Aulakh confirmed six ventilators were shifted to Bathinda and two to Faridkot due to lack of required trained staff. “But, we can’t blame the lack of ventilators alone for all deaths as the reluctance to get tested and admitted to hospitals is mainly responsible for the rising death rate. We have saved many patients who reported deteriorating health at an early stage, but failed to save many who came when their health worsened,” Dr Aulakh added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-trained-staff-barnala-shifts-all-ventilators-to-other-districts-268423
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s fatality rate on the rise||Already highest in the country, the case fatality rate (CFR) has further increased in Punjab. Last week, the state’s overall CFR remained around 6 per cent. The state’s overall CFR is 2.6 per cent.Though the number of cases and deaths started coming down last month, the casuality rate started increasing. It climbed to 4.2 per cent in the first week of June. This week (June 8 to 14), it rose further to 5.8 per cent.At present, the overall CFR is 2.6 per cent, which means for every 100 confirmed cases, statistically 2.6 deaths were reported due to the virus. In April, it had come down to 2.4 per cent. Punjab’s fatality ratio is the highest in country (1.2 per cent).Nine districts have over three per cent fatality rate. Sangrur tops the chart with 5.4 per cent, followed by Tarn Taran with 4.4 per cent; Barnala 3.8 per cent; Gurdaspur 3.6 per cent and Amritsar 3.3 per cent. Apart from this, Hoshiarpur has CFR of 3.2 per cent, Ferozepur 3.2 per cent, SBS Nagar and Rupnagar 3.1 per cent each.In the past seven days (June 7 to June 13), the state reported 8,343 cases and 486 deaths. Thus the state’s case fatality rate in the past seven days remained at 5.8 per cent.On an average, the daily number of cases last week came down to around 1,000. The number stood around 8,000-9,000 in mid-May. As far as deaths are concerned, the daily average deaths remained around 70. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-fatality-rate-on-the-rise-268424
15-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Fazilka villagers threaten stir over canal water theft||Fazilka, June 14With the tail-end villages in the Jalalabad area suffering due to the theft of canal water, agitated farmers have decided to start an indefinite blockade on the Fazilka-Ferozepur highway from Tuesday.A deputation of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) led by its district vice-president Gurwinder Singh Mannewala, along with other office-bearers and some officials of the canal department, visited the Nizamwah distributary and its minor canals Barkatwah and Faizwah.Mannwala alleged the deputation noticed that pipes were illegally laid underground to draw canal water by some influential persons in connivance with the ruling party leaders. He also alleged the water courses were altered in an arbitrary manner to draw more water from the canals. The BKU leader further alleged canals hadn’t been cleaned before the commencement of the sowing season. Farmers resented the fact that the sowing of paddy had already begun on June 10 and the canal department had failed to provide the desired water for the transplantation.He said they had been approaching the officials concerned for the past three months regarding the problems but to no avail, thus they had decided to block the Fazilka-Ferozepur highway on Mamujoyia Toll Plaza from June 15 for an indefinite period. However Executive Engineer, Canals, Jagtar Singh claimed the pipes had been removed and the water would be released in a day. He added the cleanliness of the canals had already been done.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fazilka-villagers-threaten-stir-over-canal-water-theft-268425
15-06-2021||---||Moga farmer chases phone thieves, shot||Moga, June 14A 45-year-old farmer, Kewal Singh, of Rajiana village in Baghapurana sub-division of the district was allegedly shot by two unidentified youths today, a police official said.As per details available, the farmer was transplanting paddy in his fields with the help of labourers, who had put their mobile phones in a bag and kept it in a corner.Two unidentified youths on a motorcycle picked up the bag and sped away. The farmer followed the suspects on a motorcycle and caught hold of them at some distance. As Kewal tried to get the bag back from them, one of suspects fired a shot from a pistol, killing him on the spot.Baghapurana sub-division DSP Jaswinder Singh and other police officials from the local police station visited the scene. The body was sent to the district hospital at Moga for a post-mortem examination.The DSP said a case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act had been registered against two suspects at the Baghapurana police station and efforts were on to nab them. The police of nearby districts have been put on alert. Further investigations were in progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-farmer-chases-phone-thieves-shot-268426
15-06-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Area under cotton up by 52,000 hectares||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 14Farmers in the state have gone in for cotton cultivation on a much bigger scale this year. The area under cultivation of the “white gold” has gone up by 52,000 hectares this year.Data available from the Agriculture Department shows that against 2.51 lakh hectare area under cotton last year, the crop had been sown on 3.03 lakh hectares. An assured market at the minimum support price MSP announced by the government has led to the new confidence among farmers in the cotton crop.“Last year, almost 80 per cent of the cotton crop was procured by the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) at the MSP of Rs 5,825 a quintal. The remaining was bought by private traders at rates varying between Rs 5,900- Rs 6,000 a quintal,” Rajnish Jain, a leading commission agent for cotton in Maur, said.Study finds Bt cotton beneficialA study on the impact of Bt cotton has been published by PAU, SKUAST and Amity University scientists. It has found that:The Centre yesterday increased the MSP by Rs 200 (Rs 6,025 a quintal for long staple variety). “Price is the biggest deciding factor for farmers, and the last two seasons saw farmers getting good returns, leading to more area under cotton crop,” Director, Agriculture, Sukhdev Singh Brar said, adding that this has helped in reducing the area under water-guzzling paddy.Harsimran Singh, a young cotton grower from Mansa: “The farm laws have also forced many farmers to have a rethink on growing paddy, as fear looms large that MSP on wheat and paddy would stop. Also, private buying of cotton is much more than the private buying of non-basmati padd at a higher rate than the MSP,” he said, explaining why farmers in Malwa belt have gone in for cotton cultivation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/area-under-cotton-up-by-52-000-hectares-268427
15-06-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Cycling champion living in poverty||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, June 14A 19-year-old state cycling champion, Baljit Kaur, who has won four gold, two silver and three bronze medals and also competed at the national level, has been forced to transplant paddy along with her mother to earn a living.Kaur lives in a rented accommodation with her mother and younger brother, who works in a private company. Her father died in 2016. Despite writing repeatedly to officials, she has not received any financial help from the government.“My mother worked as a maid to arrange money for my diet. During training session, I used to cross this road cycling. Little did I know at that time that I would have to transplant paddy in the fields along the very road to make ends meet” said Kaur, standing in a group of labourers in a field at Hareri village of the district.No help from governmentI haven’t received any financial help from the state government. I have visited various offices and met many NGOs, the only thing they offer is assurance. —Baljit Kaur, State cycling championShe said whenever she won any competition, she received numerous calls from NGOs and officials, assuring her all help. But the assistance never came. Pursuing bachelor of arts, she prepares for her exams during night.Her mother Parmjit Kaur said after the outbreak of Covid-19, she lost her job as maid and with that whatever meagre income she was earning. “The Punjab Government should not make false claims about promotion of sports in the state. Authorities have failed to offer any help even to a state champion like Baljit,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cycling-champion-living-in-poverty-268428
15-06-2021||Amritsar||Guru’s martyrdom day observed||Amid the Covid-19 threat, the martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev was observed in a subdued manner today. The ‘bhog’ of ‘akhand path’ of Guru Granth Sahib was performed at the historic Gurdwara Ramsar where the Guru had edited Guru Granth Sahib and wrote Sukhmani Sahib. This year, no grand event was organised, except for ‘chhabeels’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurus-martyrdom-day-observed-268429
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||No college despite promise: Bajwa||Congress Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa has reminded Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh about the announcement made in April 2018 to set up a medical college in Gurdaspur.Talking in context of announcement made by the state government regarding setting up four medical colleges in Mohali, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Malerkotla, Bajwa said people from Gurdaspur had for long been demanding a medical college and hospital as otherwise they have to travel to Amritsar to get treatment for serious illnesses.“You made this promise during a rally in the Gurdsapur parliamentary bypoll. A promise made by the CM cannot be broken as it is the assurance given by the government of the day,” the MP said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-college-despite-promise-bajwa-268430
15-06-2021||---||‘Rape’ victim alleges frame-up, HC issues notice, seeks report||Chandigarh, June 14The Punjab and Haryana High Court has called for a status report in a “gang rape” case after the “victim” alleged she and her family were implicated in a false case by accused gangster’s father and his accomplices, who were out to grab her brother-in-law’s land.Taking up the petition for protecting the victim and her family filed through counsels Ranjit Singh Bajaj and Sidakjit Singh Bajaj, Justice Jasgurpreet Singh Puri also issued notice of motion to the State and other respondents.Going into the background, Bajaj said a person belonging to the petitioner’s village was member of a notorious gang. Currently confined in the Kapurthala jail, he managed lethal attacks on persons in different parts of the state with the help of his companions. His father, bullying in his son’s name, wanted to usurp land belonging to the petitioner’s brother-in-law in Kapurthala. Since he refused to sell the land, the “gangster’s” father started implicating her husband and his brothers in connivance with the police. On June 2, he and some others forcibly entered the house before raping her.Bajaj claimed a complaint was submitted by the petitioner on June 4 and her statement was also recorded. Yet an FIR was not registered obviously because of the influence of the accused over the local police. On the other hand, the accused got a false FIR registered against the petitioner, her husband and others of the family for criminal intimidation, house trespass and other offences.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rape-victim-alleges-frame-up-hc-issues-notice-seeks-report-268431
15-06-2021||Aman Sood||Fear of Ghaggar flood looms as repair work incomplete||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 14The monsoon is expected to hit the state this week, but major repairs and strengthening work around the Ghaggar are still pending. Even two years after the Ghaggar crossed the danger mark and entered villages in Patiala and Sangrur districts, damaging hundreds of acres of fertile land, no permanent solution has been found to tame the floodwaters.Alleging hundreds of crores had been spent on temporary measures, residents of the flood-prone villages said rampant corruption in carrying out annual repair and maintenance had exposed them to Ghaggar floods’ fury.“Wild growth blocks the natural flow of water in many villages. Even there’s no check on encroachment on the river banks. The rains can arrive any time now, but the Irrigation Department has just started the work in some villages; in many others, it’s yet to begin,” said Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Darauli village.“Our teams are working hard to ensure minimum damage due to floods. We have almost completed major work in several villages where Ghaggar banks and bridges needed repair. We are hopeful the work will be over before the rains,” said Ramandeep Singh, XEN (drainage), Patiala division.For the past almost two decades, politicians have been milking the Ghaggar issue without offering a permanent solution. According to officials, this year a budget of Rs 4 crore has been sanctioned for the urgent repairs and strengthening work of the Ghaggar and the “work is yet to be completed”. “The work continues at full speed and we expect to complete it in a fortnight from now,” said irrigation officials.A former chief engineer said the seriousness of the department could be judged from the fact that a majority of the technical staff were mechanical engineers who weren’t trained in dealing with floods. “Flood-control measures like cleaning drains, maintenance of protection bundhs are entirely a civil work and has nothing do with mechanical engineering.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fear-of-ghaggar-flood-looms-as-repair-work-incomplete-268432
15-06-2021||Sangrur||Lehra MLA: Tie-up is opportunistic||SAD (Sanyukt) leader and Lehra MLA Parminder Dhindsa on Monday termed the SAD-BSP alliance as an opportunistic tie-up and also predicted its defeat in elections.“The SAD and BSP have lost base in Punjab. Such alliance will neither help the SAD nor BSP. The BJP has got it done,” said Parminder after starting a tree plantation drive to pay homage to farmers who died during the agitation against the Central farm laws.About another SIT probing sacrilege cases, Parminder said everyone knew who were behind the incidents and who had been protecting them. “We do not have hope from any SIT as Punjab residents know the persons behind the sacrilege. The Congress government has also failed to punish them. We are working to form next government without the support of Congress and SAD,” he said.About factionalism in the Punjab Congress, he said the state witnessed thousands of Covid deaths as the authorities failed to ramp up facilities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lehra-mla-tie-up-is-opportunistic-268433
15-06-2021||---||AAP leaders protest outside Capt’s residence over scholarship ‘scam’||Chandigarh, June 14The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Punjab, on Monday staged a protest in front of the official residence of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh over the "scam perpetrated" during the Congress regime in the post-matric scholarship scheme for Dalit studentsLed by senior AAP leader and Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema, a large number of party leaders and workers marched towards the Chief Minister's residence. Among them were Deputy Leader of Opposition Saravjit Kaur Manuke, MLAs Master Baldev Singh Jaito, Principal Budhram, Jagtar Singh Jagga Hissowal, Manjit Singh Bilaspur and Kulwant Singh Pandori.During the protest, the Chandigarh Police detained the AAP MLAs and leaders and sent them to the Sector 3 and Sector 17 police stations. Senior AAP leader Manwinder Singh Giaspura started a hunger strike in police custody. In the evening, all MLAs and other party leaders were released by the police.Cheema said the Congress government had squandered crores of rupees meant for scholarship of two lakh Dalit students hence jeopardising their future. “At the behest of the government, the police have violated our constitutional right to protest, but the AAP will continue its struggle and workers will go on a hunger strike on June 15 in front of the DC offices in all districts across the state,” said Cheema.He said the AAP's struggle would continue till a case was registered against Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Social Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot under the SC/ST Act.Giaspura said the investigation report submitted by senior IAS officer Kirpa Shankar Saroj revealed that the scholarships were given by the minister to managers of fake colleges. “As a result, private colleges have not received funds and lakhs of Dalit students have been deprived of their right to education,” he said.Manuke, Budhram and Master Baldev Singh said though the government had released some amount to private colleges, Dalit students would not be able to appear for their exams till the balance amount of Rs 1,539 crore was released.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-leaders-protest-outside-capts-residence-over-scholarship-scam-268434
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing: Reschedule questioning, Badal urges probe team||Former CM Parkash Singh Badal today told the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the October 2015 Kotkapura police firing case that due to ill health he cannot appear before it on June 16 — the day he has been summoned for questioning.Requesting re-scheduling the questioning, he asked the SIT to question him at his official residence in the MLA colony here. The SIT had summoned him at a Rest House in Mohali. In a two-page letter to the SIT, which is headed by ADGP KK Yadav, Badal reiterated his “intent and commitment to fully cooperate with the law” and said that he had “complete faith in the judiciary”.He has, however, asked the SIT to reschedule the date for his appearance for the questioning as he is not in good health and has been advised bed rest for 10 days.“As soon as my health improves, I will be available to join the investigation as per law, at my current place of residence,” he said. Badal hoped that “this SIT, unlike the previous one, would respect the law of the land and conduct a fair investigation, withstanding political interference from the ruling dispensation” which, he said, had been brazenly subverting the law for petty political gains.Badal was the CM in October 2015 when the firing took place in Kotkapura on a mob protesting the sacrilege incidents. The SIT led by ADGP KK Yadav wants to ascertain who gave the orders to open fire and if it was on a peaceful mob. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-firing-reschedule-questioning-badal-urges-probe-team-268435
15-06-2021||Karam Prakash||Novel protest: Singla’s video logs 8.9K ‘dislikes’||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 14After bombarding CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s live interaction on online video sharing platform YouTube with “dislikes”, government school teachers have extended a similar treatment to Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla.The Democratic Teachers Front, an organisation of government schoolteachers, said the government was hiding its failures under the garb of recent education ranking, which was based on “false data”.As on Monday morning, the Education Minister’s interview had logged 8.9K “dislikes” against 488 “likes”. Similarly, CM’s video had received more “dislikes” than “likes”. Calling Punjab’s first rank in the country in the field of education “sham”, the organisation said they would continue to dislike government videos.Recently, the state ranked first in the national performance grading index of school education for 2019-20, released by the Centre. However, schoolteachers, especially union leaders, objected to the ranking, saying it was based on “false data”.Vikram Dev, state president, DTF, said: “We have asked teachers if they think the government has been projecting a manipulated image of the department to earn the ranking, they should dislike videos as a mark of protest. False ranking is being used for political gain.” He said the use of schoolteachers by the government for political gain was a matter of shame.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/novel-protest-singlas-video-logs-8-9k-dislikes-268436
15-06-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Bittu booked for ‘pious’ seat remark after SAD-BSP pact||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 14Congress’ Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu was today booked for allegedly hurting the sentiments of BSP workers after he flayed the SAD for giving away “pious” seats like Anandpur Sahib and Chamkaur Sahib to the Bahujan Samaj Party.Bittu had last evening posted a video on his Facebook page, commenting on the newly forged SAD-BSP alliance. BSP leaders called the comment casteist and held protests across the state.At Buta Mandi in Jalandhar, they burnt Bittu’s effigy and demanded his resignation. “How and why can’t a BSP leader contest from a pious seat? Does the MP still consider Dalits or BSP leaders non-pious? Or maybe he considers the rest of the state less pious,” a BSP worker said.Meant Akali Dal deserted Panthic seatsMy statement has been misinterpreted. I only meant to say that the Akali Dal had deserted Panthic seats. I never passed any comment against Dalits. BSP doesn’t imply Dalits as the party has workers from all castes. My political mentor Malkit Singh Dakha is a Dalit. —Ravneet Bittu, Ludhiana MPThough the MP today posted another video giving clarification, it was rejected by the BSP leadership, which has planned another protest at Balachaur tomorrow.BSP state chief Jasvir Singh Garhi said: “Bittu has shown that he has not imbibed the lessons taught by the 10th Sikh Guru at the time of formation of Khalsa in Anandpur Sahib. He preached equality. Despite having been elected from Anandpur Sahib earlier, Bittu has now shown that people had wrongly chosen him.”Garhi said a complaint had been lodged with the Bathinda SSP by party leader advocate Navneet Kataria. “He has also attempted to malign the image of party chief Mayawati and general secretary Satish Mishra. An inquiry should be marked to a senior police officer and action should be taken,” the complaint read.BSP’s ex-general secretary Sukhwinder Kotli too demanded an apology from the MP. “We do not accept the clarification that Bittu has given today. His words are beyond our tolerance.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bittu-booked-for-pious-seat-remark-after-sad-bsp-pact-268437
15-06-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Sangrur MC collects EPF but ‘fails’ to deposit in a/c of staff||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, June 14The Sangrur Municipal Council (MC) has failed to pay the employees’ provident fund (EPF) to its sanitation staff for the past nine years.The authorities say it has happened due to financial problems, but the sanitation staff have written to the higher authorities against the alleged embezzlement worth crores of rupees. “We have demanded a high-level inquiry and appropriate action against officials who have embezzled around Rs 7 crore of our EPF. If the government wants us to end our month-long strike in Sangrur city, it must take quick action. Apart from regularisation of the contractual staff, we have also been demanding the deposition of all EPF into the accounts of the staff,” said Ajay Bedi, Sangrur president of the Safai Karmchari Union, Punjab.He said there were 180 employees in the sanitation wing of the Sangrur MC, of whom 150 were regular, while the rest on contract. “We got to know about the embezzlement of our EPF amount three years ago and since then, we have been meeting various officials, but to no avail,” alleged another employee on the condition of anonymity.In their complaint sent to the National Commission for Scheduled Castes Chairman Vijay Sampla and local government authorities, they have alleged that the Sangrur MC had been deducting EPF from their salary, but it was not being deposited into their EPF account for the past nine years. They also alleged they were not even aware of their EPF account number. “Some of the members of their families have died in the past 8-9 years as due to lack of financial resources, they could not provide them required treatment. They could not withdraw money from their EPF account due to the non-deposition of the money into their accounts. Around Rs 7 crore have been embezzled. But if we also calculate the interest on the amount, it will be more than Rs 10 crore,” said Jatinder Kalra, state coordinator of various BJP cells. MC Executive Officer Ramesh Kumar said they had passed a resolution to deposit the entire amount into the EPF accounts of the employees.“We have passed a resolution to sell a piece of our land to the Army and the amount we will receive will be deposited into the EPF accounts of all employees. I joined here three years ago and since then, I have been trying to solve their problem by writing to the seniors. But due to financial problems, we have not been able to do so,” he added.Civic body promises paymentMC Executive Officer Ramesh Kumar says they have passed a resolution to sell a piece of land to the Army and deposit the money into the EPF accounts of all employees||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-mc-collects-epf-but-fails-to-deposit-in-a-c-of-staff-268438
15-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Not paid for six months, sanitation staff protest||Abohar, June 14 Continuing their strike for the 31st day over the alleged delay in payment of wages by the Municipal Corporation for the past six months, regular and ad hoc sanitation workers held a protest near the Valmiki Mandir at Sant Nagar here. To express solidarity with them, community members from different colonies came at the temple and formed an action committee. The participants said sanitation workers had played an important role in the battle against Covid but they were not being paid. The administration had terminated the services of five employees and asked 22 employees, who were on the verge of retirement, to produce a medical fitness certificate, which was illegal and unconstitutional. Sources in the MC said GST share was awaited by civic bodies to pay wages and action against some employees was taken on administrative grounds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-paid-for-six-months-sanitation-staff-protest-268439
15-06-2021||Bathinda||Locals dump waste in open||With sanitation workers continuing their strike for the fifth day on Monday, garbage is not being lifted from residential areas and its disposal has become a big concern for residents.Left with barely any alternative, residents have started disposing garbage in vacant plots and other public areas. Harmeet Singh, a city resident, said, “Heaps of garbage are lying unattended in many places and the recent rain has made matters worse. Foul smell emanates in public places and with the prevailing unhygienic conditions, residents are vulnerable to many diseases. It is a grave concern and the government must come up with a solution at the earliest.” On the other hand, sanitation workers said they would continue their strike till their demands were met. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/locals-dump-waste-in-open-268440
15-06-2021||---||Meeting workers’ demands to cost state Rs 243 crore||Chandigarh, June 14It is a long-drawn out process before the services of 4,022 contractual ‘safai karmacharis’ are regularised and another 15,362 outsourced workers are taken on contract by the Local Government Department in its various civic bodies across the state.As the decision involves annual financial implication of nearly Rs 243 crore, the issue is being taken up in the coming meeting of the Cabinet Sub-Committee, reconstituted to review the old Act for regularising services of ad hoc, contractual, daily wagers and outsourced employees, on June 16.Demanding regularisation of services, the sanitation workers have been on a strike for the past month in different civic bodies. To regularise the services of 4,022 contractual employees, the department faces an annual financial burden of Rs 42 crore and for bringing 15,362 outsourced employees on contract, it needs another Rs 201 crore, said a senior government functionary.The workforce can be regularised or the outsourced can be brought on contract once the Cabinet Sub-Committee, comprising Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, Rural Development and Panchayat Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Technical Education Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Cooperation and Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, makes recommendations on repealing the old Act of 2016 and framing a new one to provide relief package to employees of the state.Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra said to move forward, the sub-committee was meeting on Wednesday to work out a formula to end the impasse. He said due to efforts of the department and MLAs, the strike had already ended in Muktsar, Patiala, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar and some other places after a series of parleys were held with representatives of different workers’ unions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/meeting-workers-demands-to-cost-state-rs-243-crore-268441
15-06-2021||Abohar||Man killed in road mishap||A flour mill owner was killed and four others were injured in separate road accidents today.Nazam (24) of Chak 43PS village died on the spot, while his friend Raman (30) was critically injured when a mini truck reportedly collided with a Tempo near Balluana village. Pawan Kumar and Sonia were hurt in road mishap while Rohtash was injured in a fire incident. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-killed-in-road-mishap-268442
15-06-2021||Saurabh Malik||Need to curb fraud by travel agents: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 14Nearly two decades have elapsed since the Punjab and Haryana High Court directed the chief secretaries of Punjab and Haryana to intervene for “avoiding repetition of the Malta boat tragedy”, in which 283 youngsters wanting to go abroad lost their lives. Yet, the menace of cheating innocent persons continues unabated. It has now compelled the High Court to direct curbing with a heavy hand the propensity to cheat by fake travel agents.Justice Lalit Batra asserted it could not possibly be denied that the tendency and frequency of cheating innocent persons and misappropriating huge amounts by fake travel agents had been increasing day by day and was required to be curbed with a heavy hand. The observations came on a pre-assert bail filed by a person accused of cheating a youngster of Rs 24 lakh for sending him to the US. The Bench was told that instead of sending the complainant to the US, he was sent to Mexico from where he was deported to India.Justice Batra ruled the custodial interrogation was certainly required for complete and effective investigation. Its denial to the investigating agency would leave glaring loopholes and gaps adversely affecting the probe. The High Court had, in April 2003, asked the chief secretaries to look after the “interest of poor prospective non-resident Indians, rather than confining their concern to those well-settled migrants who have already made a fortune abroad, so as to avoid repetition of Malta boat tragedy”. The authorities concerned were also asked to explore the feasibility of using the print, audio or electronic media for educating the masses about the pitfalls.The High Court since then passed a slew of directions for preventing gullible people from getting lost in the wilderness while looking for greener pastures abroad. The Bench made it mandatory for the travel agents to mention their registration number in advertisements. Directions were also issued to Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to initiate suitable action against television channels and advertisers in case broadcast advertisements were not by registered agents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/need-to-curb-fraud-by-travel-agents-hc-268443
15-06-2021||Our Correspondent||DC rejects plea for fresh autopsy, kin move HC||Ferozepur, June 14The cremation of slain gangster Jaipal Singh Bhullar, who was shot in an encounter in Kolkata last week, could not take place for the third day here as Deputy Commissioner Gurpal Singh Chahal rejected the family’s plea of a fresh post-mortem citing jurisdiction issue.The family has now moved an application in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. In the plea before the HC, counsel Simranjit Singh has demanded a fresh post-mortem at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, or AIIMS, Delhi, to ascertain the nature of injuries on the body.Another aide nabbedTalking to The Tribune, the DC said since the incident took place beyond his jurisdiction, it was not possible for him to accept the application. “Hence, it has been rejected as the case does not fall under my purview,” he said.Earlier, alleging “foul play”, Jaipal’s family had refused to perform cremation demanding another post-mortem to ascertain the facts. Jaipal’s father Bhupinder Singh Bhullar had submitted an application in this regard to the DC yesterday. The body was brought here on Saturday evening amidst tight security.During the day, SDM Amit Gupta along with senior officials again met Jaipal’s family at his residence here to prevail upon them to perform the cremation. But the family reportedly refused to budge, demanding a fresh post-mortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dc-rejects-plea-for-fresh-autopsy-kin-move-hc-268444
15-06-2021||---||Conductor ‘harassed’, staff stage protest||Bathinda, June 14Members of the Punbus PRTC Contract Workers’ Union staged a protest after a conductor was allegedly harassed by a PRTC official. The members suspended work for hours, demanding action against the official.Mandeep Singh, president of the union, said: “Ravinder Singh, a conductor from Bathinda depot, had gone to Patiala for training at the PRTC head office. While returning in a bus, a PRTC official during checking reprimanded him for carrying an ID proof exceeding validity and prepared a report to initiate action against him.”“Ravinder works for the PRTC and does not deserve ill-treatment from a department official for carrying an ID proof exceeding its validity. We demand suspension of the official for harassment.” The protesters blocked the entrance and exit points of the bus stand, leading to traffic congestion on the main road, causing inconvenience to commuters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/conductor-harassed-staff-stage-protest-268445
15-06-2021||Abohar||Illicit distilleries busted in Abohar||In a joint operation, the Punjab and Rajasthan police today busted illegal distillation units involved in the preparation of ‘lahan’ used in making illicit liquor along the Gang canal.Police officials drawn from Khuyiansarwer, Kallarkhera and Wahabwala police stations in Abohar subdivision and Hindumalkot in Rajasthan raided pockets near the canal and destroyed 50,000 litres of ‘lahan’ by digging up ground using a JCB machine. Ten drums of ‘lahan’ were seized, and more than a dozen domestic distilleries destroyed. Khuyiansarwer SHO Sukhpal Singh and Hindumalkot police station in charge Ram Pratap said the operation was carried out jointly against the liquor mafia. Efforts were on to keep interstate liquor smuggling in check as well. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/illicit-distilleries-busted-in-abohar-268446
15-06-2021||---||Will cooperate with investigative process: Parkash Badal to SIT||Chandigarh, June 14Five times Chief Minister of Punjab Parkash Singh Badal on Monday categorically reiterated his “intent and commitment to fully cooperating with the law” and said he had ‘complete faith in the judiciary’.He has, however, asked the SIT “to reschedule the date for his appearance for the investigations as he is not keeping good health and has been advised complete bed rest for 10 days by doctors”.“As soon as my health gets better, I will be available to join the investigation as per law, at my current place of residence (in Chandigarh.)”Badal hoped that “this SIT, unlike the previous one, would respect the law of the land and conduct a fair investigation, withstanding political interference from the ruling dispensation” which, he said, had been “brazenly subverting the law for petty political gains”.In his two-page response to the summon from the SIT investigating the handling of Kotkapura incidents by the previous government, Badal said “the entire process of investigations already stands brazenly compromised through blatant and unapologetic political interference and  it reeks too strongly of political vendetta to inspire any confidence about a fair process of law being followed”. In spite of this, said Badal, he will “cooperate fully” with the investigative process.The former Chief Minster pointed out that the very need for the present SIT had “arisen out of the brazen politicisation of the case by the previous SIT”. In this regard, Badal criticised “one of the members of the previous SIT” for his “openly political conduct” which had allegedly subverted the entire investigative process.“With a callous and contemptuous disregard for all the established procedures and norms, this officer completely usurped and appropriated to himself the entire functioning and designated role of all the other members of the SIT, including its chairman, and rendered them totally redundant and they were reportedly not even a part of the investigative process”.The former CM referred to reports that said that the findings of the previous SIT had been scripted jointly by half a dozen high profile members of the ruling party. These reports, he said, had never been contradicted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-cooperate-with-investigative-process-parkash-badal-to-sit-268374
