16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sees 688 fresh Covid-19 cases||Punjab registered 688 fresh cases of the novel coronavirus on Wednesday, taking the tally to 5,89,828, while 46 more fatalities pushed the toll to 15,698, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases dropped to 10,046 from 10,802 on Tuesday.New fatalities linked to the virus were reported from several districts including Amritsar, Barnala, Bathinda, Fazilka and Gurdaspur, the bulletin said.Sixty-nine fresh cases were registered in Patiala, followed by 65 in Jalandhar and 59 in Bathinda.The state’s Covid positivity rate stood at 1.33 per cent.With 1,383 more recoveries from the infection, the recovery count reached 5,64,084 in Punjab, according to the bulletin.There are 164 critical Covid patients who are on ventilator support, 507 other critical patients and 2,243 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 1,01,88,326 samples have been collected for Covid-19 testing in the state, it said.The Union Territory of Chandigarh reported 41 new cases of the coronavirus that raised its tally to 61,241 on Wednesday, according to a medical bulletin.Two more people died of Covid-19, taking the toll to 799, it said.The number of active cases dropped to 462 from 486 the day before, the bulletin said.The recovery count rose to 59,980 with 63 more patients being discharged after recovering from the infection in Chandigarh.A total of 5,44,309 samples have been taken for testing so far and 4,81,819 of them tested negative while reports of 13 samples are awaited, according to the bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sees-688-fresh-covid-19-cases-269426
16-06-2021||Phagwara||Two running online news portals booked for extortion in Punjab||Police on Wednesday booked two people, running news web portals, on the charge of extorting money from a shopkeeper here, an official said.Kapurthala Senior Superintendent of Police Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said Vinod Sharma and Vinod Kumar were booked for allegedly blackmailing the shopkeeper and extorting Rs 1,500 from him.Complainant Mandip Singh said his father Balbir Singh runs a small shop of iron door frames adjacent to his residence in local Raja Garden colony.The accused came to his father’s shop on May 6 and started recording a video, and claimed that he had opened the store in violation of the Covid norms.They threatened to upload the video to their web portals if they were not given Rs 10,000.They forced him to shell out Rs 1,500, said the complainant.After investigation, a case has been registered against the duo but no arrest has been made yet, added Khakh.Police booked them under sections 384 (punishment for extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-running-online-news-portals-booked-for-extortion-in-punjab-269421
16-06-2021||Amritsar||Sikh jatha denied permission to visit Pakistan to mark death anniversary of Maharaja Ranjit Singh: SGPC||A group of Sikh pilgrims, also known as 'jatha', has been denied permission by Pakistan to visit the country to mark the death anniversary of 19th-century Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh citing the Covid-19 pandemic, the SGPC said on Wednesday.Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) media assistant secretary Kulwinder Singh Ramdas said, “The Yatra Department of SGPC had a telephonic talk with Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee's president Satwant Singh, who informed that due to the Covid-19 situation, the jatha of Indian Sikh pilgrims going to Pakistan to observe the death anniversary of Sher-e-Punjab Maharaja Ranjit Singh has not been given permission by the Pakistan government.”He said the 'jatha' was scheduled to leave for Pakistan on June 21 and was to return to India on June 30 after observing the death anniversary of the Sikh ruler on June 29.Maharaja Ranjit Singh was the leader of the Sikh empire, which ruled the northwest Indian subcontinent in the early half of the 19th century. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-jatha-denied-permission-to-visit-pakistan-to-mark-death-anniversary-of-maharaja-ranjit-singh-sgpc-269396
16-06-2021||New Delhi||AICC panel on Punjab meets Rahul Gandhi||All Indian Congress Committee's panel on Punjab met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday—the second such meeting in four days. This comes at a time when there are reports of turmoil within the party's Punjab faction. Punjab heads into assembly elections next year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aicc-panel-on-punjab-meets-rahul-gandhi-269376
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Mika Singh claims Kamaal R Khan is 'banned' in India, cites 'property fraud'||Singer Mika Singh has made the sensational claim that self-proclaimed critic Kamaal R. Khan is banned in India, and cites property fraud as the reason.Mika and KRK have been involved in a mudslinging match ever since Salman Khan filed a case against the latter, an actor-turned-critic, over certain remarks he made. Soon, Mika jumped into the ring, claiming to take up the cudgels on behalf of Salman as well as others in the industry on whom KRK had trained his guns. He released a diss track titled "#KRKKutta".And now, Mika claims KRK is banned in India due to property fraud."KRK is banned in India. He cannot enter India. If this is not true, then KRK must step outside and claim it false, and make an official announcement as to when he is planning to return to India," says the singer.Mika claims: "I know this with security that KRK will not return to India because of two reasons—first, we have filed a case against KRK some year and a half ago. I have FIR copies with me. KRK committed a fraud with us. He sold two properties to my cousin, one of those properties belonged to KRK and the second belonged to his brother. KRK signed the papers on his property, which is fine, but he signed the paper of his brother's property as well. When we filed the FIR, KRK admitted that he forged the signature and ever since he has been absconding.""He has been served court notice on countless occasions, but he has been ignoring all of them. KRK cannot return to India now. He is absconding and has been banned in India. KRK was banned in Delhi and Mumbai earlier, now he is banned in entire India. If he returns, he will get arrested," Mika further claims. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mika-singh-claims%C2%A0kamaal-r-khan-is-banned-in-india-cites-property-fraud-269363
16-06-2021||Mohali||Hundreds of teachers lay siege to Punjab School Education Board building in Mohali||An umbrella group of teachers' unions on Wednesday laid siege to the Punjab School Education Board building in Sector 62, Mohali, seeking job regularisation and salary enhancement.Hundreds of teachers reached the seventh floor of the building to lay siege to the office of the Education Secretary. Around five persons were seen on top of the building with petrol-filled bottles in their hands.A heavy police force, led by Mohali SSP Satinder Singh, is present at the spot.Close to 500 temporary, ad-hoc teachers gheraoed the building, demanding a meeting with the Punjab Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hundreds-of-teachers-lay-siege-to-punjab-school-education-board-building-in-mohali-269339
16-06-2021||PK Jaiswar||HP leader booked in tramadol seizure case||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 15In a significant development, the Amritsar rural police have nominated a political leader of Himachal Pradesh, Chetan Parmar, in the case of seizure of tramadol tablets from Paonta Sahib, Sirmaur, on May 28.Parmar is the grandson of Himachal’s first Chief Minister Yashwant Parmar, while his father Kush Parmar was a five-term MLA. Parmar had joined the BJP in 2017.The police said Parmar would be involved in the investigation to ascertain his role. As per the police probe, Parmar funded a firm, Unique Formulations, from where banned drugs were recovered.“Munish Mohan, the alleged owner of the firm who was arrested during the raid, had mentioned Parmar in his disclosure statement to the police and that is why he has been nominated in the case,” said Dhruv Dahiya, SSP (Amritsar rural). The police have so far arrested around 10 persons in the case, he added.The investigations carried out so far revealed the firm was routing the ‘Schedule H’ drug via Delhi through fictitious firms as they were not allowed to directly sell the same in Punjab due to strict norms in the border state, given rampant misuse of the tablets for addiction.Unique Formulations supplied drugs through fake firms in Delhi and Mumbai, which further diverted the tablets to other states such as Punjab and Haryana, said sources privy to the investigations.The Amritsar rural police had seized tramadol worth Rs 15 crore from the spot during a raid on May 28.“During scrutiny of documents seized from the firm, the police found four such non-existing firms having addresses of the national capital and Mumbai,” said an official.Besides Munish Mohan, those arrested included Prem Kumar Jha, who runs a medical store in Delhi and his employee Bablu; Ranu Bhargav of Mohali; Rajesh Wadera; Parmod Bisht; and Amarpreet Singh, alias Sunny, a chemist from the Katra Sher Singh area. Following Sunny’s arrest, several other chemists went underground.The Paonta Sahib factory was busted following the seizure of 45,000 tramadol tablets in May 18 in which the police had arrested Samir Kumar, Suraj Kumar, both residents of Majitha, and Gurmukh Singh of Mallunangal village.Questioning likely||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hp-leader-booked-in-tramadol-seizure-case-268889
16-06-2021||Abohar||22-kg gold, Rs5 lakh looted, two nabbed||The Rajasthan Police today claimed to have recovered about 22 kg of gold and Rs 5 lakh that four members of an interstate gang had looted from the Churu office of Manappuram Gold Finance Company yesterday.Churu SP Narayan Ram Togas said two suspects — Anish Thakur of Mohali and Shadab of Muzaffarnagar (UP) — were caught near Hisar, but Patiala resident Ranjeet Singh ‘Fauji’, a sacked commando of the National Security Guard (NSG), who masterminded the robbery, managed to escape with Amjad of Muzaffarnagar.Along with gold and money, two pistols, two knives, two stolen motorcycles and the car in which they escaped after committing the crime were also recovered. The value of the looted gold is around Rs 12 crore.The SP said two miscreants who escaped after locking the employees in the bathroom, were caught late last evening at Sirsala Chowk, about 50 km from Hisar. More than two dozen cases of murder and robbery had been registered against these miscreants in different states. In November and March, the gang had committed robbery and dacoity of Rs 80 and 50 lakh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/22-kg-gold-rs5-lakh-looted-two-nabbed-268890
16-06-2021||Mansa||SC panel seeks report on ‘sexual abuse’ of Dalit girl||A day after a girl was allegedly sexually exploited by a BJP leader in Budhladha area of Mansa district, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes has taken note of the matter.NCSC Director Kaushal Kumar, in a letter to the Mansa DC and SSP, has sought an action taken report within a week. Meanwhile, the accused is on the run and police teams have been constituted to arrest him. Kumar, in the letter, has asked the authorities concerned to provide details of the nature of crime, name and address of the victim, details of the accused, sections in the FIR, number of accused arrested and compensation provided to the victim.The Tribune had recently reported registration of a case against Prem Garg, a former district secretary of the BJP, for allegedly sexually exploiting a girl in Budhlada following a complaint by the victim’s sister. The girl, in her mid-20s, had tried to end her life by consuming a poisonous substance. The victim’s sister had, in her complaint, claimed Garg, a municipal councillor of the Budhlada Nagar Council, had taken pictures of the victim in a compromising position and blackmailed her. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-panel-seeks-report-on-sexual-abuse-of-dalit-girl-268891
16-06-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Conviction rate rises in liquor smuggling cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 15The Punjab Government’s crackdown on liquor smugglers operating in the state has yielded results. The number of cases, arrests and convictions under the Excise Act has gone up substantially.From the right-hand men of three sitting MLAs to the main accused in the infamous Amritsar hooch tragedy, the state’s Excise and Taxation Department has booked and arrested hundreds of people in the past one year. It even managed to increase the conviction rate of those caught.A 100 per cent conviction rate has been achieved in Hoshiarpur district. The only three districts where the conviction rate has come down are Faridkot, Bathinda and Barnala, according to the data available with the Excise Department.In 2019-20, the conviction rate across all zones was 68.20 per cent, which has gone up to 78.20 per cent in 2020-21.“We registered 17,541 FIRs and arrested over 16,000 persons for selling illicit and licit liquor, and smuggling it. The licit liquor smuggling detected was three times the illicit liquor detected in 2020-21,” state Excise Commissioner Rajat Aggarwal told The Tribune.Operation Red RoseExcise officials say that the instructions from the CM, who also holds the excise portfolio, were clear that no inter-state or intra-state smuggling of liquor was to be tolerated. As a result, Operation Red Rose was launched in May last year to check illicit smuggling and manufacturing of liquor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/conviction-rate-rises-in-liquor-smuggling-cases-268892
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||In HC plea, kin claim gangster shot at point-blank range, seek autopsy||Claiming that the nature of injuries showed alleged gangster Jaipal Singh Bhullar was shot at point-blank range, his retired police officer father today moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking second post-mortem from an independent medical institute. In his petition, Bhupinder Singh through counsel Simranjit Singh sought issuance of directions to the state of Punjab to conduct a second post-mortem either at the PGIMER, Chandigrah; AIIMS, Delhi; or some other independent institute “to know the exact detail and nature of the injuries caused due to police torture on the various parts of the body”. Simranjit Singh also expressed apprehension on the petitioner’s behalf that the Punjab Police were in a position to manage the second post-mortem report in their favour. A chance of second free and fair post-mortem report was, as such, nil. He contended request to the Ferozepur Deputy Commissioner to conduct a second post-mortem already stood declined, adding it was difficult to keep the victim’s body at the petitioner’s house for long due to summer. In an attempt to substantiate his prayer, he also referred to Supreme Court and High Court judgments, where second post-mortem was ordered in similar circumstances. As of now, the petition has only been filed in the High Court and is yet to come up for hearing. Jaipal and another person were killed in an encounter with the Special Task Force of West Bengal Police in Kolkata on Wednesday afternoon. Jaipal’s father and relatives claimed that they spotted some “unusual marks” on the body, raising suspicion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-hc-plea-kin-claim-gangster-shot-at-point-blank-range-seek-autopsy-268893
16-06-2021||Muktsar||750-gm gold stolen from house||Some unidentified persons broke into the house of Youth Akali Dal’s Lambi circle president Jagmeet Singh Neetu at Tappakhera village here last night and decamped with nearly 750 gm gold jewellery and some cash.Neetu claimed when he woke up early morning to go somewhere, he found the house ransacked. “The value of the belongings is around Rs 35 lakh. The thieves also took away my revolver, but dropped it at the house entrance,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/750-gm-gold-stolen-from-house-268894
16-06-2021||Mahesh Sharma||For mosque, girl donates her piggy bank savings||Mandi Ahmedgarh, June 15A 10-year-old daughter of a peasant family in Jitwal has donated her piggy bank savings to the Muslim community of the village as a contribution for the construction of a mosque on a 15 marla plot donated recently by her parents.Rasleen, a class V student, was tempted to part with her savings following recognition the Jitwal family received from the Muslim community after they donated their ancestral property.“I don’t know how much money is there in my piggy bank, but I wish the work on mosque begins with my share. I will persuade my cousins to chip in for the noble cause,” said Rasleen to leaders of the committee constituted to undertake the construction of the mosque. Jagmel Singh’s family from Jitwal Kalan village had donated their 12 marla plot for the construction of a mosque for a dozen Muslim families living in the village. In the absence of a mosque, the Muslim families had to visit other localities for Friday prayers and other occasions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/for-mosque-girl-donates-her-piggy-bank-savings-268895
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||In first joint show, SAD-BSP men seek Punjab Health Minister's arrest||Days after the SAD and BSP joined hands, workers of both parties today breached police barricading and faced water cannons while marching towards the CM’s residence to demand the arrest of Health Minister Balbir Sidhu in the vaccine and “Fateh” kit “scams”.SAD chief Sukhbir Badal also courted arrest along with other leaders. Several SAD-BSP workers had earlier congregated near the CM’s residence and participated in a mini rally held to “wake up the arrogant raja” who the alliance alleged had been missing from the state. Punjab BSP chief Jasbir Singh Garhi demanded that farmers be paid the market rate for land acquired for highway projects. Sukhbir said while Sidhu was responsible for the “scams” linked to vaccine and “Fateh” kit, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot was responsible for the SC scholarship “scam”. — TNSSC panel moved against Bittu’s ‘casteist’ slur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-first-joint-show-sad-bsp-men-seek-punjab-health-ministers-arrest-268896
16-06-2021||---||Jobless youth lathicharged, detained in Patiala||Patiala, June 15Youths associated with the ETT and TET Pass Unemployed Teachers’ Union were today canecharged and detained by the police during a protest at the YPS Chowk in Patiala.Over 300 to 400 youths gathered near the Leela Bhawan Chowk from where they carried out a march to the YPS Chowk in the afternoon. Later in the day, other members of the union resumed their protest at the Bhakra canal at Passiana. They blocked the Patiala-Sangrur road for over an hour. The members were detained from here as well.The teachers alleged they were mercilessly beaten and women protesters were pushed. Protesters Tarsem Bhdhlada and Ranjit Kaur were admitted to Government Rajindra Hospital for treatment. The teachers have been holding protests demanding that separate posts should be rolled out for ETT and TET pass teachers.Sandeep Sama, president of the union, said the police action was unfortunate. “The police party thrashed the unemployed teachers, some of whom were grievously injured. We will continue our protest undeterred,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-youth-lathicharged-detained-in-patiala-268897
16-06-2021||---||Vaccinate teachers, college students on priority, says Punjab CM||Chandigarh, June 15Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday directed the health authorities to start vaccination of teachers, non-teaching staff and students in the 18-45 age group from all schools and colleges from June 21, to enable educational institutions in the state to open safely.The Chief Minister directed the Health Department to ensure that all persons with co-morbidities/disabilities and government employees were vaccinated on a priority basis. Staff in hospitality industry, parlours, service outlets, including shops, restaurants, gyms etc., should also be vaccinated at the earliest, he said at a Covid review meeting here today.Judicial officers and lawyers should also be prioritised so that normal court functioning could safely resume, said Captain Amarinder, while asking the department to reach out proactively to nursing mothers who are eligible for vaccination.Expressing concern over the gender gap in vaccination, he directed health experts to identify the reasons and rectify the situation.The CM also ordered ward-wise and village-wise campaigns in cities/towns/rural areas that saw higher positivity/mortality.Health Secretary Hussan Lal said the number of Covishield doses received by the state so far for the 18-45 age group stood at 5,86,000, of which 5,30,610 had been used. Of 1,50,850 Covaxin doses received by the state, 66,040 had been utilised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vaccinate-teachers-college-students-on-priority-says-punjab-cm-268898
16-06-2021||---||Delta variant scare: Experts to study vaccine effect in Punjab||Chandigarh, June 15Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday directed an expert group headed by Dr Gagandeep Kang to start studying the effectiveness of vaccines in the context of the new Covid-19 variants.The month-wise whole genome sequencing has shown that while in March, 95 per cent of the problem was due to the UK variant; in April 2021, the Delta variant starting increasing and by May it had become dominant, he said. It was also a matter of concern that the Brazil variant (B1) had increased from one per cent in April and now stood at 8 per cent, said the CM at a Covid review meet on Tuesday.Adviser Dr KK Talwar said an expert group was being constituted to analyse the audit reports of patients who had been on ventilator during the second wave so as to prepare for future. Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said the genome sampling might be tried at Patiala’s Rajindra hospital.The Chief Minister also ordered tracking of all 441 black fungus (mucormycosis) cases in the state. Of these, 51 patients have been cured and 308 are undergoing treatment.While 388 cases were from Punjab, the remaining are from other states, Health Secretary Hussan Lal told the meeting. There was an adequate supply of drugs for treatment of the disease, he added.The CM directed the Health and Medical Education Departments to continue testing at about 50,000 a day. Contact tracing and testing must be maintained at 15 per positive patient, he said, while stressing the need to strengthen monitoring and management of home isolation cases.The Corona Mukt Pendu Abhiyan must continue, said Captain Amarinder, adding that almost 1.6 crore individuals (38 lakh households) had already been screened under the campaign, which had resulted in identification of 6,982 positive patients. He, however, asked the officials concerned to ensure ‘thikri pehras’ to contain positivity rate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delta-variant-scare-experts-to-study-vaccine-effect-in-punjab-268899
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh denies scam in supply of doses||Terming the Opposition’s allegations on the supply of vaccines to some private hospitals and procurement of ‘Fateh’ kits as “politically motivated”, CM Capt Amarinder Singh today said there was no question of the government profiteering amid the pandemic, which it was battling hard to save lives.Lashing out at the Akalis and AAP for spreading misinformation to further their political ambitions and weakening the state’s war against Covid by raising non-issues, the CM charged the two parties with making motivated hue and cry to push their electoral agenda with an eye on the Assembly polls. All protocols were strictly followed and emergency rules were invoked to meet the crisis, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-denies-scam-in-supply-of-doses-268900
16-06-2021||Sangrur||Sangrur locals seek better health infrastructure||Members of various organisations today staged protest against the lack of facilities for Covid patients. They alleged authorities had not taken any action to improve the facilities despite receiving repeated requests from residents.  “If authorities fail to ramp up the health facilities in the area in the coming days, we will intensify our agitation,” said Swarnjit Singh, president of  the Inqlabi Morcha Punjab.  Members of Democratic Teachers front,  Krantikari Pendu Mazdoor Union, Punjab Students Union,  Punjab Radical Students Union and Tarksheel Society protested at the Civil Hospital, Sangrur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-locals-seek-better-health-infrastructure-268901
16-06-2021||---||Punjab BJP leaders meet Shah, Nadda||New Delhi, June 15With Assembly elections scheduled next year, the BJP today started planning its strategy for Punjab with Home Minister Amit Shah and party chief JP Nadda meeting leaders from the state in the backdrop of the ongoing agitation against the three farm laws and the recently stitched Akali-BSP alliance.State president Ashwani Sharma, general secretary in charge Dushyant Gautam and general secretary Tarun Chugh were among those present at the meeting. With SAD stitching an alliance with the BSP, the BJP is now looking at the changed caste equations in the SC/ST-dominated state.Though the party is expected to contest most seats on its own, sources say it is not averse to alliances with breakaway groups and “strong/high-profile” names and paratroopers from rival parties to take on Congress’ Capt Amarinder Singh. Apparently, “aggrieved leaders” from the Opposition party have also not been ruled out yet.The saffron party is facing a tough situation in the state that emerged as the epicentre of farmers’ protests in the recent past. Heckled and not allowed to hold functions in their constituencies, many party leaders are believed to have voiced concern to the central leadership over the resistance they have been facing when they visit their constituencies.The saffron party also performed poorly in the last municipal polls, winning a handful of seats. In those terms, today’s meeting is crucial as it will decide the direction for the party’s poll strategy for the upcoming elections.Leaders say they will continue to reach out to farmers to clear the air on all issues. “That the agitation is political, Punjab farmers understand well. The direct benefit transfer of the MSP has further clarified their doubts regarding the laws,” Punjab leaders say.The BJP, which contested 23 seats in alliance with SAD won three with a vote share of around 29 per per cent in seats it contested. Its overall vote share was around 5.4 per cent in 2017.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-bjp-leaders-meet-shah-nadda-268902
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||AAP SC wing protests scholarship ‘scam’||The Aam Aadmi Party’s state SC wing today held a hunger strike and staged district-wide protests across the state against the Post-Matric Scholarship “scam”.Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema said hunger strikes and demonstrations led by district-in charges of the party’s SC wing were held in front of the offices of the Deputy Commissioners in all districts.A large number of district leaders and party volunteers participated in the protests and raised slogans against the ruling Congress government, demanding registration of cases against Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Social Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot under the SC/ST Act.Cheema said AAP’s struggle would continue till a case was registered against Badal and Dharamsot. He said the investigation report submitted by senior IAS officer Kirpa Shankar Saroj on the “scam” revealed that the scholarships were given by the Social Welfare Minister to his crony managers of fake colleges. “Private colleges have not received funds and lakhs of Dalit students have been deprived of their right to education,” he said, adding that earlier the SAD-BJP government had robbed the Dalits of their rights and now the Congress government was doing the same. — TNSDullo joins studentsJalandhar: Rajya Sabha Congress MP Shamsher Singh Dullo on Tuesday joined a Dalit students' protest against his own party-led government at the Deputy Commissioner's office here. He demanded a CBI inquiry against SC Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-sc-wing-protests-scholarship-scam-268903
16-06-2021||Jalandhar||AAP will declare CM face ahead of polls: Chadha||AAP state affairs co-in charge and Delhi MLA Raghav Chadha today said the party would declare the CM’s face before the Assembly polls slated for early 2022.Replying to a specific query during an event here, Chadha said: “The party will definitely make the announcement in this regard well before the elections.”Chadha said this time, party’s electioneering for the Assembly polls would not be controlled by the Delhi unit. “Instead, state leaders will have the decision-making powers.”Earlier, he formally inducted former Jalandhar DCP and PPS officer Balkar Singh into the party fold. He is likely to be fielded from the Kartarpur reserved seat as the party candidate. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-will-declare-cm-face-ahead-of-polls-chadha-268904
16-06-2021||Abohar||Dubai man donates hearse in Abohar||Amid a recent surge in Covid deaths, the Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust, run by Dubai-based businessman Dr SP Singh Oberoi, has arranged a funeral van. Earlier, similar vehicles were donated by the Nar Sewa Narayan Sewa Samiti and Bala Ji Manav Sewa Samiti, but due to an increase in deaths over the past two months owing to the pandemic, need for more vehicles was being felt. On a recent visit to the district, trust national head Jassa Singh Sandhu had distributed material to battle the epidemic and provided a funeral van, which was today handed over to the Abohar unit by district chief Kuljeet Singh in the presence of children representing different religions. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dubai-man-donates-hearse-in-abohar-268905
16-06-2021||Aman Sood||Power ‘surplus’ state fails to ensure 8-hr supply to farmers||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 15Despite the state government’s claim of being power surplus, farmers are facing an acute shortage of electricity for their fields. Farm unions are now out on the streets against Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL).In many villages, paddy fields have run dry with no power for the past five days. As a result, labour is sitting idle and every day losses are mounting. Farmer unions claim in certain areas, PSPCL officials are yet to inform farmers as to when the power supply will be restored, if at all.Earlier, farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union Ugrahan today blocked the Patiala-Rajpura highway, raising slogans against the Punjab Government and PSPCL for their failure to ensure uninterrupted power supply. “Our fields are running dry. We are suffering financially by using diesel to run generators for water. PSPCL has failed to supply us power even for four hours, leave aside the promised 8-hour supply,” said BKU leader Manjit Singh.Recent storms have caused losses worth crores to PSPCL and its staff is still to rectify the supply to many villages. Till the filing of the copy, many villages and the city area of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s hometown of Patiala were also without power.Many areas reported unscheduled power cuts, and in some villages, farmers claimed they got only six hours for their fields while their residences remained without power during the day.“We are suffering losses due to the poor functioning of PSPCL officials. Our repeated requests to field officers have fallen on deaf ears. It is high time the government intervenes,” claimed Satnam Singh Behru, associated with the Consortium of Indian Farmers Association.Another thunderstorm and high velocity wind on Tuesday affected the power supply, resulting in snags in many villages and cities. Even the power demand crashed from 10,130 MW at 3 pm to 8,250 MW around evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/power-surplus-state-fails-to-ensure-8-hr-supply-to-farmers-268906
16-06-2021||Parvesh Sharma||No response from discom staff, Sangrur villagers turn linemen||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, June 15Untrained farmers from three villages struggled for three days to straighten electricity poles damaged in a thunderstorm on June 10 as their repeated requests to Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) fell on deaf ears.Already under debt, farmers took things into their own hands as many had to shell out more money for diesel to run their tubewells. A PSPCL officer said the recent thunderstorm created serious problems and the shortage of employess multiplied them.“After a thunderstorm on June 10, around 12 electricity poles were tilted to one side and the supply to the agriculture feeder of Sakraudi, Sangatpur and Kakra villages was stopped. When PSPCL officials did not come despite our repeated calls and requests, we formed a group and straightened all poles by pulling them with ropes. Our fields remained without electricity for four days from June 10 to 14,” alleged Devinder Singh Sakraudi, a leader of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) Sidhupur.He alleged after their protest, PSPCL sent two technicians on June 14, who checked the poles and the electricity supply was restored last night.“After supplying power for few hours, it was snapped again on June 15. Even after putting our lives at risk to straighten the poles, we are still without electricity,” alleged Sakraudi.Another farmer Harjinder Singh alleged they had to spent more on diesel to run their tubewells to irrigate their fields for paddy transplantation.Sources in PSPCL claimed the storm had affected 950 electricity poles, 55 transformers and other equipment in Sangrur, Sunam, Khanauri, Lehra and other areas.In total, the storm caused a damage of more than Rs 1 crore to PSPCL.PSPCL Bhawanigarh SDO Harbans Singh claimed they provided technical assistance to farmers. “Since we are already short of staff, we allowed farmers to straighten poles and restore electricity at the earliest. We had resumed the electricity supply to some areas on June 12, but residents opposed the move and demanded that all areas should be made functional together. We restored the electricity supply on June 14.” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-response-from-discom-staff-sangrur-villagers-turn-linemen-268907
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||FCI accepting rice from mills post verification||The Food Corporation of India has once again started accepting rice from the mills where physical verification has been completed.In a letter issued today, the FCI District Officers have been instructed to start accepting custom milled rice from those rice shellers where the physical verification had been completed. The delivery of rice had been stopped by the FCI from June 1, pending the physical verification of the paddy and rice stocks in each mill.The FCI had ordered physical verification following complaints of pilferage of rice meant to be delivered to the agency and a mismatch in stocks. Punjab had procured 203 lakh metric tonnes of paddy in the Kharif Marketing Season 2020-21. This was way beyond the productivity of the land under paddy cultivation could give, raising suspicion that there had been bogus billing of paddy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fci-accepting-rice-from-mills-post-verification-268908
16-06-2021||Fazilka||Surjit Jyani gheraoed at office||Farm activists gheraoed Surjit Kumar Jyani at his office at the local grain market over a land dispute today. Jyani was conducting a press conference at his office when some farmers reached there and starting raising slogans against him. Sensing the gravity of the situation, the police persuaded Jyani and took him to a safer place.Surjit Singh, a resident of Azamwala village, alleged some persons, allegedly at the behest of Jyani, tried to encroach upon 15 acres of land, which was under his possession. Jyani conducted a press conference and said the ownership and possession of land was with his relatives and Surjit Singh had nothing to do with it. He said his relatives had purchased the land long ago, but Surjit and others encroached upon the land. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/surjit-jyani-gheraoed-at-office-268909
16-06-2021||Fazilka||BKU starts indefinite blockade over canal water theft in Fazilka||Activists of the BKU Ugrahan today started an indefinite blockade of the Fazilka-Ferozepur highway at Mamujoiya toll plaza, near Jalalabad, over alleged illegal drawing of water from canals. While one side of the road was already occupied by farmers protesting the three agriculture laws, the other side had now been blocked by union activists, resulting in inconvenience to commuters on the busy highway. BKU Ugrahan district unit vice-president Gurwinder Singh Mannewala alleged some influential persons had laid pipes illegally and were drawing water from the Nizamwah distributary and minor Barkatwah and Faizwah canals, depriving tail-end villages of canal water during the paddy plantation season. The farmers also alleged contaminated water was being released into the Jalalabad branch canal and Ladhuka distributary. The water was unfit for human consumption as well as irrigational purposes. They alleged the villagers had been suffering from several ailments due to release of contaminated water in some canals. Jalalabad canal SDO Sunil Kamboj said illegal pipes had been removed at several places and water outlets set in order. He claimed the water was released into the Barkatwah and Faizwah minor canals but farmers did not open water outlets, causing a 30-foot-wide breach in the Barkatwah minor canal today morning. He said contaminated water was being released upstream in some canals. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bku-starts-indefinite-blockade-over-canal-water-theft-in-fazilka-268910
16-06-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||Anti-farm law protesters given rooms at toll plazas||As part of the ongoing agitation by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha against the farm laws, temporary rooms have been arranged for protesters near the toll points on the Sriganganagar-Padampur road.A dispute had erupted over the construction of rooms, which was resolved this afternoon after a meeting with the administration.Gramin Mazdoor Kisan Samiti convener Ranjit Singh Raju said in view of extreme heat and inclement weather, a room was arranged at the Chak 18-BB toll plaza.A week ago, farmers had started stacking material to construct a room near the toll point office at Chak 9-A. On receiving information, administration officials stopped the construction. The samiti, however, decided to start construction today.A large number of police personnel were deployed at Chak 9-A village early this morning. As a large number of farmers assembled at the scene, SDM Ummed Singh Ratnu and other officials too arrived there.The matter was resolved after two-hour talks. The farmers dropped the construction plan after the toll barrier contractor agreed to vacate the generator room for farmers temporarily. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anti-farm-law-protesters-given-rooms-at-toll-plazas-268911
16-06-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Ex-SPG men guarding CM to get basic salary||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 15Protecting the salaries of 76 former Special Protection Group (SPG) personnel, recruited in the Punjab Police for the CM’s security, has run into rough weather with the Finance Department stating that being fresh recruits they should be paid the basic salary during the probation period.The recruitments were made earlier this year under the process initiated in 2019, as per a Cabinet decision taken in 2013 to directly recruit 300 security personnel who had earlier served at different positions in the SPG squad of the Prime Minister or other protectees.On similar lines, the former SPG personnel ranging from constables to DSPs were recruited in the Special Protection Unit (SPU) of the Punjab Police for the CM’s security.Though the recruitments were made against existing vacancies, to date the SPU is not a defined cadre with sanctioned posts and the personnel were given slots and numbers against the existing vacancies of the Punjab Armed Police (PAP), resulting in heartburn among the Punjab Police personnel who fear their promotional avenues would be affected. Currently, there are five cadres up to the rank of Inspector — PAP, Intelligence, Technical and Support, Bureau of Investigation (BOI) and district police.Sources said after the Home Department took up the matter of pay scales of the former SPG personnel, the Finance Department in May this year clarified about paying the basic pay scales as per the recommendations of the seventh central pay commission.A government functionary pointed out that former SPG personnel, mostly from other states, were taking up jobs meant for the local youth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-spg-men-guarding-cm-to-get-basic-salary-268912
16-06-2021||---||Callers posing as Prashant Kishor booked in Ldh||Chandigarh, June 15The Punjab Police have registered a criminal case against unidentified persons for impersonating political strategist and CM’s principal adviser Prashant Kishor and using his name to incite political leaders against Captain Amarinder Singh.The police had received information that the suspects had been making phone calls to political leaders and public representatives over the past 5-7 days posing as Kishor, according to a Punjab Police spokesperson.These unidentified callers had been reportedly encouraging politicians to make public statements against the CM and criticise his leadership, said the spokesperson.The callers had also apparently been giving assurances to leaders, etc. of taking up their case with the Congress high command in Delhi if they acted as told. A criminal case under Sections 416, 419, 420, 109 and 120-B of the IPC and 66-D of the IT Act had been registered at PS Division No. 6, Commissionerate of Police, Ludhiana. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/callers-posing-as-prashant-kishor-booked-in-ldh-268913
16-06-2021||---||Positivity rate 2%, Punjab eases restrictions||Chandigarh, June 15With Punjab’s positivity rate coming down to 2 per cent, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday announced easing of restrictions, allowing restaurants, cinemas and gyms to open at 50 per cent capacity from Wednesday. He also announced increase in gatherings at weddings and cremations to 50 persons.Under the new guidelines, which will remain in effect till June 25 when these will be reviewed, night curfew will be in place from 8 pm to 5 am, with weekend curfew from 8 pm on Saturday till 5 am on Monday.All essential activities, including those covered under existing exemptions, will remain unaffected. Chairing a high-level virtual Covid review meeting, the Chief Minister ordered opening of eateries, cinemas, gyms at 50 per cent capacity provided all their employees have received at least one dose of vaccination. Bars, pubs and taverns will continue to remain closed.Air-conditioned (AC) buses can ply with 50 per cent occupation. All educational institutions will continue to remain shut.Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said new cases in all districts were showing a downward trend. “Daily cases are likely to decline to about 210 June 28,” she said.Gyms, cinemas to open at 50% capacity||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/positivity-rate-2-punjab-eases-restrictions-269076
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab eases Covid curbs; gyms, restaurants, cinemas to open||Punjab government allowed cinemas, gyms and dine-in services in restaurants to open, easing restrictions imposed since April to prevent the spread of Covid-19.The development comes as positivity rate falls to 2 per cent.A new order issued by Punjab Government said cinemas and gyms could open at 50 per cent of its capacity provided they strictly adhered to Covid-19 protocols. Dine in services would resume in restaurants, cafes and other eating establishments at 50 per cent seating capacity. Bars and pubs however will remain closed.Eating houses, gyms and cinemas must ensure that all their employees have had at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccines.Gatherings for weddings and funerals can now have up to 50 people.Night curfews will continue from 8 pm to 5 am, and weekend curfews from 8 pm on Saturday to 5 am on Monday.Essential and emergency services are exempted from curfew restrictions.AC bus services could also resume at 50 per cent occupation.All educational institutions will remain closed.What’s allowed—Gyms, cinemas, restaurants, eating joints—AC buses—Essential and emergencies services—Gatherings such as weddings with up to 50 guestsWhat’s not—Bars, pubs and ‘Ahatas’—Educational insititutionsNight curfew hours: 8 pm to 5 amWeekend curfew: Saturday 8 pm to Monday 5 am Exemptions to curfew rules—Hospitals, veterinary hospitals and all establishments, both in public and private sector, related to manufacture and supply of all medicines and medical equipment. Including the manufacturing & distribution units such as dispensaries, chemist & pharmacy, laboratories, pharmaceutical research labs, clinics, nursing homes, ambulances etc—Shops dealing with supply of essential goods, milk, dairy and poultry products like bread, eggs, meat etc and vegetables, fruits etc.—Shops/establishments selling industrial materials including raw materials, intermediaries as well as shops/establishments engaged in export and import activities—Activities /establishments related to fisheries such as fish, meat and its products including supply of fish seeds—Movement of passengers travelling by air, trains and buses on production of travel documents—Inter and intra state movement of all vehicles/persons carrying essential and non-essential goods—Delivery of all essential goods through e-commerce—Construction activities in both urban and rural areas—Agricultural including procurement, horticultural, animal husbandry and veterinary services—Vaccinations outreach camps—Telecommunication, internet services, broadcasting and cable services. IT and IT enabled services.—Petrol pumps and petroleum products, LPG, petroleum and gas retail and storage outlets, coal, firewood and other fuels—Power generation, transmission and distribution units and services—Cold storage and warehousing services—Private security services—Farming operations by farmers and farm workers in the field—All Banking/RBI services, ATMs, Cash Vans and cash handling/ distribution services||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-eases-covid-curbs-gyms-restaurants-cinemas-to-open-268826
16-06-2021||Jhajjar||As farmers return to Punjab to sow paddy, elderly, women keep numbers up at Tikri||Farm organisations from Punjab have decided to raise the number of elderly people, including women, at the Tikri border to maintain adequate strength of protesters. The decision had to be taken following the dwindling number of protesters at the border in the past two weeks as many farmers have started returning to Punjab for sowing paddy. The season of paddy cultivation is on these days. Some farm leaders are also busy with work at their native places in Punjab, said sources.Sources maintained the protesters had been asked to ensure the presence of at least one or two persons in their place at the border to keep the momentum going. Consequently, women and elderly persons in large numbers have started coming to Tikri.“As the protest is likely to continue for a long time, a system has been devised so that farmers can cultivate paddy at their native place and the protest too can continue simultaneously with the same strength and spirit. So, we have decided to raise the number of elderly people, including women, at Tikri. Those who are not engaged in paddy sowing work are also being sent to Delhi borders from Punjab,” said Pragat Singh, a senior leader of BKU (Rajewal).Pragat Singh is also busy sowing paddy these days at his native Talwandi Nepalan village in Ferozepur district (Punjab). “Since agriculture is the only source of earning for farmers, farming activity is also necessary to arrange two square meals for the family. The majority of farmers will start going back to Tikri by June 30 to strengthen the agitation. The number of protesters will peak again in July,” he claimed.Denying that the number of protesters is dwindling, Singh said coolers and fans had been installed in all the huts at Tikri. Hence, the majority of farmers avoid roaming outside and take rest in their huts given the scorching heat these days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/as-farmers-return-to-punjab-to-sow-paddy-elderly-women-keep-numbers-up-at-tikri-268789
