17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sees 726 new Covid infections, 32 deaths||With 726 fresh cases of Covid, the infection tally in Punjab rose to 5,90,556 on Thursday while 32 more fatalities pushed the toll to 15,738, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases dropped to 9,479 from 10,046 on Wednesday.Deaths were reported from several districts including Amritsar, Barnala, Faridkot, Ferozepur and Ludhiana.Jalandhar reported 79 infections, followed by 64 each in Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana and 54 in Bathinda, among the fresh cases.The state's positivity rate stands at 1.28 per cent.With 1,255 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured people reached 5,65,339, according to the bulletin.There are 164 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 478 other critical patients and 2,117 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 1,02,45,131 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported 32 cases, taking the infection tally to 61,310, according to the medical bulletin.Three more people died of Covid, taking the toll to 802.        The number of active cases dropped to 432, as per the bulletin.With 96 patients being discharged after they recovered from the infection, the number of cured people reached 60,076, as per the bulletin.A total of 5,46,381 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 4,83,822 tested negative while reports of 8 samples were awaited, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sees-726-new-covid-infections-32-deaths-269933
17-06-2021||New Delhi||Sputnik V shots to be available at Fortis' Gurgaon, Mohali facilities from Saturday||Private hospital chain Fortis Healthcare on Thursday announced that Sputnik V, the third anti-coronavirus vaccine approved for use in India, will be available at its Gurgaon and Mohali facilities as part of a limited pilot roll-out from Saturday.The vaccine stock has been procured directly from Dr. Reddy's Laboratories according to government guidelines, it said."The two-dose vaccine will be available at Fortis Memorial Research Institute, Gurugram, and Fortis Hospital, Mohali," the private hospital chain said in a statement.In the coming days, the vaccine will be available at more Fortis hospitals across 11 cities as part of the phase-wise pilot project.Dr Ashutosh Raghuvanshi, MD and CEO, Fortis Healthcare, said, "Fortis is actively working towards ensuring that as many Indians as possible are fully vaccinated. To date, our units were only providing Covaxin and Covishield.""However, we are pleased to announce that Fortis, in collaboration with Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, is among the first to provide a third vaccine option, at Fortis Memorial Research Institute and Fortis Hospital Mohali, with the dual objective of expanding and scaling up the vaccination drive and lowering the infection risks to future mutations of the virus."Earlier, Delhi's Indraprastha Apollo Hospital and Madhukar Rainbow Children's Hospital had also said they will start administering the Russian Covid-19 vaccine by June 20.The Centre has fixed the price of the vaccine at Rs 1,145 per dose.The maximum price of Covishield for private Covid-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) has been fixed at Rs 780 per dose, while that of Covaxin is Rs 1,410 per dose.Russia's Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology has developed the vaccine and the Russian Direct Investment Fund is marketing it globally.Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy's Laboratories, the marketing partner for the vaccine in the country, has been importing the shots from Russia. Over a period of time, the vaccine is also going to be manufactured in India.Sputnik V uses two different viruses that cause the common cold (adenovirus) in humans. It employs a different vector for each of the two shots, given 21 days apart.According to Gamaleya and the RDIF, Sputnik V has demonstrated an efficacy rate of 92 per cent. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sputnik-v-shots-to-be-available-at-fortis-gurgaon-mohali-facilities-from-saturday-269890
17-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||'Most of the time we get stuck....', writes Diljit Donsajh on 'New Album New Me' post||Punjabi singer Diljit Dosanjh has been creating quite the suspense around his new album. The singer-actor has been quite tight-lipped about the genre or any specific detail about his new musical treat. But the singer claims that his latest album would share a lot of stuff that he always wished to share with his fans. Of course, this would be something new for his fans to look forward to. The Punjabi singer has mostly done bhangra numbers and groovy tracks. However, this time the songs would be more content-driven and might be high on sentiment. Taking to the microblogging website, Diljit revealed a little bit about his upcoming album. “Most of the time we get stuck in our own dream world. Our ancestors have taught us a lot but you will understand when you yourself get encountered every day brings a new experience. It takes time to get used to reality. New album new me,” read Diljit's post.Most of the Time We get Stuck in Our Own DREAM World. Our Ancestors Have Taught us a Lot.. But..YOU Will Understand When YOU YOURSELF GET ENCOUNTERED EVERYDAY BRINGS A NEW EXPERIENCE.. It Takes Time To Get Used To THE REALITY “ NEW ALBUM NEW ME “ 😊  Meanwhile, besides creating news for the upcoming album, Diljit Dosanjh has been turning heads for his upcoming movies also. He recently finished the shoot of ‘Honsla Rakh’, starring him, Shehnaaz Gill, Shinda Grewal, and Sonam Bajwa. The movie is scheduled to release on October 15th, on Dussehra this year, and it is one of the most anticipated Punjabi films of 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/most-of-the-time-we-get-stuck-writes-diljit-donsajh-on-new-album-new-me-post-269854
17-06-2021||---||Sukhpal Khaira meets Rahul Gandhi, merges party with Congress||New Delhi, June 17Three Punjab Ekta Party MLAs - former Leader of Opposition (Punjab) Sukhpal Singh Khaira (MLA Bholath), Jagdev Singh (MLA Maur), and Pirmal Singh (MLA Bhadaur) met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi at the latter’s 12 Tughlaq Lane residence here and announced the party’s merger in the Congress.Khaira, a former Congressman, had joined AAP in December 2015.He returned to the Congress on June 4 saying AAP convenor Arvind Kejriwal is a dictator.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhpal-khaira-meets-rahul-gandhi-merges-party-with-congress-269852
17-06-2021||Amritsar||Hoardings backing Navjot Sidhu come up in Amritsar||A week after the three-member Congress panel set up to end factionalism in the party's Punjab unit, in its report recommended suitable accommodation of former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, hoardings claiming ‘Sara Punjab Sidhu Naal’ (whole Punjab is with Sidhu) backing the Congress leader and Amritsar East MLA surfaced in the city on Wednesday.On June 10, the panel, set up by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, submitted its report to her and is learnt to have recommended suitable accommodation of Sidhu, setting up of a coordination committee and filling vacant posts in the organisation.The panel had held deliberations with party MLAs and with Sidhu and Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh following a row between the two leaders. Punjab will face Assembly polls early next year. ANI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hoardings-backing-navjot-sidhu-come-up-in-amritsar-269812
17-06-2021||Nitin Jain||Deserted in Bihar, woman reunited with husband in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 16It is not a story from any Bollywood flick. A young married woman of 19, who was deserted at her native place in Bihar, was reunited with her husband working as a daily wager here after she travelled all the way from Patna to Ludhiana.Dr Pragya Jain, ADCP-I, LudhianaAfter a lot of cajoling, she narrated how her husband left her back in Bihar after a fight and how she reached Ludhiana and now has no place to live. Gradually, she told the incomplete mobile number of her husband.Penniless, the migrant destitute reached here by train, travelling without a ticket. But her ordeal did not end here. Oblivious of her estranged partner’s whereabouts, the woman was roaming aimlessly in the industrial city when a local tailor turned saviour for her and gave her shelter at his home before taking her to the local police for tracing her husband and arranging their reunion.Even as the local police station staff, where the tailor took the woman initially, proved helpless, the Good Samaritan did not lose hope and reached the Ludhiana Police Commissionerate headquarters to seek appointment with the ADCP-I, Dr Pragya Jain, about whom he had heard and read the story of how this woman IPS officer had come to the aid of a minor rape survivor while going beyond the call of her duty recently.The sustained efforts of the tailor-turned-survivor bore fruit as the Commissionerate Police not only traced the deserted woman’s husband and arranged their reunion but also ensured their rehabilitation.“Our officers and field staffers worked overtime to trace the man, of whom the woman was having no contact details. After being traced, the man posed stiff resistance to accept the woman. However, we managed to arrange their reunion under “Operation Reunion” and ensured their rehabilitation with the help of local community,” the Commissioner of Police (CP), Rakesh Agrawal, told The Tribune, here on Wednesday.Sharing details, ADCP-I Dr Pragya Jain, who arranged the reunion and rehabilitation of the poor couple, said Munni belonged to Bidipur village in Nalanda district of Bihar and was married to Rohit Choudhary, who had deserted her in Bihar last month following a domestic spat. Married for five years, she was a mother of two kids, aged three and two years.On June 13, without informing anyone and leaving her kids behind with her parents, who were also daily wagers, she boarded a train from Patna to Ludhiana, without ticket, in a bid to search her husband.“Having no money, no mobile phone and no luggage, she reached the Salem Tabri area and started wandering aimlessly, asking for her husband, without knowing his whereabouts,” revealed the ADCP.A local tailor, Budh Dev, on seeing the destitute woman, took her to the nearby police station as she was unable to share anything about herself.Not satisfied with the response of the police station staff, Dev provided her shelter with his own family, while trying to locate her family. Today, he reached the Police Commissionerate and sought appointment with Dr Pragya Jain.“I was intrigued at the peculiar situation and was touched by the heart-warming selfless effort of Dev,” expressed the ADCP. She herself sat with the woman and talked to her at length trying to elicit any information about her background.“After a lot of cajoling, she started narrating her ordeal, how her husband had left her back home in Bihar after a fight and how she reached Ludhiana and now has no place to live. Gradually, she told the incomplete mobile number of her husband without knowing one of the digits,” Dr Jain said.While trying to locate her husband, the police also arranged her further stay at Mother Teresa’s charitable home. “We tried all the possible mobile number combinations, called them up, some of which went unanswered. Then, we tried a few mobile apps, revealing photos and identity of the number owner, following which the woman identified one of the photos as that of her husband’s,” the woman IPS officer said.As technical aids revealed the man’s location, a police team, headed by SI Rashpal Kaur, found the man working at a local iron factory.“But her ordeal was not over yet as her husband refused to take her back, alleging marital discord. Our team then engaged with the local community leaders and factory owners to counsel both,” the ADCP shared.Finally, with the combined efforts of the police and community, the couple was reunited and their return trip to Bihar was sponsored to bring back their minor children to Ludhiana and stay happily here.The Good samaritanA local tailor, Budh Dev, on seeing the destitute woman, took her to the nearby police station as she was unable to share anything about herself. Not satisfied with the response of the police station staff, Dev provided her shelter with his own family, while trying to locate her family. Today, he reached the Police Commissionerate and sought appointment with Dr Pragya Jain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/deserted-in-bihar-woman-reunited-with-husband-in-ludhiana-269606
17-06-2021||Aditi Tandon||No headway, Navjot Sidhu adamant on PPCC president’s post||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 16The resolution of Punjab Congress factionalism is all set for the delay with MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu said to be reluctant on deputy chief minister-ship the Congress offered to him as a proposal to buy peace in a faction-ridden party.A second meeting Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took with the AICC panel on Punjab within four days (the first was held on Sunday) remained inconclusive today with the general secretary in charge of the state Harish Rawat telling The Tribune that the resolution of the matter was likely by July."Punjab issue will be solved when Monsoon arrives in Punjab, by July. It is not about one or two individuals. A comprehensive party revamp is underway and consultations are on," he said.Asked where the matter was stuck considering the Congress wanted to fast track the matter, Rawat said, "Further deliberations are required to resolve many issues and deal with nitty-gritty. It is a complex balancing act. We have to unite the party ahead of the next elections and take everyone along."The Tribune has learnt reliably that Sidhu is not keen on a deputy CM-ship and remains adamant on the demand of being the state unit president.The CM for his part is not agreeable on Sidhu as the state chief -- a post he wants for a Hindu.The Congress is learnt to have offered deputy CM ship to Sidhu who had quit the state cabinet in 2019 after being divested of the local body portfolio.A Congress source said, "Attempts are on at a fair resolution. The CM and Navjot Sidhu are both stuck on their stands. Discussions are on to break the impasse."With the AICC panel making it clear to the party high command that CM Amarinder Singh should steer the party ahead of the next elections, it remains to be seen how far the Congress will go to "suitably accommodate Sidhu', as recommended by the panel led by Mallikarjun Kharge.Sources said the Congress would not disturb the CM much and would seek to forge unity of all factions, preferably including Sidhu, behind him.Sidhu's accommodation is holding up matters and continues to be discussed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-headway-navjot-sidhu-adamant-on-ppcc-presidents-post-269714
17-06-2021||---||Soldier cremated with state honours in Bathinda||Bathinda, June 16Soldier Jagraj Singh (26), who breathed his last at the Military Hospital in Chandimandir on June 14, was cremated with state honours at Sheikhpura village on Wednesday.A large number of locals bid farewell to Jagraj Singh, who was the only son of a poor farmer. He had been serving the 23rd Sikh Battalion of the Army for the past seven years.Jagraj Singh’s mother Jasveer Kaur and father Major Singh said Jagraj had joined the Sikh Regiment after passing Class XII.Jagraj Singh’s elder sister Manpreet Kaur is a Punjab Police employee.Jagraj Singh’s regiment is currently in Rajasthan. He was injured during training in Rajasthan on June 5 and was taken to Suratgarh Hospital by the Army, but was later airlifted to the Chandimandir Military Hospital. He underwent an operation for his injuries, but passed away on June 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/soldier-cremated-with-state-honours-in-bathinda-269711
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Open stadiums in Mohali: Minister to department||In view of the rapidly declining Covid cases, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Minister for Sports, Youth Services and NRIs Affairs, on Wednesday directed the Sports Department to open all stadiums, including those in Mohali, for players desirous to participate in national and international sporting events.The minister said the state government had decided that the players aspiring to participate in national and international-level tournaments should be given exemption to practice in open stadiums as Covid cases had been sharply decreasing in the state. “Players and coaches will have to ensure compliance with the guidelines issued by the Health Department for the prevention of Covid,” he said.Special Secretary-cum-Director, Sports and Youth Services, DPS Kharbanda said district sports officers had been asked to complete the arrangements for opening stadiums. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/open-stadiums-in-mohali-minister-to-department-269710
17-06-2021||---||Punjab CM also involved in ‘Fateh’ kit procurement ‘scam’: AAP||Chandigarh, June 16On Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s decision to give a clean chit to Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and senior officials in the ‘Fateh’ kit procurement ‘scam’, AAP senior leader and Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema said it proved the involvement of the CM, too.Cheema asked Capt Amarinder why the government had sacked Neeraj Singla, Director (Finance) of the National Health Mission, if there was no scam in the procurement process. He said the Congress government had awarded the tender of ‘Fateh’ kits to a garment manufacturing company, which did not have any licence to manufacture medical equipment.Cheema alleged the owners of the company were close to the Chief Minister which was why the government had repeatedly issued tenders and bought kits worth Rs 837 each at a hefty price of Rs 1,338. Commenting on the Chief Minister’s defence of the Punjab Government, Cheema said the government was involved in all wrongdoings during its tenure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-also-involved-in-fateh-kit-procurement-scam-aap-269703
17-06-2021||Muktsar||Black fungus toll up in Muktsar, 4 die in 15 days||Of the 23 black fungus patients in the district, seven have died recently. The data revealed that just two persons had been cured while the remaining were still undergoing treatment. Further, the data showed that four persons had died in the past fortnight.A senior official of the Health Department said six mucormycosis patients were not infected by Covid-19.Meanwhile, the Covid graph is coming down with every passing day. At present, there are just five micro-containment zones and one macro-containment zone in the district. In the past 24 hours, 26 persons tested positive for Covid in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/black-fungus-toll-up-in-muktsar-4-die-in-15-days-269697
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Fresh guidelines for Punjab govt offices||The government has issued fresh guidelines for attendance of staff working in its offices. Now, administrative offices will take decision at their level to call staff to work. The government has tasked the departments to decide about calling employees to offices.The department heads have been asked to call specially abled, pregnant women and medically constrained employees to the office only if necessary. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fresh-guidelines-for-punjab-govt-offices-269679
17-06-2021||Saurabh Malik||Why bail pleas pending, Supreme Court raps Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 16The Supreme Court has virtually admonished the Punjab and Haryana High Court for “defeating the administration of justice” by not listing a bail plea for hearing for over a year.Expressing shock, a Division Bench made it clear that at least half of the judges were required to sit on alternate days during the prevailing pandemic to accord hearing to “persons in distress”.The rap comes at a time when the HC faces a pendency of 6,84,490 cases, including 2,94,927 criminal matters involving life and liberty. Of these, 1,05,830 (35.88 per cent) of the criminal cases are pending for one to three years and another 24,954 (8.46 per cent) for 10 to 20 years.The HC went into restricted functioning mode in March-end last year following Covid outbreak, following which it cancelled the summer vacation for itself and the subordinate courts in 2020. This year, the HC, however, decided to go ahead with the vacation even though the number of cases being heard drastically dipped to less than 1,000 just before the break from about 2,510 cases in April. As of now, just about six judges are holding the court during the vacation.Justice delivery hitNon-listing of applications for bail defeats the administration of justice. —SC BenchThe matter was placed before the SC Bench of Justice Hemant Gupta and Justice V Ramasubramanian after a special leave petition (SLP) was filed by Chunni Lal Gaba against Assistant Director, Directorate of Enforcement. He had challenged an order whereby his request for hearing bail application, pending since February 28, 2020, was declined. The Bench said it normally did not interfere with an interim order by an HC. But it was constrained to pass the present order as it was “shocked” to see bail application not being listed for over a year. The Bench added an accused has a right to hearing on his bail application. In fact, denial of hearing was an infringement of right and liberty assured to an accused.“Even during the pandemic, when all courts are making attempts to hear and decide all matter, non-listing of such an application for bail defeats the administration of justice…. Non-listing of an application for regular bail, irrespective of the seriousness or lack thereof, of the offences attributed to the accused, impinges upon the liberty of the person in custody,” the Bench added.It also expressed hope that the HC would be able to take up the application at an early date so that the right of the accused was not taken away.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/why-bail-pleas-pending-supreme-court-raps-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-269455
17-06-2021||Balwant Garg||‘Harassed’, says man who exposed fake Covid tests||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, June 16A local insurance agent whose alert to the ICMR had blown the lid off an alleged scam involving the misuse of Aadhaar cards and mobile numbers to prepare fake Covid test reports of Kumbh pilgrims at Haridwar in April is feeling harassed as he has been receiving numerous calls related to the “expose”.The man (not wishing to be named) suspected something was fishy after he received an SMS from the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research), conveying him about his Covid report even though he never underwent a test.The man alerted the ICMR, which raised the issue with the Uttarakhand health authorities. A preliminary inquiry indicated a large number of fake RT-PCR reports had been issued by allegedly misusing IDs of people who hadn’t even visited Haridwar. The alleged scam involved private labs that were supposed to conduct free Covid tests of Kumbh visitors in lieu of payments from the government.While a detailed investigation is on, the man claimed as his mobile number and Aadhaar card details were in public domain now, he had been receiving numerous queries from various parts of the country related to the scandal. “I had sent a query to the ICMR and got a reply today that as per their record, my Covid test was done at a Hisar lab. I haven’t visited Haryana or Uttarakhand for the past five years,” he said, adding the test report indicated the “scam” wasn’t limited to Uttarakhand. The Haryana Government, however, claimed no complaint had been received about fake testing for Kumbh. “I can’t comment on anything which is alleged to have occurred in some other state. We haven’t received any communication from the Centre, ICMR or Uttarakhand Government either,” said Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harassed-says-man-who-exposed-fake-covid-tests-269459
17-06-2021||---||Ward-wise vaccination drive on cards: Punjab Health Minister||Chandigarh, June 16Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today said the Punjab Government was taking appropriate measures to cover every citizen in the ambit of Covid vaccination and the drive had been running in full swing in rural as well as urban areas of the state.He said till now, of the 5,98,060 Covaxin doses received from the Government of India (GoI), around 4,90,041 had been utilised. From the state’s purchase quota of around 1,50,850 Covaxin doses, 66,032 had been administered. On the same pattern, of the 48,16,580 Covidshield vaccine provided by the GoI, 46,43,786 had been used; and of the purchased 5,86,000 doses, 5,30,603 had been successfully administered till June 13. He said a total of 58,15,339 persons under different categories had been vaccinated till now.The vaccination in the age group of 18-44 years had been expanded to include students studying abroad, foreign employed persons, shopkeepers, workers of hospitality industry, delivery boys, etc. The vaccination campaign would be conducted ward and village wise.The Health Minister said the positivity rate between May 17 and June 12 in rural and urban areas remained almost same at 4.4 per cent. Urban areas with industries or high population, like Ludhiana, Amritsar, Mohali and Bathinda, reported more Covid cases than rural areas. Villages in small districts such as Ropar, Mansa and Muktsar had high number of Covid cases. Last week, all districts logged positivity of less than 5 per cent.The statics from January to April indicated that this year, population between 21 and 40 years had been affected higher than those in other age groups, he said. Sidhu added the case fatality rate (CFR) remained high in rural areas than urban areas in the same period. The trend reversed after mid-May 2021. He said, therefore, all eligible persons needed to get vaccinated to reduce the CFR. He said all Civil Surgeons had been directed to step up the vaccination drive.‘Don’t stop treatment under health scheme’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ward-wise-vaccination-drive-on-cards-punjab-health-minister-269678
17-06-2021||---||Govt school in Patiala village axes trees sans nod, complaint filed||Patiala, June 16Government Senior Secondary School at Todarpur village in the district has come under fire for felling over 20 trees on the school premises without approval from the Forest Department.Senior advocate and activist HC Arora has filed a complaint to the Chief Secretary, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, and Secretary, School Education, seeking strict action against the school principal.In his complaint, Arora has alleged, “Dharminder Kaur, Principal, Government High School, Todarpur (Samana) has sold more than 30 dek trees (China berry) and a few poplar trees for Rs 45,000.”“All trees were fully grown. No permission was taken either from the Forest Department, higher authorities of the Education Department or the gram panchayat,” Arora said.Dharminder Kaur, Principal, said, “Some trees had fallen on our school buildings during the storm over the last few weeks. Besides, some of the trees were a threat to children because they could fall on classrooms.”She said the decision to cut trees was taken after passing of a resolution by the school management committee. When asked about the permission from the Forest Department, she said, “The trees were inside the school boundary. Moreover, they were planted by us. Therefore, there was no such need.”Arora said school staff, including the principal, had approached him and promised that they would plant more trees at the school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-school-in-patiala-village-axes-trees-sans-nod-complaint-filed-269677
17-06-2021||Anirudh Gupta||Buildings mushroom near state prisons in Ferozepur, pose threat to security||Ferozepur, June 16Paving the way for rapid urbanisation around various high-security prisons, the cash-strapped state government has reportedly sold over 300 acres of prime land belonging to various jails to generate revenue. But the move is now being seen as counter-productive. Every day, incidents are taking place where mobile phones and other items are being tossed over the prison walls. High-rise SCOs, residential and commercial complexes have come up in the vicinity of the prisons during the past few years.The escape of three prisoners from the Patiala jail has already set the alarm bells ringing. And if buildings continue to mushroom, more such incidents cannot be ruled out.As per information, the state government transferred chunks of land to the Punjab Urban Development Authority (PUDA) under the Optimum Utilisation of Vacant Government Land (OUVGL) scheme to generate surplus revenue. In Ferozepur, almost 21.80 acres belonging the central jail were transferred to PUDA under the scheme in 2008 following which a lot of residential and commercial hubs have come up near the jail.Another 22 acres of central jail land in Gurdaspur were transferred to PUDA around the same time. Thereafter, 22.17 acres of land of the central jail in Jalandhar were transferred to PUDA. Around 25.6 acres of jail land in Faridkot were also sold, where Baba Farid University of Health Sciences has come up now. Even in Amristar, almost 93 acres of central jail land have been reportedly transferred to PUDA.Security officials said any person with sinister designs could easily buy or rent a house or SCO close to the jail premises as PUDA further sold the land through auction to earn revenue for the government. Last year, more than 1,500 mobiles had been seized from various jails in the state due to stringent frisking and enhanced security measures but the incidents continue reportedly due to several buildings and roads being built in the proximity of the prisons.Jail officials said the security had been compromised with the sale of part of its land under the OUVGL scheme. “The only preventive step can be installation of electric fencing to protect the boundary wall and more CCTV cameras and jammers for which a proposal has already been submitted,” said a senior official.1,500 mobiles seized last yearLast year, more than 1,500 mobiles had been seized from various jails in the state due to enhanced security measures but the incidents continue reportedly due to several buildings and roads being built in the proximity of the prisons||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/buildings-mushroom-near-state-prisons-in-ferozepur-pose-threat-to-security-269676
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chief Secretary: Make cancer facility functional||To provide better healthcare facilities to cancer patients in the state, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan today directed the Medical Education Department to make the State Cancer Institute in Amritsar functional within the current fiscal.Reviewing the progress of the cancer institute’s ongoing civil and other allied works here, she said the Rs 120-crore project would have the state-of-the-art 150-bed complex that would provide world-class treatment facilities to cancer patients.Fixing the timelines for the ongoing civil works being done by the PHSC, Mahajan said these should be completed by October and installation of equipment should be completed immediately after that. During the meeting, the Chief Secretary also reviewed the progress of Tertiary Cancer Care Centre in Fazilka and asked to complete the ongoing civil works of the project by March 2022. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chief-secretary-make-cancer-facility-functional-269675
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Shiromani Akali Dal slams Capt Amarinder Singh over power cuts in Punjab||The Shiromani Akali Dal today lashed out at the government over alleged mismanagement of power supply during the paddy season.In a statement issued here today, SAD Kisan Wing president Sikander Singh Maluka said the Congress government could not ensure regular power supply to farmers even during the first five days of the paddy transplantation season. He said leave aside supplying eight-hour power supply as per commitment, farmers were not getting supply for the past three days in many parts of the state.He said the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) had failed to maintain supply. He said farmers were sitting on dharnas in front of PSPCL offices for not restoring supply after disruptions. He said it was shocking that the PSPCL did not have transformers and cables for restoration of power supply in many parts of the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shiromani-akali-dal-slams-capt-amarinder-singh-over-power-cuts-in-punjab-269673
17-06-2021||---||Youth ends life in custody in Pathankot||Pathankot, June 16A Patiala youth, who had eloped with a Pathankot-based girl a year ago, ended his life while in the custody of the Pathankot police.SSP Gulneet Singh Khurana said the youth, Harmandeep Singh (24), hanged himself from the fan with a piece of cloth this morning. “He had been brought from Sanuar in Patiala district yesterday after the parents of the girl complained to the police that he was harassing their daughter. We produced him in a court yesterday, which sent him to judicial custody. The court had ordered that he undergoes a Covid test. We had lodged him in the Nangal Bhoor police station in transit remand,” said the SSP. He added that an inquest had been marked into the incident.Moga Woman dies by suicide||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-ends-life-in-custody-in-pathankot-269672
17-06-2021||---||Seeking regular jobs, teachers gherao PSEB office||Mohali, June 16An umbrella group of six teachers’ unions laid siege to the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) building in Phase IX today. They were seeking job regularisation and enhancement in salaries.Nearly 500 teachers gheraoed the building around 10.30 am, taking PSEB officials and administration by surprise. The protesters raised slogans against CM Capt Amarinder Singh, Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla and Education Secretary Krishan Kumar for not fulfilling their demands for the past four years.Around five persons also climbed to the top of the building with petrol-filled bottles. Eyewitnesses said one protester tried to jump off the roof of the building, but was stopped by his colleagues. Another teacher, identified as Rajwinder Kaur of Malout, allegedly consumed a poisonous substance. Heavy police force, led by Mohali SSP Satinder Singh, reached the spot and barricaded the area. Teachers and police indulged in a mild scuffle after breaking the barricades.Sources said government officials and a group of teachers were engaged in negotiations till late in the evening.The protesters claimed that a meeting of the teachers with the minister yesterday was postponed till June 22. The agitated teachers, including women, staged a sit-in and claimed they would not vacate the area without reaching any conclusion. There are nearly 13,000 temporary teachers, some of them employed 18 years ago, who are paid between Rs 3,000 and Rs 10,000 a month.The SSP said, “All employees inside the building have been allowed to come out. The protesters are still there. Representatives of the union are holding a meeting with Capt Sandeep Sandhu, political secretary to the CM, in Ludhiana.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/seeking-regular-jobs-teachers-gherao-pseb-office-269671
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Parkash Singh Badal to appear before probe panel on June 22||Former CM Parkash Singh Badal will answer queries of the special investigation team (SIT) probing the Kotkapura police firing case on June 22 at his residence here.The SIT had rescheduled his questioning after Badal expressed inability to appear before the panel on June 16 at a rest house in Mohali. Citing ill-health and his age, besides provisions of law in questioning a witness, Badal asked the SIT to visit his Chandigarh house.Sources close to him said though the ex-CM was still indisposed, he would meet the SIT members on June 22. “He had appeared before the previous SIT also. He is all for following the law and has nothing to be afraid of,” said a close-aide. Badal was the CM in October 2015 when the firing took place in Kotkapura on a mob protesting sacrilege incidents. Led by ADGP LK Yadav, the SIT wants to ascertain who gave the orders to open fire and whether cops fired at a peaceful mob or an agitated mob in self-defence. The team is also probing if the standard operating procedure in dealing with such situation was followed. — TNSKey questionsLed by ADGP LK Yadav, the SIT probing the Kotkapura police firing incident wants to ascertain:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parkash-singh-badal-to-appear-before-probe-panel-on-june-22-269669
17-06-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||New SIT struggles to decipher pile of documents in Behbal Kalan case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 16A month after the state government reconstituted the special investigation team (SIT) into the October 2015 Behbal Kalan police firing incidents, the SIT officials are caught in making a head or tail out of the thousands of documents of past five years of investigation besides more than 20 writ petitions involving the incident.This SIT headed by IG Naunihal Singh was reconstituted after earlier SIT head IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap put in his papers following the quashing of his probe into the Kotkapura police firing incident. Both incidents took place in mid-October 2015 when cops opened fire at people who were protesting against a series of sacrilege incidents.The separate SITs into both incidents were reconstituted in mid-May this year. While the Kotkapura SIT headed by ADGP LK Yadav has hogged limelight and even summoned ex-CM Parkash Singh Badal, the other SIT is so far understanding the content of the documents.“It is quite a quagmire. There are more than 4,000 pages of investigation. And nearly 95 per cent of it is the same line of probe followed by the disbanded Kotkpaura SIT having IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap as the key investigator. This was quashed by the High Court. Also, both incidents had same reasons and other than some police officials, the seniors were almost the same,” said an official privy to the functioning of the new SIT. He said in contrast to the new Kotkapura SIT, the Behbal Kalan probe panel has to determine where to start the investigation and proceed thereafter. The biggest trouble is the more than 20 writ petitions, court directions and notices. “The SIT officials have sent several queries for a legal opinion so that there is no controversy later,” the official said. Besides IG Naunihal Singh, Mohali SSP Satinder Singh and Faridkot SSP Swarandeep Singh are the members.This SIT has not summoned any high-profile person so far. Sources said the SIT is making a summary of all the documents, and will proceed thereupon.Legal opinion sought to avoid controversy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-sit-struggles-to-decipher-pile-of-documents-in-behbal-kalan-case-269668
17-06-2021||Patiala||Patiala Municipal Corporation to hire ex-official, sparks controversy||When the youth of Punjab are facing a dearth of jobs, the Municipal Corporation, Patiala, in a general house meeting on Tuesday, decided to hire its retired superintending engineer (SE) as a technical adviser.He will be paid a sum equivalent to his last drawn salary minus the pension drawn every month. The official had retired from service on June 30, 2019. The matter was presented out of agenda and passed.A Congress-affiliate councillor, who was a part of the general body meeting, said, “Youths in the state are without jobs. They should be hired and given responsibilities rather than re-hiring retired workers.”Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma said it was a collective decision of the House. “The decision was taken with the approval of all the councillors present in the general house meeting.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-municipal-corporation-to-hire-ex-official-sparks-controversy-269665
17-06-2021||Moga||Anti-agri laws protester dies in Moga hospital||A 51-year-old farmer, who actively participated in the protest at Singhu border, has died after brief illness at a private hospital in Moga on Wednesday, activists of Kirti Kisan Union said today.The deceased farmer has been identified as Amrik Singh, a resident of Chota Ghar village. He was associated with the Kirti Kisan Union. The activists of the farm unions wrapped his body in the Kirti Kisan Union’s flag while paying last tributes to him. They termed Amrik Singh a ‘martyr’.Unions have demanded from Rs 5-lakh compensation to the kin of the deceased farmer, a government job for one member of the family and waiver of his pending loans. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anti-agri-laws-protester-dies-in-moga-hospital-269663
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||SC commission summons Ravneet Singh Bittu||The Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes today summoned MP Ravneet Singh Bittu on June 22.Commission chairperson Tejinder Kaur said the panel had received a complaint from Pawan Kumar Tinnu over a viral video and reports published in various newspapers in which Bittu had made unparliamentary comments.She said the commission had decided to investigate the matter and summoned Bittu to appear personally on June 22 at 11.30 am under Section 12(2) of the Punjab State Schedule Castes Commission Act, 2004. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-commission-summons-ravneet-singh-bittu-269651
17-06-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda Municipal Corporation upgrades infrastructure for rains||Bathinda faces waterlogging problems during the monsoon, but this year, the MC claims it has increased the capacity of pumping motors and ponds in the city.MC commissioner Bikramjit Singh Shergill claimed during the monsoon this year, rainwater would drain out faster. Some of the water drainage works had been completed while some would finish by June 30 and July 15.Shergill said a 1,000 mm rising main has been made operational due to which there was no water accumulation on the Power House road after rain lashed the area a few days back. The water had been removed from the sludge carrier by making a pond in 10 acres taken on lease from the Waqf Board.He said the Sanjay Nagar pond capacity had also been increased by 20 feet to drain out the water from the Sirki Bazaar area. Apart from this, the capacity of motors was being increased from 80 hp to 120 hp. The 7-acre DAV College pond has also been deepened by 18 feet. Along with this, two motors had been installed to drain out the water from here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-municipal-corporation-upgrades-infrastructure-for-rains-269632
17-06-2021||Moga||Rain-hit farmers seek financial aid||Recent rains coupled with hailstorm and strong winds have damaged vegetables, maize and direct-seeded rice in many villages of Moga district, inflicting huge monetary losses on farmers.However, farmers engaged in sowing paddy with the traditional method of transplanting seedlings said the rains were beneficial to them.Jaswant Singh, a farmer of Rauke Kalan village, who has taken 8-acre land on lease to cultivate watermelons and vegetables, said his crops were damaged in the recent rains. “Rain coupled with heavy winds in June is a strange thing for me, which has extensively damaged my crops,” he said, urging the Punjab Government to compensate him adequately for the losses.Assistant Plant Protection Officer Jaswinder Singh Brar said many villages of Moga-II block, including Jai Singh Wala, Chand Purana, Chand Nawa, Khukhrana, Jaimalwala, Sosan and others, were hit by hailstorm, rains and heavy winds in the past few days.Moong cultivated on at least 230 hectares of land in these villages was damaged at the harvesting stage. Maize and cotton, which were at the infancy stage, were also damaged in some villages, he said.There were also reports that farmers who had opted for direct seeding of rice (DSR) technology also suffered losses due to hailstorm as the upper crust of the soil became hard, adversely affecting the germination of paddy seeds. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rain-hit-farmers-seek-financial-aid-269631
17-06-2021||Sameer Singh||Academicians join hands to secure future of deceased farmers’ families||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, June 16The family of Leela Singh, a marginal farmer from Gharreli village in Bathinda district who lost his life during the ongoing agitation against the three agricultural laws at Delhi border, has received financial help for construction of a house and a monthly pension of Rs 10,000 (until his children become self-dependent), thanks to the Atam Pargas Social Welfare Council, a trust formed by a group of renowned academicians.The council has been reaching out to families of farmers who died during the farm agitation to provide them succour in this hour of crisis. The council has 25 teams on the ground to conduct surveys and analyse the needs of families of farmers to provide them assistance accordingly.A team of the council visited Bathinda recently and met 22 families of farmers who lost their lives during the agitation. In total, these teams have reviewed more than 152 families since February 2021 and based on their requirement, assisted 127 families of deceased farmers.Apart from Leela Singh, many other familiesof deceased farmers have received not just financial help, but aid in other measure as well.Council chairman Dr Varinderpal Singh said: “The affected families are being assisted after thoroughly assessing their circumstances and actual needs. The house of impoverished Leela Singh was in really bad shape with no door and crumbling walls, so we decided to provide all construction material to build a new house for the family. He is survived by his wife and two daughters. Since there is no earning hand, a monthly pension of Rs 10,000 has been started for the family.”An elated Jaspal Kaur said, “We have started receiving monthly pension and also received first intalment of Rs 1 lakh for the construction of house. Our world had come crashing down after the death of my husband. We were living in utter despair but this help has given us a ray of hope. I am at least relieved of stress of my two daughters’ education.”Two other affected families in Maur and Talwandi Sabo were provided buffaloes so that they can earn their livelihood. A farmer in Mansa was operated upon an eye. School and college fee of children to their career counseling and even free tuitions are also being given.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/academicians-join-hands-to-secure-future-of-deceased-farmers-families-269630
17-06-2021||---||Release jailed activists, demands BKU||Bathinda, June 16Farmers under the banner of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) staged a protest against the arrest of intellectuals and rights activists by the Centre and demanded their release.The protesters blocked the road leading to the Deputy Commissioner’s residence and raised slogans against the Union Government before carrying out a protest march in the city.Addressing the gathering, union’s legal adviser NK Jeet said, “The democratic fabric of our nation is getting eroded under the current government. Those who write for seeking justice or protecting basic rights of others are labelled as anti-national and booked under serious laws such as sedition and UAPA. Activists implicated in false cases and arrested in Bhima Koregaon case are languishing in jails for three years now. There are elderly persons among those jailed who are suffering from serious illnesses, but they were not granted bail till now.”Harjinder Baggi, general secretary of the union, said, “It is time that people of the state as well as the nation wake up to the communal and divisive politics of the government and unite against it to protect and preserve the democratic fabric of the nation. There were brazen attempts at sabotaging the farm agitation, but unions collective resolve could managed to keep the stir on course. Our movement against three agricultural laws will continue until our demands are not met.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/release-jailed-activists-demands-bku-269583
17-06-2021||Vibha Sharma||In makeover attempt, BJP ropes in ‘eminent’ persons||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 16The BJP today kicked off its poll plan for Punjab. A day after the high-level meeting, six “prominent” personalities from the state joined the saffron party in the presence of Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma, general secretary in charge Dushyant Gautam and union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.Those who joined the party are former All-India Sikh Students Federation (AISSF) president Harinder Singh Kahlon, advocate Jagmohan Singh Saini, who is associated with the Intellectual Farmers Front (Patiala), advocate Nirmal Singh from Mohali, Kuldeep Singh Kahlon (former AISSF) from Gurdaspur, former Guru Kashi University VC Jaswinder Singh Dhillon and Col Jaibans Singh from Patiala.While detractors termed the new entrants “politically irrelevant”, BJP leaders said they were “important keeping in mind the prevailing perceptions in the state”.Ashwani Sharma said Punjab wanted peace, prosperity, and development and all those who wanted this would gain confidence when “persons of such stature join BJP”.Shekhawat said the “The social standing of new entrants will help in removing misconceptions in society,” he said.Punjab BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma said: “Fresh faces from the Sikh community in the party will help break the perception that people of Punjab or Sikhs are upset with the BJP. PM Narendra Modi has done a lot for Punjab and Sikhs and this is a reflection of that acceptance.”He said more “prominent personalities from social and political space” would join the party in the days to come.The new entrants called the ongoing farmers’ agitation “politically motivated” and said they would reach out to farmers to clear the air on all issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-makeover-attempt-bjp-ropes-in-eminent-persons-269582
17-06-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Congress in huddle as SAD ‘eyes’ its Hindu, OBC leaders||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 16As the Congress high command is brainstorming to balance the caste and community matrix in the Punjab unit, the party’s state leadership is wary of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) trying to poach its second-rung Hindu and OBC leaders who have not been politically rehabilitated in the four-and-half years of the Congress rule.Being seen as a move to woo the non-Jat vote bank, the development gains significance in the wake of the Mallikarjun Kharge panel reportedly suggesting that all sections should be equally adjusted in the party. Having influence in Anandpur Sahib, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Patiala and Ferozepur parliamentary segments, the OBC leaders in the party are reportedly upset over not being rehabilitated in the political setup.In the wake of other parties wooing the Dalit, Hindu and OBC leaders, Capt Amarinder Singh today met leaders Satvir Singh Phallicikhi, Raman Bhalla and Dinesh Bassi, besides MLAs Chaudhary Surinder Singh, Sukhwinder Danny and Lakhvir Singh Lakha at his Sector-2 residence here.Amid reports of the Chief Minister meeting the party’s top leadership in the coming days to finalise the Cabinet and the party adjustment, regular interaction with MLAs have started and would continue over the next few days.Sources say senior leaders from Delhi are taking feedback from the dissident group leaders regarding possible names of those who could be given important assignments in the government and the party. It is learnt that the high command wants to appoint the PPCC chief of its choice.Anish Sidana, a senior party leader, said the time had come the party addressed aspirations of the OBC community, which had 32 per cent vote share in the state, as he sought to know why the post of PPCC chief or Deputy CM should be offered to an OBC leader.Reports suggest that the SAD is in parleys with a former Hindu MLA of Congress from Malwa, who has been ignored by the party, besides trying to poach Hindu and Dalit faces from AAP. After Charanjit Singh Channi, son of Congress stalwart Dilbagh Singh, quit the Congress in 2016, no OBC leader has been groomed from the Doaba region so far.“After the late Gaini Zail Singh, the Ramgarhia community has been totally sidelined by the party,” said Rajpal Singh, a senior OBC Congress leader.CM to meet ministers today||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-in-huddle-as-sad-eyes-its-hindu-obc-leaders-269581
17-06-2021||Vibha Sharma||6 'prominent' personalities from Punjab join BJP||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 15         Following a high-level BJP meeting on Tuesday, six “prominent” personalities from Punjab on Wednesday joined the saffron party at the party headquarters in Delhi in the presence of state unit president Ashwani Sharma, general secretary in-charge Dushyant Gautam and Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.They include former president of AISSF Harinder Singh Kahlon, advocate Jagmohan Singh Saini who is also the president of Farmers’ Intellectual Front (Patiala), advocate Nirmal Singh from Mohali, Kuldeep Singh Kahlon (former AISSF leader) from Gurdaspur, former Vice-Chancellor of Guru Kashi University Jaswinder Singh Dhillon, and Col Jaibans Singh from Patiala.Ashwani Sharma said Punjab wants peace and development and those who want will gain confidence when “persons and influencers of such stature join BJP”.They may not be what is popularly known as “mass leaders”, their joining is important keeping in mind the prevailing perceptions against the BJP in the state.Subhash Sharma, general secretary of Punjab BJP, said that those who joined may not be “political persons but they are influencers and achievers, and fresh faces from the Sikh community.”“This will break the perception that the people of Punjab or Sikhs are upset with the BJP. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has done a lot for Punjab and the Sikh community and this is a reflection of that acceptance. The BJP will gain a lot from them”, he addedState leaders say more “prominent personalities from social and political space” in Punjab will join the BJP in the days to come.Though the party is expected to contest most seats on its own, it may not be averse to alliances with breakaway groups or “high-profile” names/paratroopers from rival parties to take on Congress’s Captain Amarinder Singh in the polls to the 117-member Punjab Assembly. Apparently, “aggrieved leaders” from the Opposition party are also not been ruled out yet.With SAD stitching an alliance with the BSP, the BJP is now looking at the changed caste equations in the SC/ST-dominated state. The saffron party is facing a tough situation in the state that emerged as the epicenter of farmers’ protests in past months.Heckled and not allowed to hold functions in their constituencies, many party leaders are believed to have voiced concern to the Central leadership over the resistance they have been facing when they visit their constituencies. The saffron party also performed poorly in the last municipal polls, winning a handful of seats.In those terms, yesterdays’ poll’ strategy meeting was crucial, though Central leaders today claimed that the “agitation was not even discussed” at the meeting between Home Minister Amit Shah, party chief JP Nadda and leaders from the state.Those who joined the BJP today called the ongoing farmers’ agitation “politically motivated”. “That the agitation is political, Punjab farmers understand well. The Direct Benefit Transfer of MSP has further clarified their doubts regarding the laws,” they said.Leaders say they will continue to reach out to farmers to clear the air on all issues. The BJP contested 23 seats in alliance with SAD in 2017. It won three with a vote share of around 29 per cent in seats it contested. Its overall vote share was around 5.4 per cent in 2017.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-prominent-personalities-from-punjab-join-bjp-269315
