20-06-2021||Chandigarh||23 deaths, 549 fresh virus cases in Punjab||Twenty-three more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Sunday as 549 fresh cases surfaced, taking the state’s infection count to 5,92,303, according to a medical bulletin.So far, the infection has killed 15,826 in the state. Deaths were reported from several districts, including Amritsar, Barnala, Bathinda, Fazilka, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar and Ludhiana.Bathinda reported 71 cases, followed by 52 in Amritsar and 45 in Hoshiarpur.  The number of active cases stood at 7,421, with the positivity rate of 0.94 per cent. With 1,173 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,69,056, as per the bulletin.There are 168 critical patients who are on ventilator while 1,896 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 1,04,12,909 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.— PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/23-deaths-549-fresh-virus-cases-in-punjab-271493
20-06-2021||Amritsar||Dalits not allowed to take Guru Granth Sahib to homes in parts of Punjab: Sampla||National Commission for Scheduled Castes Chairman Vijay Sampla on Sunday met Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, complaining that the Dalits are not being allowed in parts of Punjab to take the Guru Granth Sahib to their homes for religious programmes.Seeking the intervention of the Jathedar, the former Hoshiarpur BJP MP said even Sikh priests are not being allowed by gurdwara heads to visit homes of the Dalits for the recitation of the holy book.Sampla met the Jathedar at the Akal Takht secretariat here.“During the meeting, serious issues were discussed in various villages of Punjab, especially Hoshiarpur, Dalit families are not allowed to take the Guru Granth Sahib to their homes. Even ‘pathis’ (Sikh priests) are not allowed by gurdwara heads to visit the homes of the Dalits for the recitation of the Guru Granth Sahib,” he said.The Jatehdar himself was shocked and assured me to do the needful at the earliest to end this discrimination between poor Dalits and others, Sampla said.He said no political issue, including farmers’ agitation, was discussed during the meeting. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dalits-not-allowed-to-take-guru-granth-sahib-to-homes-in-parts-of-punjab-sampla-271489
20-06-2021||Moga||Close associate of Canada-based KTF operative Arsh Dala arrested in Moga||The Moga police on Sunday arrested a notorious gangster identified as Hardeep Singh alias Suraj Raunta, who is also an accomplice of Canada-based Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) operative Arshdeep Singh alias Arsh Dala.The police have also recovered one SUV Toyota Fortuner bearing registration number HR29AA7070, three weapons including one .315 bore pistol, one .32 bore pistol and one .32 bore revolver along with live cartridges from Suraj’s possession.As per the information, Arsh Dala, a close associate of KTF’s Canada-based chief Hardeep Singh Nijjar, is prime accused in targeted killings, including murder of Dera follower, firing on priest in Nijjar’s village, Sukha Lamme’s murder and super shine murder case besides wanted in different cases of theft, drugs, robbery across districts of Moga, Bathinda and Barnala.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Moga Harmanbir Singh Gill, while divulging details, said that following inputs from three persons arrested by Samalsar police under various sections of Arms Act on June 19, 2021, the police have arrested Suraj Raunta.Notably, three arrested persons identified as Raja Singh, Iqbal Singh alias Ghaalu and Harmanpreet Singh alias Garry revealed to the police that Suraj sold them the illegal weapons.Harmanbir Gill said that during initial interrogation, Suraj revealed that he was in close contact with Arsh Dala when the latter was in India and hatched a conspiracy to murder a clothes merchant in Moga city.“Suraj also revealed that Arsh Dala tried to hire him on similar lines as he lured other sharpshooters involved in a target killing module being run in Malwa region of Punjab,” he said.The SSP said that since Suraj was more notorious than Sukha Lamme in criminal activities, Arsh was eyeing on him to take responsibility of various crimes and target killings committed by him through the module in which Lovepreet Singh alias Ravi, Ram Singh alias Sonu, Kamaljeet Sharma alias Kamal had already been arrested by Moga police.Arsh Dala and Suraj Raunta were known to each other since 2015 and were co-accused in many cases of Theft and Arms Act, he added.SSP Gill said that further investigations were being carried out to unearth more details and criminals involved in several heinous crimes.Meanwhile, the FIR has been registered under sections 25/54/59 of the Arms Act at Samalsar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/close-associate-of-canada-based-ktf-operative-arsh-dala-arrested-in-moga-271459
20-06-2021||Patiala||Don’t want to live when govt giving jobs to MLAs' sons, not qualified people: Unemployed teacher||Amid the government's decision to give jobs to the sons of Congress MLAs on compassionate grounds, an ETT TET pass unemployed teacher—atop a tower braving extreme weather for the last 92 days—has joined the chorus against Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh over the appointments. In a video message, Surinderpal said, “I don’t want to live where the government is giving jobs to sons of MLA while qualified candidates have to protest.”The teacher, Surinderpal, has now started fast-unto-death atop a mobile tower. Meanwhile, he has requested the president and the Punjab government to grant him permission for killing himself.He questioned “Why the chief minister is not having pity on me?Notably, Surinderpal has been protesting atop a mobile tower, at a height of 260 feet, against the state government’s decision to allow B.Ed graduates in the recruitment of 2,364 posts of ETT teachers. He along with ETT TET pass unemployed union have been protesting against the move for the past many months. He along with ETT TET pass unemployed union have been protesting against the move for the past many months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-want-to-live-when-govt-giving-jobs-to-mlas-sons-not-qualified-people-unemployed-teacher-271430
20-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Esha Deol recalls how Dharmendra took on 'daddy duties' as she cried for Hema Malini; Bobby shares unseen picture||On Father's Day, actor Esha Deol recalled a heartfelt incident with veteran actor-father Dharmendra. Esha is Dharmendra and Hema Malini's elder daughter. She has a younger sister Ahana Deol. In conversation with ETimes, Esha spoke about a memory from her childhood when she woke up one morning to not find Hema at home. As little Esha started crying, and Dharmendra took on daddy duties and dressed her up for the day.  "There is one memory that is absolutely hilarious. I still remember it because I was around the age where I could remember things. We were all on a vacation abroad and my mom had gone out shopping a little early in the morning. I woke up with only papa in the room and started crying looking for mumma. He consoled me saying he was there and that he will do everything for me. He bathed me, combed my hair, made me wear a party frock, put kajal in my eyes, and gave me an oily hairstyle. My mom walked in to find me all dressed up at nine in the morning. That was really cute," she said.Esha revealed that as Dharmendra would be busy filming, they never got the chance to celebrate Father's Day together in her childhood. However, now if he is in Mumbai, the family pays him a visit with cakes and gifts. Apart from Esha, Bobby Deol also took to Twitter to wish Dharmendra on Father's day. A post shared by Esha Deol Takhtani (@imeshadeol)A post shared by Esha Deol Takhtani (@imeshadeol)Sharing a throwback picture, he wrote: "I will always be your little boy! Love you papa  #HappyFathersDay!! #FathersDay #Dad #FatherandSon"I will always be your little boy!Love you papa ❤️#HappyFathersDay!!#FathersDay #Dad #FatherandSon pic.twitter.com/oIBMQLtRkB||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/esha-deol-recalls-how-dharmendra-took-on-daddy-duties-as-she-cried-for-hema-malini-bobby-shares-unseen-picture-271413
20-06-2021||Tribune Web Desk Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder shares picture of his father, remembers how he assisted Partition refugees||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday shared a picture of his father to mark the occasion of Father's Day. Singh posted a picture of his father and said that he had assisted refugees torn by Partition.My father Yadavindra Singh Ji assisted refugees torn by Partition & worked closely with Sardar Patel Ji for integration of princely states. He served in the Army and instilled in me the idea of Nation First always. I continue to work on the path shown by him. #FathersDay pic.twitter.com/s7Pts2sZaw  "My father Yadavindra Singh Ji assisted refugees torn by Partition & worked closely with Sardar Patel Ji for integration of princely states. He served in the Army and instilled in me the idea of Nation First always. I continue to work on the path shown by him. #FathersDay," Singh said in a Tweet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-shares-picture-of-his-father-remembers-how-he-assisted-partition-refugees-271385
20-06-2021||---||Punjab Govt cancels Class XII exams||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 19School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Saturday announced that the state government had decided to cancel the Class XII examinations due to the Covid-19 pandemic after taking nod from Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Hit by pandemicThe Cabinet minister said the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) would declare the results as per the pattern being followed by the CBSE. Singla said the decision had been taken as students and parents were worried about the admissions to higher study courses.Singla said as many as 3,08,000 students had been enrolled in Class XII in government, aided and private schools under the PSEB in the 2020-21 academic session. He said it was not possible for the education board to conduct the examinations due to the challenges posed by the pandemic. He said as per the adopted formula, the PSEB would prepare the result according to a 30:30:40 formula based on the student’s performance in Classes X, XI andXII, respectively.Singla said the PSEB would draft the results based on an average 30 per cent theory component of best three performing subjects out of the main five subjects in Class X; 30 per cent weightage on the basis of marks obtained by the students in pre-board and practical exams in Class XI; and 40 per cent weightage on the basis marks obtained in pre-board examination, practical examination and internal assessment in Class XII.“In case of those students who have changed stream after Class XI, the result will be prepared as per weightage on the basis of the marks obtained in Class X and weightage on the basis of the pre-board examination, practical examination and internal assessment obtained in Class XII,” the minister added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-cancels-class-xii-exams-271214
20-06-2021||Aparna Banerji||First green fungus case in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 19Punjab’s first case of green fungus, also known as aspergillosis, has been reported in Jalandhar. A 61-year-old patient, who had recovered from Covid months ago, has been diagnosed with the disease. The first green fungus case of the country was reported in Madhya Pradesh a few days ago.A resident of Baba Bakala, the patient had tested positive for Covid in March and had recovered. Complaining of constant cough and difficulty in breathing, he was admitted to the Sacred Heart Hospital at Maqsoodan a few days ago.Dr Ashutosh Dhanuka, consultant and pulmonologist, Critical Care Centre, Sacred Heart Hospital, Jalandhar, said, “The patient who hails from Baba Bakala in Amritsar was initially hospitalised after testing Covid-positve at Ludhiana in March. He stayed in the hospital for 22 days after which he was discharged. But his cough failed to subside and dissatisfied with the diagnosis elsewhere, the patient was brought to us on Sunday. After bronchoscopy and on seeing the biopsy reports, the patient has been found positive for invasive aspergillosis or green fungus. The patient isn’t on life support currently but taking into account the seriousness of the disease, he is under strict monitoring. During the Covid era, this is the first green fungus case reported with us.”Dr Ashutosh added, “Green fungus is a rare disease, often misdiagnosed as TB. While black fungus is more fatal, green fungus is characterised by invasion of the lungs by a fungus and needs strict medical treatment and monitoring. We are hoping the patient heals medically without surgery. Currently, he is under observation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/first-green-fungus-case-in-punjab-271215
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ramp up vax drive, Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan tells DCs||Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan on Saturday asked all Deputy Commissioners to ramp up the ongoing vaccination drive for all the 18-plus eligible population while prioritising the super-spreaders, vulnerable and the co-morbid people in the state.Chairing a meeting, the Chief Secretary authorised the DCs to plan effective outreach strategies to vaccinate maximum people in the coming days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ramp-up-vax-drive-punjab-chief-secretary-vini-mahajan-tells-dcs-271221
20-06-2021||Aman Sood||PSPCL forms committee to discuss power purchase pacts||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 19Days after The Tribune highlighted how consumers in ‘power-surplus’ Punjab are paying approximately Rs 1.05 per unit extra due to the faulty power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed by the previous state government, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has formed a three-member committee. The committee, comprising director, generation, chief engineer (PP&R) and president of the PSEB Engineers’ Association, has been set up for improving the “working of the PSPCL”.Political issueThe Congress had in its 2017 election manifesto assured voters of reviewing the PPAs, and many ruling party leaders have already demanded their cancellationIn a letter on June 15, the PSPCL top brass apprised the PSEB Engineers’ Association that its letter mentioning two points had been considered and a committee had been formed. “The three-member committee should submit its report within a month,” reads the letter. “Till 2020, the PSPCL has surrendered unutilised power worth more than Rs 4,000 crore. The per-unit cost from the IPPs has been increasing. Moreover, the IPPs have been finding loopholes and indulging in litigation. The overall impact of such a litigation will be around Rs 20,000 crore over the next remaining 20 years of the agreements,” reads the first point raised by the PSEBA, under consideration of the committee.The other point raised by it, to be taken up by the three-member committee, is to make Pachawara coal mines fully operational, which can help save money. “If the captive coal mine is made fully operational, the PSPCL will save crores of rupees,” it had suggested in its letter in April.Under the agreements, fixed charges are to be paid to these three plants even if the state does not require power. In its opinion to the government, the Punjab Advocate General office has already opined that there was deviation from bidding guidelines, adding that the very quantum of power required to be procured by the then state government was unnecessarily increased by the state.The last Congress government in Punjab (2002-07) had decided to have two private sector thermal plants with a capacity of 1,000 MW each. However, after the change of the government, the proposed capacity was enhanced based on peak demand. “The PSPCL has already paid about Rs 5,500 crore as fixed charges till date for surrendered power. Had this not been paid, the present power rates could have been cheaper by over Rs 1.20 per unit given the cess and taxes on power,” said PSPCL sources. “There is a pressing need to review these IPPs to have an efficient strategy to bring down the cost to make it realistic in the current scenario. Paying fixed charges for three years will be a better option than bleeding the state for 20 years,” say PSEBA officials.However, officials responsible for arranging power said: “To meet the peak power demand, which is well in excess of 13,000 MW during the paddy season, the PSPCL cannot meet its peak demand without IPPs’ generation. Thus, if the PPAs are to be scrapped or reviewed, the new committee must ensure an alternative power availability mechanism during these peak months,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pspcl-forms-committee-to-discuss-power-purchase-pacts-271223
20-06-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Eager to go abroad, Punjab youth propel jab drive in villages||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 19The foreign dreams of Punjab’s youth are giving wings to the Covid-19 immunisation programme in rural areas of the state, which otherwise were reporting vaccine hesitancy.60 lakh inoculatedTo date, almost 60 lakh doses of the vaccine have been administered in Punjab. Though data is not available, it is believed that almost 65 per cent of the doses have been administered in urban areasWith thousands of youth eager to go to foreign nations for higher education or jobs, they are now coming forward to get the jabs, which are mandatory in many countries. Doctors working in rural areas of the state now say that this factor alone is helping drive up vaccination numbers.To date, almost 60 lakh doses of the vaccine have been administered in Punjab. Though data is not available, it is believed that almost 65 per cent of the doses have been administered to people in urban areas of the state.“Since beginning of June, when youth start applying for visas to other countries, there has been a rush to get inoculated. Otherwise, we were witnessing a situation where urbanites were pulling strings to get their shots, while there were few takers in the rural areas. As more youth come to the vaccination centres, we are using this opportunity to convince them to ask their parents and other older relatives to come forward for the vaccination,” said Dr Gagandeep Singh, posted in Moga.Punjab had been reporting a rather slow response to its vaccination programme in rural areas because the population was in a denial mode over the pandemic. Dr Gurmail Singh Ankhi, posted in Bathinda, said there was a reluctance among the older people in rural areas for vaccination. “As majority of them suffer from either diabetes or heart ailments, they have been telling health workers that they were scared that the vaccine could have an adverse impact on their health,” he said.Interestingly, the rural Doaba region, which has an NRI connection, is bucking the trend. Dr Mohanpreet Singh, Senior Medical Officer, Tibba, said since the villagers remain connected to their kin in foreign lands, people had been coming forward in sizeable numbers to get vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/eager-to-go-abroad-punjab-youth-propel-jab-drive-in-villages-271225
20-06-2021||---||Allow IELTS centres to reopen, Punjab Govt urged||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 19Representatives of IELTS institutes in Punjab have demanded reopening of training centres, as the economy opens up after the lockdown. In its latest order, the state government had decided against reopening IELTS institutes.Ease restrictionsEmployees of IELTS training centres, allied vendors and their families have faced the brunt of lockdown. It is time to take a sympathetic view. - Sonia Dhawan, ielts centre ownerInstitute representatives, led by Sonia Dhawan, managing director of a private centre, met NRI Affairs Minister Rana Gurmit Sodhi and urged him to ensure the institutions were reopened.“Prospective international students from Punjab who have applied to different foreign colleges and universities for international courses such as diplomas and degrees are in a catch-22 situation. Also, employees of IELTS training centres, allied vendors and their families have faced the brunt of lockdown restrictions all through the pandemic, while others have been rescued time and again. It is time to take a sympathetic view,” said Dhawan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/allow-ielts-centres-to-reopen-punjab-govt-urged-271227
20-06-2021||---||SGPC starts free vaccination camp at Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib||Tribune News ServiceAnandpur Sahib, June 19The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) started a free Covid vaccination camp by setting up a centre at Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib here today.The centre was jointly inaugurated by SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur and Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib Jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh.The SGPC president said apart from designating Sri Guru Ramdas Hospital in Amritsar for Covid patients, the SGPC had set up Covid care centres in different areas of Punjab.“Arrangements have been made to administer the Covid vaccine at Sri Guru Ramdas Medical College, Amritsar, under the free vaccination drive. Under the expansion of the drive, free camps are also being held at the Golden Temple, Amritsar, and Takht Sri Damdama Sahib, Talwandi Sabo,” said Bibi Jagir Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-starts-free-vaccination-camp-at-takht-sri-kesgarh-sahib-271228
20-06-2021||---||Youth Congress scholarship for Covid-hit kids||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 19The Punjab Youth Congress awarded scholarships amounting to Rs 5 lakh to children affected by the Covid-19 pandemic on the 51st birthday of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi here today.State YC president Brinder Singh Dhillon gave away the scholarships to 250 children across the state. The money was transferred to the accounts of the principals and directors of respective schools and colleges.Paying homage to ‘Flying Sikh’ Milkha Singh, Dhillon said the campaign would be taken forward as a tribute to the legendary athlete and the amount would be increased to Rs 25 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-congress-scholarship-for-covid-hit-kids-271229
20-06-2021||Saurabh Malik||No names recommended for elevation by Punjab and Haryana High Court in past 1 year||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 19The Punjab and Haryana High Court is facing a pendency of nearly seven lakh cases and a shortage of 35 judges. Yet, its collegium has not recommended names for elevation for almost a year now.There have been only two appointments since 2020.Information suggests the last time the collegium made recommendations for elevation was in August last year. The names of five advocates — Jasjit Singh Bedi, Pankaj Jain, Vikas Suri, Sandeep Moudgil and Vinod Bhardwaj — were finalised and forwarded. These were further forwarded by the Centre to the Supreme Court as late as in April this year and are believed to be pending.On the other hand, the last time the collegium recommended the names of judicial officers for elevation as High Court judges was more than two years back. As many as seven judicial officers were recommended for elevation by the then Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on March 14, 2019, in consultation with his two senior-most colleagues. The Supreme Court collegium finally recommended the elevation of six judicial officers in September 2019 and they were administered oath in November 2019. It is believed that at least three other senior District and Sessions Judges in Haryana have retired since the collegium last finalised and forwarded the names for elevation. Another two senior judges, in zone of consideration, are retiring this month-end. Their names, too, have so far not been formally considered in a collegium meeting.The process of appointing judges is lengthy and time consuming. Once cleared by the states and the governors, the file containing the names with Intelligence Bureau reports is placed before the Supreme Court when it meets. The names cleared for elevation are then sent to the Union Law Ministry before their warrants of appointment are signed by the President. The process could take several months, if not taken up on a priority basis.The High Court, facing a pendency of 6,84,490 cases, including 2,94,927 criminal matters involving life and liberty, is currently working at nearly half its strength. It has just about 46 judges against the sanctioned strength of 85. The problem is expected to worsen in the coming days with two more judges retiring from the High Court later this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-names-recommended-for-elevation-by-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-in-past-1-year-271230
20-06-2021||---||Gangster Jaipal Bhullar’s family refuses  to hand over body to admn||Our CorrespondentFerozepur, June 19A day after the Supreme Court ordered the state government to make necessary arrangements for the preservation and storage of slain gangster Jaipal Singh Bhullar’s body, the family today refused to hand it over to the district authorities.Deputy Commissioner Gurpal Singh Chahal had ordered the Civil Surgeon to shift the body to the mortuary and make arrangements for its preservation and safety. He had also asked them to depute a team of senior doctors to transport the body under security cover.However, when SDM Amit Gupta along with other officials went to the gangster’s house, father Bhupinder Singh refused to allowthem to take the body to the Civil Hospital mortuary.The SDM tried to prevail upon the family, but they did not relent. The district administration later arranged a freezer to preserve the body at the house and got CCTV cameras installed there for round-the-clock surveillance. Besides, police force was deputed at the house.Talking to mediapersons, Bhupinder said they refused to hand over the body as they did not trust the administration. He claimed the body could have been tampered with to “cover up” follies. “Hence, we wish to keep the body either at our home or send it directly to the PGIMER or AIIMS,” he said.On his part, the SDM said it was not possible for them to shift the body to Chandigarh or Delhi hospitals without instructions from the higher authorities, adding they were just complying with the Supreme Court’s orders to preserve the body.Jaipal along with an aide were killed in an encounter in Kolkata recently. His body was brought to Ferozepur on June 12, following which his father submitted an application to the DC for a fresh post-mortem examination, which was denied on the grounds of jurisdiction.Later, Jaipal’s father moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court, where his plea was dismissed. The family members took up the matter with the Supreme Court, which set aside the HC order and asked it to decide the petition on merit on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gangster-jaipal-bhullars-family-refuses-to-hand-over-body-to-admn-271231
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Bid to stifle dissent at Punjab BJP meets, claims ex-minister||Stung by internal resistance over farmers’ issue, the state BJP leadership is trying to find new ways to deal with the dissenting voices.Leaders not being heardThe meetings are organised to assess the ground situation, but if we are not ready to listen to workers and leaders, what is the use of calling the meetings. — Anil Joshi, BJP LeaderAfter the farmers’ agitation and alleged failures of state leadership were raised during some of the meetings a few months ago, the state leaders now start meetings with ‘no negative talk’ warning.Former minister and BJP leader Anil Joshi confirmed that he had also faced this situation after he raised the farmers’ issue in one of the meetings. He said in the beginning of the meeting in Ludhiana, one of the leaders announced that there would be no negative talk regarding party or leaders. “The meetings are organised to assess the ground situation, but if we are not ready to listen to workers and leaders, what is the use of calling the meetings,” he said.Joshi said the only way to save the BJP in Punjab was to resolve the farmers’ issue.“Whatever may be the compulsion of the central leadership, but leaders of the Punjab BJP should take care of interests of the state and take position in support of farmers,” he said.Joshi alleged the command of leadership had come into the hands of a lot which did not have any clue about the rural life. In the recent past, several leaders of the party have spoken against the state leadership’s handling of the farmers’ issue. State party president Ashwani Sharma didn’t respond to calls despite repeated attempts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bid-to-stifle-dissent-at-punjab-bjp-meets-claims-ex-minister-271233
20-06-2021||Chandigarh/Bathinda||Punjab doctor unions reject 6th Pay Commission report||The PCMS Association, Punjab, today rejected the 6th Pay Commission report implemented by the Punjab Government, terming it “anti-employee and anti-doctor”.Negligible increaseBy decreasing the non-practicing allowance and delinking it from the basic pay, there is either a decrease or negligible increase in pay. Dr Gagandeep Moga, President, PCMS bodyAssociation president Dr Gagandeep Singh Moga said the government was making false claims about increasing the salary substantially.The pay commission was supposed to look into inflation and its effect on employees and propose appropriate measures to compensate them, but it had failed to look into the interests of government doctors, said Moga.The decision would have an adverse impact on pension benefits, with a 20 per cut. “This will adversely affect the government health services as many doctors will take premature retirement and new doctors will be reluctant to join as a result of which, people will suffer.”Punjab Ayurvedic Medical Services Association (PAMSA) president Dr Sanjiv Pathak too condemned the report, saying: “The implementation will have an adverse impact on the perks of doctors, including those practising Ayurveda.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-doctor-unions-reject-6th-pay-commission-report-271234
20-06-2021||Bathinda||Contract workers on warpath||Contract workers from different departments, under the banner of Theka Mulazam Sangharsh Morcha, began a two-day sit-in in front of Finance Minister Manpreet Badal’s office today. They raised slogans against the state government demanding regularisation of services.Union leader Jagrup Singh said: “CM Capt Amarinder Singh in his pre-poll promises had said the services of contract workers would be regularised. Even after four-and-a-half year, he has not fulfilled the promise.”He said contract workers had been rendering services in different government departments for the past 15 to 20 years but they were being coerced to work at lower salaries, while families of legislators were being given jobs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/contract-workers-on-warpath-271235
20-06-2021||---||Quash jobs to Cong MLAs’ sons: SAD to Punjab Governor||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 19The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today urged Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore to take suo motu notice of the manner in which Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was “purchasing the loyalty of Congress legislators to save his chair by doling out jobs to their wards illegally” and dismiss the Congress government immediately. Congress ‘anti-people’ face exposed: AAPChandigarh: AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema on Saturday said the “anti-people” face of the Congress government had been exposed by deciding to give government jobs to two Congress MLAs’ sons. He said the decision to give jobs to someone whose families were well connected and had financial resources was condemnable. Cheema said CM’s ‘Ghar ghar rozgaar’ campaign had turned out to be ‘Congressiyan de ghar rozgaar’. TNSIt asked youth “whose rights had been usurped by Congress leaders” to gherao the chief minister and ministers to demand jobs for deserving and meritorious students.Addressing a press conference, senior SAD leaders Bikram Singh Majithia and Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said the Governor should take note of the manner in which the state Cabinet had legalised corruption by doling out jobs to wards of Congressmen on compassionate grounds even though they were not eligible for the same. The leaders said in case the Governor did not take action in the matter, the President should take note of the unconstitutional appointments and dismiss the Capt Amarinder Singh government immediately. They also announced that in case no action was taken, the SAD-BJP alliance would quash all illegal appointments made on compassionate grounds and also register cases against those responsible for the wrongdoing.“Jobs have only given to ‘crorepati’ Congressmen, be it the family of former Chief Minister Beant Singh whose grandson was recruited as a DSP, or wards of Congress MLAs Fatehjang Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey, who have been appointed as Inspector and Naib Tehsildar, respectively,” the party said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/quash-jobs-to-cong-mlas-sons-sad-to-punjab-governor-271236
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Stop automatic adjournment  of cases: Bar||Justice seekers languishing in jails or facing threat to life and liberty are suffering due to non-hearing of cases, resulting in denial of justice, the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association has asserted in a communication to the Registrar-General against the system of automatic adjournment of cases.Asking the Registrar-General to do away with the system, Bar association president GBS Dhillon and honorary secretary Chanchal K Singla asserted Covid cases had come down to a great extent. As such, the cases such as bails, habeas corpus pleas, suspension of sentence matters and other cases relating to Article 21 of the Constitution listed in July for hearing should not be automatically adjourned by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) and be heard on the listed dates. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stop-automatic-adjournment-of-cases-bar-271237
20-06-2021||Amritsar||Action sought against DSGMC chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa over code ‘violations’||A Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) member has sought action against own president Manjinder Singh Sirsa for allegedly violating norms laid down for Amritdhari Sikhs.Bhai Chaman Singh gave a memorandum to the Akal Takht secretariat here today and met Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, who promised a probe into the allegations.In the communique, he alleged Sirsa was an apostate and “ignorant of Gurmat”, as he used to trim beard. “Despite asking him to mend ways, he did not heed to the advice. Eventually, a devout Sikh went to court against him over violation of the Sikh religious norms.” On this, Sirsa said, “Bhai Chaman Singh is a compulsive opponent. He was a puppet in the hands of the BJP. So he stood against every work of the DSGMC in Delhi.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/action-sought-against-dsgmc-chief-manjinder-singh-sirsa-over-code-violations-271238
20-06-2021||Bathinda||Inmate hangs himself in jail||A jail inmate ended his life by hanging himself with a turban inside a barrack in the Central Jail on Friday. The deceased has been identified as Ramswaroop (38), a resident of Alwar in Rajasthan.The reason behind the suicide is not known. It is learnt that the police arrested him with 360 intoxicant pills on May 24 and registered a case against him under the NDPS Act after which he was lodged in the Central Jail. On Friday, he ended his life by hanging himself from an iron grill with a turban in his barrack. The suicide came to light when other inmates reached the barrack and found his body hanging. They informed the jail administration after which he was taken to a hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/inmate-hangs-himself-in-jail-271239
20-06-2021||Sangrur||Unemployed youth protest appointments||Members of various unions, under the banner of Joint Front of Unemployed, today protested in front of the residence of minister Vijay Inder Singla against the government decision to give jobs to sons of Congress MLAs.“Lakhs of youth have been protesting for jobs, but the government is giving jobs to sons of MLAs. We will intensify our stir in coming days,” said Sukhminder Dhilwan, president, BEd and TET Pass Union. Union members with activists of four other unions, All Punjab 873 DPE Teachers’ Union, 646 PTI Teachers’ Union, Unemployed Art & Craft Union & Unemployed Multipurpose Health Union, have been holding a dharna in front of Singla’s house since December 31, 2020. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unemployed-youth-protest-appointments-271240
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Governor mourns Milkha Singh’s demise||Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today mourned the demise of legendary athlete Milkha Singh. The Governor attended the cremation along with Union Minister Kiren Rijiju.PPCC president Sunil Jakhar also condoled the legend’s demise. In his condolence message, Jakhar said the legendary Olympian's life journey would always be a guiding light for young and budding sportsmen across the globe. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-governor-mourns-milkha-singhs-demise-271241
20-06-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Sunil Jakhar too slams jobs to sons of two Cong MLAs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 19The Punjab Government today plunged into another crisis with PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar and other senior leaders opposing the decision to give jobs to sons of party MLAs Fateh Jang Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey.The decision to give appointments on “compassionate ground” was taken at a Cabinet meeting yesterday. At least five ministers had strongly opposed the move.Capt Amarinder Singh, CMGovt owes themIt is not enough to raise memorials to those killed in militancy days. The state needs to compensate their families.Cautioning that the party would be accused of promoting nepotism, Jakhar said, “Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh must reverse the ill-advised decision.”“Jobs should be given to sportspersons or wards of freedom fighters,” said Navjot Kaur Sidhu, former MLA and wife of Navjot Singh Sidhu, asking the CM to reconsider the decision “in larger public interest”.Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Nagra said the people’s representatives must work for the people and not for personal gains. “The Cabinet should rollback the decision. We should meet the promise of ‘ghar ghar naukri’ instead of giving jobs to the kin of MLAs who don’t need it,” he said.Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring appealed to the MLAs not to accept the jobs being offered to their sons. “It would amount to cheating with the common man. The needy should get the jobs and those belonging to well-off families can wait,” he said.Punjab Youth Congress president Brinder Dhillon said jobs should be offered to families of victims of terrorism. “I request the MLAs not to accept the jobs,” he said.Earlier, the SAD and AAP also criticised the government. Capt Amarinder said if these parties suggested names of youths whose parents had made sacrifices for the nation, they too would be offered jobs.He pointed out that in the dark days of terrorism, 35,000 innocent lives were lost and 1,700 police personnel were killed. “It is not enough to raise memorials. The state needs to compensate their kin,” he said.Unrest in party||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunil-jakhar-too-slams-jobs-to-sons-of-two-cong-mlas-271187
20-06-2021||Tribune Web Desk||India bids farewell to legendary Flying Sikh Milkha Singh||Chandigarh, June 19India's legendary “Flying Sikh” Milkha Singh, who died at the PGIMER late on Friday night after a month-long battle with Covid-19, was cremated with full state honours at the Sector 25 cremation ground here today.A police contingent accorded the 91-year-old legendary track and field athlete the guard of honour and his son and ace golfer Jeev Milkha Singh lit the pyre.Milkha was bid a tearful adieu in the presence of his family members and several dignitaries, including Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju.Punjab Governor and Chandigarh Administrator V P Singh Badnore, Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, Haryana’s Sports Minister Sandeep Singh were among the other dignitaries who attended the last rites.Prof Jagat Ram, Director of PGIMER where Milkha was admitted, was also present.A police contingent reversed arms and sounded the last post in the sprinter’s honour. Milkha was also given a gun salute.The Punjab Government had declared a one-day state mourning and a holiday as a mark of respect to the legend.Earlier, a wreath was also laid on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  Wreaths were also laid on behalf of the Army.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had earlier in the day said the Punjab government will accord state funeral to Milkha Singh.Earlier, the funeral procession started from Milkha’s Sector 8 residence.His body was carried in a bedecked vehicle, with common people turning up along the short route to the Sector 25 cremation ground to pay their last respects to the legend.Interacting with reporters after the cremation, Rijiju spoke about Milkha’s last wish was to see India win an Olympic gold in athletics.“Today, Milkha ji is not among us, but we will fulfil his wish. He has given a big message,” he said.When asked if any award would be instituted in his name, Rijiju said these things will be discussed with family at an appropriate time and whatever needs to be done by the Sports Ministry in this regard will be done.“We have told the family that right from the Prime Minister to Governor Sahab, who is present here, we are with them in their hour of grief. Entire nation is with them,” he said.He said he was also carrying the message of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the family.Governor Badnore said Milkha “was our pride”.“Whenever I used to meet him, sometimes even in the golf course here, he would meet with great affection. Not only Chandigarh, Punjab and India, but Milkha ji’s demise is a loss to the entire world.  He was an inspiration for millions,” said Badnore.Milkha died on Friday night after a month-long battle with COVID-19. He had lost his former national volleyball captain wife Nirmal Kaur to the same ailment on Sunday.The Padma Shri awardee, who was nicknamed ‘The Flying Sikh’ for his achievements, is survived by Jeev and three daughters.The legendary athlete was a four-time Asian Games gold medallist and the 1958 Commonwealth Games champion but his greatest performance remained the fourth-place finish in the 400m final of the 1960 Rome Olympics.His timing of 45.6 sec at the Italian capital remained the national record for 38 years before Paramjeet Singh broke it in 1998.He also represented India in the 1956 and 1964 Olympics and was bestowed the Padma Shri in 1959. —with PTIEarlier, a number of VVIPs visited his family in Chandigarh to offer condolences.Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amrinder Singh, Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Sodhi, Health Minister Balbir Sidhu, Sports Director DPS Kharbanda along with other officials visited Milkha Singh's residence to pay tributes to the late legendary athlete.Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal also visited the Milkha family's residence around noon on Saturday while Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju and Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VPS Badnore will pay tribute to the former international sprinter around 2 pm. I'm leaving for Chandigarh to attend the funeral of #MilkhaSingh Ji. I'm carrying the message of Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi Ji for the family and will pay my tribute to the pride of India, the legendary #FlyingSikh 🙏 https://t.co/UX5ssnnLY8  "Have directed that Late Milkha Singh Ji will be given a State Funeral by our Government. Also Punjab will observe one day of State mourning as a mark ofrespect to the departed legend," said @capt_amarinder @thetribunechd||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/india-bids-farewell-to-legendary-flying-sikh-milkha-singh-270916
