21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab sees 340 new cases, 24 more deaths||Punjab on Monday registered 340 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the infection tally to 5,92,658, while 24 more fatalities pushed the toll to 15,854, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases stood at 6,477, it said.Deaths were reported from several districts including Barnala, Faridkot, Fazilka, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar and Ludhiana.Bathinda and Jalandhar reported 33 infections each, followed by 30 in Muktsar, among the fresh cases.The state’s positivity rate stood at 0.79 per cent, it said.With 1,271 recoveries, the number of cured people reached 5,70,327, according to the bulletin.There are 156 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 437 other critical patients and 1,861 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 1,04,45,775 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported 14 new cases, taking the infection tally to 61,444, according to the medical bulletin.No death was reported in the union territory on Monday while the toll stood at 806.The number of active cases dropped to 311, according to the bulletin. With 56 patients being discharged after they recovered from the infection, the number of cured people reached 60,327, it said.A total of 5,52,751 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 4,90,057 tested negative while reports of 10 were awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-punjab-sees-340-new-cases-24-more-deaths-271953
21-06-2021||Patiala||Breaking Asia record, Punjab lad Toor books ticket for Tokyo Olympics in style||Breaking Asia’s record, Punjab’s shot putter—Tejinder Pal Singh Toor—qualified for the Tokyo Olympics at Indian Grand Prix-4 held at National Institute of Sports (NIS), Patiala, on Monday. Toor—amid the electrifying loud Punjabi songs that was, especially, played to pump him up—hurled the iron ball at 21.49m in his first attempt itself and booked the ticket for Tokyo.  The qualifying mark for shot put was 21.10m. Toor, in his six total attempts, tweaked the qualifying mark four times. Toor’s earlier personal best had been 20.92 m.  Just after the event, Toor told The Tribune, “I am happy that I have qualified for the Olympics. The best is yet to come.”Toor said that he was hopeful of bettering his record in the upcoming inter state championship which would be held from June 25-29 in Patiala.  Toor’s fiancé was also present in the stands to cheer him up.Toor’s coach, Mohinder Singh Dhillon, explained that Punjabi music had played a big role in his overall performance. “Even in training, he (Toor) needs music. He has a special speaker to listen to during training and competition. It distracts him from other impeding things.”Dhillon further explained that Toor’s performance—given the pressure of qualification—was very good. “When you know, you have one or two competitions left to qualify. It adds to the pressure for a player and coach alike. Now, he is likely to throw freely in the next competition.”Meanwhile, Punjab’s discus thrower Kamalpreet Kaur, who has already qualified for Olympics, bettered her national record with a throw of 66.59m at the event. She said, “I am happy that I have improved my performance ahead of the Olympics. It will boost my confidence.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/breaking-asia-record-punjab-lad-toor-books-ticket-for-tokyo-olympics-in-style-271950
21-06-2021||Amritsar||SGPC demands ban on ‘Grahan’ web series on 1984 anti-Sikh riots||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur has demanded that ‘Grahan’ web series based on the incidents of the 1984 riots be banned immediately as it portrays a Sikh character in an “objectionable manner”.She demanded that the Union Information and Broadcasting Ministry should ban the series, which is scheduled to be released on Disney+Hotstar platform on June 24.Addressing the press conference here on Monday, Kaur said, “A Sikh character has been portrayed in an objectionable manner in a web series called ‘Grahan’ based on the 1984 Sikh genocide. In the web series, the charge of Sikh genocide is being levelled against a Sikh character which is highly condemnable and fabricated.”       “A legal notice has been sent by a witness of the genocide Nirpreet Kaur to Ajay G Rai, producer of ‘Grahan’ web series and Sunil Ryan, head and president of Disney+Hotstar. The SGPC also supports this notice,” she said.SGPC president Kaur said, “Through this web series, work is being done to rub salt on the wounds of Sikhs which would hurt the Sikh sentiments. Such films also hurt the communal harmony in society. Therefore, the government should enact strict Information Technology (IT) rules to curb such sensitive and objectionable trends.”              Kaur demanded from the Government of India that it should include Sikh representatives in the censor board so that controversial scenes related to Sikhs and the Sikh faith could be removed in any film.The SGPC president warned the ‘Grahan’ producer and the head of Disney+Hotstar that if the objectionable web series is released, legal action would be taken against them by the SGPC as well.Meanwhile, Bibi Jagir Kaur has strongly condemned the construction of a replica model of Sachkhand Sri Harmandar Sahib in a park near Punjabi Bagh in Delhi.She said the Sikhs could never tolerate a replica of the Golden Temple anywhere in the world.Kaur said, “When this issue came to light, I was in regular contact with the president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) Manjinder Singh Sirsa since yesterday. Today, the DSGMC in support of the Delhi Sangat has immediately removed the replica of Sachkhand Sri Harmandar Sahib.”          Kaur said, “With such actions, some people are deliberately trying to provoke the Sikh sentiments. Such acts cannot be tolerated and should be stopped immediately. Strict action should be taken against the culprits so that no one could play with the Sikh sentiments.”           Kaur said about two months ago on April 7, 2021, the SGPC had written a letter to Twitter Chief Executive Officer Jack Dorsey about the alleged hate-filled tweets by some users against Sikhs in India and abroad.But the SGPC has neither received any response from Twitter nor any action as yet, she claimed.Kaur further said, “The threats to repeat the 1984 genocide of Sikhs on social media platforms are common which spoil the atmosphere and has created a lot of resentment in the minds of Sikhs. But no action was ever taken against those who spread hatred against the Sikhs.“Such hate propaganda has increased by many folds after the farm agitation was launched against three farm laws passed last year and many Sikh organisations including the SGPC supported the same.”         She said the support to farmers’ agitation irritated certain elements in India and their supporters abroad.“We all know about this certain lobby and how it works in an organised and very vicious way. There has never been any legal action against those indulging in hate-filled propaganda against Sikhs and the utterly communal and anti-Sikh elements multiplied their efforts after the farm agitation”, said Kaur. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-demands-ban-on-grahan-web-series-on-1984-anti-sikh-riots-271947
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kamalpreet Kaur improves her national record with a throw of 66.59 m||Kamalpreet Kaur improved her own national record with a throw of 66.59m in the women discus throw event in the Indian Grand Prix-4 at the NIS, Patiala, on Monday.Her previous best was 65.06m which she achieved at 24th Federation Cup Senior Athletics Championships in March 2021.An employee of Diesel Loco Modernization Works (DMW) Patiala, the 25-year-old recently booked her ticket for the Tokyo Olympics at the Federation Cup held in NIS Patiala on March 19.Kaur is the first discus thrower to breach the 65m in the history of Indian women’s discus throw. She hails from Badal village in the Sri Muktsar Sahib and trains at DMW ground in Patiala under the guidance of coach Baljeet Singh.Patiala: Shot putter Tejinder Pal Toor on Monday broke the national record with a throw of 21.49 metre and qualified for the Tokyo Olympics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kamalpreet-kaur-improves-her-national-record-with-a-throw-of-66-59-m-271927
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Congress MP Ravneet Bittu offers ‘unconditional apology’ over 'pious' seat remark||Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu, who stirred up a row with his “pious” seat remark, on Monday offered “unconditional apology”, saying he did not intend to hurt anyone, an official statement said.Bittu had been asked by the Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Caste to appear before it.The summons was issued a day after a Shiromani Akali Dal delegation, led by MLA Pawan Kumar Tinu lodged a complaint against the Ludhiana MP for allegedly making “casteist” remarks against Dalits.  “Member Parliament Ravneet Singh Bittu, who was summoned by the Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes, today appeared before the Commission and presented his version about his unparliamentary remarks,” an official statement said.The statement quoting the Commission’s Chairperson Tejinder Kaur said during the hearing, Bittu said it was not his intention to make any statement against the Scheduled Caste community.“If his statement has hurt anyone then he offers unconditional apology,” the statement quoted Bittu as saying.After this, the Commission directed Bittu to present his version in writing within two days.The state’s opposition parties on Tuesday had slammed Bittu for allegedly insulting Dalits by saying that the SAD left “pious” seats like Anandpur Sahib and Chamkaur Sahib to its ally Bahujan Samaj Party.He made the comments in a video posted on his Facebook page after the SAD and the BSP stitched an alliance last week for the next year’s Punjab assembly polls.Tejinder Kaur had said on Wednesday the Commission received a complaint from Pawan Kumar Tinu in this regard.A SAD delegation had apprised the state SC Commission chairperson of Bittu’s video in which he allegedly uttered “objectionable” remarks against the Dalit community.   The delegation had demanded that the Commission should act on the issue immediately to prevent any flare-up in the state.Other parties including the BSP and the BJP had also criticised Bittu’s remarks. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-mp-ravneet-bittu-offers-unconditional-apology-over-pious%C2%A0seat-remark-271924
21-06-2021||New Delhi||Amid infighting in Punjab Congress, Capt Amarinder to meet party panel on Tuesday||Amid escalated infighting in the Punjab Congress, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has arrived in Delhi and is scheduled to meet the party panel on Tuesday.The panel is headed by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and Harish Rawat and JP Aggarwal are its members.The meeting gains significance after disgruntled leader Navjot Singh Sidhu once again opened front against the Chief Minister. Sidhu has reportedly said that he is not a 'show piece' to be used in elections.The Congress panel has been authorised to resolve the issue without alienating any of the factions in the state.The Congress panel constituted to resolve factionalism in the Punjab unit submitted its report to party interim President Sonia Gandhi on June 10.Sources said the panel has not recommended the removal of the Chief Minister and Captain Amarinder Singh is likely to lead the party in the next elections. Instead, a slew of reforms have been suggested in the party state unit.While the fate of Navjot Singh Sidhu is still not clear, sources said the panel wants his rehabilitation in the Punjab Cabinet. Amarinder is averse to Sidhu being elevated to the post of Deputy CM, but is ready to accommodate him in the Cabinet, sources said.The panel had met all the stakeholders in the party, including Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-infighting-in-punjab-congress-capt-amarinder-to-meet-party-panel-on-tuesday-271911
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||In pictures: Chandigarh, Mohali residents mark Yoga Day||As India is celebrating the seventh International Day of Yoga, residents, bureaucrats and ministers across Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh and Mohali performed Yoga to mark the occasion on Monday.Also read: Yoga remains 'ray of hope' as world fights Covid: ModiIn Himachal Pradesh, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, state ministers and residents gathered to perform Yoga in Shimla.Also read: In pictures: India celebrates 7th International Day of Yoga; President, Union ministers perform yogaIn Chandigarh, people performed yoga at a green belt in Sector 38 West, Chandigarh to celebrate International Yoga Day.Government officials gathered over a video conference to mark International Yoga Day in Mohali. Also read: Gurugram residents mark Yoga DayIn Haryana's Gurugram, residents participated in the International Yoga Day organised by the distinct administration at Tau Devi Lal Stadium.Also read: CM Jai Ram Thakur leads Yoga Day celebrations in Himachal's Shimla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-pictures-chandigarh-mohali-residents-mark-yoga-day-271841
21-06-2021||New Delhi||Monsoon advance to be slow in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/monsoon-advance-to-be-slow-in-punjab-haryana-chandigarh-271786
21-06-2021||Moga||KTF operative’s aide held in Moga||The Moga police today arrested notorious gangster Hardeep Singh, alias Suraj Raunta, an accomplice of Canada-based Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) operative Arshdeep Singh, alias Arsh Dala.The police recovered a Toyota Fortuner, three weapons, including a.315 bore pistol, a .32 bore pistol and a .32 bore revolver, along with live cartridges from his possession.SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said following inputs from three persons arrested by the Samalsar police, the cops arrested Raunta. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ktf-operatives-aide-held-in-moga-271716
21-06-2021||Moga||3 postal dept staffers booked for Rs 12L fraud in Moga||An alleged Rs 12-lakh fraud has been unearthed in the Department of Post in the district, involving bogus deposit entries in certain accounts and withdrawal of money by beneficiaries in connivance with employees.After an internal probe, PM Lal, Post Master General, Punjab, has lodged a complaint with the SSP against three employees — Iqbal Singh, Raushan Singh and Navdeep Kaur — over their alleged involvement in the fraud.The employees from time to time allegedly made bogus deposit entries of Rs l2 lakh in the accounts of Joginder Singh and Paramjit Kaur of Talwandi Nau village. The beneficiaries later withdrew the amount from their accounts, causing a loss of Rs 12 lakh to the department.Iqbal and Navdeep have been dismissed from service, while a departmental inquiry is in progress against Raushan, after placing him under suspension. A criminal case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-postal-dept-staffers-booked-for-rs-12l-fraud-in-moga-271715
21-06-2021||---||Out on parole, Jal ex-councillor shot in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, June 20Unidentified assailants on Sunday shot former councillor Sukhmeet Singh (44), alias Deputy, who was the kingpin in the infamous Mickey kidnapping and ransom case and was released on parole recently.The incident took place on Sunday evening when the victim was crossing the Gopal Nagar area. As per reports, nearly a dozen bullets were pumped into his body.Eyewitnesses told the police that around four men carrying firearms, who had arrived in an i10 car, shot at Sukhmeet, who was on his motorcycle. He was immediately rushed to a private hospital, where the doctors declared him brought dead.The former Congress rural president was arrested for kidnapping Gagan Mickey, the son of film distributer and coloniser Subhash Nanda. Sukhmeet had demanded Rs 1 crore as ransom.As per sources, the police recovered eight bullet shells from the spot and are checking the CCTV footage to identify and trace the accused.DCP (Crime) Gurmeet Singh said police teams had been formed to identify and trace the accused.Meanwhile, the SHO of Police Division number 2 said the incident was reported around 5.15 pm and apparently, Sukhmeet, a resident of Sawan Nagar near Dana Mandi, was killed due to some old enmity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/out-on-parole-jal-ex-councillor-shot-in-jalandhar-271713
21-06-2021||Kiratpur Sahib||Milkha Singh’s ashes immersed||The mortal remains of Milkha Singh were immersed in the Sutlej at Gurdwara Patalpuri Sahib here on Sunday.After a long battle with Covid, the 91-year-old sprinter died at the PGI, Chandigarh, late on Friday night.His son and ace golfer Jeev Milkha Singh along with sisters and other relatives reached Gurdwara Patalpuri Sahib in the morning where an ‘ardas’ was offered for the departed soul. Following this, his ashes were immersed in the Sutlej. Later, the relatives paid obeisance at the gurdwara. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/milkha-singhs-ashes-immersed-271712
21-06-2021||Abohar||400 jabbed at Abohar camp||As many as 400 persons were vaccinated at the Radha Soami Satsang Ghar on the Hanumangarh road and Killianwali road here today. With this, the tally reached 4,000.While it has been an uphill task for health workers and cops deployed at the Civil Hospital to make people adhere to Covid norms at vaccination centres, discipline was followed in letter and spirit at special camps held here .The Health Department had deployed 10 medical teams for vaccination, while all other arrangements were handled by sewadars. The vaccination certificates were being given on the spot. Such camps were organised in rural spiritual centres as well. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/400-jabbed-at-abohar-camp-271710
21-06-2021||Ludhiana||Will strike work on June 23 in Punjab: PCMS doctors||Slamming the state for delinking the non-practicing allowance (NPA) from the basic pay, the PCMS Association, Punjab, on Sunday decided to observe a statewide strike on Wednesday.After a meeting, Dr Rohit Rampal, president, PCMS Association, Civil Hospital, Ludhiana, said the medical fraternity was unhappy with the 6th Pay Commission as it wasn’t beneficial for them. “We have submitted a memorandum to the Health Minister to rollback the new NPA norms. In this regard, we have decided to go on a strike across the state on Wednesday,” he added.Meanwhile, Dr JP Narula, state president, Rural Medical Services Association, said: “Doctors have been working hard since the Covid outbreak and this is their reward? What to expect of allowance or bonus, the government had instead reduced their salaries.”“Initially, the NPA at 25% was a part of the pay for calculating all allowances. Now with the 6th Pay Commission, the NPA has been delinked from the pay and reduced to 20%, which means it has been fixed now and no other allowances will be calculated on the NPA.”“The decision will remarkably affect the net salary of all government doctors,” he added. — TNSAssns oppose moveChandigarh: Various associations of doctors on Sunday opposed the move to delink the NPA from the basic pay. Rural Medical Officers’ Association, Senior Vet Officers’ Association, Veterinary Officers’ Association and Ayurvedic Doctors’ Association have decided to come on a common platform to oppose the govt move. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-strike-work-on-june-23-in-punjab-pcms-doctors-271709
21-06-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Mining units suffer losses as Himachal trucks enter Punjab illegally||Tribune News ServicePathankot, June 20Punjab’s mining industry is staring at massive revenue losses following the daily illegal entry of nearly 200 Himachal Pradesh-based trucks into the state.Earlier, barely a dozen trucks would cross over to Punjab, a development which did not irk local crushing units and mining officials that much. However, for the past three months, the figure has jumped to 200-250 trucks every day following which the district administration has ordered a crackdown.Deputy Commissioner Sanyam Aggarwal said he was taking appropriate steps to completely ban the passage of these vehicles into Punjab.Mining officer Gagandeep Singh said the owners blocked the Pathankot-Jalandhar highway yesterday in retaliation after he set up a checkpost.These trucks, carrying mining material from nearby HP-based mining points, also known as ‘khads’ in local parlance, enter Pathankot through several points. Around 75 per cent of the vehicles then proceed to other districts where they sell their produce at reduced rates thereby harming the interests of Punjab’s mining industry.“These vehicles also evade paying taxes in both HP and Punjab thus defrauding the exchequer of lakhs of rupees,” said Gagandeep.A majority of Pathankot district’s 115 stone-crushing units are on the verge of closure following the undercutting of prices. Harpreet Singh Nanny, a city-based crushing unit owner, claimed it was high time the administration and the police acted. “Otherwise, we all are doomed,” he said.The vehicles collect raw material from HP-based points of Majra, Tibri Badi Khad, Kandwal and Kandrori, all located alongside the mining rich Chakki river, before meandering their way into Punjab.“We sell a large sand-laden tipper at anything between Rs 10,000 and Rs 12,000 while the HP miners sell the same at Rs 8,000 to Rs 9,000. Likewise, we sell a large truck of sand at Rs 22,000-Rs 24,000 while those driving in from HP sell the same at Rs 16,000. People will obviously go for material available at lower rates,” said Nanny.Meanwhile, SSP Surinder Lamba said he was looking into the matter and “would crack the whip soon”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mining-units-suffer-losses-as-himachal-trucks-enter-punjab-illegally-271708
21-06-2021||Abohar||Specially abled cricketer feted in Abohar||Bajwa’s visit triggers rumoursQadian (Gurdaspur): Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa’s visit to his hometown in Qadian on Sunday to attend the bhog ceremony of his driver, Daljeet Singh Bajwa, sent the gossip mill on an overdrive. The MP skipped going to his ancestral house, barely 100 yards away, after the proceedings were over. The official line given by the MP was that he was asked to reach New Delhi by this evening by the high command and hence he had to reach Amritsar airport on time. He and his brother Fateh Jung Bajwa share the house. The younger sibling was at home, but the MP apparently wanted to maintain a distance after the controversy generated by the decision of the CM to give Fateh’s son job.Lending a helping handMuktsar: To lend a helping hand to the Health Department during the pandemic, 58-year-old Gurtej Singh, who retired as the mass media officer on May 31, is now voluntarily providing his services to the department. Gurtej says the Health Department office is suffering from staff shortage, so he is still discharging his duties, but without charging a penny. “My work is to circulate Health Department’s activities among the masses. Besides, I motivate people to hold Covid vaccination and blood donation camps. I don’t feel I have superannuated as my working hours are still the same,” said Gurtej.Abohar lad shines in PCS examAbohar: Even as Sujawal Jagga qualified as a chartered accountant in his first attempt, he was inclined towards the PCS exam as his aim was to serve the common man with dedication. His family lives in Nanak Nagari. Sujawal has brought laurels to his parents and the small town by securing seventh rank in the general category across Punjab in the PCS-Mains exam, result of which was announced on Friday. He passed his Class XII exam from LRS DAV Senior Secondary Model School here and topped the district in commerce. His father Subhash Jagga runs a private school and mother Sunaina is a government schoolteacher.Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal, Archit Watts & Raj Sadosh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/specially-abled-cricketer-feted-in-abohar-271706
21-06-2021||Amritsar||Jathedar Dhyan Singh Mand tenders apology to Takht||Akal Takht’s ‘parallel’ officiating Jathedar Dhyan Singh Mand today submitted an apology while performing ‘ardas’ before Akal Takht for culminating the Bargari morcha (sit-in) prematurely on the “false” assurances of the Congress.Mand, who led the Bargari morcha against the sacrilege and firing incidents of 2015, said that it was his biggest blunder to rely on the state Congress leaders for justice. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jathedar-dhyan-singh-mand-tenders-apology-to-takht-271700
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Parkash Singh Badal to appear before Kotkapura SIT tomorrow||Former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal will appear before a Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the Kotkapura police firing case at his Chandigarh residence at 10.30 am on Tuesday.The SIT had rescheduled the questioning after Badal expressed inability to appear before the panel at a rest house in Mohali on June 16. Citing ill health and his age, besides provisions of law in questioning a witness, Badal asked the SIT to visit his Chandigarh house.“Still not in good health, Badal, however, is keen to fulfil his legal and constitutional duties as a law abiding citizen of the country,” said Harcharan Bains, principal political adviser to the SAD. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parkash-singh-badal-to-appear-before-kotkapura-sit-tomorrow-271687
21-06-2021||Bathinda||Land dispute turns ugly, 10 hurt in firing in Bathinda||A land dispute turned ugly with around 10 persons getting injured in a firing at Jeond village in the Rampura Phul block of the district.The injured were admitted to civil hospitals at Tapa Mandi and Rampura Phul. Later, two of the injured were referred to hospitals in other cities. A police team of the Rampura Sadar police station has started investigation into the matter.Malkit Singh, a Jeond resident, claimed Surjit Singh of the same village had been harassing him as he wanted to capture his land. Malkit said he had also lodged a complaint with the police in this regard.Malkit alleged Surjit Singh, along with a large number of people, reached the site of plot for illegal construction today. When he came to know about this, he reached the spot with other villagers. On seeing them, Surjit Singh and his companions fled. “When we started chasing them, they began firing at us,” he claimed.On the other hand, Chamkaur Singh of the other side, said his six acres of land at Jeond village was illegally occupied by Malkit Singh. When he went there in the morning, Malkit Singh and his companions attacked him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/land-dispute-turns-ugly-10-hurt-in-firing-in-bathinda-271685
21-06-2021||Mansa||Landowner booked for assault on Dalit woman in Mansa||The police have registered a case against the zamindar (landowner) who had allegedly thrashed a Dalit woman after she raised her voice against low wages for paddy sowing.Taking cognisance of a report carried in The Tribune, the National Commission for Scheduled Caste (NCSC) has also written to the Chief Secretary, DGP, DC and SSP, asking them to submit an action taken report within a week.Gurpreet Kaur, a labourer from Matti village in Mansa district, was allegedly beaten up by the landowner during a meeting convened by the village sarpanch to settle a dispute over wages recently.The accused, Gora Singh, has been booked under Sections 341, 323, 294 and 506 of IPC and other relevant sections of the SC/ST Act.Meanwhile, the protest outside the Bhikhi police station by the morcha and CPI-ML Liberation members has been called off temporarily after senior police officials assured the protesters of arresting the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/landowner-booked-for-assault-on-dalit-woman-in-mansa-271683
21-06-2021||---||Protesters in Mansa force MLA to turn away||Mansa, June 20Mansa MLA Nazar Singh Manshahia faced opposition from activists of various farm unions when he reached Khiali Kalan village in the district on Sunday.As the MLA reached the village, the farmers started raising slogans against him due to which Manshahia returned from the village.The protest was organised on the call of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha by members of the BKU (Dakaunda) and other unions on the pretext of their decision of not allowing politicians enter villages.Manshahia said he was invited by the panchayat but some people objected to his visit and instead of getting into an argument, he went back.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesters-in-mansa-force-mla-to-turn-away-271682
21-06-2021||Muktsar||Amrinder Singh Raja Warring faces farmers’ anger in Muktsar||In less than a fortnight, MLA Gidderbaha Amrinder Singh Raja Warring faced protesting farmers second time at Harike Kalan village today. Notably, the farmers have already announced that in protest against the three farm laws, they won’t allow any politician to enter the village.When Warring today wanted to visit the village to mourn the demise of a villager, farmers blocked the entrance of the village.As a result, Warring and others accompanying him, including police personnel, left their vehicles on the road and went on foot ahead. The farmers then raised slogans against the state government and showed black flags to Warring. They also had an argument with some policemen. The protesters reportedly said with the elections approaching, politicians had started making rounds of the village.Khushwant Singh, block president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur), said, “On the call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, we won’t allow any politician to enter the village. We had lodged a protest against Warring a few days ago too, but he came again today. If Warring or any other politician tries to enter the village now, we will block all entry points of our village.”Later, the farmers took out a protest march in the village. They also protested near the house of the resident whom Warring had visited. Warring said, “I am a farmer. I along with my kids joined the Delhi protest also. However, some miscreants are creating nuisance in the name of farmers’ protest. Among the persons who blocked my way today, only 10 were from Harike Kalan village, others were outsiders. The police should take action against them and those who assaulted MLA Arun Narang in Malout.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amrinder-singh-raja-warring-faces-farmers-anger-in-muktsar-271681
21-06-2021||Karam Prakash||Atop mobile tower for 92 days in Patiala, teacher slams move||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 20An ETT-TET pass unemployed teacher, protesting atop a mobile tower for the past 92 days, has slammed the Chief Minister for “ignoring qualified candidates to favour a few”.“The government is giving jobs to MLAs’ sons while qualified candidates are being forced to protest. I don’t want to live,” said Surinderpal in a video message. Surinderpal has now started a fast-unto-death atop the tower.Surinderpal, protesterMerit ignoredMLAs’ sons are getting jobs, while qualified candidates are forced to protest. I don’t want to live.He has also requested the President and the Punjab Government to grant him permission to kill himself. “Why can’t the CM see our plight?” he asked. Surinderpal has been protesting at a height of 260 feet over the state government’s decision to allow BEd graduates to apply for 2,364 posts of ETT teacher. He along with ETT-TET Pass Unemployed Union has been protesting the move for the past several months.“I think the Ghar Ghar Rozgar scheme of the government is only meant for MLAs and MPs. The poor educated youth have to climb up 260 feet to grab the attention of the government, while sons of MLAs are getting jobs sitting at home,” he lamented. Meanwhile, the unemployed youth in the state have decided to launch an agitation against the Congress’ election manifesto promise of ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/atop-mobile-tower-for-92-days-in-patiala-teacher-slams-move-271678
21-06-2021||Hoshiarpur||Punjab Govt rubbing salt into our wounds: Kin of terror-hit||The Punjab Cabinet’s decision to grant jobs to grandchildren of two former ministers — late Satnam Singh Bajwa and Joginder Pal Pandey — and sons of two sitting MLAs on the grounds that they belonged to families affected by terrorism has not gone down well with more than 35,000 families that lost their breadwinner during the troubled days in Punjab.Retired Civil Surgeon Dr Ajay Bagga, son of former MLA Om Parkash Bagga who was gunned down by terrorists 37 years ago, in a statement today called the move unfortunate, unethical and akin to rubbing salt into the wounds of families affected by terrorism.Dr Bagga, one of the representatives of the affected families, said the decision was against the basic spirit of the Supreme Court judgment that stated the purpose of giving job and compensation to such families was to bring them out of the immediate financial distress.“Are the families of Bajwa and Pandey in financial distress? If at all they are and jobs are to be given, they could have been adjusted in the social welfare, health departments, etc. where they could have served the destitute, orphans, widows and ailing persons,” he said. — OCMartyrs’ families to meet Governor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-rubbing-salt-into-our-wounds-kin-of-terror-hit-271676
21-06-2021||Jalandhar||Pargat Singh calls it case of horse-trading||Congress leader and Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh today objected to the grant of jobs to the sons of two MLAs by the Cabinet, calling it a clear case of “horse-trading”. He is the latest to join several Congress leaders and Cabinet ministers who have opposed the move.Speaking to mediapersons, he said such decisions were detrimental to the image of the Congress government ahead of the 2022 elections. Lauding the five Cabinet ministers for opposing the decision, Pargat said he was surprised CM Capt Amarinder Singh was unmoved despite widespread opposition in the Cabinet. He sought immediate withdrawal of the decision.Pargat said: “I don’t know what parameters were adopted to grant them jobs. Clearly they have not been chosen on compassionate grounds. What kind of perception do we want to create? Despite opposition by Cabinet ministers, the CM is siding with the two MLAs. If this is not horse-trading what else is? The message is clear — the CM will do what he wants, even if five ministers oppose it.”“There are those who laid down lives for the country, families of policemen who died during terrorism, 450 farmers who lost lives during the kisan morcha, why isn’t there a special quota for them. They are being ignored to favour 2 MLAs. The decision should immediately be withdrawn,” he said, adding the move would have serious repercussions for the Congress. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pargat-singh-calls-it-case-of-horse-trading-271675
21-06-2021||---||Jobs for kin: Day on, nine ministers, 4 MPs rally behind Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, June 20The controversy surrounding the Punjab Congress over the Cabinet decision to give jobs to the sons of two MLAs intensified further today with nine ministers and four MPs coming out in support of the Capt Amarinder government.On Friday, the Cabinet had decided to offer government jobs to the sons of MLAs Fateh Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey. Sources said the party high command had taken a serious note of the job offer to the affluent MLAs.Top brass takes noteYesterday, PPCC president Sunil Jakhar and some MLAs had demanded that the Cabinet decision be rolled back as it was against the ethos of the party. The appointments were not based on merit, they had claimed.In a joint statement issued by ministers Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Vijay Inder Singla, Aruna Chaudhary, Sunder Sham Arora, Gurpreet Singh Kangar, Balbir Singh Sidhu, OP Soni and Bharat Bhushan Ashu; and Members of Parliament Gurjeet Singh Aujla, Ravneet Singh Bittu, Jasbir Singh Dimpa and Mohammad Sadiq today, the collective decision of the Cabinet to give government jobs to sitting MLAs’ sons was termed correct and in line with appointments made in similar cases in the past.Lal Singh, Chairman, Punjab Mandi Board, also came out in support of the decision and advised all Congress leaders to refrain from making any statement that could potentially weaken the party.Besides Jakhar, those who had opposed the Cabinet decision yesterday included Cabinet ministers Razia Sultana, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Charanjeet Singh Channi; MLAs Kuljit Nagra and Amarinder Singh Raja Warring; and state youth Congress president Brinder Dhillon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobs-for-kin-day-on-nine-ministers-4-mps-rally-behind-capt-amarinder-singh-271665
21-06-2021||GS Paul||Arvind Kejriwal in Amritsar today, ex-IG may join AAP||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 20With Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Punjab AAP head Bhagwant Mann visiting Amritsar tomorrow, rumours are rife that former Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh is likely to join the AAP on the occasion.Kunwar, who took pre-mature retirement, has been holding meetings with residents of the Amritsar (North) constituency from where his candidature for the Assembly elections could be announced. There is a buzz that some disgruntled BJP leaders too may join the AAP.Expressing ignorance about Kejriwal’s proposed visit, Kunwar said whenever he makes up his mind to join a party, he would disclose it.“I had opted to quit my remaining nine-year IPS service due to corrupt political intervention in the system. If I join politics, it will be for bringing reforms, not for vested interests like the traditional party leaders. Barring exceptions, a majority of them do their ‘own development’ and amass wealth after coming to power,” he said.On the other hand, AAP workers are busy in welcoming the party’s national convener, who will briefly stay at the Circuit House.“Punjab wants change. The only hope is the Aam Aadmi Party. See you tomorrow at Amritsar,” Kejriwal tweeted in Punjabi.Kunwar was a part of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) that conducted a probe into the sacrilege and subsequent police firing incidents in Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura in 2015. However, the report was quashed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Talking to a section of the media, Kunwar launched a scathing attack on the state government’s functioning, saying that it was difficult to differentiate who was running the affairs in Punjab — the Congress or the Akalis.Alleging collusion between both parties, he said the report of the SIT, which he headed, was manipulated to save a particular family.He pointed out that the new SIT formed by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was not likely to yield any result. “At present, my focus is to get the High Court order challenged in the Supreme Court. I might meet the CM in this regard. If not, then I intend to fight the legal battle on my own,” he added.  ‘Bid to save one family in firing probe’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arvind-kejriwal-in-amritsar-today-ex-ig-may-join-aap-271628
21-06-2021||Jalandhar/Chandigarh||Punjab government’s damage control over controversial jobs to MLAs' kins||On a day when one more Congress MLA joined the chorus against the Punjab government’s controversial decision of giving jobs to sons of two ruling party legislators, the pro-Amarinder lobby within the government went on an overdrive to defend the `under attack’ Chief Minister.Nine Punjab ministers and four Congress MPs Sunday backed the state government's decision. A joint statement issued by over a dozen ministers and MPs said that the collective decision of the Cabinet to give government jobs to sons of sitting MLAs, Fatehjung Singh Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey, was "correct and in line with appointments given to similarly situated persons in the past".The statement, which lashed out at the critics, also including opposition SAD and AAP, for allegedly failing to appreciate the state policy which they claimed has been in force for many years now, comes after one more leader of the party, Pargat Singh, joined the list of Congress leaders opposing the decision.The state ministers who backed the government decision are: Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Vijay Inder Singla, Aruna Chaudhary, Sunder Sham Arora, Gurpreet Singh Kangar, Balbir Singh Sidhu, O P Soni, Bharat Bhushan Ashu.They were joined by MPs Gurjeet Singh Aujla, Ravneet Singh Bittu, Jasbir Singh Dimpa, and Mohammad Sadiq.On Friday, the Punjab government decided to appoint the sons of two Congress MLAs as a police inspector and a naib tehsildar as a “special case”. The state government claims the decision was taken on compassionate grounds, as a mark of recognition to the “sacrifices” made by their grandfathers who were killed during the height of militancy in Punjab.Five ministers had reportedly opposed the decision.“When other similarly placed persons were being regularly given benefits under the State Policy it would be unfair to discriminate against the children of MLAs simply because their fathers are currently holding such positions,” the statement further said.Pargat Singh, an MLA representing Jalandhar Cantt and a vocal critic of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, said on Friday that such decisions could affect the Congress government’s perception a year before assembly elections."I don’t know on what parameters the sons of MLAs have been chosen for the jobs. Clearly, they have not been chosen on compassionate grounds (taras de adhar te). I'm surprised what kind of perception we want to create. I thank the five ministers who spoke up. Despite the opposition of five ministers the CM is siding with these two MLAs. If this is not horse-trading what else is it. The message is clear, where CM is willing, he will do what he wants, even if five ministers oppose it," he said. — With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-governments-damage-control-over-controversial-jobs-to-mlas-kins-271478
21-06-2021||New Delhi||Monsoon over Delhi, Chandigarh, Punjab among others likely 'to be slow': IMD||Further advance of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Delhi, Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh and Punjab is likely to be slow.India Meteorological Department (IMD) made the forecast on Sunday based on large-scale features showing no favourable condition.The wind pattern by the numerical models also do not indicate any favourable condition for sustained rainfall over the region during the forecast period, the IMD said.Under the influence of a low-pressure area over southeast Uttar Pradesh and neighbourhood, the weather department said fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls very likely over east Uttar Pradesh and Bihar during next 24 hours and significant reduction in rainfall activity thereafter.Under the influence of a Western Disturbance as a trough in mid tropospheric levels and monsoonal easterlies, it predicted widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls over Uttarakhand during next 24 hours and significant reduction in rain fall activity thereafter.Moderate to severe thunderstorms accompanied by frequent cloud to ground lightning is very likely over east Uttar Pradesh and Bihar during next 24 hours, the IMD further said."This may cause injuries leading to casualties to people and animals staying outdoors," warned the IMD. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/monsoon-over-delhi-%C2%A0chandigarh-punjab-among-others-likely-to-be-slow-imd-271438
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura police firing case: Parkash Singh Badal to appear before SIT on June 22||Former Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal will appear before a Special Investigation Team (SIT) investigating the Kotkapura police firing case at his Chandigarh residence at 10.30 am on June 22. Five time Punjab CM Sardar Parkash Singh Badal will appear before SIT at his Official MLA Flat in Sector 4 in Chandigarh at 10.30 am on June 22. Still not in good health, Mr Badal however is keen to fulfill his legal& constitutional duties as a law abiding citizen of the country  The SIT had rescheduled his questioning after Badal expressed inability to appear before the panel on June 16 at a rest house in Mohali. Citing ill-health and his age, besides provisions of law in questioning a witness, Badal asked the SIT to visit his Chandigarh house."Still not in good health, Mr Badal however is keen to fulfill his legal & constitutional duties as a law abiding citizen of the country," said Harcharan Bains, Principal Advisor to SAD President Sukhbir Singh Badal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-police-firing-case-parkash-singh-badal-to-appear-before-sit-on-june-22-271426
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap likely to join AAP on Monday||Former Punjab Police inspector general (IG) Kunwar Vijay Pratap is likely to join the AAP in Amritsar on Monday, said sources. AAP chief and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will arrive in Amritsar to induct the ex-cop into the party.ਪੰਜਾਬ ਬਦਲਾਓ ਚਾਹੁੰਦਾ ਹੈ। ਸਿਰਫ਼ ਆਮ ਆਦਮੀ ਪਾਰਟੀ ਹੀ ਉਮੀਦ ਹੈ।ਕੱਲ੍ਹ ਅੰਮ੍ਰਿਤਸਰ ਵਿਖੇ ਮਿਲਦੇ ਹਾਂ  Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had intially refused to accept Pratap's resignation letter after he had sought premature retirement from service.The Chief Minister had said the officer was highly competent and efficient, and his services were needed in the border state, especially at a time when Punjab was faced with various internal and external security threats.  However, Pratap remained firm on the resignation, saying he felt he "did my part ...... No regret ....." and "I request everybody not to glamourise or politicise the issue...." in a Facebook post.Pratap had previously denied reports that he would join a political outfit. “I keep meeting politicians. It’s part of my job,” he told The Tribune earlier this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-ig-kunwar-vijay-pratap-likely-to-join-aap-on-monday-271395
