23-06-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Gangster Jaipal Bhullar’s second autopsy rules out torture||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 23Slain gangster Jaipal Bhullar died of a firearm injury and there were no other extraneous wounds on his body, said a second post-mortem report, conducted by a medical board constituted by the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh (PGIMER), on Wednesday.The autopsy was conducted on the insistence of his family.Also read: Punjab and Haryana HC orders second autopsy for gangster Jaipal Singh BhullarThe report ruled out that he was tortured but said his injuries were antemortem.Responding to the development, Bhullar’s father, Bhupinder Singh, agreed to cremate his son's body alleged that the report was prepared by PGIMER under pressure from the police.The gangster was killed in an encounter with West Bengal police on June 9. His family alleged the encounter was "stage-managed". They contended there were injuries other than gunshot wounds on the body.The family had refused to cremate the body till a fresh post-mortem was conducted. The Punjab and Haryana High Court had directed the Punjab government to ensure a second post-mortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gangster-jaipal-bhullars-second-autopsy-rules-out-torture-272891
23-06-2021||Patiala||Punjab Education dept asks students, teachers to 'like, share' its Facebook posts for 'district-wise competition'||Punjab's Education Department has urged teachers, students and parents to like, comment and share the posts which are uploaded by it on Facebook.Students who don’t have an account on the social media website have been asked to create new accounts.A "healthy competition" for shares, likes and comments has been conceived by the department, say sources. In the competition, whichever district gets the most likes and shares in 24 hours will be declared the winner.A message from Patiala Deputy District Education Officer (DEO) to parents, teachers and students said: "We have to increase followers and likes of the Education Department page on Facebook. We have 24 hours to go, therefore, everyone has to get as many likes and share as possible."Sources said that District Education Officials on Wednesday had held a meeting with school principals and directed them to ensure maximum participation in the competition. Following the meeting, school heads directed the teachers to get ‘maximum’ likes in the coming 24 hours.Deputy DEO, Sukhwinder Khosla, said, “We have been asked to share the posts so that maximum people get aware of improvements in the Punjab School Education Department.”When asked about having young children creating FB accounts, Khosla said, “Only students’ above class ninth have been asked to participate.”Meanwhile, Vikram Dev, state president, Democratic Teachers Front, said, "Ahead of Assembly elections, the government is using the Education Department as an IT cell for their political benefits. It is shameful to use teachers and students for non-academic work which is unproductive work. We teach students that respect is commanded and not demanded. However, the step, seemingly, is the antithesis of this saying."Dev further added that the directions were against the sole idea of freedom on social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-education-dept-asks-students-teachers-to-like-share-its-facebook-posts-for-district-wise-competition-272883
23-06-2021||GS Paul||Seven Amritsar hospitals off ECHS list for faking bills||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 22The Union Ministry of Defence has dis-empanelled seven hospitals and a lab of Amritsar for their alleged involvement in the Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) scam, wherein huge amounts of government funds were bungled by claiming fake medical bills.What Army probe suggestedThe hospitals and the lab named by the Department of Ex-Servicemen Welfare in a notification dated June 18, 2021, include Verma Hospital, Meerankot chowk; Neelkanth Hospital, Fatehgarh Churian Road; Life Kare Hospital, Nirankari Colony, Fatehgarh Churian Road; Gupta Multi-specialty Hospital, Race Course Road; Akashdeep Neuro Trauma and Multi SS Hospital; Madaan Hospital (Multi-specialty) Majitha Road; and Nijjar Scan and Diagnostic Centre, Court Road.Sandeep Malik, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Amritsar, had been holding an investigation into the case. “At least 12 arrests have been made so far. Others who evaded arrest had managed to procure interim bail from the High Court, but they have been asked to join the investigation. We are also awaiting some forensic records pertaining to the case,” he said.Gurmeet Singh Bablu, president of the Shaheed-e-Azam Sardar Bhagat Singh Youth Front, alleged that the police gave immunity to various doctors and hospitals from the FIR without involving the Army authorities. He demanded a CBI or at least a vigilance probe into the case. “Why were the police taking the Army probe leniently? I shot a letter to the Punjab Chief Minister with copies to the Punjab DGP and Bureau of Investigations as the city police acted in a biased manner while investigating the case,” he said.Army authorities found that several veterans misled genuine ECHS beneficiaries and collected their cards. Later, in connivance with the hospital managements and doctors, records were fabricated to usurp claim funds from the Department of Ex-servicemen Welfare.A 204-page Army inquiry report was submitted to the Cantonment police by Brig MD Upadhyay, Station Commander, Station Headquarters, Amritsar Cantonment. Following this, an FIR was lodged against 24 persons, including owners, managing directors and doctors of six private hospitals on October 2.Brig Upadhyay, in his complaint to the police, alleged that hospitals had made false admissions with an intention of fraud with the cardholders “without providing them the services that are as per the files of the hospitals”. Also, the cardholders were kept in the hospitals “for a few days” even when the records suggest they stayed longer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/seven-amritsar-hospitals-off-echs-list-for-faking-bills-272737
23-06-2021||---||Punjab Govt docs to strike work on June 25 over allowance cut||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22Government doctors, including veterinary, medical, dental, Ayurvedic, rural medical officers and medical teachers, today formed a joint front and announced to go on a strike on June 25.The government doctors are protesting against the pay commission’s recommendation on decreasing and de-linking the non-practice allowance (NPA) from basic pay.In Bathinda, doctors staged a protest against the Sixth Pay Commission being implemented by the government in which the NPA has allegedly been reduced.All doctors of the Bathinda Civil Hospital staged a protest outside the Civil Surgeon’s office and raised slogans against the Punjab Government and Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal. During this, the doctors kept OPD services closed from noon to 2 pm, due to which patients had to face problems.The doctors warned that on Wednesday also they would stage a protest by keeping OPD services closed for two hours.They alleged the Punjab Government had done injustice to doctors who stood firm in the Covid crisis. In the pay commission, NPA was reduced from 25 to 20 per cent. Along with this, it was recommended to de-link the NPAs from the basic pay. This would reduce the salary of doctors, they claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-docs-to-strike-work-on-june-25-over-allowance-cut-272738
23-06-2021||Ajay Joshi||2nd green fungus case in Jalandhar in 3 days||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 22In less than a week, Punjab reported its second case of green fungus. A 43-year-old patient, who had recovered from Covid on June 3, was diagnosed with the disease on Monday.A resident of Rehru village, the patient had tested positive for Covid in May and recovered on June 3. Complaining of constant cough, low-grade fever and blood in sputum, he was re-admitted to Sacred Heart Hospital at Maqsoodan on June 14.While the patient is stable and taking treatment for green fungus, also known as aspergillosis, Dr Ashutosh Dhanuka, consultant and pulmonologist, Critical Care Centre, Sacred Heart Hospital, said, “The patient was earlier hospitalised after testing Covid positve. He had stayed in the hospital for 16 days after which he was discharged. However, the patient again visited the hospital for persistent cough and fever. Since, the patient was a follow-up case of severe coronavirus infection, a series of medical investigations like bronchoscopy and microbial cultures were performed. The patient was found positive for green fungus. The patient isn’t on life support but taking into account the seriousness of the disease, he is under strict monitoring”.After a 61-year-old patient was diagnosed with green fungus on June 19 at the hospital, this is the second case reported after three days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2nd-green-fungus-case-in-jalandhar-in-3-days-272739
23-06-2021||---||162 Hoshiarpur villages 100 pc vaccinated||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, June 22Taking a lead in administering Covid vaccine in villages, Hoshiarpur district ensured 100 per cent vaccination in 162 villages till Tuesday evening under Mission Fateh-II.Lauding the role of panchayats and efforts made by teams of the Health Department to achieve 100 per cent vaccination in 162 villages within a short period, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said the administration had undertaken the vaccination drive at a large scale to contain the pandemic. She said so far, 5,20,337 doses of vaccine had been given to eligible beneficiaries in the district.She said 19,742 doses had been administered today itself while the administration was also holding special camps in rural and urban areas to cover maximum beneficiaries.Riyait said mobile teams were reaching out at homes of beneficiaries to administer doses on their doorsteps. She said residents could contact at WhatsApp number 78146-40600 to get themselves inoculated at their homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/162-hoshiarpur-villages-100-pc-vaccinated-272740
23-06-2021||---||Kotkapura Firing: Legal expert accompanies SIT quizzing Badal, stirs row||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh. June 22The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the Kotkapura police firing incident today courted controversy when a retired prosecution officer accompanied the team for questioning ex-CM Parkash Singh Badal at his official residence here.High Court allowed helpShiromani Akali Dal leaders alleged that the SIT tried to hide the officer’s identity by posing him as a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP). However, when confronted, his real identity was revealed. Tempers ran high as SAD leaders questioned the motive of the SIT.Sources in the government later claimed that the officer, Vijay Singla, was hired as a legal expert to assist the SIT in the probe. He had retired as the Director, Prosecution and Litigation, and was hired on May 19. The order copy mentioned that the High Court had allowed the new SIT to seek assistance of a legal expert.Sources also said Singla had earlier defended the Badals in some court cases in his official capacity when the SAD-BJP was in power. They said Singla was well-known to all and there was no question of faking his identity.Addressing a press conference, senior SAD leaders Prem Singh Chandumajra, Maheshinder Singh Grewal and Daljit Singh Cheema said the entire run-up to the questioning of Badal by the SIT as well as making a former Director, Prosecution and Litigation, part of the team indicated that the Congress government wanted to politicise the issue. They said the SIT introduced the officer as the DSP to Badal’s security team.“The prosecution steps in only when the challan is presented in the court. How can the former Director, Prosecution and Litigation, be made part of the SIT,” they asked, asserting that the SIT was working on the directions of the CM’s “kitchen cabinet”, including adviser BIS Chahal.Grewal said the Congress government was also indulging in contempt of court by questioning Badal on the issue of phone calls made by him to the Faridkot Deputy Commissioner a night prior to the firing incident. He said the High Court had ruled in the case that the CM was well within his rights to call up the Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-firing-legal-expert-accompanies-sit-quizzing-badal-stirs-row-272741
23-06-2021||---||Hold exams, medical panel tells colleges||Faridkot, June 22The National Medical Commission (NMC) on Tuesday issued an advisory to all medical colleges regarding starting examinations of final-year postgraduate (board and super speciality) students in view of the declining number of Covid cases in the country.“Covid has caused disruption in all walks of life in the country and expectedly, medical students had to endure the major burnt of this crisis,” said MK Ramesh, president, Postgraduate Medical Education Board in the NMC.The NEET exam was postponed and there was delay in the arrival of fresh batch of postgraduate students this year. Many universities could not hold the examinations for final-year postgraduate students, said the president.Usually, the examination of postgraduate students is held in May in Punjab. Now, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) has announced the schedule for the examinations, starting from July 15.While the final-year students of postgraduate courses (MD/MS/DM and MCH) are waiting for their examinations, there is no fresh batch of postgraduate students as there is an inordinate six-month delay in the conduct of NEET-PG to make fresh admissions in the postgraduate medical courses this time.The NMC had to issue regular and pertinent advisories regarding the matter concerning the examination and students to tide over the crisis. Fortunately, Covid has started showing the retreating trend so the NMC advised medical universities and institutions to hold the examination for final-year postgraduate board and super speciality students at the earliest, depending up the local Covid situation, the president added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hold-exams-medical-panel-tells-colleges-272742
23-06-2021||---||Get jabbed or face action, shopkeepers told||Muktsar, June 22The district administration has directed shopkeepers to get themselves and their employees vaccinated or their shops will be sealed.Besides, the administration has formed teams to conduct a checking.Rajesh Tripathi, Additional Deputy Commissioner (General), Muktsar, today held a meeting with the shopkeepers, local associations. “The teams will check vaccine certificates from shopkeepers, and owners of eating joints, taverns, sweet shops, grocery stores, coaching centres and hairdressers,” he said. They are also advised to display the Covid vaccination certificate at the entrance of their premises. Meanwhile, 13 persons were found positive for Covid in the last 24 hours in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/get-jabbed-or-face-action-shopkeepers-told-272743
23-06-2021||---||‘Off active politics’, BJP’s Laxmi Kanta Chawla junks rumours of joining AAP||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 22Senior BJP leader and former minister Prof Laxmi Kanta Chawla has dispelled rumours of switching from the saffron party to any other party.Chawla’s presence in Durgiana Mandir during the visit of AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal, along with the newly inducted former IG Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, had triggered a debate.Kejriwal touched the feet of Chawla out of respect and she also reciprocated and honoured him with a siropa.When Kunwar was to join AAP, buzz was that more disgruntled leaders from other parties could switch to AAP. But nothing of the sort had happened. Chawla said she was present on the occasion in her capacity as ‘sanrakshak of Durgiana Mandir’, a post in the shrine committee.“I could never think of changing parties. I was there to honour them. It was Kejriwal’s greatness to shower me honour. He touched my feet and photos were clicked, giving it another dimension without any base. It happened earlier also when I met him just by chance,” she said.This was for the second time in the past three months when Chawla met Kejriwal.Chawla, who left no chance in questioning the BJP-led central government’s ill-conceived policy matters in public interest, made it clear that she was away from active politics now and that there was no plan to come in the mainstream politics.Earlier, meeting between Kejriwal and Chawla had taken place on March 21 at the Circuit House complex. Kejriwal had reached here after attending ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ at Baghapurana to take a flight back to Delhi. Amritsar was his transit route.The meeting came to light after a picture went viral on social media, showing the two and AAP MLA Prof Baljinder Kaur having a tea.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/off-active-politics-bjps-laxmi-kanta-chawla-junks-rumours-of-joining-aap-272744
23-06-2021||---||Congress to stay mum on Punjab CM face, for now||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22Almost one-and-a-half month after dissident ministers and MLAs in the Punjab Congress started questioning Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on the poll promises, the party high command is working on a formula to mollify the annoyed leaders.“By delaying the announcement of the CM face at this juncture, the party leadership can tide over the crisis till the tempers are smoothened,” said a senior party leader.It is learnt that the party leadership has assured the dissidents that their concerns over delay in justice in sacrilege and police firing cases, ending the sand and transport mafia and taking action against the big fish in the SIT report on drugs submitted in the Punjab and Haryana High Court will be addressed in the coming days.Pointing towards a statement by Congress MP and chairman of the AICC panel Mallikarjun Kharge, who said the party would fight the 2022 state elections under the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, a minister said it was a clear hint that the party leadership did not want to declare the name under whose leadership the election would be fought. Otherwise, the Chief Minister was always understood to be the party’s face for the next elections.Dissident ministers Charanjit Channi, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, besides MLA Pargat Singh, Raja Warring and Sangat Singh Gilzian at their meeting with Rahul Gandhi are learnt to have stressed the concerns that need to be addressed in the run-up to the 2022 elections. Reshuffling in the Cabinet and the caste factor in the PPCC are the issues that are being addressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-to-stay-mum-on-punjab-cm-face-for-now-272747
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||SAD (A) demands SGPC elections||A delegation led by the Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) today submitted a memorandum to the Governor, demanding action against culprits of sacrilege incidents and disappearance of “pawan saroops” of Shri Guru Granth Sahib ji and the timely general body elections of the SGPC.The party said the elections of the SGPC had not been held for the last 10 years whereas as per the Act, they were scheduled to be conducted every five years. The ruling dispensation didn’t believe in democracy as it had failed to conduct the elections to the SGPC after the expiry of term of the House.It said officials of this lapsed SGPC conspired in the disappearance of 328 pawan saroops of Guru Granth Sahib ji. The financial resources of the SGPC and the Sikh community were being misused. The agricultural lands, owned by the gurdwaras, were being leased to the relatives, friends and favourites of the Badal family for a song whereas the average market lease rate of such lands is Rs 50,000 per acre, it said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-a-demands-sgpc-elections-272749
23-06-2021||---||Illegal liquor racket busted in Patiala, 3 held||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 22The police today claimed to have busted a three-member gang involved in manufacturing of fake liquor, making machines and liquor-packaging material. The illegal liquor with “meant only for sale in Chandigarh” labels was being produced and sold in parts of Patiala, Rajpura and Ghanaur.Patiala SSP Sandeep Garg said a fake liquor distillery and packaging unit being run in Shagun Vihar at Chaura village was raided by a police team under the supervision of City SP Varun Sharma, DSP Saurav Jindal and Inspector Shaminder Singh.“We recovered 41,000 labels to be fixed on bottles and branded stickers of desi tango santra, masaledar desi sharab for sale in Chandigarh only,” said Garg. An FIR was registered at the Urban Estate police station.A large quantity of counterfeit liquor making machines, liquor packaging material and other items were recovered from the factory premises. “Those arrested are Salwinder Singh Shinda, Hardeep Kumar Deepu and Hanish Kumar. Their two accomplices Atinderpal Singh and Vishal are absconding,” the SSP said.The mastermind of the gang, Salwinder Singh alias Shinda, is already facing 12 cases of illegal supply of liquor in various police stations of the state. “After March 2020, Salwinder met Vishal and bought machines and packaging material from Delhi and bottles from Baddi. They used to mix extra neutral alcohol with flavours and sell it in Patiala and adjoining areas, claiming that this liquor was meant for sale in Chandigarh only,” said Inspector Shaminder Singh, adding that a carton of 12 bottles was sold for Rs 900.The police said the accused had first set up the illegal unit in Ekta Colony, but later shifted it to an unoccupied house in Ghanaur and thereafter to Shagun Vihar in Chaura village.Sources say Deepu is close to an MLA and a councillor and despite being booked in many cases of the Excise Act, he openly indulges in illegal liquor units. “His interrogation is important to reach those profiteering from his trade,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/illegal-liquor-racket-busted-in-patiala-3-held-272756
23-06-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Moga village erupts in joy as Tajinder qualifies for Olympics||Tribune News ServiceMoga, June 22Khosa Pando village of the district erupted in joy after shot-putter Tajinder Pal Singh Toor qualified for the Tokyo Olympics with an Asian and national record throw at the Indian Grand Prix 4 yesterday.By throwing 21.49 m, he cleared the 21.10 m entry standard. His previous record was 20.92m.“Finally, I have achieved my target for ticket to #Tokyo Olympics. In spite of numerous setbacks like injuries and Covid situations, me and my coach Sh. Mohinder Singh Dhillon stood strong. I am happy that now I have qualified for Tokyo and will work hard to give my best during the games (sic),” he tweeted.His mother Pritpal Kaur said: “It’s a moment of joy for me. I pray that my son gets a gold medal in the Olympics. I hope he makes his country proud.” As a child, Toor wanted to become a cricketer, but on his father’s insistence he took up shot put. Toor first shot into limelight when he won a silver medal at the Asian Championships in 2017. A year later, he won the gold in the Asian Games in Indonesia.His grandmother Jangir Kaur said: “Tajinder’s father Karam Singh always wanted his son to win gold at the Olympics. The time has come that he fulfils his father’s dream.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-village-erupts-in-joy-as-tajinder-qualifies-for-olympics-272764
23-06-2021||---||Hepatitis B patients to get free treatment||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 22The government on Tuesday announced that patients would get free treatment of hepatitis B in all medical colleges, district hospitals, sub-divisional hospitals and anti-retroviral treatment (ART), oral substitution therapy (OST) centers in the state.Launching the initiative at the District Hospital, Mohali, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the hepatitis B viral load testing facility would be extended to 27 centres free of cost. The state Health Department had entered into a rate contract with Oncquest Laboratory under which it had provided a technician at every district hospital and government medical college. Hepatitis B samplesof the patient would be taken while the cost of the test be reimbursed to the lab at the rate of Rs 851 by thegovernment.Sidhu said the line of treatment is long and expensive but the state government would give free medicine to the patients. Even Punjab patients under treatment in the PGI would also be provided medicine free of cost.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hepatitis-b-patients-to-get-free-treatment-272769
23-06-2021||Kotkapura||Rival groups clash in Kotkapura, 1 killed||A man was killed in a gang rivalry that took place in Rishi Nagar here on Tuesday following firing between two groups. The deceased has been identified as 32-year-old Deepak Kumar of Ferozepur.While the police are investigating the case, sources said the death was a fallout of rivalry between two groups of gangsters. The members of one group allegedly attacked the rival group member of Wara Daraka village and opened 12 rounds of fire on him.DSP Yadwinder Singh said the police were investigating the matter and a forensic team had collected samples from the incident spot.The police said preliminary investigation revealed that members of one gang reached the crime spot on bikes and attacked Harvel Singh, a member of the rival group. The latter also confronted the assailants with a fire weapon and one bullet from his weapon hit a member of the gang on bikes, killing him on the spot. The police have recovered a car from the spot which belonged to Harvel Singh of Wara Daraka village, the DSP said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rival-groups-clash-in-kotkapura-1-killed-272770
23-06-2021||---||Actor-turned-MP from Gorakhpur Ravi Kishan faces protest in Punjab over farm laws||Ropar, June 22Actor-turned-politician and BJP Lok Sabha Member from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh had to face the protest of farmers. Kishan had come for the shooting of a film at a nearby village here today. Following the protest, Kishan, along with other members of the unit, left the spot.It was around 10 am when preparations for the shooting of the movie were being made at the house of a sarpanch at Dhangrali village near Morinda. The youth of the village got information about it and they reached the spot and started raising slogans in favour of farmers’ agitation.A protester, identified as Randeep Singh, said they would not allow any politician to enter their village till the demands of farmers were accepted. Soon, a police party led by local SHO Baljinder Kaur reached the spot.The SHO said she received a security programme of Ravi Kishan in the morning. On reaching the spot, however, it was noticed that he was there for the shooting of a film. When documents pertaining to permission for shooting were asked from the director, he could not produce it and they were asked to leave, the SHO added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/actor-turned-mp-from-gorakhpur-ravi-kishan-faces-protest-in-punjab-over-farm-laws-272771
23-06-2021||---||AAP leaders join jobless youth protest||Sangrur, June 22AAP youth wing members on Tuesday broke the police barricades near the residence of Punjab Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla and joined the protesting unemployed youth. They announced to intensify their agitation.“Lakhs of youth are struggling to get jobs as the Captain Amarinder Singh-led Congress government has failed to fulfil its promise of Ghar-Ghar Rozgar. But the sons of MLAs are getting jobs. We will intensify our agitation,” said Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer, AAP MLA, youth wing state president.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-leaders-join-jobless-youth-protest-272772
23-06-2021||Parvesh Sharma||On NGT order, Sangrur DFO starts probe into ‘illegal’ felling||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, June 22More than a month after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directed the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests to look into felling of trees in Sangrur city and ensure remedial action against the “illegal” practice, the Sangrur divisional forest officer (DFO) started an inquiry on Tuesday.Twentyseven fully grown trees were axed illegally on the Kali Devi temple road by PWD officials. We have all evidence to prove that trees were axed without any valid reason. Jasinder Sekhon, petitionerLocals have been alleging that the Sangrur PWD was cutting trees between Phuara Chowk to Kali Mata Temple in the Patiala gate area without following due process.“Twenty-seven fully grown trees were axed illegally on the Kali Devi temple road by PWD officials. Some senior politicians of the ruling party have been trying to justify the axing of trees to protect PWD officials with baseless excuses, but we have all evidence to prove that trees were axed without any valid reason,” said Jasinder Sekhon, who, through senior advocate Sanjeev Ralli and advocate Mohit Mudgal, had filed a petition in the NGT.Sangrur, which was earlier known as the city of gardens, has seen axing of hundreds of trees in the last three years.Khushwinder Singh, DFO, said he had summoned the executive officer of the Sangrur Nagar Council and the SDO of the PWD on June 23.“We have started an inquiry on the directions of the NGT. We will conduct a detailed probe after recording the statements and ascertain whether trees are being axed in violation of norms,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-ngt-order-sangrur-dfo-starts-probe-into-illegal-felling-272773
23-06-2021||Abohar||Rs 2.75 lakh, car seized from drug smugglers’ aide||During a raid at the house reportedly owned by Sona Singh, alias Munna (24), near Jalalabad in Fazilka district, the Sriganganagar police seized Rs 2.75 lakh and a car that was allegedly used to carry heroin smuggled from Pakistan to Ferozepur. He was arrested last week while allegedly conducting a recce to find out a safe spot to smuggle another consignment in Hindumalkot, 31 km from here.Interrogation by intelligence agencies reportedly indicated that Sona was allegedly given some quantity of heroin that Pakistani smugglers had pushed into India near Madanlal border outpost on February 8. He was now to be paid Rs 5 lakh for identifying a safe spot to smuggle drugs from Pakistan. He was paid Rs 20,000 in advance, sources said. An unlicensed pistol was recovered from him.SHO Ram Pratap Verma said Sona was wanted for his alleged involvement in a previous case that was registered under the NDPS, IPC and Arms Act after Pakistani smugglers pushed consignment of 6 kg of heroin in the border village Dullapur Keri near Hindumalkot. One kg packet was found on the spot, while 5 kg of heroin was taken away by smugglers. So far five persons have been arrested in this case and the sixth arrest was of Sona Singh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-2-75-lakh-car-seized-from-drug-smugglers-aide-272774
23-06-2021||Ravneet Singh||UGC grant misused: Punjabi University panel||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 22Punjabi University’s internal committee, constituted to probe the alleged misappropriation of funds of the UGC grants, has submitted its report. As per sources on the campus, the committee has reported that some bills are fake, and as such, the university is contemplating action against its employees involved in it.The committee, comprising the Registrar, Dean, Research, and Finance Officer, was constituted by Vice-Chancellor Arvind after an internal team, set up to carry out an audit of the university’s records, flagged some bills, amounting in Rs 6 lakh that were generated in the name of research scholars. The Vice-Chancellor then demanded a time-bound preliminary report. Sources on the campus today said, “The bills have been found faulty. The stamps, signatures of department heads are fake in the bills. Even the research scholars in whose names the bills were generated also do not exist.” VC said, “The internal report has been submitted. We are analysing it to see what further actions need to be taken.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ugc-grant-misused-punjabi-university-panel-272775
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing: Conduct Parkash Singh Badal's narco test, says AAP MLA||Commenting on the summoning of former CM Parkash Singh Badal by the SIT probing the Kotkapura firing case, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA and Kisan Wing state president Kultar Singh Sandhwan and senior leader Manwinder Singh Giaspura said ex-CM’s narco test must be conducted for proper investigation.The AAP leaders alleged that the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government was playing tricks to save the Badal family through a new SIT and was not giving any justice to the people.In a statement issued from the party headquarters here on Tuesday, Sandhwan and Giaspura said the newly constituted SIT had again questioned Badal, who was also questioned by the previous investigation team. They alleged that it was nothing but the Captain government’s tactics of dramatising the entire process of investigation to save the culprits.The leaders said Badal should undergo a narco test so that the probe was completely over forever. Sandhwan said politics had been going on for the last five years regarding the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib and the firing case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-firing-conduct-parkash-singh-badals-narco-test-says-aap-mla-272776
23-06-2021||Saurabh Malik||Post top court rap, all Benches to hear cases online from June 28||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22Rapped by the Supreme Court for “defeating the administration of justice” by not listing a bail plea for hearing for more than a year, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has decided to go full steam ahead.Clearing backlogFor the first time since it went into the restrictive functioning mode in March last year following the Covid outbreak, all Judges will hold the court through video-conferencing from Monday onwards upon resumption of regular work after month-long summer break.“All Benches will hold the court through video-conferencing from June 28. Mentioning for listing of all categories of cases will be done away with…,” an order issued on behalf of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha by Registrar-General Sanjiv Berry said.The order, among other things, also made it clear that matters involving life and liberty, including anticipatory and regular bails, habeas corpus petitions, criminal writ petitions pertaining to protection, parole, furlough, premature release and application for suspension of sentence would be taken up on dates already fixed between June 26 and July 30 irrespective of the year of registration. Such cases would not be adjourned automatically.The order comes at a time when the HC is facing a pendency of 6,84,490 cases. The only other High Court with pendency more than the Punjab and Haryana High Court is Allahabad with 7,93,154 matters awaiting adjudication.The problem is aggravated by the fact that the HC has 39 posts of Judge vacant. Of the sanctioned strength of 85, it only has 46 Judges. The problem is expected to worsen with the retirement of two Judges later this year. Following the Covid outbreak, the High Court on the last working day before the summer break was working at just 30 per cent of its sanctioned strength, with 26 Judges holding the court.Perturbed over the HC’s curtailed functioning, the Punjab and Haryana HC Bar Association had raised the issue with the Chief Justice.“The High Court is the custodian of the Constitution and protector of fundamental rights. It cannot shut its doors for the justice seekers,” the association said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/post-top-court-rap-all-benches-to-hear-cases-online-from-june-28-272777
23-06-2021||---||PGI conducts gangster Jaipal Bhullar's autopsy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, on Tuesday conducted the post-mortem of gangster Jaipal Singh Bhullar after the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The High Court on Monday had directed PGIMER to constitute a board and expeditiously conduct the second post-mortem of Bhullar. The direction by Justice Avneesh Jhingan of the High Court came on a petition filed by Bhullar’s father Bhupinder Singh.Bhullar and another person were killed in an encounter with a special task force of the West Bengal Police in Kolkata. Jaipal’s father and other relatives had subsequently claimed they spotted some “unusual marks” on the body.During the day, Bhullar’s father brought his body himself to PGIMER as he was not ready to hand it over to the police. Dr YS Bansal from the Department of Forensic Science, PGIMER, said a team of doctors had conducted the post-mortem earlier in the day and the report was being compiled, which would be handed over to the family of the deceased.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pgi-conducts-gangster-jaipal-bhullars-autopsy-272778
23-06-2021||New Delhi||Two more KLF men in NIA net||The NIA has arrested two absconding persons belonging to the Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) in connection with the killing of Balwinder Singh Sandhu, a Shaurya Chakra awardee, in Tarn Taran district.Officials in the agency said NIA sleuths arrested Harbhinder Singh, alias Pinder, and Navpreet Singh, alias Nav, both from Tarn Taran.A senior NIA official said, “They are close aides of Inderjit Singh, who was involved in the conspiracy to kill Sandhu.” The accused were produced before the NIA Special Court in Mohali today and sent to the agency custody for four days. A case in connection with Sandhu’s murder was initially registered by the Punjab Police but the NIA took over the probe on January 26 this year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-more-klf-men-in-nia-net-272779
23-06-2021||---||Special vaccination drive for rural areas in Patiala district||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 22The district administration today announced a special door-to-door vaccination drive to cover the rural belt.Around 150 beneficiaries in each village will be vaccinated, and each block of the district will be covering 10 villages in a week during the first phase of this special vaccination campaign for the rural belt.The administration has decided to initially select only those villages where vaccination has already reached about 40 per cent.Sources said overall vaccination in the rural belt was about 22 per cent. In some villages of the district, the vaccination figures were said to be very dismal.The announcement of the special drive came after Patiala Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit held a meeting with officials of the Health Department, Panchayat Department, Revenue Department, Agriculture Department and Cooperation Department, including SDMs of the subdivisions concerned. During the meeting, the Deputy Commissioner directed the various departments to cooperate with the Health Department in the vaccination drive being carried out in the villages. He asked the officials to ensure that the immunisation programme was announced one day in advance in the village concerned. He advised that Covid vaccination might be expedited by involving the educated youth of villages in this campaign.Special checking of hotels, cafes, dhabas, gymsThe district administration would start a special checking of restaurants/hotels, cafes, dhabas and gyms to ensure that the staff working at these establishments have got their first dose of the Covid vaccine, said ADC (G) Pooja Sayal Grewal.She added two teams, led by AETC (GST), had been formed to make sure that these ventures followed the guidelines of vaccination. Besides, these two mobile teams would be accompanied by immunisation teams.‘On-call vaccination’ from FridayThe administration will start an ‘On-call vaccination drive’ on Friday to cover the urban areas of Patiala city. ADC (G) Pooja Sayal Grewal said any locality having five or more persons ready to be immunised, a team would approach them for on-the-spot vaccination. However, they would have to fix the schedule by dialling district control room number 0175-2350550 in advance, said Syal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/special-vaccination-drive-for-rural-areas-in-patiala-district-272781
23-06-2021||---||Rahul Gandhi meets Punjab ministers as AICC panel raises poll promises with Capt Amarinder||New Delhi, June 22The Congress on Tuesday held a series of deliberations to attempt a speedy resolution of the Punjab unit crisis with Rahul Gandhi giving an audience to state leaders for the second straight day and Chief Minister Amarinder Singh meeting the AICC panel on Punjab.The panel headed by Mallikarjun Kharge is learnt to have discussed with the CM the progress made on the delivery of poll promises contained in the party manifesto for Punjab.Wasn’t called: Sidhu The scope of the panel, which also has AICC general secretary Harish Rawat and ex-MP JP Agarwal, has been expanded to include discussions on Congress' preparations for the 2022 Assembly elections and measures required to be taken to ensure win.The CM is learnt to have shared with the panel actions taken by his government on major issues of the state, including the sacrilege matter.After the meeting, Kharge said everyone in the party was united and would fight the elections together. “The panel is discussing how to put the best foot forward for the 2022 elections and what preparations are needed to be made, how to unite and face the election. Discussions are underway. Everything will be okay,” he said.Downplaying the ongoing friction between the CM and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, Kharge said, “All I have to say is that everyone will fight elections together under the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi.”Rahul Gandhi met several state leaders, but the meeting with Punjab unit chief Sunil Jakhar was postponed till tomorrow.Gandhi has reportedly invited six cabinet ministers (Sukhjinder Randhawa, Sukh Sarkaria, Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Razia Sultana, Charanjit Chani and Bharat Bhushan Ashu) and MLAs Sangat Singh Gilzian, Raja Warring, Pargat Singh, Kikki Dhillon, Tarsem Singh and Inderbir Bolaria for meetings. The former Congress chief met the leaders, including Tript Bajwa and Pargat Singh, among others.Sources said the state leaders pressed for early resolution of the issues adding that the delay was hurting the party.Capt meets AmbikaAfter meeting the AICC panel in the Lok Sabha chamber of Kharge, Punjab CM Amarinder Singh called on veteran Ambika Soni at her residence. The meeting was described as “personal”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rahul-gandhi-meets-punjab-ministers-as-aicc-panel-raises-poll-promises-with-capt-amarinder-272495
23-06-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Kotkapura police firing: Why not probe Cong, Parkash Singh Badal counters SIT||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22The special investigation team (SIT) probing the October 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident questioned former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal at his residence in Chandigarh for nearly two hours on Monday.Badal reportedly countered the SIT officers, asking them why they were not probing the Congress or the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Badal reasoned that only the Opposition parties of that time could have taken advantage of the law and order problem, and not the government.He said the SIT was working on political lines despite the fact that the previous SIT was disbanded for this very reason by the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Harcharan Bains, SAD’s principal political adviser, said, “The ex-CM asked the SIT why it would not widen its probe to investigate Congress and AAP hand in the sacrilege conspiracy that aimed at vilifying Akalis and turning Sikhs against them.”ADGP LK Yadav, IG-cum-Ludhiana Commissioner Rakesh Aggarwal and others reached Badal’s official residence in MLA flats around 11 am and left around 1 pm.The SIT has to ascertain if the police fired on a peaceful mob or an unruly one, besides knowing what was discussed on the phone among the CM, the then DGP Sumedh Saini, SAD MLA Mantar Brar and the Faridkot Deputy Commissioner.This is the second time during this tenure of CM Capt Amarinder Singh that Badal has been quizzed in connection with the incident.Earlier, the SIT having IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap had questioned him. The HC had quashed that report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-police-firing-why-not-probe-cong-parkash-singh-badal-counters-sit-272503
23-06-2021||New Delhi||NIA arrests 2 more accused linked to KLF in Balwinder Singh Sandhu murder case||Anti-terror federal probe agency NIA on Tuesday said it has arrested two absconding accused persons, belonging to Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF), in connection with the killing of Comrade Balwinder Singh Sandhu, a Shaurya Chakra awardee in Tarn Taran district of Punjab.Officials in the agency said that NIA sleuths arrested Harbhinder Singh alias Pinder, resident of Jeobala, and Navpreet Singh alias Nav, a resident of Jhamke, in Tarn Taran district of the state.A senior NIA official said, “Investigation has revealed that absconding accused Navpreet Singh and Harbhinder Singh are close aides of charge sheeted accused Inderjit Singh alias Inder, who had conducted the reconnaissance of the target and were actively involved in the conspiracy of killing of Comrade Balwinder Singh Sandhu.”The official further said that both the arrested accused were produced before NIA Special Court in Mohali today, which ordered to send them to the agency’s custody for four days for interrogation and further investigation in the case.The case was initially registered by Punjab Police in Tarn Taran in connection with the murder of Comrade Balwinder Singh at his residence-cum-school in Bhikhiwind area of the district on October 16, 2020.Later NIA took over the investigation in the case after registering the case on January 26, 2021.NIA had earlier filed a charge sheet against eight accused persons in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nia-arrests-2-more-accused-linked-to-klf-in-balwinder-singh-sandhu-murder-case-272421
23-06-2021||New Delhi||Punjab CM meets panel, Kharge says party united to fight polls||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday met the three-member Congress panel in Delhi amid escalating tension in the state unit with Navjot Singh Sidhu who has stepped up his attack against the chief minister.Mallikarjun Kharge, who heads the panel, said after the meeting, "Everybody has said that they will fight the polls together and the party is united under the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi" While sources say the panel discussed the political situation of the state and also issues related to Sidhu and possible way out to resolve the issue. The panel has got a larger mandate for poll preparation apart from resolving factionalism in the state party unit.While Sidhu is not relenting in his attack on the chief minister, he has insisted on an early resolution of issues. While state in-charge Harish Rawat has said that the matter is with Sonia Gandhi and refused to comment on statements made by Sidhu.The panel is headed by leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, and Harish Rawat and JP Aggarwal are its members. The Congress panel has been authorised to resolve the issue without alienating any of the factions in the state. It submitted its report to party interim president Sonia Gandhi on June 10.Sources said the panel has not recommended the removal of the chief minister and Amarinder Singh is likely to lead the party in the next elections. Instead, a slew of reforms have been suggested in the party's state unit.While the fate of Navjot Singh Sidhu is still not clear, sources said the panel wants his rehabilitation in the Punjab cabinet. Amarinder Singh is averse to Sidhu being elevated to the post of deputy CM but is ready to accommodate him in the cabinet, sources said.The panel had met all the stakeholders in the party including chief minister Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu.— IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-meets-panel-kharge-says-party-united-to-fight-polls-272412
23-06-2021||---||SIT questions Parkash Singh Badal for 3 hours in Kotkapura firing case||Chandigarh, June 22A Special Investigation Team (SIT) set up to probe the Kotkapura police firing incident on Monday questioned former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal at his residence in Chandigarh.Badal was questioned for three hours, which began at 10 am ended at 1 pm.The SIT team led by ADGP LK Yadav quizzed the former chief minister at his official residence in MLA flats. Earlier, the SIT had rescheduled his questioning after Badal expressed inability to appear before the panel on June 16 at a rest house in Mohali.Citing ill-health and his age, besides provisions of law in questioning a witness, Badal had asked the SIT to visit his Chandigarh house."Still not in good health, Badal, however, is keen to fulfill his legal and constitutional duties as a law-abiding citizen of the country," his Principal Adviser Harcharan Bains had said.Meanwhile, the SIT into Kotkapura police firing incident courted a controversy during questioning of Badal when it "took along a retired director, prosecution, Punjab, Vijay Singla, posing as a DSP".The SAD president told The Tribune that the real identity was known when they questioned his credentials.He said the SIT violated the High Court order by taking along a retired official under a fake identity. “This smacks of a conspiracy and proves our point that the whole probe was politicised, " he said.The response of the SIT is awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-questions-parkash-singh-badal-for-3-hours-in-kotkapura-firing-case-272374
23-06-2021||New Delhi||Sidhu denies any joint meeting with panel or party high command||Senior Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu categorically denied having been called for a joint meeting with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh before the three-member Kharge panel on Tuesday.Sidhu told The Tribune that it was propaganda against him by his detractors. “During my recent interviews in the media, I categorically denied having been called for a meeting by the three-member panel or the high command. I was not called for a meeting either on June 20 or June 22. I have clarified it, still it is being reported,” he said.He said he had discussed his viewpoint and agenda for Punjab with the panel when called for the meeting on June 2.Sidhu tweeted, “Neither there was, nor there is a joint meeting with the Esteemed Panel or Congress High Command. After repeatedly telling the Truth to Media of No Joint Meeting in Delhi on 22 June, they still wish to run Propaganda.”The Kharge panel was formed to end the crisis afflicting the Punjab Congress and suggest the roadmap ahead for the 2022 Assembly election.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-denies-any-joint-meeting-with-panel-or-party-high-command-272364
23-06-2021||New Delhi||Sidhu to skip AICC panel meet, Rahul reaches out to dissidents||The ongoing Punjab Congress crisis showed no signs of resolution on Monday with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh geared up to keep his date with the AICC panel on Tuesday but rival Navjot Singh Sidhu set to skip the crucial meeting.Tough call for congThe party may have to choose between the CM and Sidhu as it has clearly become untenable for the two to work together, say AICC sources. Sidhu’s decision to decline the invite for Tuesday’s meet has sent out wrong signals, they say.And parallel to the Mallikarjun Kharge-led AICC panel’s interface with the CM, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi decided to give a two-day audience to a section of Amarinder Singh baiters, starting today.Job row: PIL FILED in HCA PIL was on Monday filed before the Punjab and Haryana HC against the jobs to sons of two MLAs.The Tribune has learnt that Rahul has scheduled meetings with state chief Sunil Jakhar, six Cabinet ministers (Sukhjinder Randhawa, Sukh Sarkaria, Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Razia Sultana, Charanjit Channi and Bharat Bhushan Ashu) and MLAs Sangat Singh Gilzian, Raja Warring, Pargat Singh, Kikki Dhillon, Tarsem Singh and Inderbir Bolaria tomorrow.No direct hiring: deptThe decision to appoint MLA Fateh Jang Bajwa’s son as Inspector has run into trouble. The Home Department is learnt to have pointed out that there is no provision for direct recruitment of Inspector, though SI or DSP can be appointed.The former Congress chief today met Amritsar MP Gurjit Aujla and MLAs Kuljit Nagra and Raj Kumar Verka in the Capital. The rest have been called tomorrow.Give up offer: BajwaPartap Bajwa, RS MP, has asked his brother Fateh Jang and MLA Rakesh Pandey to give up the job offer.Rahul also held a separate discussion with former Law Minister and ex-Rajya Sabha MP Ashwani Kumar on Punjab affairs and the ongoing impasse. Meanwhile, sources said that Sidhu’s public attacks against the CM today had shrunk the space for reconciliation between the two.“Today’s developments mean the party may have to choose between the CM and Sidhu because it has clearly become untenable for the two to work together. Also, Sidhu’s decision to decline the invitation from the AICC panel for tomorrow’s meeting sends out wrong signals to the party leadership,” an AICC source said, adding that the panel would take a view on the steps the CM has taken over the past two weeks to strengthen the party and the government in the state.The dissidents, meanwhile, are learnt to have flagged to Rahul Gandhi the controversy created in Punjab following the Cabinet decision to give jobs on compassionate grounds to the kin of MLAs Fateh Jang Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey.The Punjab leaders who met Rahul are further learnt to have shared with him the demographics of the state and the representation of dominant groups in the Cabinet.A presentation made to Rahul claimed that Jats made up 21 per cent of Punjab’s population and had six ministerial berths; Hindus with 12 per cent population had five ministers and the Speaker; and the Scheduled Castes with 32.2 per cent population had just three ministers. The OBCs constitute 31 per cent of the population but had no representation in the Cabinet while 3.8 per cent others were represented by ministers Razia Sultana and Rana Sodhi.Rahul Gandhi is learnt to be conducting a comprehensive ground research about the state before the party takes a final call on the PCC and Cabinet reshuffle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-to-skip-aicc-panel-meet-rahul-reaches-out-to-dissidents-271959
23-06-2021||Amid the brainstorming by the party high command to end the crisis in the Punjab Congress||‘Not an outsider, I belong to a family of diehard Congress men’||There are reports you are keen on PPCC president’s post. Your response?There is no truth in these reports. In 17 years of my political career, I have never sought any position. It is nothing but a bid to divert attention from the real issues. I joined the Congress in 2016 on the assurance that my pro-people agenda would be fulfilled. Prashant Kishor met me many times in this regard. The corrupt system controlled by two power families in the state is not allowing any change, but I will not give up.Your detractors call you an ‘outsider’. What do have to say?My father and mother were Congress leaders. They devoted 42 years of their life to the party. Who is the CM to slam the door on me? Is he the Congress? I have never received a response to any of my tweets on issues such as the sacrilege cases, sand mafia, transport mafia and the big fish involved in the drug trade. I am not a ‘showpiece’ to be used for campaigning and winning elections. Post government formation, the real issues were put on the back burner.What is your agenda?It is to end the loot of public money. I am willing to become a zila parishad member and stand behind the CM if my 13-point agenda on development is implemented. Let them make sand cheaper by crushing the mining mafia, remove the parity in taxes between the government-run buses and those ‘illegally’ run by the Badals. I began my fight at the very first Cabinet meeting. The two powerful political families have belittled the legislature by according priority to the bureaucracy.What do you think is the solution to the Punjab Congress crisis?The party high command knows best what is good for Punjab. I am no one to comment. I was twice called by the CM and offered a Cabinet berth. Both times, I refused the offer. My sole agenda is Punjab’s development. For over four years, they did nothing on the poll promises, deliberately keeping the matter pending till the last. Why were the promises made to the people not fulfilled in the first year of governance?What do you have to say on jobs for kin of MLAs?Jobs should be given only on merit. The move is against the Constitution. Instead of protecting their chair, they should ensure that the last man in the queue gets justice. My son was offered the post of Assistant Advocate General and wife the top position in the Warehousing Corporation. We rejected both offers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-an-outsider-i-belong-to-a-family-of-diehard-congress-men-271717
