28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 271 new Covid-19 cases, 18 more deaths||Punjab on Monday recorded 271 fresh Covid-19 cases that took its infection tally to 5,95,136 while 18 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 16,011, according to a medical bulletin.Ludhiana reported 35 fresh cases, followed by 26 in Jalandhar and 21 in Hoshiarpur, the bulletin stated.The latest deaths were reported from Barnala, Bathinda and Faridkot, among other districts, it said.There are 3,639 active Covid-19 cases in Punjab. While 114 critical patients are on ventilator support, 381 critical patients and 1,560 others are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.The state’s positivity rate stands at 0.67 per cent. As many as 614 more coronavirus patients recovered from the infection the previous day, taking the total number of cured people to 5,75,486, it said.So far, 1,07,95,548 samples have been collected for testing in the state, it added.Meanwhile, Chandigarh’s Covid-19 caseload increased to 61,632 with eight fresh infections, according to the medical bulletin.No fresh deaths were reported in the Union Territory. The death toll stands at 807.There are 181 active Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh, the bulletin stated.A total of 60,644 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the disease, with 30 discharged from hospitals the previous day, it said.So far, 5,64,021 samples have been taken for testing. Of these, 5,01,131 samples have tested negative while reports of 11 are awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-records-271-new-covid-19-cases-18-more-deaths-275310
28-06-2021||Amritsar||DGP Punjab holds high-level meeting to review the recent drone movements and threat posed by them||A day after a drone was used to drop an IED at the Air Force base in Jammu, Director General of Police (DGP) Punjab Dinkar Gupta held a high-level meeting with senior officials of Border Security Force (BSF) and Punjab Police to chalk out a strategy to deal with the national security challenges posed by drones.The DGP asked the officials to use the last two years’ data to narrow down and pinpoint the areas, which are conducive for the operation of drones.While proposing to instal infrared closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras on the road network in the border villages, DGP Dinkar Gupta also directed the officials to list out the possible camera points in the vulnerable areas and roads.ADGP Internal Security RN Dhoke, ADGP STF B Chandrashekhar and IG Border Range SPS Parmar were among the senior officials from Punjab Police who attended the meeting, while IG BSF Mahipal Yadav and DIGs of different BSF sectors of Punjab were also present.CP Amritsar Sukhchain Singh Gill, SSP Majitha Gulneet Singh and SSP Tarn Taran Dhruman Nimbale also attended the meeting.During the meeting, DGP Dinkar Gupta directed CP Amritsar and SSPs to launch a crackdown against the drug smugglers and suppliers in their concerned areas.He directed them to identify hotspots infamous for drugs smuggling in their concerned areas and launch suitable operations to nab all those selling or smuggling drugs.Meanwhile, the DGP also ordered district chiefs to nab all the proclaimed offenders (POs) and bail jumpers of NDPS cases in their jurisdiction at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dgp-punjab-holds-high-level-meeting-to-review-the-recent-drone-movements-and-threat-posed-by-them-275296
28-06-2021||---||Start breeding crocodiles in rivers, says Punjab CM||Chandigarh, June 28Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday favoured the need to start breeding crocodiles in the state’s rivers, especially the Beas and the Sutlej, as they were found in abundance six decades ago.He, however, appreciated the efforts of the Forests and Wildlife Preservation Department for re-introduction of gharials, an important component of the riverine ecosystem. He also lauded the efforts for the conservation of Indus dolphins that were declared as the state aquatic animal in 2019.Reviewing the functioning of the Forests and Wildlife Preservation Department virtually, the Chief Minister asked the department to revive the original flora and fauna keeping in view the state’s natural climate and habitat.He said as an avid nature lover he has always evinced a keen interest in forestry and wildlife. He emphasized the need to undertake massive plantation of traditional trees including ‘ber’, ‘kikar’, ‘saal’, ‘shisham’ and ‘katha amb’, an indigenous variety of mango commonly prevalent in the Kandi region and southern Punjab, which has now dwindled.Amarinder Singh complimented the department for undertaking the plantation of ‘chandan’ and high-yielding bamboo, which gives double the yield of traditional bamboo.The Chief Minister asked the department to fully explore the potential of eco-tourism. He said concerted efforts should be made to develop Siswan and Harike as preferred eco-tourism destinations in northern India.Taking a serious view of the growing population of wild boars and blue bulls in the Kandi area and cotton belt of southern Punjab, the Chief Minister asked the department to immediately take effective measures to save human lives, which are often lost due to attacks by these wild animals besides damage to crops.Additional Chief Secretary Anirudh Tiwari said the department has fixed a target to achieve 7.5 per cent area under forest and tree cover by 2023 in line with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).He said the government of India has identified 100 wetlands to be developed on priority and five wetlands are in Punjab. They are Harike, Ropar, Kanjli, Keshopur and Nangal.He said Moga district has been selected as part of the one billion plantation project of the country in five years and 90 lakh plants would be planted in five years in the district. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/start-breeding-crocodiles-in-rivers-says-punjab-cm-275291
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||BSP expels former Punjab unit chief for ‘anti-party’ activities||The BSP has expelled its former Punjab unit chief Rashpal Singh Raju for alleged anti-party activities, a senior leader said on Monday.Raju, who headed the party’s state unit during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, was accused of raising questions over the seat-sharing formula between the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and BSP.He was also accused of making statements, aimed at misleading the party workers against the alliance over Garhshankar assembly constituency.By doing so, Raju has challenged the decision of the party chief regarding the alliance and seat-sharing arrangement, Bahujan Samaj Party’s (BSP) Punjab unit president Jasvir Singh Garhi said.Garhi raised this issue along with other matters during a meeting with BSP supremo Mayawati in Uttar Pradesh a few days back.The SAD and BSP have formed an alliance for the 2022 Punjab Assembly election.           As part of the tie-up, the BSP would fight 20 of the 117 Assembly seats in Punjab, while the rest would be contested by the SAD.The seats which the BSP would contest are Kartarpur Sahib, Jalandhar-West, Jalandhar-North, Phagwara, Hoshiarpur, Tanda, Dasuya, Chamkaur Sahib, Bassi Pathana, Mehal Kalan, Nawanshahr, Ludhiana North, Sujanpur, Bhoa, Pathankot, Mohali, Amritsar North, Amritsar Central, Payal and Anandpur Sahib.The SAD-BSP alliance had contested the 1996 Lok Sabha polls together and won 11 out of 13 seats in Punjab. While three seats were won by the BSP and rest were by the SAD.Punjab has 31.94 per cent Dalits out of total population in the state with maximum concentration in Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahr and Kapurthala districts. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsp-expels-former-punjab-unit-chief-for-anti-party-activities-275287
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Medical services hit in Punjab as government doctors observe day-long strike||Medical services were disrupted in government hospitals in Punjab on Monday after government doctors went on a day-long strike against the recommendation of the state's sixth pay commission delinking non-practising allowance from the basic pay.The government doctors observed strike for the second time within a week. Earlier, they had gone on strike on June 25.Medical services, including outpatient department (OPD) services, elective surgeries and online consultations remained suspended in government hospitals.However, emergency services and Covid-related services continued.Punjab Civil Medical Services Association state president Dr Gagandeep Singh said doctors were protesting against the Punjab's sixth pay commission which recommended delinking of NPA from the basic pay.Doctors were also unhappy over the pay commission which recommended reduction in the NPA from 25 per cent to 20 per cent.Singh said the strike call was also supported by the Punjab State Veterinary Officers Association, Rural Medical Officers Association, Punjab Dental Medical Officers Association and Punjab Ayurveda Officers Association.Protesting doctors said the sixth pay commission recommendation was not acceptable to them.Protesters at various places in Punjab shouted slogans against the state government.The Punjab government had announced that it would implement a majority of the recommendations of its sixth Pay Commission with effect from January 1, 2016, a move that would benefit over five lakh serving and retired employees.However, several associations of government employees have been protesting against the recommendations. They were objecting to the formula used in calculation of an increase in pay.The state government employees last week had observed a pen-down strike.The Punjab government had set up an oversight committee of ministers to resolve grievances of the state government employees. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/medical-services-hit-in-punjab-as-government-doctors-observe-day-long-strike-275252
28-06-2021||Ravneet Singh||SGPC president offers support to girl, family; exhorts people to stick to religion they are born in||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 28Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur on Monday expressed support for the family and the girl, who allegedly got forcibly converted to Islam in Kashmir, and advocated that people in the country should stick to the religion they are born in.Jagir Kaur was speaking on the alleged forced conversion of a Sikh girl into Islam in Kashmir through marriage at a press conference here.“As Sikhs, it is the family’s duty to educate and encourage their children to follow the Sikh way of life. Given that in a democracy one can practice their religion, no one should force anyone to convert. We as the SGPC can preach about the religion, but no one can force another to adhere to doctrines of a religion,” she said.The controversy erupted in Kashmir after allegations were levelled that the girl was forcibly abducted and converted. Later, the matter reached the court which favoured the girl’s decision to convert.Jagir Kaur said the family and relatives of the girl had approached the SGPC and also tried to convince the girl to convert back to Sikh religion. “The girl did not relent and as such we will not force anything on her. We offer her and her family all our support”, Jagir Kaur said.Meanwhile, after visiting a property allegedly belonging to the Khalsa College trust near railway crossing 24 in Patiala, she alleged that the police and district administration, Patiala, were interfering in SGPC keeping hold onto its land.She said the Khalsa College Trust has over 110 bighas of land there. The Mata Sahib Kaur Girls’ Khalsa College is constructed on 25 bighas of it, while some people have acquired a portion of the remaining land and started construction of plots. “The administration and police are interfering in it and are not allowing us to keep hold on it. We wish to keep hold of the remaining land”, she said and added she has also had a word with MP Preneet Kaur.Residents of the village, meanwhile, said the trust land had been sold out by none other than members of the Khalsa college trust to private persons. Jagir Kaur said: “Those who have any documents of ownership should come and show us.”Patiala SDM Charanjit Singh when contacted said the administration does not aim to interfere in the matter. “We are only maintaining law and order. Those who have the documents of ownership should show them to us.” He added that some members of the SGPC had approached his office.“We told them to submit a complaint. We haven’t received any till now,” the SDM said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-president-offers-support-to-girl-family-exhorts-people-to-stick-to-religion-they-are-born-in-275247
28-06-2021||Faridkot||Ex-IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap’s posters dot Fazilka roads||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-ig-kunwar-vijay-prataps-posters-dot-fazilka-roads-275218
28-06-2021||---||Himachal Pradesh, Punjab cops search for peddlers in Nurpur||Our CorrespondentNurpur, June 27Cracking down on drug mafia active in the border areas of Himachal Pradesh and Punjab, the police of the two states conducted a joint raid-cum-search operation at Bhadroya village in Damtal area of Nurpur in Kangra district late last evening.Some male members are learnt to have fled their houses on seeing the police, leaving their wives and children behind. The operation that lasted over two hours was led by Damtal SHO Harish Guleri and Pathankot DSP Rajinder Minhas and comprised around 50 police personnel.The police said seven houses of peddlers against whom cases had earlier been registered under the NDPS Act were searched.There have been several instances of recovery of synthetic drugs in Himachal villages bordering Punjab in Nurpur and Indora sub-divisions of Kangra and a number of cases had been registered against peddlers.The local residents have been blaming a tribal community whose members are have been earlier allegedly involved in bootlegging and had now switched to selling synthetic drugs.As youngsters have been falling prey to drug trafficking, the issue has become a hot topic in the border belt. The residents have been demanding permanent deployment of police personnel in the area to keep a check on peddlers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/himachal-pradesh-punjab-cops-search-for-peddlers-in-nurpur-275037
28-06-2021||---||11 villages 100% vaccinated in Patiala district||Patiala, June 27Amid a poor response to vaccination from residents, 11 villages today achieved a target of 100 per cent inoculation in the district.Kumar Amit, Deputy Commissioner, said the district administration had decided to start inoculation at villages having the vaccine coverage of 40 per cent or above. “Our teams have started not only inoculation, but also efforts to instil a sense of positivity among the rural population to remove various misconceptions they have in their minds,” said Amit.The 11 villages that have achieved 100 per cent vaccination include Khokh, Mungo and Wazidri in Bhadson, Sainserwal, Theri, Shekhupura, Rasolpura Jora in Kauli (Patiala), Dudhan Sadhan in Dudhan Sadhan, Rampur Dugal in Patran, Ajit Nagar and Talwandi Kothe in Samana block.He added that these 100 per cent immunised villages would inspire the other villages to follow suit to avoid the onslaught of the possible third wave of Covid.He claimed they would definitely meet a target of 100 per cent coverage of all rural population of 18 plus age within the scheduled time of one and a half months.The administration is said to have decided to choose 10 villages per week in each block to reach 100 per cent vaccination there.The target was to cover around 60 villages in seven rural blocks of the district within a week. However, only 11 villages have achieved the target of 100 per cent inoculation so far.Health teams are working along with other departments, including the Rural Development and Panchayat Department, Revenue Department, Department of Cooperation and the Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, to make the district fully vaccinated.Applauding the dedication of the health teams, Kumar Amit said from ASHA to ANMs and other paramedics, all were doing a lot to keep the district safe from the clutches of the Covid-19 pandemic. He hoped that the doctors, who were leading the teams, would definitely make the district 100 per cent vaccinated within the stipulated time.Villages that have set an exampleThe 11 villages that have achieved 100 per cent vaccination include Khokh, Mungo and Wazidri in Bhadson, Sainserwal, Theri, Shekhupura, Rasolpura Jora in Kauli (Patiala), Dudhan Sadhan in Dudhan Sadhan, Rampur Dugal in Patran, Ajit Nagar and Talwandi Kothe in Samana block. Kumar Amit, Deputy Commissioner, claimed they would definitely meet a target of 100 per cent coverage of all rural population of 18 plus age within the scheduled time of one and a half months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/11-villages-100-vaccinated-in-patiala-district-275144
28-06-2021||---||Punjab Health Minister Balbir Sidhu launches three-day polio vaccination drive||Mohali, June 27The Punjab Government has set a target to administer polio drops to around 5.60 lakh children of migratory population in the age group of 0-5 years across the state.Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu stated this while launching the three-day sub-national immunisation day (SNID) by administering oral polio vaccine (OPV) drops to children below five years at a state-level function at Sohana village here today.Balbir Singh Sidhu said migratory population living in high-risk areas such as slums, brick-kilns, construction sites, nomadic sites, deras and jhuggis would be covered during this round.He said 4,180 house-to-house teams, 500 mobile teams and 37 transit teams had been pressed into service across the state. As many as 802 supervisors would carry out sudden checks to monitor the immunisation programme and ensure that all children were immunised. He said all teams had been asked to strictly follow Covid guidelines during the drive.Sidhu appealed to people to get their children immunised even if the child is born a few hours ago or is suffering from cough, cold, fever, diarrhoea or any other disease as polio drops have no harmful effects.Pointing out that the government was making efforts to protect children from the disease, he said polio drops must reach every child of the state. He applauded the efforts of volunteers, frontline workers and health officials for their tireless work in keeping the state polio-free.Dr Andesh Kang, Director Health Services, Family Welfare; Dr Balwinder Kaur, State Immunisation Officer; Dr Vikram Gupta from the WHO; Dr Renu Singh, Assistant Civil Surgeon, Mohali; Dr Surinderpal Kaur, SMO; Gurmit Singh Rana, State Mass Media Officer; Jatinder Mohan, State Cold Chain Officer; Gurdeep Kaur, District Mass Media Officer; and Dinesh, Health Inspector; were among those present.Teams told to follow Covid normsHealth and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said 4,180 house-to-house teams, 500 mobile teams and 37 transit teams had been pressed into service across the state. As many as 802 supervisors would carry out sudden checks to monitor the immunisation programme and ensure that all children were immunised. All teams had been asked to follow Covid norms during the drive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-health-minister-balbir-sidhu-launches-three-day-polio-vaccination-drive-275105
28-06-2021||SS Chahal||Farming gets innovative push with tech support||AGRICULTURE, a major component of Indian economy, has significantly changed from just farm activity to a prodigious market-driven business. Emerging as a highly promising segment with vast opportunities to foster much-needed linkages between the farm and the market, agri-business has exhibited huge growth in recent decades under the open market environment. It has acquired a broad canvas that encompasses businesses involved in food production, including farming, farm machinery, seed supply, fertilisers, agri-chemicals, irrigation equipment, distribution, processing, marketing, trade, wholesaling and retailing. India is among the 15 leading exporters of agricultural products in the world. According to a report released in March this year by the Indian Brand Equity Foundation of the Ministry of Commerce and industry, the essential agricultural commodities’ export is likely to reach $60 billion by 2022. Traditionally an agricultural country, India needs to infuse professionalism in the agri-business sector to accelerate the flow of recent advancements to cash in on its inherent competitive advantage. It can better be achieved through giving a practical shape to innovative ideas and the application of Information and Communication Technology.Startups are acknowledged worldwide as the first step towards revolutionary changes in different spheres. Startups have creativity and innovation as their key elements. These were introduced almost three decades ago in India, but picked up in the beginning of this century. Various reports have positioned India after the US and the UK in overall technology-driven startups. Startup India, a flagship scheme launched in 2016 by the Government of India, is aimed at facilitating entrepreneurship and promoting innovation to boost the startup ecosystem and help technologists becoming job creators instead of job seekers. As per a report of the Department of Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) presented in Parliament, 44,534 startups were registered by the department by February 24, 2021. Leveraging the adoption of agricultural technology (agri-tech) and the implementation of next generation technologies like Artificial Intelligence (AI), Machine Learning, the Internet of Things (IoT) and Software as a Service (SaaS) can offer solutions for numerous pain points across the spectrum of traditional agricultural practices.There is an urgent need to create awareness and motivation among farmers to adopt collectivism, upscaling linkages with the market, involving them in technological solutions, partners in research, policy planning and offering a range of support and network services for quick access to modern and scientific advancements, strengthening extension activities and eliminating knowledge gaps for better returns, for which agri-tech startups can contribute a lot to minimise stress in Indian farming. In our thickly populated, small holder-dominated agricultural system, agri-business is less remunerative to farmers as well as processors. Agri-tech startups can eliminate informalities in domestic markets, enhance scalability, traceability and transparencies in the agri-value chain and build end-to-end technology-enabled set-up of the integrated value chain covering production processing and distribution.Agri-tech startups also have scope in areas such as development of farm-specific, data-driven diagnostics to ascertain soil and crop health and collection of real-time data on pests and diseases in field crops through image recognition technology. Agri equipment renting is a high potential area to reduce the input costs since modern farm equipment is not affordable for the average farmer. Farming services’ startups have a large scope to organise farmers groups and ensure timely availability of various material to needy farmers. So far, mostly money has been flowing in cash in agriculture. The Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode of payment to farmers of their produce is a big step for a change in agri-financial management. This shift will create opportunities for fin-tech startups for digitising payment from and to farmers through various gateways linked to their accounts and create a credit profile system for funders and lending, thus replacing any exploitative lending system. Apart from several market-linking models, agri-tech startups can play a pivotal role in implementing IoT for farmers, promoting smart, high-tech, precision farming and automated farming technologies, thereby enhancing efficiencies and improving productivity levels.Govt schemesOther than Startup India, Atal Innovation Mission, NewGen Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Centres, Venture Capital Assistance promoted by the Small Farmers’ Agri-business Consortium are government schemes supportive of such initiatives. There are several promising avenues to pursue under the ‘Agriculture Grand Challenge’ plan of the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare providing incubation support for frontier technology agri-tech startups such as quick grading solutions and handling large quantities of agricultural commodities under eNAM, quick e-soil testing, connecting food processors with farmers through e-market places, dissemination of information to the last mile, village-level reliable yield estimation modelling, web-based spatial decision support system, increasing shelf life of perishable produce, technological detection of adulteration in food, input availability through direct and online mode, technical solutions for paddy transplanting and alternative usage of its straw, substitution for usage of toxic pesticides and seeking affordable, accessible, easy-to-use technologies, products or services to increase agricultural productivity in Indian farming.About 450 registered agri-tech startups gained growth at the rate of 25 per cent during 2019, as reported by National Association of Software and Services Corporation (NASSCOM). The number of such startups has swelled to almost 600, which still accounts for about 1 per cent of the potential market opportunity as per the February 2021 report of FICCI–PwC. Punjab-based agri-tech startups working on digital solutions for improving the quality of produce, cost optimisation and food traceability, converting paddy stubble into fuel pellets and enabling higher access to better technologies for dairy farm management, including facial recognition of cattle, have been recognised at the global level.PPP modePublic-private partnership in the agriculture value chain is gaining ground for startups as it can improve decision-making, streamlining DBT and subsidies. Fund-raising, relevant experience, interpretation of basic data, proper planning and implementation of unique ideas, effective management, mutually gainful dealing with stakeholders and conventional farmers, etc. are some of the important ingredients for the success of any startup. There is an encouraging growth trend towards supply chain, finance and related solutions, infrastructure development, farm data analytics and information platforms. However, areas like AI-based smart solutions and increased usage of new technologies like robotics and drones and advanced farm analytics are still awaiting the attention of trailblazer entrepreneurs. To make the agri-tech startup ecosystem grow and establish itself, there is a need for a robust policy framework.India is heading towards becoming the most populous country by 2027; it is expected to be the youngest country, as per age group statistics, as well. The demographic dividend must be reaped by agriculture to retain its status as the largest employment generation sector. The agri-tech start ups have the potential to boost this contribution.The author is former V-C, Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology, Udaipur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farming-gets-innovative-push-with-tech-support-275064
28-06-2021||Dharamsala||Sixth Pay Commission of Punjab: Kangra doctors on pen-down strike from today||Members of the HP Medical Officers’ Association, Kangra wing, have decided to go on an indefinite pen-down strike from tomorrow against the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission of Punjab. The doctors will remain on pen-down strike from 9.30 am to 11.30 am.Dr Sunny Dhiman, president of the association, said the HP Government followed the pay scales given by Punjab. The Sixth Pay Commission of Punjab had recommended reduction in allowances for doctors, he said. It had also recommended that the Non Practicing Allowance (NPA) paid to doctors would not be linked with their basic pay. This would cause financial loss to doctors working in the government sector. The doctors working in the government sector in Punjab were already on strike and Himachal doctors stood in solidarity with them, he said.The association demanded the state to increase the NPA for government doctors from 25 per cent of the basic pay to 35 per cent. Dr Dhiman said the association was trying to contact Dental Medical Officers’ Association, Ayurvedic Medical Officers’ Association and Veterinary Medical Officers’ Association to form a joint front. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sixth-pay-commission-of-punjab-kangra-doctors-on-pen-down-strike-from-today-274937
28-06-2021||Our Correspondent||12 booked for duping Sirhind farmer of Rs 23.50 lakh||Fatehgarh Sahib, June 27The police have booked 12 persons on a charge of duping a farmer of Sirhind town of Rs 23.50 lakh on the pretext of providing him a lottery prize, Rs 25 lakh and a BMW car.In a complaint lodged with the Senior Superitendent of Police (SSP) of Fatehgarh Sahib, Kuljeet Singh Bassi, a resident of Dalichi Mohalla in Sirhind town, alleged that on May 18, he got a call that he had won Rs25 lakh and a BMW car in a lottery. The caller asked him to deposit some money in a bank account. After some days he started getting regular calls from numbers 89683-51234, 75892-38549 and + 92-3064531308, and he continued depositing money in account numbers of the State Bank of India as per the demand of the callers. He deposited a total of Rs23.50 lakh.Whenever he tried to make some queries, the caller couldn’t give him satisfactory answers. He got suspicious and lodged a complaint with the SSP.The SSP said the phone number 89683-51234 was in the name of Massa Singh, a farmer. He had given it to workers, who transplanted paddy in his fields. The other number 75892-38549 was in the name of Roop Lal, who repairs cycles. His SIM card got damaged and he had thrown it away. Both Massa Singh and Roop Lal did not get their mobile numbers blocked and those were misused by the suspects.The number + 92-3064531308 was found to be from Pakistan.Sub-Inspector Jagtar Singh, investigating officer, said a case had been registered against Sudhir Bahuhiya of Ludhiana, Rama Kumar Mishra of Hooghly (West Bengal), Prem Raj of Patna, Ashok Kumar Singh of Manjahgarh, Rohit Kumar and Chhotu Lal of Jharkhand, Shivam Sharma of Karnal (Haryana), Gorakh Devi of Patna, Vikas Sharma of Saran, Manak Manji and Rupa Devi of Bihar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/12-booked-for-duping-sirhind-farmer-of-rs-23-50-lakh-275054
28-06-2021||---||DSGMC seeks return of ‘abducted’ Sikh girls in Srinagar||New Delhi, June 27Two girls from the Sikh community in Sringar, who were allegedly abducted, forcibly converted and married off, would be returned to their families. Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha has reportedly assured a delegation of Sikhs which went from Delhi to meet him at Srinagar.Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC), said a delegation called on Sinha. “The L-G has assured that the girls will return,” Sirsa said.“The delegation took up the matter of forced ‘nikah’ of Sikh girls in Srinagar. The L-G addressed our concerns related to the safety of Sikh girls in the Valley and this harmful trend of religious conversion,” the DSGMC said.The issueAccording to the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, two Sikh girls were “abducted, forcibly converted and married off”.DSGMC chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa says a delegation met L-G Manoj Sinha who assured that the girls would return.The delegation demanded that a mandate of parents’ permission should be made compulsory for any such inter-religion marriage. The delegation also handed him the letter of Giani Harpreet Singh, Jathedar, Akal Takht Sahib.Sirsa said Sinha agreed on setting up a minority commission in the state to address the issues of minority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dsgmc-seeks-return-of-abducted-sikh-girls-in-srinagar-275046
28-06-2021||---||Farmers’ protest: Chandigarh police register 5 FIRs||Chandigarh, June 27Five FIRs have been registered by the UT police in different police stations following the farmers’ protest march in the city. Seventeen persons have been booked by name. Among those booked are gangster-turned-activist Lakhvir Singh, alias Lakha Sidhana, Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala, vice-president, Kirti Kisan Union, farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa, Punjabi singer Jass Bajwa and actress Sonia Mann.A police official said those who incited the mob, assaulted or used criminal force to deter public servants from the discharge of their duty, indulged in rioting or violated Covid norms had been booked. “The others who were involved will also be identified and their names added to the FIRs,” the official said.According to the police, a case against Lakha Sidhana, Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala and others has been registered at the Sector 17 police station. Another FIR registered at the same police station includes the name of Punjabi singer Jass Bajwa and actress Sonia Mann.Farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa and others were booked in another case registered at the Sector 3 police station.Meanwhile, two FIRs have been registered against Kaka Singh, Satnam Singh Ajnala, Major Singh Randhawa, Avtar Singh, Kamaljeet Singh, Baldev Singh, Baljit Singh, Prem Singh, Kaka Singh, Suresh Chander, Balwinder Singh, Harmeet Singh and others under Sections 147, 148, 149, 332, 353 and 427 of the IPC at the Sector 36 police station.A large number of farm activists and leaders of farmers’ unions had marched into Chandigarh on Saturday after breaking barricades at the Mataur barrier. They moved through the city and finally halted at the Sector 8/9 light point where they handed over a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-chandigarh-police-register-5-firs-275032
28-06-2021||Parvesh Sharma||All 45-plus vaccinated in 5 Sangrur, Barnala villages||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, June 27At a time when many people in rural areas are unwilling to get vaccinated against Covid, five villages in Sangrur and Barnala districts have got 100 per cent populace in the age group of 45-plus inoculated.With the support of village panchayats, health teams have succeeded in getting vaccinated all eligible residents in Raisar Punjab, Majhuke, Hardaspura and Ramgarh villages of Barnala and Deh Kalan village of Sangrur. Besides, village residents are motivating their relatives to get inoculated.“Our teams have been working hard to convince maximum number of residents for vaccination. We have administered one lakh doses of Covid vaccine. All residents of four villages in the 45-plus category have received Covid vaccination. We are trying to undertake 100 per cent vaccination in other villages also,” said Tej Partap Singh Phoolka, Deputy Commissioner, Barnala.As per information shared by the Barnala Health Department, Hardaspura village has 1,558 residents, of which 375 are 45 plus; in Ramgarh, there are 790 in the age group of 45 plus; of the total 2,954 residents, in Majhuke village, there are 580 who are 45 plus; and of the total population of 2,585 in Raisar village, there are 493 persons in the age group. In Deh Kalan village of Sangrur, 245 persons in the age group of 45 plus have got vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/all-45-plus-vaccinated-in-5-sangrur-barnala-villages-275031
28-06-2021||---||Bathinda sees 9-fold decline in deaths in June||Bathinda, June 27Bathinda district has recorded no Covid death on three days in the past one week. The overall mortality rate has also come down significantly.As per Health Department records, 63 patients succumbed to the virus in the first week of June. Between June 14 and 20, 22 deaths were reported, while from June 21 to 27, seven patients succumbed in the district, thereby registering a nine-fold decline in mortality in the month.Bathinda district was among the top three districts in the state in terms of Covid mortality and positivity rate during the second wave. It has so far reported 1,011 deaths.A senior department official said, “Although there is a steep decline reported in fresh Covid cases and deaths, it is still too early to heave a sigh of relief. We all have witnessed the price people had to pay for a complacent approach during the second wave.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-sees-9-fold-decline-in-deaths-in-june-275027
28-06-2021||Sangrur||Computer teachers protest||The Computer Faculty Association on Sunday staged a protest here, alleging delay in bringing them under the Education Department. “The state authorities accepted our demand of merger of computer faculties with the Education Department in 2020, but nothing has been done so far. We will intensify our agitation soon,” said Pardeep Maluka, president of the association. TNSFazilkaSarpanch booked for assaultSarpanch Kuldeeep Kaur,  her husband Bhupinder Singh, panchayat members Jaswant Kaur and Wishakha Singh of Moolianwali village in Fazilka district and one unidentified person have been booked for allegedly thrashing Panchayat Secretary Kulwant Singh after he refused to pass a resolution on the development works. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/computer-teachers-protest-275025
28-06-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Punjab Diary: DSP Raghbir Singh wages war on drugs||NGO working for a green causeAbohar: The Abohar Wellness Society has adopted the Lok Nayak Jayaprakash Narayan Park Road for environmental beautification. The lane that connects Nai Abadi to Sriganganagar Road had faced neglect for more than a decade. The Municipal Corporation recently replaced all old-type streetlights that had been damaged by drug addicts while returning from the park at night. Society president Dr Vishal Taneja on Sunday led a team in planting saplings near Government Basic Elementary School boundary wall on this road. The members said they would water and protect the trees. “We want to enrich the environment and protect people from future pandemics,” said NGO secretary Ashok Garg.Entry of politicians is banned hereFazilka: Farmers of the Ladhuka village have displayed a board imposing ban on entry of political leaders to the village till the farmers’ agitation is going on against the three agriculture laws. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Daukonda) district president Harish Nadha, who hails from Ladhuka village, alleged that political leaders were trying to take mileage of the agitation to achieve their political motives without contributing towards the agitation.SC lawyer finds her calling in farmingMoga: A woman lawyer practicing at the Supreme Court in Delhi and Congress leader Perpeet Kaur Brar recently came back to her hometown in Moga after months to help the farming community. She had also participated in the farm agitations at Delhi. After coming to know that the farming community was facing problems in sowing paddy due to shortage of manpower, she held meetings with women MGNREGA workers and apprised them to help farmers in transplantation. She herself drove tractor to plough the fields and transplant paddy in Talwandi Bhangerian village. “When I was a child, my mother and other female members of the family used to work side by side with men in the fields,” she said.Vax hesitancy smashed to smithereensAbohar: An appeal to Radha Soami Satsang Beas by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh to cooperate in gearing up Covid prevention drive has given a boost to Covaxin and Covashield vaccination that faced poor response till the middle of this month. Elaborate arrangements were made by the RSSB centers (Satsang Ghar) that included a helpline to pick up and drop back elderly people from their homes. Vaccination camps were organised on Sunday at the centers located on Killianwali Road, Hanumangarh Road in Abohar, Bakayanwala and Chuhariwala Dhanna villages. The camps saw a good number of 18 plus category youth who were earlier feeling hesitant in approaching the centers run in govt schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-diary-dsp-raghbir-singh-wages-war-on-drugs-275022
28-06-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Promised in ’17, Gurdaspur yet to get medical college||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, June 27Despite Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s announcement in 2017 regarding a medical college and hospital to be established in Gurdaspur district, the project is yet to see the light of day.Recent announcement by minister OP Soni that new medical colleges would come up in Malerkotla, Kapurthala, Mohali and Hoshiarpur has come as shock for Gurdaspur residents as they were expecting the same for the city too.A month after Captain Amarinder’s proclamation, the election code of conduct for the 2017 Gurdaspur parliamentary bypoll kicked in following which the paperwork for the project got stalled. Soni’s announcement has come as the final nail in the coffin.The college, along with the Kartarpur corridor, was expected to usher in all-round development in this border district. Now that the project has been given a quiet burial, residents say the Punjab Government should compensate them by way of ushering in some mega venture.In the month-long window that separated the CM’s announcement and the poll code, some efforts were actually made by the district administration to select the site. Two sites were proposed. Files were sent to the MCI for approval but for some inexplicable reason these never came back.Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Bajwa said: “Cities which do not expand, die. The same thing is going to happen to Gurdaspur if major projects are not brought in.”Meanwhile, officials claim that lack of political will on the part of local Congress leaders acted as a catalyst in killing the venture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/promised-in-17-gurdaspur-yet-to-get-medical-college-275020
28-06-2021||Sangrur||Traffic cops harass our drivers: Sangrur traders||Accusing the traffic police of harassing the drivers of their commercial vehicles without any valid reasons, members of the Sangrur District Industry Chamber have decided to meet Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for quick redressal of their problem.The members, at a district-level meeting, alleged that the traffic police in various districts had been creating problems for their vehicles despite the drivers having all valid documents.“We have never used even a single commercial vehicle to transport our goods without paying the mandatory tax. Also, none of our drivers commute without the required documents or a driving licence. But still the traffic cops are harassing our drivers and other staff hence delaying the delivery of our goods,” alleged Ghanshyam Kansal, district chief of the chamber.Kansal alleged that many times, their consignment had got delayed and the purchaser also suffered huge losses as the cops held their vehicles without any valid reason. “We have decided to meet the CM with all evidence against the traffic police as he always listens to our problems.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/traffic-cops-harass-our-drivers-sangrur-traders-274916
28-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||One held for killing widow||Abohar, June 27 The police have arrested Sanjay Kumar of Amarpura village for allegedly killing a woman who tried to save her daughter from molestation by the accused. Kalawanti (58), who lost her husband a few years ago, was killed by Sanjay at her Amarpura house, where she lived with her 15-year-old daughter, on Friday. The accused fled the crime scene thereafter.  Sanjay of the same village reportedly barged into her house and tried to molest her daughter. Kalawanti tried to save her daughter. The accused reportedly hit Kalawanti on the head with an iron rod, causing her death. DSP (Rural) Avtar Singh said a case was registered under Sections 302, 458 and 354 of the IPC against Sanjay. The accused has been held.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/one-held-for-killing-widow-274917
28-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Crackdown on drug peddlers in Fazilka||Fazilka, June 27As many as 263 drug peddlers have been arrested and a large quantity of narcotics seized during the last six months in Fazilka.The border district is considered to be vulnerable as it rubs shoulders with Pakistan on the one side and with Rajasthan and Haryana on the other.Fazilka Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Deepak Hilori said 191 cases under the NDPS Act had been registered and 263 persons had been nabbed during the last six months. Besides, 15.21 kg of heroin worth over Rs 75 crore in the international market, 9.56-kg opium, 1,383-kg poppy husk, 5.65-kg ganja, 2,90,134 intoxicating pills and capsules and more than Rs 16 lakh allegedly involved in the drug trade had also been recovered from the peddlers.The SSP said during the 10-day anti-drug smuggling drive, which concluded on Saturday, seven seminars were organised to make the public aware against the drug abuse and a search was also conducted in 241 villages of the district to trace the peddlers and seize narcotics. A marathon was also organised on Saturday.The SSP said during the past four years, 1,785 drug peddlers had been arrested and over 100 kg of heroin and more than 16 lakh intoxicating tablets and capsules besides other narcotics had also been seized.He claimed the Punjab Police, in coordination with the cops of neighbouring states, had been able to crack several drug rackets involved in pushing the narcotics into the state.Seminars, marathon for awareness against menace||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/crackdown-on-drug-peddlers-in-fazilka-274918
28-06-2021||GS Paul||Conjoined brothers Sohna and Mohna now adults, to vote next year||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 27Conjoined twins Sohna and Mohna, who celebrated their 18th birthday a few days ago, have now claimed their “right to vote”.After getting themselves registered as voters with the Amritsar administration, both were excited to participate in the electoral process for the first time in the ensuing 2022 Assembly elections.“Assi hun adhikarit tor te vadde hogye han, te hun apni choice da voting button dabawange (Now we are officially adults and would exercise our right to vote),” they said.Though they applied on separate Form-6 to claim their right to vote, it is yet to be seen whether they would be considered as separate individuals or one unit at the time of voting.Another technical hitch will be to comply with the secret ballot norm as no other person could be present when one is casting his or her vote.DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira said since it was one-of-its-kind case, it would have to be checked with the Election Commission guidelines to clarify whether their names should be inscribed on a single voter ID card or separate ones. “We would have to seek clarification from the Election Commission norms whether their vote would be treated as one or two.”Pingalwara head Inderjit Kaur said both Sohna and Mohna had different minds, different opinions and choices. “They are two different personalities with distinct features. Currently, they are studying technicalities of electric appliances from ITI,” she said.Born on June 14, 2003, at Sucheta Kriplani Hospital in New Delhi, Sohna and Mohna share all vital organs. The AIIMS doctors decided not to separate them as it could have resulted in the loss of one life. They are conjoined below the torso and have one pair of legs. They have two hearts, two pair of arms, kidneys and spinal cords, but only one liver and gall bladder.Though their parents abandoned them, they were adopted by Pingalwara Society two months after their birth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/conjoined-brothers-sohna-and-mohna-now-adults-to-vote-next-year-274919
28-06-2021||Moga||389 panels help fight substance abuse in Moga||Under a Punjab Government campaign, Drug Prevention Monitoring Committees set up in the Moga district are working to eradicate the menace among youth. District Social and Security Officer Raj Kiran Kaur said these committees had been carrying out their responsibility for the prevention of the drug menace as well as treatment of addicts. She said for the free treatment of addicts, the Punjab government was running OOAT as well as drug de-addiction and rehabilitation centres. She said in Moga, 389 drug prevention monitoring committees were functioning, which were cooperating with the administration in treating addicts and curbing the sale of drugs.  In addition to treating addicts, counselling was also given by specialists so that the patient could be mentally prepared to quit drugs, she added. She said if anyone had information about drug dealers, he must report it to the committee. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/389-panels-help-fight-substance-abuse-in-moga-274920
28-06-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Born in Lahore, centenarian in Moga struggles to make ends meet||Tribune News ServiceMoga, June 27Having faced many hardships in his life, a 101-year old man, Harbans Singh, has been selling onions and potatoes for the past over 50 years in Moga city to make both ends meet. Loaded with veggies, he pulls his ‘rehri’ for 8 to 10 km daily in the streets of Moga.Harbans clearly remembers that he was born in January at Sran Mughal Thane Wali village of Lahore in 1920. He was 27 years old when Pakistan was carved out of India.“I preferred to migrate to India and live among my own community rather than converting to Islam,” he says, adding that he first migrated to Karnal district along with his family and lived there for many years. Later, he shifted to Moga city after the formation of Haryana, a separate state. “I was born in a Sikh family. I have never depended on my children or anybody else for food,” he says, stressing “Kirat karo te naam japo (work hard and worship)” is the moto of his life. Harbans says one of his two sons died a few years ago. The other one sells fruits in Moga.Even during the pandemic when senior citizens were advised to stay home, he didn’t stop going out in the streets to make both ends meet. The grand old man says, “I am not afraid of death. It’s in the hands of God”. In the same breath, he says, “I am still fit and will live for many more years.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/born-in-lahore-centenarian-in-moga-struggles-to-make-ends-meet-274921
28-06-2021||---||Pathankot on high alert after Jammu drone attack||Pathankot, June 27 Pathankot district has been placed on a high alert after two explosive-laden drones crashed into the Air Force station in Jammu last night. SSP Surendra Lamba said all vital installation, including the ammunition depot, Mamun cantonment and the Air Force station had been provided with extra security cover.   Gurdaspur SSP Nanak Singh said security had been beefed up in all border villages of this district. Recently, MP Sunny Deol had urged Union Home Minister Amit Shah to establish an NSG centre in the city.  The police have reasons to be on alert as the local air force station had come under a fierce attack from four Pakistan based Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorists on January 2, 2016. Later, all four insurgents were killed by NSG commandos who were specially flown in from New Delhi on the intervening night of January 1 and 2. On December 31, 2015, an SP-rank officer Salwinder Singh was allegedly kidnapped by four militants on the outskirts of Pathankot. They had entered the city through Bamiyal, a village located near the International Border (IB), before making their way into the Air Force station. A day before the attack, intelligence agencies, working on firm inputs, informed highly placed officials in New Delhi about the probability of an attack following which a planeload of NSG commandoes was dispatched to the Air Force station on the intervening night of January 1 and 2, 2016. Later, all the four terrorists were gunned down in a 48 hour long gunfight. Earlier, on June 27, 2015, three Lashkar-e-Taiba militants had entered the Dinanagar police station in Gurdaspur district and started indiscriminate firing. Seven persons, including SP Baljeet Singh, were killed before the SWAT team of the Punjab Police entered the police station and killed the militants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pathankot-on-high-alert-after-jammu-drone-attack-274910
28-06-2021||Rajmeet Singh||More trouble for Punjab Cong, Ashwani Sekhri too may join Akalis; Capt Amarinder speaks to him||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 27Disquiet among traditional Hindu leaders, who have been “politically marginalised” in the four and a half years of the Congress government, saw the party’s top leadership get in the firefighting mode on Sunday.Days after two former ministers, Hans Raj Joshan, an OBC leader and Dr Mohinder Rinwa, a Hindu leader joined the SAD, reports of another traditional Congress leader, Ashwani Sekhri, a former Batala MLA, likely to join the Akalis in the next few days has sent the top leadership into a tizzy.Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh reportedly talked to Sekhri, dissuading him from leaving the party. Dr Raj Kumar Verka and Minister Sunder Shyam Arora also talked to Sekhri.The former Batala MLA did not respond to calls. But sources close to him said he was upset over being ignored and politically marginalised ever since the Congress government was formed.Denying reports, the Chief Minister said there was no question of Sekhri leaving the party. The CM said he spoke to him today and assured him that all his concerns would be addressed. He said Sekhri was a dyed-in-the-wool Congressman, who had spent his whole life with the party.Sensing the disquiet among traditional Congress leaders, the SAD had been trying to poach its Hindu and OBC leaders who have not been politically rehabilitated in the four and a half years of the Congress rule.Punjab subordinate Services Selection Board Chairman Raman Bahl said the traditional Congressmen had been ignored at the cost of outsiders. Hailing from a traditional Congress family from Gurdaspur, Bahl added the traditional leaders had been pushed to political oblivion.Another senior party leader Anish Sidana blamed the Majha brigade, comprising ministers who were till recently close to the Chief Minister, for changing the dynamics of politics in the party and leading to the marginalisation of many traditional Congressmen.Party leadership in a tizzy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/more-trouble-for-punjab-cong-ashwani-sekhri-too-may-join-akalis-capt-amarinder-speaks-to-him-274911
28-06-2021||Tarn Taran||PO nominated as Tarn Taran district grievance panel member||Giving scant regard to moral and legal values, the administration has nominated a proclaimed offender (PO) as a member of the District Grievance Committee.Since November 2019, the PO has been attending the meetings of senior politicians and district officials. On the complaint lodged by one Sukhjinder Singh, Paramjit Singh of Palasaur village was declared a PO by the local court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate on November 20, 2019. The police on the CJM court orders registered a case on February 23, 2020, the copy of which is with The Tribune. The police, however, have failed to arrest Paramjit to date.Paramjit was nominated on the recommendation of a top politician of the area. Meanwhile, Amanpreet Singh, Assistant Commissioner (Grievance), confirmed that Paramjit was a member of the grievance committee. Despite repeated attempts, the DC and Paramjit could not be contacted for comments. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/po-nominated-as-tarn-taran-district-grievance-panel-member-274912
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Free coaching for Punjab Police job aspirants begins||With the recruitment of constables, head constables and sub-inspectors round the corner, the Punjab Police have started providing free coaching and training sessions for the physical screening test (PST) to the aspiring candidates.Following the directions of DGP Dinkar Gupta, all Police Commissioners and Senior Superintendents of Police organised a special run and imparted training in long jump and high jump at the Police Lines and at coaching centres in their respective districts on Sunday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/free-coaching-for-punjab-police-job-aspirants-begins-274913
28-06-2021||Archit Watts 
||Braving odds, two Muktsar men clear PCS examination||Tribune News Service Muktsar, June 27 Coming from a humble background, two youths from Muktsar district have cleared the PCS exam, the results of which were declared recently. Sukhpal Singh (33) from Duhewala village here, whose father once worked as a mason, has cleared the PCS exam with the second rank in the ex-serviceman category. Sukhpal, presently serving in the electrical wing of the Indian Navy in Gujarat, claims to have already applied for retirement from there. Similarly, 35-year-old Angrej Singh from Jawahrewala village here, whose father once worked as a combine harvester driver, has cleared the PCS exam with the ninth rank in the SC category.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/braving-odds-two-muktsar-men-clear-pcs-examination-274914
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing: Sukhjinder Randhawa joins issue with Navjot Sidhu||Joining Navjot Singh Sidhu on the issue of the Akali Dal threatening Congress leaders with cases over the SIT investigations into the Kotkapura firing case, Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Randhawa said the DGP and the Advocate General should act against the Akali leaders.He alleged Vijay Singla, former director (prosecution), had helped the Akalis in getting a clean chit in vigilance cases registered against them in the previous Congress government from 2002 to 2007. Singla, whose presence had been questioned by the Akalis during the quizzing of Sukhbir Badal, was assisting the SIT.Randhawa took on Bikram Majithia for dragging the Gandhi family into the probe by the new SIT. He also blamed his government for laxity in probing the cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-firing-sukhjinder-randhawa-joins-issue-with-navjot-sidhu-274915
28-06-2021||Aman Sood||PSPCL: Experts seek review of faulty power purchase pacts||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 27Two days after Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh asked the Finance Department to release Rs 500 crore to “power-surplus” Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to buy electricity from outside the state, if the need be, questions are being raised at power purchase agreements (PPA). Power experts and the PSEB Engineers’ Association have already demanded a review of the faulty PPAs that are financially bleeding Punjab.No penalty on defaulting pvt plantsAs per power purchase agreements, no penalty will be levied if private plant availability is as low as 75 per cent on a yearly basis. This implies that if all seven units at three state private thermal plants don't supply power due to breakdown or any other reason for 91 days straight (including peak paddy season), no penalty shall be imposed.As per estimates, the PSPCL has so far paid Rs 20,000 crore as fixed charges to three private thermals installed during the SAD-BJP government at Talwandi Sabo, Rajpura and Sri Goindwal Sahib. Of this amount, almost Rs 5,700 crore has been paid without getting any supply. “There is no guarantee that sufficient power will be supplied during summer and paddy season. There is no provision of any penalty in the PPA if they do not supply power throughout the peak summer and paddy season,” said a PSPCL insider.“The payment of unwarranted fixed charges to private thermal plants is a result of lopsided PPAs premeditated without guarding the interests of the state. These PPAs were architected by bureaucrats and politicians between 2007 and 2009 by not only keeping the technocrats out of the loop, but also completely disregarding the professional advice given by power experts,” said a former PSPCL official, who was part of the initial deliberations.As per the PPA, no penalty will be levied if private plant availability is as low as 75 per cent on a yearly basis. This implies that if all seven units at the three private thermal plants don’t supply power due to breakdown or any other reason for 91 days straight (including peak paddy season), no penalty shall be imposed, provided “all units remain available for the rest of the year”.“Further as per PPAs, full fixed charges are payable if the plant availability is 80 per cent as in case of Talwandi Sabo and 85 per cent in case of Rajpura, which means no cut on fixed charges even if all units of Talwandi Sabo remain under breakdown for 71 days continuously and of Rajpura for 55 days,” said VK Gupta, spokesperson, All-India Power Engineers Federation.The paddy season in Punjab starts from June 10 and the peak power requirement remains consistent for over 50 to 65 days. “No punitive action can be taken against any private thermal plant if they don’t supply power during this period,” he said.“A unit in Talwandi Sabo has been non-functional due to some technical fault since March and is not likely to start generation before August. Since no power is being supplied from the unit for about 150 days, the PSPCL is paying extra money for purchasing power while also still paying full fixed charges to the Talwandi unit,” said PSPCL insiders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pspcl-experts-seek-review-of-faulty-power-purchase-pacts-274904
28-06-2021||---||Samyukt Kisan Morcha criticises police action against farmers||Chandigarh, June 27Leaders of various farmer unions that form part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha have condemned the alleged high-handedness of the Chandigarh Police during their protest yesterday.Thanking trade unions, other associations and people for supporting their cause against the contentious central agricultural laws, morcha leaders condemned the Chandigarh Police for registering cases against farm leaders.“To protest against farm laws is our democratic right. Our protest was peaceful, but it is shocking that cases have been registered against farmers,” read the statement by the morcha. The protest would continue till the farm laws were repealed, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/samyukt-kisan-morcha-criticises-police-action-against-farmers-274905
28-06-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Deed website defunct for week, Fatehgarh Sahib residents suffer||Residents who want to register their sale and other deeds are facing trouble as the National Generic Document Registration System (NGDRS) is not working for the past week in all tehsils and sub-tehsils of the district.People are running from pillar to post to get their documents registered as they come every morning and return empty-handed after waiting for the entire day.JS Gill, president of the Property Dealers’ Association, said it was unfortunate that the government could not make the registration system operational for the past week. He said all types of work had come to a standstill. This was not only causing harassment to people but also causing great financial loss to the state exchequer as stamp duty and other registration charges were not being deposited in the treasury.Gurinder Singh, Tehsildar, Fatehgarh Sahib, said the government had taken note of the issue and was working to rectify it. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/deed-website-defunct-for-week-fatehgarh-sahib-residents-suffer-274906
28-06-2021||Balwant Garg||6 months on, admission for MDS courses yet to begin||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, June 27As many as 26,000 candidates, including 2,150 from Punjab, who had taken the National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET-MDS) in December are still waiting for admission in postgraduate dental courses. Conducted on December 16, 2020, the result of the test was declared on December 31 for about 7,000 MDS dental seats in the country most of which are available in private and deemed dental colleges.Punjab has 11 dental colleges, including two government (in Amritsar and Patiala), which offer 139 seats in MDS courses.Sources say the reason for not making admissions on the basis of NEET-MDS result is the postponement of NEET-PG test for admissions in MD and MS medical courses. Most of the times, the counseling for admissions in MDS, MD and MS courses start simultaneously in March. While the NEET-MDS was conducted in December last year, the NEET-PG, which was scheduled for April 18 this year, was postponed indefinitely due to Covid-19.To avail the services of MBBS doctors in fight against the pandemic, the government has already announced that the NEET-PG will not be held before August 31.“If the NEET-PG is conducted on August 31, it will further extend the admission in medical and dental colleges to October-end. This means the gap in our entrance test and admission will be of more than 10 months, which is sheer wastage of our precious time,” rues a student, who along with many others, has approached the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) to delink the counseling for MDS and MD/MS courses.“The proposal to conduct separate counseling for allotment of MDS seats as per the demand of students and dental colleges is being considered by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in consultation with the Dental Council of India,” said a senior functionary of the DGHS.The counseling for admission in the all India quota and state quota seats in both medical and dental courses begin as per the schedule given by the Medical Counseling Committee (MCC) of the DGHS and it has been so far conducting both counseling simultaneously.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-months-on-admission-for-mds-courses-yet-to-begin-274907
28-06-2021||---||13 yrs on, 168-acre govt land freed from illegal possession||Sangrur, June 27Political-bureaucratic “nexus” delayed the transfer of mutation of 168 acres of prime land worth Rs 100 crore from Moranwali village panchayat to the Sunam Municipal Council (MC) for 13 years.After efforts of Sunam halqa in charge Daman Thind Bajwa, the mutation was transferred to the MC on Tuesday, but now, the administration faces a big challenge of removal of encroachments.Some senior officials told The Tribune that in 2006, at the time of division of Morawali village into five villages, the panchayat had 168 acres of land. But the then authorities of the Panchayat and Revenue Departments, with alleged connivance of land mafia, divided only 22 acres of panchayat land in five villages, namely Bishanpura, Singhpura, Tibbi Ravidaspura, Bakhtaur Nagar and Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar as per the population of these villages.The then officials allegedly allowed land mafia to keep the remaining land under illegal possession. But later, after the expansion of the Sunam MC in 2008, the land came under the MC, but no action was taken to transfer the mutation of the land from the panchayat to the MC.“In January 2020, after we got to know that prime land worth Rs 100 crore is under illegal possession, we started collecting details. The then officials connived with politicians to help them grab government land. Finally, on Tuesday with, the support of CM Capt Amarinder Singh, we have succeeded to transfer the mutation of all 168 acres of land under the name of the Sunam MC from Moranwali village,” said Bajwa.She alleged politicians of various parties have been pressurising and threatening her family with dire consequences. “We have started removing encroachments,” Bajwa said.Executive Officer of MC Maninderpal Singh said, “We will take the possession of land in the coming days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/13-yrs-on-168-acre-govt-land-freed-from-illegal-possession-274909
28-06-2021||---||75 medical oxygen plants by July-end in Punjab||Chandigarh, June 27Taking a big leap in the augmentation of medical oxygen ahead of the much-anticipated third Covid wave, the Punjab Government will instal 75 more pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants in the state by July-end. The PSA is process to generate enriched oxygen gas from ambient air.Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said the departments concerned had been asked to complete the installation of these plants by next month-end while ensuring pressure and purity of the life-saving gas. With this, the demand for medical oxygen will be met at all healthcare institutes in the state.Chairing a high-level meeting to review the installation of PSA plants, here, the Chief Secretary instructed the officials that all pre-activities for the installation of plants must be completed by July 15 so that work of installation and commissioning be completed by July 25. She also asked to appoint nodal officers to oversee each sub-work, including site preparation, installation and gas pipeline network.Punjab has its own two PSA plants, having capacity of 1,400 litres per minute, in Ludhiana and Jalandhar. While 42 plants have been allotted by the Centre for the medical colleges and the district hospitals, another 33 plants have been arranged by various agencies or private bodies for the state. Five PSA plants have already been installed and were under trial phase. The site preparation for another five was completed and it has been conveyed to the DRDO for moving these plants to their destinations in Barnala, Hoshiarpur, Ferozepur, Kapurthala and Tarn Taran.Aggressive testing to contain Delta Plus||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/75-medical-oxygen-plants-by-july-end-in-punjab-274903
