30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Six killed in road accident in Mansa||Six people, including two children, were killed after a car collided with a private bus coming from an opposite direction on Mansa-Barnala road in Punjab on Wednesday, police said.The incident took place in Mansa district when occupants of the car were going to Barnala side, said a police official over the phone.The deceased included two children, aged seven years and 11 years, and three women, said police. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/six-killed-in-road-accident-in-mansa-276344
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Owners of buildings housing reliance stores seek Punjab CM intervention for reopening||A group of building owners who have rented their premises to Reliance Industries for operating its various businesses across Punjab on Tuesday sought the intervention of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh for reopening of their stores which were laid siege by protesting farmers for the past several months.Farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws are not allowing Reliance stores to operate in Punjab.The owners said they are in a deep financial crisis and moving towards bankruptcy as they have not been getting any rental incomes for the past 7-8 months because all Reliance retail outlets are closed due to farmer protests.They said the agitating farmers have put their tents outside various stores.Reliance has around 275 stores in Punjab and all of them are shut, they said.“We are bearing losses in crores as the buildings are on loans from banks and we have to bear the burden of huge EMIs, municipal taxes, electricity and water charges, etc. Moreover, the livelihood of lakhs of workers, employees and their families has also been adversely affected,” said Prabhnoor Singh Walia from Kapurthala in a statement here.He added that “farmer leaders warn us of severe consequences if we open the stores. We have even approached the district police and other local authorities but in vain. We have also met Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders and ‘Kisan Jathebandeyaan’ a couple of times and raised our concerns but to no avail”.As per the agreements with the company, no rental payment can be made in case there is no billing or the store is closed due to agitation, Walia added.“We are all Punjabis and fully support the farmers, but such forced closure of Reliance’s stores is only harming Punjab, as Reliance procures a lot of products locally, provides huge direct and indirect employment to Punjabis and pays huge taxes to the state.“No corporate would be interested to invest in the state if they are not allowed to operate peacefully,” said Dharampal Singh Nain from Jagraon.Nirmal Singh from Jalandhar said, “We have borrowed loans and invested all our hard-earned money in the properties, but such forced closure is ruining us.”     He added that the stores are open in all other states. “But in Punjab, farmers are not allowing to open even those stores which are under essential services, so we are here to request the CM for help.”      “We also appeal to the farmers associations to carry on their protest peacefully against the government but allow Reliance to open its stores.“Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) has already said in a regulatory filing that it has no plans of entering contract or corporate farming, and it has not purchased any agricultural land in India for the purpose of contract farming,” said Manav Sandhu from Tarn Taran.Sandeep Singh Brar, officer on special duty to the Punjab CM who interacted with the aggrieved building owners, assured all possible support to them and promised to take it up with the CM, as per the statement. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/owners-of-buildings-housing-reliance-stores-seek-punjab-cm-intervention-for-reopening-276330
30-06-2021||Patiala||Farmers, AAP activists corner Punjab Cabinet Minister Dharamsot in Bhadson village||Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot was ill-prepared for the wrath that met him on Tuesday when he visited Bhadson village for laying the foundation stone of a new road.Farmer union members, many of them local villagers, and activists from the rival Aam Aadmi Party descended on a function where Dharamsot was laying the foundations stone of an 18-feet road from Chahal village to Kalsana, and began chanting anti-government slogans. Surrounded at the venue, the minister abandoned his speech and instead shut himself inside a nearby shop as Punjab Police used mild lathicharge to disperse the crowd, sources said.  “The state has no power, no jobs for youth, the roads are in bad shape, drugs continue to be sold and only those close to the ministers are minting money,” a farmer union member said.Dharamsot accused AAP for instigating the protests. “Our government has fulfilled majority of the poll promises and implemented many pro-people schemes,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-aap-activists-corner-punjab-cabinet-minister-dharamsot-in-bhadson-village-276329
30-06-2021||New Delhi||Congress no longer relevant for people: Sisodia on Punjab polls||Ahead of the assembly elections in Punjab next year, senior Aam Aadmi Party leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday claimed that the Congress, which is in power in the state, is no longer relevant for people.Responding to a question on the Congress's position in Punjab, he said the party does not enjoy the trust of the people anywhere in the country."The Congress does not have the trust of people anywhere in the country and there are reasons behind it, including the party's leadership. Wherever the Congress had an opportunity to work, they just spent time fighting among themselves," Sisodia said."So the Congress is no longer relevant for people," he added.Punjab assembly elections are going to be held in February or March next year. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-no-longer-relevant-for-people-sisodia-on-punjab-polls-276291
30-06-2021||Washington||Lawmakers pay tributes to two eminent Indian-Americans in US House||Influential Congressmen paid tributes to two eminent Indian-Americans — Charanjit Singh from California and Pritam Singh Grewal from New Jersey — in the House of Representatives this week.Charanjit Singh, who passed away on May 12, was a successful family and business man, and a member of the Central Valley with his children and wife, said Congressman Jim Costa.Singh was born in India in 1950 and came to the US in 1988 from Ludhiana, Punjab. He and his family settled in Los Angeles, California managing multiple convenience stores.He was a hard worker and provided for his two sons, daughter, and his wife. In 2003, he moved his family to Fresno, California.“Living in the Central Valley, Singh flourished his businesses. He was a business owner of purchased and newly built stores. Singh had over 30 gas stations and liquor stores,” Costa said on the House floor on Monday.“He could prioritise his time, manage multiple stores, and have time for his family. Singh would attend many events in the Central Valley, including many of my own, and he would often share his wisdom about the Sikh community to me,” he said as he urged his Congressional colleagues to join him in celebrating the great life of Singh.Describing Grewal as one the North Jersey’s most compassionate community leaders, Congressman Josh Gottheimer said on the House floor that the Indian-American Sikh was truly an unselfish and deeply caring man who made an impact on everyone who crossed his path.“As a founding member of Glen Rock’s Sikh Gurudwara, Pritam helped build a safe space for North Jersey’s Sikh community to come together and worship. Having personally visited several times, I can attest to the special atmosphere he instilled in this important Glen Rock establishment,” he said.“Pritam always felt a calling to promote quality education throughout his community. He taught mechanical engineering at Fairleigh Dickinson University, and later partnered with his brother, Amarjit, to establish the Grewal, Harchand Singh and Jagir Kaur Memorial Scholarship of Ramapo College, in memory of his late parents,” Gottheimer said.He said Pritam was also widely known throughout Hackensack University Medical Centre, where the trauma team took care of him after an accident in 2012.“While Pritam is no longer with us, his spirit, legacy, and impact on North Jersey will live on forever,” the Congressman added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lawmakers-pay-tributes-to-two-eminent-indian-americans-in-us-house-276262
30-06-2021||---||SGPC starts second phase of vax camp at Golden Temple||Amritsar, June 29The SGPC started the second phase of free Covid vaccination camp at the information centre of Golden Temple complex, which was jointly inaugurated by SGPC senior vice-president Surjit Singh Bhitewad, general secretary Bhagwant Singh Sialka and chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami.During the first phase of free Covid vaccination camp, more than 1,000 persons were administered first dose of Covid-19 vaccine here last month.Speaking on the occasion, SGPC chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami said that it was the second dose that was administered here to the beneficiaries of the first camp conducted on May 29. “People who got the first dose during the first phase camp got the second dose. Also, people who are willing to take the first dose can also visit this camp and get vaccinated”, he said.The SGPC first started free Covid care centres to help people during the Covid-19 pandemic and then started free vaccination camps for the needy. “The first camp was set up at the Golden Temple complex. Under its expansion, free corona vaccination camps were organised at Takht Sri Damdama Sahib, Talwandi Sabho, Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib, Sri Anandpur Sahib as well as at Delhi and Mumbai,” he said.Additional secretary Sukhdev Singh Bhurakohna, assistant secretaries Kulwinder Singh Ramdas, Balwinder Singh Kahlwan, Tejinder Singh Padda, Nirvail Singh, manager of Golden Temple Gurinder Singh Mathrewal, superintendent Malkit Singh Beharwal and information officer Jaswinder Singh Jassi werealso present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-starts-second-phase-of-vax-camp-at-golden-temple-276035
30-06-2021||---||Sikh leaders for anti-conversion law in J&K||New Delhi, June 29A Sikh delegation, comprising BJP spokesperson RP Singh, Jago party president Manjit Singh GK and others, today met Union Minister of State (MoS) for Home G Kishan Reddy and submitted a memorandum over the alleged forced conversions and marriages of Sikh women in J&K. They demanded a UP-like anti-conversion law in the UT.After the meeting, Reddy said he would discuss the matter with Union Home Minister Amit Shah. “A delegation has come here to submit a representation to the Government of India. The forced conversions and marriages of Sikh girls in Kashmir are wrong and the delegation has submitted a memorandum over it. I will discuss this with the Union Home Minister regarding the action that needs to be taken,” he said.BJP spokesperson Singh said the delegation demanded an anti-conversion law in J&K for the protection of Sikh girls.“The incident of forced nikah (marriage) of an 18-year-old Sikh girl with a 60-year-old man is not a standalone incident of religion conversion. The religious conversion of Sikh girls has been going on for a long time. We have requested the minister to ask the J&K Lieutenant Governor (L-G) to enact a law against love jihad, like the ones passed by the UP and the MP governments. The minister should ask Sinha to bring an ordinance for the protection of Sikh girls,” he said.On Sunday, a delegation of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) met J&K L-G Sinha and sought the safe return of a Sikh girl to her family, who was allegedly abducted, forcibly converted and married off in Srinagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-leaders-for-anti-conversion-law-in-jk-276123
30-06-2021||Srinagar||One of ‘abducted’ Sikh women had sought protection from J&K High Court||One of the four Sikh women, alleged to have been converted to Islam by force, had approached the J&K High Court last month, seeking protection from any coercive action by her family and the police, saying she changed her religion and married a Muslim man willingly.Viran Pal Lour became Khadeeja after marrying Manzoor Ahmad Bhat on January 20 this year. On May 20, Justice Ali Mohammad Magrey had directed the police to “ensure the woman's parents or anyone does not harass, attack, kidnap or harm the couple.” — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/one-of-abducted-sikh-women-had-sought-protection-from-jk-high-court-276122
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Power play: AAP pledges 300 free units of power in Punjab||AAP supremo and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal today announced 300 units of free power for each household in Punjab if the party is voted to power. For the youth, he said he would soon share a plan to end rampant unemployment in the state.Unveiling the AAP’s agenda for the 2022 Assembly elections, interestingly, Kejriwal initially said electricity would be free only if the consumers consumed just 300 units. If it is more than 300 units, the consumers will have to pay for the entire power consumed. He was flanked by Raghav Chadha, MP Bhagwant Mann and recent inductee in the party, Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh.WHAT AAP NATIONAL CONVENER SAID ONFarmers’ stirWe support farmers’ agitation. The Centre should accept the demands of farmers who have been struggling for the past seven months. Their demands are justified.Scrapping PPAsWe will scrap these PPAs (power purchase agreements). Punjab is a power-surplus state. We can always buy cheaper power than paying hefty sums to private companies.Sacrilege issueIt is clear that there is collusion between the two political parties. That is why the SIT report prepared by Kunwar sahib was dismissed. We will bring all guilty to book.Later, as his statement drew a sharp reaction from various quarters, including his own party men during a meeting with leaders at UT Guest House, he retracted the statement and through a press release said his promise was to charge tariff on only those units consumed over and above 300 free power units. “With this, 77-80 per cent of consumers will get zero power bill,” he said, adding farmers would continue to get free power and industrial consumers the subsidy. Punjab already provides 200 units of free power to 15 lakh consumers belonging to Scheduled Castes, Backward classes, BPL and minorities. However, as of now, they have to pay for only excess power (over and above 200 units). The outgo on providing the free power is Rs 1,600 crore per annum. Sources in the power department say rough estimates for giving 300 units of free power to all 75 lakh consumers in the state are Rs 8,500 crore.Stole our agenda for political gains, says CongressChandigarh: The Congress has accused the AAP of stealing its agenda of giving 200 units of free power to consumers. Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said days after party leadership asked the state government to announce free power, Arvind Kejriwal stole the agenda for political gains. Senior leader Raj Kumar Verka said the decision had upset the AAP, so it tried to pre-empt the Congress initiative. TNSKejriwal also said Punjab would get uninterrupted power supply, just like Delhi. He announced all domestic consumers whose bills were unsettled because of being inflated, will get relief as these will be written off. Asked about how a cash-strapped state like Punjab would be able to offer such a huge subsidy, Kejriwal said there were enough resources available. “Leaders here have only been supporting mafia. If we can provide free power in Delhi by increasing our revenues manifold, we can do it here as well,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/power-play-aap-pledges-300-free-units-of-power-in-punjab-275885
30-06-2021||Chandigarh/New Delhi||A Congress meet that was not to be||Hours after former Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu left his Patiala residence for the much-talked-about meeting with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi in Delhi, the latter ruled out any such engagement with Sidhu as he left his residence to meet party chief Sonia Gandhi this evening.“No meeting with Sidhu (Navjot Singh Sidhu),” Rahul told waiting mediapersons outside his residence.May be rescheduledSidhu is learnt to have arrived in New Delhi for the meeting. His office had yesterday confirmed he would meet Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi.Sources in the AICC said there was “no meeting scheduled between him and the Gandhis as of now”. Efforts to reach out to Sidhu’s office remained futile.With reports of Sidhu’s meeting with the Gandhis going viral, sources did not rule out the possibility of the party’s top leadership being unhappy over the buzz. They may now try to reschedule it and keep it under wraps. The meeting may take place in the coming days, it is learnt.However, there was no confirmation whether Sidhu met Priyanka separately or not.“As the meeting between the Gandhis and Capt Amarinder Singh is yet to happen, reports of party’s top leadership meeting Sidhu before the CM could create further problems in the state unit, which is already facing crisis,” said a senior party leader. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/a-congress-meet-that-was-not-to-be-275886
30-06-2021||Gurdaspur||Despite rift, Punjab Congress united: Ashwani Kumar||Former Union minister Ashwani Kumar today said despite differences, the state Congress stood united and the “PPCC was one big family where party men always come together when faced with a challenge.”“Senior Congressmen may hold different opinions and perspectives on an issue but at the end of the day they all are united. There are many who are fishing in troubled waters by taking advantage of the prevailing situation. All these people will be disappointed as they will not be able to create a wedge in the party,” he said.He said Navjot Singh Sidhu was a “valued member of the party” and that he should be fully involved in the election campaign. “He should be adjusted in a suitable capacity by the high command,” said Kumar, adding, “All Congressmen should have a sense of belonging. Three time ex-MLA Ashwani Sekhri’s grievances should be looked into as he is a veteran leader.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-rift-punjab-congress-united-ashwani-kumar-275887
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||State must get liberty to retain retd staffer: Punjab and Haryana High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the state, although a welfare one, was required to be given the liberty to choose an employee it wanted to retain beyond the statutory period of service. Being an employer, the state is better equipped to adjudicate an employee’s suitability to continue.The Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash also made it clear that the decision to retain or let go an employee beyond the retirement age was required to be “within the four corners of settled principles of service jurisprudence”.The ruling came on an appeal by a Punjab Police DSP, who was seeking actual pay for the entire second extension period. The matter was placed before the Bench after his plea was declined by a Single Judge on “no work no pay” principle.The appellant was to retire at 58 on February 28, 2018, but was granted a year’s extension from March 1, 2018, to February 28, 2019. The extension order was, however, withdrawn following the issuance of a chargesheet pursuant to certain orders passed by a judicial magistrate on the allegation of misconduct and the HC directions.A stay order in his favour continued till his first extension period was over. After rounds of litigation, he was granted extension in service from January 24, 2020, till February 28, 2020. As such the petitioner did not work from March 1, 2019, till January 24, 2020, and there was no extension in service period from March 1, 2019, till January 23, 2020.The Bench asserted it was clear that the order declining the first extension was not put to judicial scrutiny on merits. The subsequent order declining the second extension was also set aside on a technical ground that the chargesheet was not pending against the appellant at the time of passing fresh orders. The state’s willingness to continue with the employee’s services was never adjudicated on merits and he was able to continue by taking aid of technicalities.As such, the Single Judge rightly declined to grant the actual pay benefits to appellant for the time he had not worked. “Once the appellant relinquished charge on the completion of first extension, some other officer would have taken over the duties and discharged the functions, whereas all this time the appellant was before the court trying to cling on to a job from which he had originally superannuated on the completion of 58 years of service,” the Bench asserted. Dismissing his appeal, the Bench added he had no vested right to continue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/state-must-get-liberty-to-retain-retd-staffer-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-275898
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Plea against jobs to Punjab Cong MLAs’ kin dismissed||A petition challenging Punjab Cabinet’s decision to give government jobs to the sons of party MLAs Fatehjang Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey today failed to find favour with the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The petition, as per the High Court website, was “dismissed”. Detailed orders were not yet available.The petition was filed by advocate Bikramjit Singh Bajwa against the Union of India, Ministry of Home Affairs and other respondents. Bajwa had sought directions to apply brakes to the appointments given on compassionate grounds. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/plea-against-jobs-to-punjab-cong-mlas-kin-dismissed-275904
30-06-2021||Patiala||Commuters hassled as PRTC, Punjab Roadways contract staff protest||Demanding regularisation, hundreds of contractual and outsourced employees of Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) and Punjab Roadways (PUNBUS) held a sit-in here today. Commuters in the state were at the receiving end as around 50 per cent of the buses remained off road during the strike which started on Monday.Protesters blocked the Fountain Chowk by erecting tents. Consequently, the traffic movement in the city was paralysed. The police, as a precautionary measure, had to block all roads leading to the roundabout. The contractual employees were on a three-day strike over their unmet demands.PUNBUS Contractual Employees’ Union leader Kamal Kumar said: “We are demanding regularisation of thousands of employees of PRTC and PUNBUS, who have been working on contract for over a decade now.”After protesting at the roundabout, the protesters marched towards the Chief Minister’s residence. However, protesters were stopped by heavy police force near YPS roundabout. The protesters then staged a sit-in at the roundabout for an hour. Protesters called off the stir after a written assurance of meeting with the Transport Minister, Principal Secretary (Transport) and OSD to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/commuters-hassled-as-prtc-punjab-roadways-contract-staff-protest-275913
30-06-2021||New Delhi||Ensure victory of SAD-BSP alliance in Punjab Assembly elections, Mayawati tells cadre||Upping the ante in Punjab, BSP supremo Mayawati has asked the cadre to ensure the success of party’s alliance with the SAD in the upcoming Assembly elections.“The cadre must ensure victory on all seats being contesting by the alliance in the Punjab Assembly elections,” Mayawat told party leaders during a meeting to review the working of party’s Delhi unit.The elections in Punjab are due in February-March next year. Referring to the BSP-SAD alliance, she urged party activists to ensure its victory on all seats. “In the larger interest of the people and to ensure they are liberated from the failed Congress government, a robust effort by the BSP is imperative,” Mayawati told party functionaries.“The present Congress government is ridden with internal squabbles and factionalism. The party’s internal feud has led to neglect of public issues and welfare of the people for long,” she said.Mayawati further said in the present situation, people had hopes from the SAD-BSP alliance.BSP’s moves in Punjab will be keenly watched by the Congress, BJP, and the AAP, which has all the more reason to worry.AAP’s meteoric rise in the state is generally attributed to the support of a sizeable chunk of Scheduled Caste voter, and other poorer and weaker sections of the society.The state has a high percentage of SC population, which the SAD would like to wean away with BSP support. Party founder late Kanshi Ram hailed from the state. He launched his campaign to mobilise SCs (“Bahujan Samaj”) politically.After strenuous efforts, he took the campaign across the country, following which Uttar Pradesh emerged as the BSP citadel, with Mayawati becoming the Chief Minister, and its supremo after his demise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-victory-of-sad-bsp-alliance-in-punjab-assembly-elections-mayawati-tells-cadre-275921
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Govt medicos to strike work on Doctors’ Day||Government doctors will observe strike across the state to mark Doctors’ Day on Thursday.Government doctors led by the Joint Punjab Government Doctors Coordination Committee are protesting against the 6the Pay Commission’s recommendation of decrease and de-linking of the non-practicing allowance from the basic pay. The doctors will suspend OPDs and medico-legal work on July 1.Dr Gagandeep Shergill, senior vice-president, PCMS Association, said as part of the protest, they would suspend all medico-legal work, including post-mortem. However, doctors would perform their duties in cases related to rape victims.He said they would intensify their struggle and discuss suspending other services as well. On Monday, a government team had invited doctors for negotiations, but the meeting remained inconclusive, as the doctors insisted on a full-panel meeting led by ministers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-medicos-to-strike-work-on-doctors-day-275922
30-06-2021||Muktsar||Muktsar farmers protest irregular power supply||Upset over erratic power supply and closure of canals, a large number of farmers in Muktsar district are staging protest against the state government. Some farmers have also pitched in a tent on the Muktsar-Ferozepur highway at Marhmallu village here. A farmer activist Nirmal Singh Jasseana even started indefinite hunger strike there.Jasseana said: “A large number of villages are affected due to closure of canals. The paddy crop requires adequate amount of water at this stage, but the authorities concerned have closed the canals in the name of cleanliness. Underground water here is unfit for irrigation and if used in fields at this stage, it may even affect the yield.” He said: “See the callousness of the officials concerned that none has so far visited our protest site. They are sitting in their air-conditioned offices and playing with the lives of farmers.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-farmers-protest-irregular-power-supply-275923
30-06-2021||Bathinda||Mining allegation defamatory: Transporters||Transporters today accused SAD leader and former MLA Sarup Chand Singla of defaming transporters over its illegal mining allegations at Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant (GNDTP) land in Bathinda. Transporters today visited the GNDTP land to inquire about the illegal mining of sand.YAD gheraoes FM’s officeThe Youth Akali Dal led by president Parambans Singh Bunty Romana and SAD former MLA Sarup Chand Singla on Tuesday gheraoed Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s office over alleged illegal mining on GNDTP land here. The workers staged a protest outside the FM office.Ghora Transport Association president Parvinder Singh said they were bringing sand from Pathankot after spending huge money on fuel. After Sarup Chand Singla alleged illegal sand mining, we all had come here to see the ground reality to find fly ash only, the said.Further, he said the state government levied a heavy penalty of Rs 4 lakh on any vehicle caught involved in sand mining, so no transporter could dare to involve in this illegal activity. Moreover, to extract sand, crusher and water were required.The defunct GNDTP has estimated around 2.20 crore tonnes of ash fly on 853 acres. Both government and private-run thermal plants provide fly ash free of cost to three sectors — cement, brick kilns and constructions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mining-allegation-defamatory-transporters-275925
30-06-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||SAD leader, friend hurt in ‘attack’ in Mandi Gobindgarh||Fear gripped Mandi Gobindgarh after two unidentified motorcycle-borne assailants allegedly attacked SAD leader Rajiv Singla with a kirpan in his office in broad daylight and fired at him.The leader’s friend, Neetu Sharma, who was in the office at the time of the incident, was also injured in the attack. Both of them were rushed to the Mandi Gobindgarh Civil Hospital from where Rajiv was referred to the Apollo Hospital in Ludhiana. Rajiv and Neetu are stable. Cops reached the spot and began the investigation.“Earlier, he had lodged an FIR about someone setting ablaze his car parked in front of his house and last year too, he had complained of being attacked in a park. The police, however, did not find any evidence in both the cases nor could he prove those charges,” said a police official.Rajiv, however, said he had given a letter to the police apprehending threat to his life. On Rajiv’s statement, an FIR has been registered against two unidentified miscreants.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-leader-friend-hurt-in-attack-in-mandi-gobindgarh-275926
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||High Court stays Amritsar DC order to mall on dropping ‘Ambarsar’ from name||What’s in a name? Going by an order passed by the Amritsar Deputy Commissioner — everything. The officer has asked VR Ambarsar Mall to remove ‘Ambarsar’ from its name. The logic: the city’s name is ‘Amritsar’ in government notifications and changing nomenclature to “Ambarsar” was wrong. The matter was brought to the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s notice after the mall, through senior advocate Chetan Mittal, along with Udit Garg and Shifali Goyal, challenged the order passed by the DC.Taking up the petition by Alena Ventures Pvt Ltd, Justice Lisa Gill of the High Court issued notice of motion and stayed the operation of the impugned order dated April 23. Appearing before the Bench, Mittal contended the petitioner had no intention to hurt religious sentiments of anyone. The provision of law under which purported action has been taken by the authorities was also unknown. Moreover, the order was never conveyed to the petitioner.Mittal added Amritsar was colloquially known as Ambarsar. The word was also used in movies and songs. A market was also known as Ambarsar Bazaar. Quoting examples, Mittal submitted “Ambarsariya di Hatti” and “Ambarsar Badiyaan” were used at various places. There was no bar in using Ambarsar as per the Emblems and Names Act (Prevention of Improper Use) Act, 1950.Mittal said there were various news articles and social media pages claiming that “Ambarsar” denoted an “emotion”. It was not just a word. Besides, various cities were referred to by colloquial names such as Benaras and Dilli... even under various statutes, there is no bar in naming or using the word Ambarsar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-stays-amritsar-dc-order-to-mall-on-dropping-ambarsar-from-name-275927
30-06-2021||Sangrur||SGPC chief, minister visit sacrilege site||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-chief-minister-visit-sacrilege-site-275928
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Out of vax, Capt Amarinder turns to Centre||With the state running out of Covishield and left with just 1,12,821 doses of Covaxin, CM Capt Amarinder Singh today reiterated the demand for more vaccine from the central stock to vaccinate the entire 18-45 years population in the next two months.Though he ordered opening of vaccination to the entire 18-45 population, the CM said efforts would focus on covering the categories prioritised earlier.The state government had set a target to immunise all eligible people in two months, followed by the second vaccine dose as per schedule. Currently, 4.8 per cent of the state’s eligible population is fully vaccinated, with Mohali leading the chart in both first and second shot. Taking stock of the vaccination progress at a Covid review virtual meeting, the CM noted that the government had already vaccinated more than 62 lakh eligible persons and had been utilising the stock without any wastage.However, he noted that there was gross shortage of vaccine. Pointing out that the state had been repeatedly taking up the issue of inadequate doses with the Centre, he said this assumed critical importance as Punjab had slowly been opening up sectors conditional to stakeholders having taken at least one dose.He said he would take up the matter again with the Union Health Minister on urgent basis and escalate it to the Prime Minister, if needed.Health Minister Balbir Sidhu questioned the large number of doses received by BJP-ruled states Haryana and Gujarat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/out-of-vax-capt-amarinder-turns-to-centre-275929
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Amid Delta+ concerns, curbs to stay till July 10 in Punjab||With cases of Delta Plus variant coming to light, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today ordered extension of Covid restrictions till July 10, with some more relaxations, including opening of bars, pubs and taverns at 50 per cent capacity, beginning July 1.Skill development centres and universities have also been allowed to open, provided the staff and students have taken at least one dose of vaccine. At a high-level Covid review meeting, the CM made it clear that bars, pubs and taverns would have to strictly maintain social distancing and the employees should have taken at least one shot of vaccine, which needs to be ensured by the owners.He expressed satisfaction over the decline in positivity rate to less than 1 per cent, with overall fall in active cases. “The detection of Delta plus variant is a matter of concern, making it essential to continue with the curbs,” he stressed.Of the 198 contacts of the Ludhiana patient traced and tested, one was found positive and the sample has been sent for genome sequencing, while in the Patiala case, for which the genome sequencing report was received on June 26, the process of tracing/testing is going on.Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said genome sampling of 489 samples — 276 sent in April, 100 in May and 113 in June — were still pending with the central lab. She said the Delta plus variant was detected in samples sent by the state government in May, the results of which were given recently.The CM ordered fast-tracking of a whole genome sequencing lab at the GMCH, Patiala, in association with an international NGO, PATH, to make it operational by July. He also ordered stepping up of genome sequences of cases reported from clusters in limited geographical, institutional or superspreader event area to check the spread of third wave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-delta-concerns-curbs-to-stay-till-july-10-in-punjab-275930
30-06-2021||Muktsar||Stock dries up, vaccination drive suspended in Muktsar||With the stocks drying up, the vaccination drive has been suspended in Muktsar with no one getting the jab on Tuesday. On Monday, just 900 persons got vaccinated against 8,000 daily count last week.Sources in the Health Department said there was no fresh supply from the headquarters. “The supply is likely to arrive in two-three days,” said a senior official. Residents, however, said, “The authorities were recently holding several vaccination camps and today, the stock dried up. They should plan the drive according to the stock availability.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stock-dries-up-vaccination-drive-suspended-in-muktsar-275931
30-06-2021||Gurdaspur||Drone attack: Punjab DGP meets BSF, police officers; security up at Kartarpur corridor||DGP Dinkar Gupta met officials of the BSF and the Punjab Police at the BSF guest house and urged them to take preventive measures to counter the use of payload-carrying drones by Pakistan.The issue of enhancing security at the Integrated Check Post (ICP) of the Kartarpur corridor at Dera Baba Nanak was also discussed.Anti-drone weapons the keyThe DGP assured officials that he had taken note of the security at the ICP and had asked Batala SSP Rachpal Singh to personally monitor this aspect in and around the corridor. “If need be, I have directed him to increase the security,” he said.The corridor is located in Dera Baba Nanak which falls in the ambit of the Batala police district.The DGP held a one-hour joint meeting with BSF and Punjab Police officers. Later, he held 90-minute long confabulations with ADGP (Internal Security) RN Dhoke, STF ADGP B Chandrshekhar, IG (Border) Surinder Pal Singh Parmar and Gurdaspur, Batala and Pathankot SSPs Nanak Singh, Rachpal Singh and Surendra Lamba, respectively.The DGP discussed ways and means to prevent drone attacks in the border areas. He said security had been enhanced at all vital installations falling in Gurdaspur, Batala and Pathankot, including the IAF airbase, the ammunition dump and the Mamun cantonment.“I have asked officers to use the last two years’ data to pinpoint areas where drones could be operated by Pakistani agencies. I have also ordered them to identify strategic points in the border areas where CCTVs could be installed,” he added.The DGP also urged officers to go after drug smugglers operating in their respective areas of jurisdiction. “I want all of you to cultivate more sources, particularly in areas you think are more prone to drug use. I want you to fan out in border area villages where smugglers are said to be operative,” the DGP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drone-attack-punjab-dgp-meets-bsf-police-officers-security-up-at-kartarpur-corridor-275932
30-06-2021||GurbaxpuriTalwandi Sobha Singh(Tarn Taran)||Cops hunt for three at Tarn Taran village||This nondescript border village, 50 km from Tarn Taran, is abuzz with activity these days with Delhi cops conducting raids to arrest three youths for the Red Fort violence.Gurjot Singh, a fourth suspect from Talwandi Sobha Singh village, was arrested by the Delhi Police on June 27.Farmers from the village had gone to Delhi on tractors for the ‘kisan march’ on January 26. After the violence, three youths from the area — Jugraj Singh, Navdeep Singh, both of nearby Wan Tara Singh village, and Sandeep Singh of Sheron village — were booked for rioting at different police stations. Sandeep was arrested by the Alipur police.Later, the Delhi Police announced a prize of Rs 1 lakh for information leading to the arrest of the suspects. Sources said the three village youths — Gurjant Singh, Jujjbir Singh and Boota Singh — were at large and the Delhi Police were raiding their possible hideouts to arrest them.Soon after the incident, the police raided the village several times, but the visits stopped after mid-March. The activity has picked up again.Ranjir Singh, sarpanch, said over the past one week, the Delhi Police had carried out several raids on houses of the three. He said the three used to visit the village but were now in hiding. Patti DSP Kuljinder Singh said he was unaware of the raids.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cops-hunt-for-three-at-tarn-taran-village-275936
30-06-2021||Bathinda||Gangster Kala Sekhu nabbed after encounter||In a joint operation, the Bathinda police and Jaito CIA staff have arrested a “C” category gangster, Manjinder Singh, alias Kala Sekhu, from Jassi Baghwali village in the district after a brief encounter.A suspect was shot at in the thigh and was admitted to the Civil Hospital from where the doctors referred him to Faridkot. Elaborate security arrangements were made at the hospital.Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjeet Singh Virk said on seeing a police team, the accused fled on a tractor and shot himself in the thigh.The SSP said Sekhu was wanted by the police in around dozen cases andwas on the “most wanted” list of criminals of the Faridkot police.The police got inputs that Sekhu was hiding in a relative’s house at Jassi Baghwali village and conducted a raid. On seeing the police team, the suspect tried to flee on a tractor and allegedly shot himself in the thigh before throwing away the weapon, said the SSP.He subsequently took cover in his relative’s house, from where he was nabbed and subsequently taken to the civil hospital for treatment.The SSP said Sekhu had allegedly supplied weapons to certain suspects involved in an incident at Kotkapura in Faridkot district on June 21.However, the gangster claimed the police team opened fire at him, causing a leg injury. He claimed a video of the incident was captured on a mobile phone, which was in possession of the police.Replying to the allegations, the SSP said: “Who opened fire and with whose bullet he was injured will become clear after a probe.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gangster-kala-sekhu-nabbed-after-encounter-275952
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Lawyers form panel to defend farm leaders||A group of lawyers today announced a committee to legally defend the farm leaders and activists against whom the cases were registered last week by the Chandigarh Police during a protest.The Lawyer’s Defence Committee for Farmers is to be led by prominent lawyers, including Rajinder Singh Cheema, Joginder Singh Toor and Manjit Singh Khaira. “We have obtained copies of FIRs and on thread bare perusal, it has been found that the allegations levelled therein, are vague, absurd and not only patently false but ridiculous,” said Toor.He said everybody who had seen the protest on regional and national media had seen leaders named were not involved in breaking barriers nor causing any injury to anyone. He said some leaders against whom the cases had been registered neither were part of the protest nor present in Chandigarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lawyers-form-panel-to-defend-farm-leaders-275959
30-06-2021||Bathinda||16 NRIs booked for theft, fraud in Canada||Sixteen Punjabi NRIs have been booked for over 140 offences following a week-long investigation by the 21 Division Criminal Investigation Bureau of the Peel Region Police in Canada.Residents of Brampton, Mississauga and York Region have been booked for offences, including mail theft, $5,000 fraud, identity theft, forging documents, possession of stolen property and controlled substances.As per the Canadian Police, they began a multi-jurisdictional probe in collaboration with Canada Post, Halton Regional Police Service, Ontario Provincial Police and numerous financial institutions last month after scrutinising over 100 reports of mail theft between January and April and discovering links to a group of individuals residing in Brampton.On June 16 and 17, two searches were conducted at residences in Brampton, where officers located stolen items.Further arrests and charges are anticipated in relation to this investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/16-nris-booked-for-theft-fraud-in-canada-275965
30-06-2021||Amritsar||Rescued girl married off to J&K Sikh youth||One of the two Sikh girls from Jammu and Kashmir, allegedly abducted, converted and forced to marry elderly men from another religion in Kashmir, has been recovered with the efforts of members of the DSGMC and SGPC’s Jammu and Kashmir Sikh Mission.The 18-year-old girl from Badgam district in Kashmir, who was lured and converted at gunpoint, has been handed over to her family by the court.She was married off to a Sikh youth from Srinagar, with the ‘anand karaj’ (marriage as per Sikh conduct) being performed at Rainawari Gurdwara Sahib, Srinagar, today. The couple was shifted to New Delhi by DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa.“Yesterday I met the girl, who disclosed how she was kidnapped and told that her parents were behind the bars and would be freed only if she conformed to their wish. She was later recovered by the police after protests and court’s intervention,” said Sirsa.The other 28-year-old victim, who belongs to Mehjoor Nagar in Srinagar, also underwent a similar ordeal and remains missing. Efforts were on to recover her. In a ‘fake’ video message, she purportedly admitted to having gone ‘underground’ and conducted inter-faith marriage of her own will.Sirsa claimed the clip that went viral on the social media was doctored. Her family said she was facing threat and was made to give misleading statements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rescued-girl-married-off-to-jk-sikh-youth-275966
30-06-2021||Dharamkot (Moga)||Moga locals protest MC worker’s death||Hundreds of people gathered outside the Dharamkot municipal council office in the district today demanding justice for Saajan Kumar, a computer operator, who died under mysterious circumstances here yesterday.The family members and police recovered the body from a local community centre. The cause of death was not yet known as no injury marks were found on the body, said a police official.The body was sent to the district hospital for a post-mortem examination. The cause of death could be ascertained once the report was received, the police officials maintained.Earlier, the family and residents held a march against the local administration and MC authorities before staging a protest outside the MC office.Youth’s father Balwinder Singh said his son had been working with the local body office for the past four years. He claimed senior officials had been harassing his son for the past few months, causing him depression.“My son may have killed himself due to harassment by senior officials. The local police must register a criminal case against senior authorities of the local body for abetment to suicide,” he said.DSP Subeg Singh, who visited the scene, asked the SHO to record the statement of the family members and take legal action accordingly. After DSP’s assurance of a legal action against the guilty, the protesters ended their protest in the evening. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-locals-protest-mc-workers-death-275967
30-06-2021||Amritsar||Sher-e-Punjab Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s death anniversary observed||Man kills kids, hangs selfFaridkot: A West Bengal native, Manglu Seikh (34), allegedly died by suicide after killing his two kids, Ali and Sehal, aged 8 and 5, on Tuesday after discovering that his wife had eloped. Manglu’s neighbour Dinesh sensed something wrong and alerted the police. A case was lodged. TNSMan, daughter found deadAbohar: The Raziasar police on Tuesday found the bodies of a man, Munshi Khan (38), and and his daughter, Azmat (20), hanging from a fan at their house in Hindaur village on the NH-62 here. Death by suicide is suspected and a case has been registered in this regard. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sher-e-punjab-maharaja-ranjit-singhs-death-anniversary-observed-275984
30-06-2021||---||On way to Punjab CM’s house, protesting teachers face Chandigarh police water cannons||Mohali, June 29Protesting teachers today faced water cannons of the Chandigarh Police as they jumped barricades on their way to gherao the residence of Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in the UT.Non-permanent teachers, who had been protesting outside the office of Education Secretary at the Punjab School Education Board building in Phase VIII for the last several days, suddenly started marching towards Chandigarh in support of their demands today.The Chandigarh Police had put up barricades near the YPS Chowk to stop their entry from the Mohali side but the protesters were adamant on moving ahead. After they managed to break the barricades and entered Chandigarh, the police used water cannon to stop them.Some teachers fainted as they could not face the water pressure. A few female protesters managed to reach atop the water cannon and stop the water flow following which the marchers moved forward.Meanwhile, the SSP of Chandigarh reached the spot and tried to calm down the protesters and appealed them to stop their protest march. A delegation of the teachers was then taken to Chandigarh for having a dialogue with Punjab officials.At this, other protesters relented and squatted on the roadside. They demanded that the government should issue them confirmation letters or else they would not go back from there.These teachers have been holding demonstrations in favour of their demands for the past 20 days on the trot. Seven teachers carrying petrol bottles are sitting on the rooftop of the PSEB building.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-way-to-punjab-cms-house-protesting-teachers-face-chandigarh-police-water-cannons-275902
30-06-2021||---||‘No meeting with Sidhu’, says Rahul hours after former Punjab minister leaves Patiala for Delhi||Chandigarh/New Delhi, June 29Hours after former Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu left his Patiala residence to have the much-talked about meeting with senior party leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday at Delhi, the former Congress president said "no meeting with Sidhu (Navjot Singh Sidhu)" as he left from his residence for 10 Janpath, party's president Sonia Gandhi's residence, on Tuesday evening.Rahul Gandhi gave the statement to some media channels, waiting outside his residence anticipating the meeting between the two leaders.Sidhu was learnt to have arrived in New Delhi for the meeting. His office had yesterday confirmed his proposed meeting with Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi. Sources in the AICC said there was “no meeting scheduled between him and the Gandhis as of now”. Repeated efforts to reach out to Sidhu’s office on Tuesday remained futile.With the reports of Sidhu’s meeting the Gandhis going viral ahead of the meeting, sources did not rule out the possibility of the party’s top leadership being unhappy over news about the meeting going viral much before. They might try to keep the meeting under wraps or reschedule it. The meeting could take place in the coming days, it is learnt.However, there was no confirmation whether Sidhu separately met Priyanka Gandhi or not.“As the meeting between the Gandhis and Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh is yet to happen, reports of party’s top leadership meeting Sidhu before meeting the CM could create further problems in the state units that is already facing crisis,” a senior party leader said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-meeting-with-sidhu-says-rahul-hours-after-former-punjab-minister-leaves-patiala-for-delhi-275871
30-06-2021||---||IIT-Ropar starts programme in AI||Ropar, June 29The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar, has joined hands with the Punjab Skill Development Mission (PSDM) to impart classes on artificial intelligence (AI) and data science through a certificate course.Faculty members of the department of electrical engineering, Rohit Sharma and Satyam Agarwal, have been awarded the project by the PSDM for one year.Owing to the lockdown, schools and higher education institutions faced challenges in moving their operating model to online overnight, as most of them followed a classroom-led delivery model. This resulted in an overarching dropout rate among students in Punjab and India as a whole.The course is designed to cater to the demand and need of data scientists and AI workforce in near future.Students applying for the course need to qualify Advanced Data Science Aptitude Test (A-DSAT) on IIT-Ropar online quiz platform. The test can be taken by any candidate, who passed Class XII in any stream with minimum 55 per cent marks in mathematics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/iit-ropar-starts-programme-in-ai-275863
30-06-2021||---||Punjab extends Covid curbs till July 10, but bars, pubs, ahatas can open at 50 per cent capacity||Chandigarh, May 27With cases of Delta plus variant coming to light, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday ordered extension of the Covid restrictions till July 10, with certain more relaxations, including opening of bars, pubs and ahatas at 50 per cent capacity, beginning July 1.Skill Development Centres and Universities have also been allowed to open conditional to the staff and students having taken at least one dose of vaccine. IELTS coaching institutes were already allowed to be opened, subject to students and staff having taken at least one dose of vaccine.Announcing the relaxations at a high-level Covid review meeting, the Chief Minister made it clear that the bars, pubs and ahatas would have to strictly maintain social distancing protocols, and waiters/ servers/other employees should have taken at least one dose of the Covid vaccine.  He made it clear that it would be the responsibility of the owners to ensure that the conditions are met.Expressing satisfaction over the decline in positivity to less than 1 per cent with overall fall in active cases, the Chief Minister noted that the positivity rate in some districts still remained over 1 per cent.The month wise whole genome sequencing has shown that more than 90 per cent  is a variant of concern, with the original virus having been practically replaced by variants, disclosed the Chief Minister. Two cases (Ludhiana and Patiala) have shown Delta plus variant, while in May and June, the Delta variant was most prevalent, he pointed out.Of the 198 contacts of the Ludhiana patient traced and tested, one was found positive and the sample has been sent for genome sequencing, while in the Patiala case, for which the genome sequencing report was received on June 26, the process of tracing/testing is going on. Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan disclosed that genome sampling of as many as 489 samples (including 276 sent in April, 100 in May and 113 in June were still pending with the central lab). She also clarified that the Delta plus variant was found in samples sent by the state govt in May, whose results were given by GOI labs recently.Captain Amarinder ordered fast tracking of the establishment of a Whole Genome Sequencing Lab at GMCH, Patiala, in association with the international non-profit organisation PATH, to make it operational by July. He also ordered intensification of genome sequences of cases reported from clusters in limited geographical, institutional or superspreader event area to check the spread of the potential third wave.Health Minister Balbir Sidhu suggested a close watch on visitors from countries reporting Delta Plus variant cases.Reviewing the preparations for what experts have predicted as an imminent third way, the Chief Minister directed the Health and Medical Education departments to scale up testingFurther from the current 40,000 a day and contact tracing, currently at 22 per positive person, at not less than 15 per person. Underlining the need to continue with Corona Mukt Pendu Abhiyan in full force, he also directed organisation of outreach camps especially in villages for testing.Health department should continue to prioritise the Lok Sanjhedari model so that there is community ownership and a sustained campaign to observe Covid appropriate behaviour, said the Chief Minister. Health Secretary Hussan Lal, in a brief presentation earlier, said the department had formulated a comprehensive surveillance strategy to keep a check on the potential third wave drivers. These drivers include behavioural change after the 2nd wave, seasonal changes, re-infection due to waning of immunity and viral mutations.The Chief Minister asked the department to work on restrictions computed on area basis (ward, village, block, town, city), going beyond the micro containment and containment strategies being followed so far.Captain Amarinder asked the department to give appointment and postings, at the earliest, to the 128 specialist doctors recently selected by the Dr KK Talwar committee.  Regular recruitment should also continue at all levels, he added. The Chief Minister noted that 77 PSA plants are in the process of being set up to meet requirement of oxygen in case of a sudden surge. The state also has over 6,700 Oxygen concentrators, he added.Medical Education & Research Minister OP Soni said 80 per cent of the preparations needed to tackle the third wave were already completed in the Government Medical Colleges of the state.Dr Talwar told the meeting that it was very difficult to predict the third wave due to mutation, with the Delta Plus variant already reported from 12 countries and 52 cases in Maharashtra. Urging extreme caution, he said it was necessary to see how the mutant behaves. As of now, the existing vaccines were showing effectiveness against the present variants, he said.On the Black Fungus (Mucormycosis), the Chief Minister noted that Punjab has had much fewer cases than most other states, including Haryana, and Delhi, which not only saw more cases but more than three times the deaths in Punjab. The Chief Minister, however, said it was unfortunate that 51 people had died due to black fungus in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-extends-covid-curbs-till-july-10-but-bars-pubs-ahatas-can-open-at-50-per-cent-capacity-275815
