13-04-2020||Faridabad||Coronavirus: Faridabad disinfection 'tunnels' will not be used, says DC||Though the district administration has installed four body sanitizing machines at public places in Faridabad amid the COVID- 19 outbreak, they have now decided to suspend the installation of more such machines.The move comes after the advisory issued by the World Health Organization (WHO) regarding disinfection activities. A letter quoting the guidelines of the WHO, issued by the office of the Director, Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Chennai on April 11, says that "Disinfection tunnels will create a false sense of security and people may be diverted from handwash to Disinfection tunnel’’.Also, the spraying of Alcohol, Chlorine or Lysol on human beings is not only harmful but also "ineffective,’’ says the communication issued to all the Deputy Directors, Health Services and Subordinate officials in various states. The letter has asked the authorities’ concerned that disinfection tunnels be not installed and used.Revealing that the district administration has decided to discourage the installation or use of such machines (tunnels),  DC Yash Pal Yadav, said that the authorities will keep a focus on ongoing measures like the promotion of hygiene, use of sanitizers, masks and social distancing to curb the COVID menace. Four such machines had already been installed and put to use at the Mini Secretariat, Civil Hospital and the ESI medical college here.However, claiming that cost of one Disinfection tunnel was around Rs 50,000, Birender Kardam, Superintending Engineer, Municipal Corporation Faridabad(MCF) said an official instruction regarding the move to stop the use of such machines was yet to be received. These machines are based on Sodium Hypochlorite solution.Meanwhile, as the total number of positive cases remain at 3 in the district, two samples have been resent for test after they were found inconclusive on Sunday. Result of another 117 samples is awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-faridabad-disinfection-tunnels-will-not-be-used-says-dc-70590
13-04-2020||---||1 kg heroin seized in Haryana’s Hisar, two held||Chandigarh, April 13In a major crackdown on drug menace, Haryana’s Special Task Force (STF) has seized 1 kg heroin from the possession of two accused in Hisar district.Police have also impounded a vehicle in this connection.Giving this information here on Monday, a spokesperson of Haryana Police said the arrested accused were identified as Ashwani, a resident of Khedar village and Pardeep of Pabra village in Hisar district.The accused were arrested by a team of STF Hisar from near Barwala Police Station.Acting on an input, the STF team confiscated 1 kg heroin from a Bolero jeep bearing Haryana registration number at a barricade in the district.The value of the seized contraband is estimated to be in crores. Both the accused were booked under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. A detailed probe is on to identify the other persons in this racket of drug-peddling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-kg-heroin-seized-in-haryanas-hisar-two-held-70586
13-04-2020||---||Sirsa woman tests coronavirus positive; Haryana tally reaches 185||Chandigarh, April 13A 30-year-old woman tested positive for Covid in Rori village of Sirsa district.The infected woman is wife of the maulvi of the village mosque where 19 Tablighi Jamaatis and six members of the maulvi's family were quarantined.With this, the total number of Covid patients in Sirsa has gone up to four. With this, the total number of Covid patients in Haryana has reached 185. Three people have so far died due to the infection in the state.Quarantined policeman dies in HisarHisar: A policeman died at the medical college in Agroha in Hisar district on Monday. He was suffering from some ailments and was isolated in the medical college. His corona report has turned out to be negative. Five of his family members are also quarantined in the medical college and their samples have been submitted for the Covid 19 and the results are awaited.25 Jhajjar samples turn negativeJhajjar: Samples of 25 local people employed at Maharaja Agrasen Hospital, Delhi, were found Covid negative. All those were in contact with a staff nurse of the hospital, who tested positive in Delhi three days ago.Kurukshetra’s Sector 7 declared containment zone as man tests positiveKurukshetra, April 13After a Kurukshetra resident tested positive for coronavirus, Sector 7 here has been declared a containment zone, while Sectors 4, 5, 8, 9 and 10 and adjoining societies have been declared as buffer zone.While a complete ban has been imposed on movement in Sector 7, and a door to door screening will be done, the internal movement is allowed in the buffer zone.Supply of 6 Panipat depots suspendedPanipat: The District Food and Supply Department suspended supply of ration of six depots allegedly after finding irregularities in the distribution of ration under the public distribution system (PDS) during lockdown. Besides, four more ration depots are on its radar and an inquiry has been started.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sirsa-woman-tests-coronavirus-positive-haryana-tally-reaches-185-70580
13-04-2020||Shri Krishan Hooda||A Hooda confidant, he won 4 elections in a row||Born on May 6, 1945, in Khidwali village of Rohtak, the Congress MLA is survived by wife Vidya Devi, two sons and two daughters.One of the senior-most legislators in Haryana, Hooda was elected to the state Assembly on six occasions, the last four being in a row from 2005. Hooda started his career from village politics and won his first Assembly election in 1987 from Kiloi on the ticket of the Lok Dal, headed by Devi Lal. In 1996, he won the seat on the Samata Party ticket, but switched over to the Congress before the 2005 elections.Considered a close confidant of former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda in the Congress, Shri Krishan Hooda won in the 1987, 1996 and 2005 Assembly elections from Kiloi and the next three elections from Baroda in Sonepat.When the Congress named Bhupinder Singh Hooda, a Lok Sabha member then, as Chief Minister in 2005, Shri Krishan Hooda vacated his seat for his mentor, who had been contesting that seat since then.Shri Krishan Hooda, in turn, shifted base to Baroda in Sonepat, which he won on three consecutive occasions in 2009, 2014 and 2019. In his last election, Shri Krishan Hooda defeated wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt of the BJP from the Baroda Assembly seat.In the state Assembly, Shri Krishan Hooda was considered an unassuming legislator and was hardly seen participating in any debate or discussion. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar expressed shock and grief over the death of Shri Krishan Hooda and offered his condolences to the bereaved family.Describing the late Congress MLA as a grassroots leader, former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda expressed deepest condolences. He said the demise of Shri Krishna Hooda was deeply shocking to him and said he was a strong pillar of state politics.“He was always available for his people, was deeply connected to the masses and was always the voice of farmers and the poor. His honesty and commitment to public service will always be remembered fondly by the people,” the former Chief Minister said.Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta described him as one of the senior-most legislators of the state and said the Assembly would miss his experience. State Congress president Kumari Selja, AICC media incharge Randeep Singh Surjewala and Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda also expressed their condolences on the Congress MLA’s demise. —Sushil Manav||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/a-hooda-confidant-he-won-4-elections-in-a-row-70255
13-04-2020||Hisar||14-yr-old gangraped by five in Hansi village||Sex racket busted in Panipat, seven heldPanipat: The police reportedly busted a sex racket being run in the name of a dance academy here on Friday. Seven persons, including four women, were nabbed. A case has been registered on the complaint of municipal councillor Ravinder Bhatia. Some residents informed him about the incident. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/14-yr-old-gangraped-by-five-in-hansi-village-70251
13-04-2020||---||UIET to conduct online course||Kurukshetra, April 12The University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), Kurukshetra University, will conduct an online course -- AICTE training and learning (ATAL) -- for faculty development on ‘internet of things’ from April 27 to May 1.Prof CC Tripathi, Director UIET, said the UIET had been selected for organising ATAL, sponsored by the All India Council for Technical Education, for the second time in a row. He stated that the UIET was the only college in Haryana to be selected for this programme.Dr Nikhil Marriwala, coordinator for ATAL, said of the 2,000 registrations received from all over the country, 100 participants had been allowed to attend the faculty development programme on first-come-first-served basis.He said a test would be conducted online on the last day to validate and quantify the knowledge obtained and those scoring more than 60 per cent would be termed as successful. He said those having 80 per cent attendance and scoring over 60 per cent in the test would be issued a digital certificate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/uiet-to-conduct-online-course-70250
13-04-2020||Deepender Deswal||In absence of combines, farmers turn to manual wheat harvesting||Tribune News ServiceHisar, April 12A number of farmers has returned to the manual harvesting mode of wheat crop in absence of the combine machinery in the district. With the migrant labour have returned to their native places and the combines, which mostly came from Punjab during the harvesting season not being available, the farmers have been cutting the wheat crop by themselves. The local labour is also getting the work in abundance.The farmers say that they have little option but to harvest the crop by themselves. “We cannot wait for the end of lockdown as the crop is ripened now. My entire family, including school-going children, is engaged in the crop cutting. It has been after about a decade that the family members have been harvesting the crop by ourselves as the availability of the combine have made it easier for us to harvest the crops”, said Anil, a farmer of Chahad village of the district.As a positive effect, there are almost negligible incidents of straw burning. Earlier, the farmers resorted to straw burning after harvesting the crop with combine.Another farmer, Naveen Kumar of Sundawas village, says they are hiring the local labour now. “The local labourers too have diverted to other works in the past as the migrant labourers took the place. But without work, the labourers are also available for farm work.” The labour charges 2.5 quintals wheat for harvesting in one acre field.Owners, family turn labourers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-absence-of-combines-farmers-turn-to-manual-wheat-harvesting-70249
13-04-2020||---||Private schools seek clarity on school fee directions||Ambala, April 12The Federation of Private Schools’ Welfare Association, Haryana, has expressed concern over ambiguous directions issued to private schools and has requested the Chief Minister to issues clear instructions regarding school fee.Kulbhushan Sharma, federation president, said, “The government has directed private schools not to pressure parents into paying fees during the lockdown. At the same time, it has not stated that schools cannot accept fee if paid willingly by parents. Some mischievous people are interpreting it as a direction that no private school can charge fee for this period. As a result, even those parents who are in a position to pay fee have stopped doing so.”“The Uttar Pradesh Government has issued directions to schools not to ask parents for fee for three months. Instead, the fee should be charged on a monthly basis. Similar instructions have been issued by the Bihar and Rajasthan Governments. The Haryana Government should follow in the footsteps of these states and let schools accept fee from parents who are in a position to pay,” he said.Allow fee collection for April: Private schools||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/private-schools-seek-clarity-on-school-fee-directions-70248
13-04-2020||---||Farmer hangs himself due to financial crisis||Karnal, April 12A 60-year-old farmer has committed suicide allegedly due to financial crisis by hanging himself with a tree near a dera in Gonder village yesterday. The deceased was identified as Sahab Singh, a resident of the dera.Confirming the incident, Ramphal, SHO, Nissing, told that the farmer has committed suicide due to financial crisis. They have handed over the body to the family members after the post-mortem.He said they had initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmer-hangs-himself-due-to-financial-crisis-70247
13-04-2020||Ambala||Son of deceased booked for hiding information||The police have booked Chetan Singh Kohli of Ambala for not cooperating with the quarantine team on the complaint of Dr Rajinder Rai, incharge of the Ambala district quarantine team. The complainant accused Kohli of not sharing complete information of who all had come in contact with his father before he died of Covid.“He neither shared travel history and information about the maid nor cooperated with us, which led to spread of the pandemic and posed a threat to public safety,” Dr Rai said. Kohli’s mother-in-law tested positive for Covid on Friday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/son-of-deceased-booked-for-hiding-information-70245
13-04-2020||Panipat||Pollution board takes 9 samples of river waters||Teams of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) have started collecting samples from various locations across the state to check pollution levels in the Yamuna and other water bodies. The teams collected nine samples from various locations in the Panipat area on Saturday.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had directed the HSPCB to take immediate action to carry out water quality monitoring at various locations under the National Water Quality Monitoring Programme. The CPCB directed it to collect samples before April 14 and submit reports by April 21. Following the CPCB directions, HSPCB member secretary S Narayanan directed regional officers to collect samples of all water bodies before April 14 to assess the impact of lockdown. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pollution-board-takes-9-samples-of-river-waters-70241
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt pandering to liquor lobby, claims Congress||Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala today said the “confounded and misdirected BJP-JJP government” had shamed the state through its hurry to get liquor business and factories started at a time when all its focus should have been in fighting Covid-19 and safeguarding virus warriors by providing personal protection equipment (PPE) to them.Addressing mediapersons on a videoconference, Surjewala launched an attack on the Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister for their “misplaced priorities” amid a severe pandemic situation. “The Haryana Government should have aimed at the welfare of 2.5 crore people of the state, but the leadership seems to be only concerned about safeguarding the interests of the liquor lobby,” he added.Citing an official circular from the Excise and Taxation Commissioner, Haryana, Surjewala said the priority of the government should have been to fight the virus instead of focusing on distilleries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-pandering-to-liquor-lobby-claims-congress-70238
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||160 govt employees donate month’s salary||As many as 160 state government employees have donated the entire salary for March towards the Corona Relief Fund.Among these employees, there are Class D employees too. Interacting with them on Friday during his daily address to the people, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar hailed Naresh, working as a peon. Naresh, who comes from Naraingarh, told Khattar that his family encouraged him to donate the salary. He joined service in 2019.Ravi, a constable, while talking to the chief minister, said his education, honesty and police training motivated him to do something for humanity, so he donated one-month salary towards the fund.Shahi Bala, a nurse, said she was scared to consult her husband while donating the salary. “Since childhood, we have been told to serve the nation. Today, there is a chance. We earn for the entire year, so it doesn’t matter to donate a month’s salary,” she said.Sarla Devi, a JBT teacher, told Khattar that she did not tell anyone about her move of donating the month’s salary. There are 2.75 lakh employees with the state government. Besides donations from government employees, the contributions in the Corona Relief Fund reached over Rs 72 crore on Friday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/160-govt-employees-donate-months-salary-70246
13-04-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Asked to adopt a family, Karnal locals do not disappoint||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 12Their endeavour was that no family should go hungry for want of ration during the lockdown since it was bound to hit daily-wagers the hardest. With this in mind, the Karnal civil administration rolled out its ‘Adopt-a-family’ initiative in the early days of the lockdown, inviting help from the public. And the people did not disappoint.Launched on March 27, the programme has already attracted donations to the tune of Rs 70 lakh and the administration has prepared 15,000 kits, weighing 22 kg, comprising flour, rice, pulses, spices, sugar, milk powder and soap, which are being distributed to needy families. Another 10,000 kits have been contributed by the administration itself for the needy, homeless and the vulnerable sections not covered under any government scheme.“The ration should take care of a family of five for three weeks since the lockdown was announced till April 14. We prepared these kits considering that five members make a family. We carried out a survey and found that there were nearly 10,000 such families in Karnal city itself and another 11,000 families in the entire district,” Deputy Commissioner, Karnal, Nishant Yadav, said.While municipal councillors were roped in to identify and reach out to families in their respective wards, the sarpanches and the members of the gram panchayat were asked to give a list of all such families in need of help. Further, the district’s 1950 helpline also received many calls from those in need of help and the administration took supplies to their doorstep.The programme has earned the appreciation of the Government of India with its Joint Secretary, Health, Lav Aggarwal, specially mentioning the initiative of the Karnal administration in his daily briefing a couple of days ago.Yadav said as many as 500 individuals and organisations from India and abroad, especially those with roots in the various villages of Karnal, had contributed to the cause and the number was going up steadily.“Some others have contributed which has helped us to feed the hungry. The millers, for instance, gave us rice. Many others have come forward in this time of crisis and we have not only been able to cater to the families but are working on readying more kits for supply in case the lockdown continues,” he said, adding the administration received a lot of public support.Under the programme, an individual can volunteer to adopt a family for one, two or three weeks and contribute Rs 500, 1,000 or 1,500, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/asked-to-adopt-a-family-karnal-locals-do-not-disappoint-70244
13-04-2020||---||GST refunds of industry to be processed soon: Deputy CM||Chandigarh, April 12Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala has assured Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) members that stuck GST refunds of the industry will be processed next week onwards.In his address to CII members through video-conferencing, the Deputy Chief Minister invited the CII to share a plan for calibrated restart of the economy and requested support from all quarters of the industry to work with the government and follow medical protocols.On being requested for waiving fixed electricity charges during the lockdown for industrial consumers, Dushyant stated that the Centre was working on a package for revival of the industry and Haryana would decide its package on the lines of the Union government’s package.Sunjay Kapur, Chairman, CII Haryana State Council, and chairman, Sona COMSTAR, highlighted the concerns being faced by the industry in terms of supply chain management for essential goods, harvesting of kharif crops and obtaining curfew passes and operational permissions.Dushyant assured him that the Government of India was working on a pan-India e-pass system and the state would follow the system, which was user-friendly and would help streamline the system. The meeting was attended by over 40 senior industry representatives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gst-refunds-of-industry-to-be-processed-soon-deputy-cm-70243
13-04-2020||---||Don’t throw masks in open, says administration||Kurukshetra, April 12Taking precautionary measures to stop the spread of Covid, the administration has asked local residents not to throw used masks and gloves in the open.Used masks and gloves will be collected from houses, quarantine homes, offices and other units separately and handed over to the company engaged in collecting biomedical waste from hospitals for scientific disposal.“The use of masks and gloves have increased due to Covid, but a large number of people are not putting used masks and gloves in dustbins. These have been found on the roads. Municipal councils and committees have been told to collect used masks and gloves in yellow bags and constitute dedicated teams and fleet of vehicles for their collection,” said an official.“We have asked workers engaged in garbage collection to keep gloves and masks separate from household waste so that these can be kept safely and handed over to the company engaged in collecting biomedical waste. Residents are being motivated not to throw masks and gloves in the open and keep these separately,” Thanesar Municipal Council Executive Officer BN Bharti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dont-throw-masks-in-open-says-administration-70242
13-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Faced with health crisis, women groups chip in to make masks||Kaithal, April 12Women members of self-help groups (SHGs) under the Haryana Rajya Aajivika Mission are playing an important role in breaking the Covid circle by preparing masks.Deputy Commissioner Sujan Singh said here that 234 women from women groups in various villages in Siwan, Guhla and Kalayat blocks of this district were making masks from good quality cloth and making these available in the market at reasonable rates.As many as 11,000 masks prepared by women members of SHGs had been handed over to the administration and 19,700 masks had been delivered to sarpanches of various panchayats for distribution.Keeping in view the devotion of the women, the district administration and Haryana State Marketing Board, Kaithal, had placed orders for masks. These women were making masks at their homes keeping in mind the social distancing norms, the DC added.Besides this, the women had been spreading awareness among the people, especially women, about Covid and telling them about the precautions to be taken.District Executive Manager of SHGs Manoj Kumar said that Rs 500 had been credited to the Jan Dhan bank accounts of these women.He advised all group members not to create a rush outside banks and observe social distancing norms as advised by the health authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faced-with-health-crisis-women-groups-chip-in-to-make-masks-70240
13-04-2020||---||Hooda flags distress sale of mustard||Chandigarh, April 12Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has said mustard harvesting is almost complete and most farmers have begun distress sale due to lack of storage facility. The official purchase of mustard will start on April 15.“Mustard is supposed to be sold at the MSP, but farmers are selling it at lower rates. The government needs to ensure proper storage facilities for farmers lest they sell their wheat crop below MSP to private agencies,” he said.Hooda said he had raised these issues before the government in the all-party meeting and suggested that every grain produced by the farmer should be bought. He said he had appealed to the government ensure purchase and storage of grain on MSP.Hooda called on farmers to help each other in harvesting and taking their produce to the market. He asked them to go back to Haryana’s tradition of ‘Dungwara’ as the state grappled with shortage of farm labour and machines. He said farmers should not forget social distancing norms while harvesting their crops and should not forget to wash their hands frequently. He said they should wear masks while harvesting crops and could cover their faces with traditional scarves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-flags-distress-sale-of-mustard-70239
13-04-2020||---||Haryana CM interacts with survivors||Chandigarh, April 12Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today interacted with several Covid survivors who had recovered fully after having tested positive for the virus.During his daily address to residents through television, Khattar brought several cured patients face to face with residents, asking them to narrate their experiences while battling the deadly disease. Faridabad resident Amrit Pal, who was discharged from Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi on April 10, asked patients suffering from the disease to have faith in God and the medical fraternity.He asserted that he did not face any stigma and was rather welcomed by members of his housing society after being discharged from hospital. Manu, who had history of foreign travel, was all praise for doctors at Safdarjung Hospital, saying he would keep in mind social distancing and hygiene.Monika, whose daughter and son were treated at a private hospital in Gurugram, said timely diagnosis went a long way in their treatment.Manju alleged stigmatisation at the hands of certain persons in society, alleging that the landlord was asking her to vacate the house. Khattar said he would direct officials concerned to extend her help.Face to face with residentsDuring his daily address to residents through television, CM Manohar Lal Khattar brought several cured patients face to face with residents, asking them to narrate their experiences while battling the deadly disease||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-interacts-with-survivors-70234
13-04-2020||---||3 discharged after recovery||Karnal, April 12Three positive cases undergoing treatment for Covid at the KCGMC were discharged after they tested negative for Covid in two consecutive reports. They will remain in home quarantine for 14 days.So far, Karnal has reported six positive cases and one death. Of the remaining five cases, three, including a doctor, staff nurse and a youth from Birchpur, were discharged today. A staff nurse and a youth from Rasin village are still undergoing treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-discharged-after-recovery-70233
13-04-2020||Karnal||3 Haryana govt hospitals get NQAS certification||The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has given National Quality Assurance Standards (NQAS) certification to three government hospitals in the state. The hospitals are the Karnal District Civil Hospital, Jagadhari Civil Hospital and Faridabad’s RCH FRU Hospital. The certification will be for a period of three years, following which there will be re-inspection.Vandana Gurnani, Additional Secretary and the Mission Director of the NHM, has issued a letter to Rajiv Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Haryana, congratulating him and the state team for the achievement.“It is a big achievement for us as we had met all five criteria set by the NQAS. The quality certification is a combined effort of all staff members, who are giving their best in providing health services to people,” said Dr Ashwani Ahuja, Civil Surgeon. He congratulated all staff members.The team had visited the Karnal District Civil Hospital between February 24 and 26. Various facilities in the hospitals were examined. The hospital met all five criteria. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-haryana-govt-hospitals-get-nqas-certification-70232
13-04-2020||---||Three escape from quarantine centre||Panipat, April 12Three persons under quarantine in an official centre at ESI Hospital escaped after jumping from a window. While two escaped on Saturday, the third one ran away in the wee hours of Sunday.The Health Department informed the police about the incident.They have been identified as Shafiq Ahmad of Assandh, Mohammad Shahrukh of Daryaganj in Delhi and Ashiq Ali of Shamli district in Uttar Pradesh.Shafiq was nabbed from the Madlauda area on Friday. Shahrukh, who was nabbed from the Panipat border on Friday night, was arrested today by the police for escaping from the centre. The main gate of the hospital was locked and the police force and security guards were on night duty. They both absconded from the quarantine centre through a window and ran away from the backside of the hospital, the sources said.The matter came to light in the morning. Dr SL Verma, Civil Surgeon, along with other officials, visited the centre and informed the police.Dr Verma said the samples of the duo had been sent for testing for Covid on Saturday.Meanwhile, 238 samples from the district have been sent for testing so far. Of which, 196 have been tested negative and three found positive have been treated successfully.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-escape-from-quarantine-centre-70230
13-04-2020||Ravinder Saini||Sealed border, thermal scanning saved the day for Mahendragarh||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, April 12Lesser number of people with travel history, no case of Tablighi Jamaat returnees and their contacts, timely sealing of the Rajasthan border and thermal scanning of outsiders have proved instrumental in preventing Covid-19 infection in Mahendragarh, which is one of the four districts of the state having no positive case so far.Jagdish Sharma, Mahendragarh DC‘Several steps taken’We took some vital decisions to prevent the assembly of people across the district. The vegetable markets in Narnaul, Mahendragarh and Nangal Choudhary towns were shifted to other places. We also imposed a strict ban on the movement of people.Mahendragarh shares border with Jhunjhunu and Alwar districts of Rajasthan. Both districts registered Covid positive cases at very the beginning of the lockdown, forcing the Mahendragarh authorities to review arrangements and initiate checking of body temperature of all those entering the district in order to prevent the spread of the pandemic.As many as 82 persons with travel history abroad are in home quarantine and 33 among them have completed their isolation period of 28 days.Anil Kaushik, Director, Eureka Public School, Narnaul, said though the district had been safe so far, a sense of fear still prevailed among locals following Covid cases being reported in adjoining Jhunjhunu and Alwar districts.“Parents have been coming to the school for enquiry regarding admissions of their wards, but I have strictly directed the watchmen not to allow them inside the campus. A notice in this regard has also been pasted at the main entrance,” said Kaushik.Ran Singh, a shopkeeper, said strictness on part of the authorities made people follow the protocol of the lockdown. “However, no social distancing is being maintained at the old grain market in Narnaul town, where customers can be seen sitting and roaming in groups,” he said.“Though the lockdown has hit our business, we understand the threat being posed by the deadly disease. We respect Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision for imposing the lockdown,” he said.Roshan Lal, who runs a business of electronic items in Mahendragarh, said the lockdown had given him an opportunity to spend quality time with his family and to chalk out a plan for future.“We took some vital decisions to prevent the assembly of people across the district. Not only were vegetable markets in Narnaul, Mahendragarh and Nangal Choudhary towns shifted to other places, we also imposed complete ban on the inter-district and interstate movement of people without any valid reason. Even ‘thikri pehras’ were organised in majority of villages in the first phase,” said Deputy Commissioner (DC) Jagdish Sharma, maintaining social outfits also played a vital role in making people aware of pandemic.Mahendragarh SP Sulochna said, “More than 1,300 challans have been issued and 40 FIRs have been registered against the violators of the lockdown. A monitoring team of police personnel is keeping a close watch every activity in the entire district.”Ashok Kumar, Civil Surgeon, said the initial step of quarantining all those coming to the district from abroad and other districts or states was a major factor that protected Mahendragarh from Covid. Locals were also motivated to stay indoors during the lockdown, he added.Early home quarantine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sealed-border-thermal-scanning-saved-the-day-for-mahendragarh-70237
13-04-2020||Deepender Deswal||Booze shops shut, hooch makers back in business||Tribune News ServiceHisar, April 12The lockdown seems to have led to a revival of the illicit hooch industry in the region. A number of villages which were notorious for hooch manufacturing have restarted their illegal operations of manufacturing and selling booze in Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad.Sources said incidents of manufacturing hooch had witnessed a spurt in many villages. While the police were busy in imposing the lockdown, anti-social elements have found an opportunity to return to their old business.Police sources said the demand for illicit liquor had suddenly gone up after the closure of liquor shops. The illegal smuggling of liquor, particularly from Uttar Pradesh, is taking place in the markets of Haryana which is evident from the brands of countrymade and English liquor, which are being made available clandestinely.The Hansi police raided several houses in Rajthal village of the district and seized the material being used in manufacturing hooch from 20 houses. Similarly, the Hisar police carried out raids at hooch manufacturers in Talwandi Rana and Piranwali villages. The police in Fatebahad and Sirsa districts, too, have been carrying out raids on the premises of hooch manufacturers who have resumed their illegal operations in Tohana and Ratia regions in Fatehabad district and Rori and Kalanwali regions in Sirsa district.District Excise and Taxation Controller Hisar Vijay Kaushik said apparently, the smuggling of illicit liquor had gone up during the lockdown. “The government has taken the decision for maintaining social distancing and shut liquor shops. Though the police are taking action based on tip-offs, incidents of illegal sale have gone up,” he said. The police also seized 24,000 bottles of liquor from an industrial area in Hisar last week. Hisar SP Ganga Ram Punia said they were keeping a close watch on the elements that could be indulging in smuggling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/booze-shops-shut-hooch-makers-back-in-business-70236
13-04-2020||---||Postal Department mobile app offers facilities on doorstep||Ambala, April 12The Postal Department, Haryana Circle, launched the mobile-based application ‘Haryana Post’ on Saturday to provide post office facilities on the doorstep.The application offers facilities, including cash withdrawal up to Rs 10,000 on the doorstep without charges, digital payment of Postal Life Insurance, rural Postal Life Insurance policies, recurring deposit, PPF and Sukanya accounts.Prabhat Goyal, Assistant superintendent, business development, Haryana circleThe application can be downloaded from the website of the Haryana Postal Circle. It will be available on playstore in a couple of days.The application has been launched by Ranju Prasad, Chief Postmaster General, Haryana Circle. “By using the newly launched application, consumers will get many services of the Postal Department on their doorstep. Only one request will be accepted in a day. The requests made before 2 pm will be cleared the same day while the requests made after 2 pm will be cleared on the next working day,” she said.Prabhat Goyal, Assistant Superintendent, Business Development, Haryana Circle, said, “Soon, the customers will also be able to order essential items too. Contracts are being made with vendors to supply essential items and currently one such contract has been done to provide sanitiser at control rate. The service will be provided through speed post.“The focus will be on providing items which are not easily available in the market. Soon, the department will also provide doorstep booking of speed post facility too. The application can be downloaded from the website of the Haryana Postal Circle. It will be available on playstore in a couple of days,” he said.Digital paymentThe application offers facilities, including cash withdrawal up to Rs10,000 on the doorstep without charges, digital payment of Postal Life Insurance, rural Postal Life Insurance policies, recurring deposit, PPF and Sukanya accounts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/postal-department-mobile-app-offers-facilities-on-doorstep-70235
13-04-2020||---||Karnal police win accolades for UV trunks||Karnal, April 12Senior police officers from Puducherry and Dehradun have shown interest in ultraviolet trunks developed by Karnal Inspector General of Police Bharti Arora for sterilisation of uniforms and other material of cops to save them from Covid infection.The IGs of both Puducherry and Dehradun today called on IGP, Karnal Range, Bharti Arora and applauded the initiative for taking care of cops, who are discharging duty at various nakas amid the Covid pandemic lockdown.Dehradun police even demanded some samples so that it could replicate the same for the safety of their personnel. As a goodwill gesture, Karnal police prepared 10 such trunks and handed over to Dehradun police.“I have received calls from IGP, Puducherry, and IGP, Dehradun, who acknowledged the effort of making a ‘UV sterilisation trunks to disinfect the uniform, wallet, belt, cap, currency notes, grocery, fruits, vegetables and other items which are used by cops daily,” said IG Bharti Arora.“We have sent 10 such boxes to Dehradun police, so that they can use it and further make the same at their own,” she added.The Karnal police have prepared 20 such trunks after taking a cue from the initiative of IIT-Ropar that uses ultraviolet lights to sanitise any item placed in it. Even the DGP, Haryana, Manoj Kumar Yadava also appreciated the step and exhorted all SPs to get the same UV trunk made to sanitise the daily items and accessories.Karnal police officials are also receiving calls from Punjab and Chandigarh regarding preparation of kit. “I have received several calls today from my counterparts in Chandigarh, Punjab, and other states to enquire about the preparation of this kit,” said SP Surinder Singh Bhoria.Disinfect uniform||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-police-win-accolades-for-uv-trunks-70231
13-04-2020||Parveen Arora||Pharma industry facing lack of raw, print, packaging material||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 12Amid the countrywide lockdown, the pharma industry is suffering because of the unavailability of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) like paracetamol, amoxicillin, azithromycin, cefuroxime axetil, among others, and the vital raw material used to manufacture tablets, capsules, syrups, etc. The stock of APIs is about to dry out in most of the pharmaceutical industries and, as per the pharma industrialists, the coming 5-6 months are going to be tough for them. Apart from it, they are facing shortage of print and packaging material.Amid the countrywide lockdown, the pharma industry is suffering because of the unavailability of active pharmaceutical ingredients There are around 250 pharma industries in Haryana, which export medicines to Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Gulf countries, South Africa, Bangladesh, Europe and others. The whole industry is over-dependent on China for APIs, which imports around 70 per cent of the total APIs to India. Due to worldwide restrictions, the import has been halted and industrialists are not getting it.“We are facing tough time due to the lockdown as we are not getting APIs as well as print and packaging material. APIs are essential for the manufacturing of medicines, but now our stock is almost non-existent, due to which it is difficult to maintain the flow of medicine production,” said RL Sharma, senior vice-president, Haryana Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association (HPMA).The industrialists allege they are not getting the supply of hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine phosphate, for which other countries are looking towards India. “We are in essential services, but we do not have sufficient material to produce and pack the medicines. We are not receiving the supply of hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine phosphate,” said Vikas Pruthi, joint secretary, HPMA.The industrialists blame they are not getting ethyl alcohol at low rate. “The Union government has issued order to provide ethyl alcohol to the hand sanitiser manufacturing industry at low cost, but most of the distilleries are increasing the prices day by day without any control. Moreover, the Union government has recommended to waive off 300 per cent excise duty from ethyl alcohol for hand sanitiser industry, but no such recommendations is being followed to provide hand sanitiser at low cost,” he added.The industrialists demand that the Union government should ensure the availability of APIs at reasonable rates, so that they can produce medicines. “The APIs should be controlled across the country to restrict black marketing,” said Raman Gupta, general secretary, Karnal Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pharma-industry-facing-lack-of-raw-print-packaging-material-70229
13-04-2020||---||Masks must in public areas: Vij||Ambala, April 12Wearing masks has been made mandatory for all in public places in the state and people violating the instructions will face legal action and the police will also issue challans.State Home Minister Anil Vij said, “In order to stop the Covid spread, it has been made compulsory for everyone going in public to wear mask. Directions have been issued to implement the orders strictly and the violators will face legal action.”However, the minister has also clarified that there was no need to purchase medical masks from the chemists and people can use any cloth to cover the face.Vij said, “People can use a towel, handkerchief, scarf, or any other cloth as mask. The only requirement is that the face should be properly covered. After using the mask, they should wash it properly with hot water, wear only dry masks and never share your mask. Even after wearing the mask, people must observe social distancing. All the guidelines are being issued in public interest only.”About the availability of PPE kits, and N95 masks, he said, “Ample stocks of PPE kits and N95 masks are available with the government and fresh orders have also been placed to purchase certified kits and masks.”“About 20,000 PPE kits have been sent to district hospitals while around 13,000 kits are still in the warehouses, and an order to purchase 1.10 lakh kits has been placed already. Similarly, around 61,000 N-95 masks have been sent to districts, about 71,000 masks are in the warehouse while an order has been placed to purchase 5 lakh masks. All required equipment is available and there will be no shortage of protection equipment in Haryana”, the minister added.‘Don’t share’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/masks-must-in-public-areas-vij-70228
13-04-2020||---||With 7 new cases, Haryana tally reaches 184||Chandigarh, April 12Haryana’s Covid tally today reached 184 with seven new cases.The fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (2), Kurukshetra (2), Jind (1), Nuh (1) and Yamunanagar (1).So far, Nuh leads in all districts with 45 cases, followed by Gurugram (32), Faridabad (31) and Palwal (29). These districts are likely to be declared red zones.A total of 3,903 people have been tested so far and 1,209 results are awaited. Thirty patients have been discharged.In Faridabad, two youths aged 22 and 27 tested positive today. Both are residents of Badkhal village and had been in contact with Tablighi Jamaat workers.In Yamunanagar, a 60-year-old man belonging to Shadipur village who had taken part in a Tablighi Jamaat programme in Maharashtra, tested positive today. He, along with 14 others, had gone to Maharashtra in February and returned on March 19. With the fresh case, the Covid tally in Yamunanagar district now stands at three; all from the Tablighi Jamaat. The other two had returned from Gujarat recently.In Jind, a 22-year-old youth tested positive today. He is the second person to test positive in the village. He had come in contact with a Covid positive Tablighi Jamaat worker.According to Health Department’s bulletin, two cases were confirmed in Kurukshetra. So far, three FIRs have been registered, one each in Yamunanagar, Palwal and Nuh districts against 16 Tablighi Jamaat workers, suspected to be infected with Covid, for not producing themselves before authorities till 5 pm on April 8.As procurement was scheduled to start, the government directed market committees to ensure that sanitary protocols of Covid were strictly followed at each procurement centre. About 2,000 purchase centres would be set up. The market committees would ensure that all employees and labourers wore masks.Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora directed officers to ensure that the public was not deprived of basic medical facilities. Haryana Roadways buses would be used to start mobile clinics. She was presiding over a meeting with Deputy Commissioners through video-conferencing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/with-7-new-cases-haryana-tally-reaches-184-70227
