17-04-2020||Rohtak||Migrant woman stranded in lockdown delivers child in Rohtak||Gudiya, a migrant woman from Chhatarpur district of Madhya Pradesh, who has been lodged at a shelter-home in Rohtak amidst the ongoing lockdown imposed in view of Covid pandemic, has given birth to a son.Gudiya’s husband Ashok worked and lived in Rajasthan, while her parents stayed at Ranila village in Charkhi Dadri district of Haryana. Last month, Gudiya and Ashok went to see Gudiya’s parents in Ranila.“We wanted to go to our native place in Madhya Pradesh as lockdown was imposed and we were out of work. As no transport was available, we started walking towards Delhi. However, the borders got sealed and we were stopped by the police in Rohtak district. We were then sent to this shelter-home,” stated Gudiya’s father Bihari Lal.Gudiya, who was pregnant, was sent to the Rohtak PGIMS a couple of days ago as the expected time of her delivery neared. She gave birth to a boy and has returned to the shelter-home set up at Dayanand Matth.“Proper arrangements have been made for the woman and her newborn child,” maintained Rampal Arya, the president of Arya Pratinidhi Sabha, Haryana, which looks after the Rohtak-based matth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/migrant-woman-stranded-in-lockdown-delivers-child-in-rohtak-72532
17-04-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram gang war: 30-year-old out on bail shot dead, police suspects 'rival gang'||Gurugram, April 17Amid the ongoing lockdown, a gang war shook Gurugram.A 30-year-old history-sheeter and gangster was gunned down by unidentified assailants in sector 9 on late Thursday night.An FIR has been registered against the five assailants at sector 9A police station.According to the police, the deceased is identified as Rahul—a resident of Firoz Gandhi colony—who died on the spot with 8 bullet shots.He was involved in over 10 cases of murder, murder attempts and arms act. He was also involved in the murder of slain gangster Neetu Gehlot in 2008.Recently, on April 4, he was let out on bail from Bhondsi jail. Police suspect that rival gangsters have eliminated him.According to the preliminary investigations, Rahul, along with some local youths, were guarding the entry to his colony after 11:30 pm. Eyewitnesses claimed a youth came on the scooty and talked to Rahul. They looked liked they were acquaintances.Rahul sat on his scooty and left. At a vacant plot, opposite Greenwood public school, four others joined the scooty rider, and gunned down Rahul, who died on the spot.On Friday morning, the police recovered Rahul's body, and informed his family."We have identified the accused and it was a matter of personal rivalry. The deceased was also a history-sheeter and involved in criminal cases including the murder of gangster Neetu Gehlot. We are conducting raids and the accused will be nabbed soon", said, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Crime, Preet Pal Singh Sangwan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-gang-war-30-year-old-out-on-bail-shot-dead-police-suspects-rival-gang-72525
17-04-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||'I am not Zaira Wasim, will continue to fight', says Babita Phogat on controversial tweets on Tablighi Jamaat||"I have said nothing wrong, I always speak the truth," said Commonwealth gold medallist wrestler Babita Phogat in a clip, referring to her statement that 'Jamaati' is a bigger threat to India than coronavirus on Friday.Now, Phogat has tweeted a video defending her point of view. Along with a clip, Phogat tweeted in Hindi: "Coronavirus is the second biggest problem in India, uncivilised Jamaat, however, are India's number one."Phogat begins by saying that she has been receiving a lot of hate messages on social media platforms for tweeting about those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation. "I am not Zaira Wasim that you can scare me with your threats. I am Babita Phogat and I have and will continue to fight for my country," said Phogat.She goes on to say that there is nothing wrong about what she had tweeted and that she still stands by it. "If the Tablighi Jamaat people hadn't spread coronavirus, the lockdown would have been lifted by now and we would have defeated the virus already," she further added.यदि आप बबीता फोगाट को सपोर्ट करते हैं तो उन तक यह बात जरूर पहुंचा दीजिए और उनको बोलिए ध्यान से कान खोल कर सुन लें। pic.twitter.com/gqec3lQwPE  Phogat ends the video by saying that she has always believed in speaking the truth and will continue to do so.#SuspendBabitaPhogat trended on the Twitter site this morning as many users criticised her remarks. Some of her supporters, however, countered the trend with the hashtag "#ISupportBabitaPhogat".Earlier, Phogat sparked a controversy after she linked coronavirus pandemic to the Islamic sect with a controversial hashtag on Twitter.National Award-winning actor Zaira Wasim had played the role of Babita's sister—Geeta—in "Dangal", the biopic based on the life of Phogat sisters and their father Mahavir Singh Phogat, also a wrestler. Last year, she had announced her exit from Bollywood that triggered a huge debate.This comes after netizens demanded that Twitter takes action against Phogat for spreading hate and comparing her to Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut's sister, Rangoli Chandel whose Twitter account was suspended on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/i-am-not-zaira-wasim-will-continue-to-fight-says-babita-phogat-on-controversial-tweets-on-tablighi-jamaat-72511
17-04-2020||Panchkula||Coronavirus: Three more test positive in Panchkula, district tally rises to 17||Three more people tested positive for coronavirus in Panchkula on Friday, taking the district's tally to 17.The three people, all residents of Kalka's Banoi Khuda Baksh village, had travelled to Sikar in Rajasthan to attend a religious congregation, officials of the district health department said. The new patients include a 68-year-old person, Panchkula Dr Jasjeet Kaur said. They have been quarantined.Three other people who had attended the same congregation had earlier tested positive for the deadly disease.The district now has 15 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-three-more-test-positive-in-panchkula-district-tally-rises-to-17-72464
17-04-2020||Faridabad||Coronavirus: 15 recover in Faridabad, 110 test negative||Seven patients, who suffered from coronavirus, have been discharged after they recovered in Faridabad in the last 24 hours.Fifteen, out of the total 33 positive cases in the district, have been discharged so far.The reports of all the 110 samples received in the past 12 hours have also tested negative. However, the report of another 225 samples is awaited, according to health department officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-15-recover-in-faridabad-110-test-negative-72461
17-04-2020||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has thanked the management of Divine Public School||Faridabad  School waives fee, gets CM’s pat||Kaithal Two booked for violating normsThe police have booked Mukesh of Jadola village in the district for bringing seven labourers from Punjab for harvesting the wheat crop. In another case, Happy of Ahmedpur Garhi, who had violated home quarantine orders, was booked and nabbed. He was advised home quarantine on his return from Madhya Pradesh. OCSonepat Sanitising tunnel at sabzi mandiThe local sabzi mandi got its first sanitisation tunnel on Thursday. It has been donated and developed by the non-profit Institute for Employment by Art, Science and Technology (IEAST). The low-cost tunnel uses benzalkonium chloride, a chemical recommended as anti-viral and safe for human use. It is used in eye drops, antiseptic creams, non-alcoholic sanitisers and antimicrobial hand wipes. Partap Singh, founder-chairman of Savrdh Foundation and IEAST, said the tunnel was meant to supplement, and not replace, measures such as washing hands, wearing mask, maintaining social distancing and using hand sanitisers. OCAnganwadi workers give rationIn view of the situation caused due to Covid-19, the Haryana Women and Child Development Department has distributed ration to all anganwadi centres across the state till April 30. Minister of State for Women and Child Development Kamlesh Dhanda said the ration had been distributed at the beneficiaries' doorstep by anganwadi workers and helpers in compliance with the state government's orders to maintain social distancing. The ration included wheat, rice, gram flour, soyabean, sugar, oil and other spices. Sanitary napkins, diapers, sanitisers and face masks were also being distributed. TNSG’gram Couple hide Markaz visit, bookedAn FIR for attempt to murder has been registered against a couple for concealing information about their visit to the Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi. The nambardar and sarpanch of Bubalheri village have been booked for shielding them. According to the police, Bubalheri residents Hasan and Zarina had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event. Following a tip-off, they were evacuated and sent to an isolation centre. OCKaithal Dry ration for Kashmiri tradersThe Kaithal administration has come to the aid of a few Kashmiris selling clothes who were stuck here in the lockdown. The administration provided them dry ration through the District Red Cross Society. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-school-waives-fee-gets-cms-pat-72447
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||22K MT mustard procured in state||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/22k-mt-mustard-procured-in-state-72446
17-04-2020||---||Three of family die in LPG blast||Rohtak, April 16A woman, her 14-year-old daughter and 2-year-old son were killed in an LPG blast at their house in Rithal village of Rohtak district today.The tragic incident took place when Karambir’s wife Reena was attending to their son Kartik and their daughter Kajal went to prepare tea.“Kajal, Kartik and Reena were killed on the spot as their living room-cum-kitchen caught fire instantly,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-of-family-die-in-lpg-blast-72444
17-04-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||In Haryana, 55% positive cases have no travel history||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 16More than 55% of the Covid positive cases in Haryana didn’t have any travel history but were contacts of national or international travellers, according to an analysis by the health department of the first 181 cases of the state.Among the positive cases in the state, only 17 (9%) were international travellers and 64 were national travellers (35.4%). And, 100 cases (55.2% ) had no travel history and got infected after coming in contact with travellers.A majority of the positive cases in Haryana are less than 50 years old. Of the 181 Covid cases, 65 (35.9%) are in the age group of 10-30 years, 53 (29.3%) in the bracket of 30-50 years and three cases in the 0-10 age group. So, 121 cases (66.9 %) are aged less than 50 years. There are 54 cases (29.8 %) are in age group of 50-70 years while just six cases (3.3 %) in the above 70 age group, said Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, nodal officer for Covid in Haryana.The younger age profile of patients also explains the lower number of deaths in Haryana. Only three infected patients died in Haryana, making the death rate 1.7%.A 67-year-old Ambala resident was the first casualty in Haryana on April 1. Another 67-year-old Rohtak woman died on April 3 and then a 58-year-old farmer from Karnal succumbed to the virus on April 5. All three had comorbidities and belonged to 50-70 years age bracket.There are 86% males (155) and just 14% (26) females among positive cases. “Deaths among Covid cases is lower in Haryana as a majority of the positive cases are young,” said Dr Digamber Behera, senior professor of pulmonary medicine at PGI, Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-haryana-55-positive-cases-have-no-travel-history-72251
17-04-2020||Gurugram||Migrants try to flee home in ambulances, held||Eleven migrant workers were arrested for breaking the lockdown by trying to travel to Bihar’s Champaran in two ambulances here today. The ambulance owner and four drivers have also been arrested.The 11 intended to travel to Bihar posing as patients and their attendants on fake medical documents. A case has been registered at the Badshahpur police station.The suspects were produced in a local court, which remanded them in judicial custody. The police are searching for the alleged mastermind of the travel racket, Dr Suresh, who is the manager of a local private hospital. The workers, who were employed at private companies, planned to travel home after they ran out of money. Desperate to reach their native places, they got in touch with Dr Suresh, who demanded Rs 7,000 per person for the journey. “Dr Suresh, manager of Vaidik Hospital, prepared fake medical documents and gave these to the ambulance staff. As the accused were leaving for Bihar in two ambulances, they were arrested at Vatika Chowk. The two ambulances were impounded.“Raids are on to arrest Dr Suresh,” ACP (Crime) Preet Pal Singh said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/migrants-try-to-flee-home-in-ambulances-held-72225
17-04-2020||Gurugram||Two commit suicide in Gurugram||Two suicides were reported in Palam Vihar area on Thursday and are believed to be ‘lockdown induced’ suicides. One of the deceased was a drug addict who, unable to get his dosage, killed himself and sent an audio suicide note to his uncle. On the basis of the audio, an FIR of abetment to suicide was registered against villagers at Palam Vihar police station. The other deceased was a senior citizen whose body was found in a park. As per the police, 22-year-old Abhishek, a native of Sanwad village in Charkhi Dadri, allegedly hanged himself at his house. In the audio suicide note, he claimed that two residents of a nearby village used to provide him drugs but refused to deliver now. Meanwhile, the dead body of 80-year-old Nand Kishor, a resident of Sector 23-A, was found in Tau Devilal park, Sector 23, on Thursday. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-commit-suicide-in-gurugram-72084
17-04-2020||Yamunanagar||Three Yamunanagar suspects test negative in second report||The second report of three persons, who had tested Covid positive here, has come out negative.Civil Surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya said following the subsequent report, the three patients were discharged from Covid hospital, set up at ESI hospital in Jagadhri.“Now, all three patients will have to undergo 14-day quarantine period at the quarantine centre in community health centre in Chhachhrauli. So, at present, there is no Covid patient in Yamunanagar district,” said Dr Dahiya.He said out of the three, two Covid patients, who had attended Tablighi Jamaat event in Gujarat, belonged from Mamidi village, while one Covid patient, who had attended the event in Maharashtra, hailed from Shadipur village. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-yamunanagar-suspects-test-negative-in-second-report-72092
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||Give sweepers, cops pay hike, says Hooda||Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has demanded double salary for policemen and sweepers on the lines of health professionals.  “These people are also working day and night without taking leave and rest. We cannot do enough to acknowledge their work and encourage these Covid warriors who are saving lives by putting their own lives at stake,” Hooda said. The former Chief Minister also appreciated the work of mediapersons. He said that mediapersons, like government employees, must also be recognised as Covid warriors.  “Even today, all media personnel are working round the clock on the streets and offices to keep people updated and spread awareness. Therefore, I appeal to all media organisations, newspapers and channel owners to provide incentives to these warriors on the lines of the decision taken by the state government to provide double salary to those leading the fight,” Hooda added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/give-sweepers-cops-pay-hike-says-hooda-72091
17-04-2020||Karnal||No new +ve case in Karnal in last 5 days||Karnal district has witnessed no positive case in the last five days, giving a relief to the residents living here. Earlier, the district had six positive cases, but now it has two active cases. One patient had died, while three cases, which were positive, now have been reported negative and have been discharged from hospital. On Thursday, the department collected samples of 38 suspected persons, while the reports of 44 persons, whose samples were collected on Wednesday, came as negative. So far, Karnal has collected 429 samples, of them 379 tested negative and the report of 44 are pending. As per the sources, barring one patient, the remaining five positive cases did not have any symptoms of Covid. Four patients including one doctor and two staff nurse got infected from first patient of Rasin village, who had died. “It is a good sign that the district has not witnessed any fresh case since last five days. Our teams are visiting each and every household to scan the health of every person. I appeal to the residents to immediately report at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) if they feel any flu-like symptoms and difficulty in respiration,” said Dr Ashwain Ahuja, Civil Surgeon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-new-ve-case-in-karnal-in-last-5-days-72090
17-04-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Strict lockdown pays off in Sonepat district||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, April 16To stop the spread of Covid in Sonepat, the district administration has enforced the lockdown strictly. The administration has identified hotspots of the pandemic in the district and sealed five localities.Covid entered Sonepat with a 23-year-old woman who had returned from the UK in March. The number of cases rose to four. Negligence came in the limelight when a Covid-positive sub-inspector (SI) was cremated in violation of norms.5 localities sealedFive localities in the district — Sainipura in Jatwara village, Gali No. 6 in Idgah Colony, Bakhtawarpur village, Mohan Nagar and Shiv Colony — were sealedAs the matter came to light, the district administration quarantined people and lodged a criminal case against the private hospital at Delhi. The SI’s son tested positive and was put in isolation at the BPS Medical College for Women in Khanpur Kalan.A health worker posted in Faridabad was found Covid-positive, which was a case of negligence. The health authorities in Faridabad, after taking samples, sent him home in Sonepat. The district administration was informed after he tested positive.Anshaj Singh, Deputy Commissioner, said they had quarantined all members of the SI’s family and those who attended his cremation. He said Sonepat was the first district to develop a state quarantine facility. He said they quarantined foreign returnees who were not following rules at home.Five localities in the district — Sainipura in Jatwara village, Gali No. 6 in Idgah Colony, Bakhtawarpur village, Mohan Nagar and Shiv Colony — were sealed as per protocol, he maintained.Jashandeep Singh Randhawa, Superintendent of Police, said they had put up three nakas on the border with Delhi, set up 25 nakas on approach roads and ordered special patrol in agricultural fields. He said migrants who had come from Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and other parts of the state were sent to shelter homes. He said 327 persons with foreign travel history had come to Sonepat, but were identified and quarantined with the help of health officials.He said the district had 53 Tablighi Jamaat members, who had been quarantined in time. He said around 300 persons who had visited the Nizamuddin area in Delhi were identified and quarantined.He said 330 persons had been arrested for violating lockdown norms in 274 cases. He said 4,100 motorists had been challaned, 420 vehicles impounded and fine amounting to Rs 1.45 crore imposed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/strict-lockdown-pays-off-in-sonepat-district-72089
17-04-2020||Parveen Arora---||OPD services resume in Karnal after 20 days||Tribune News Service Karnal, April 16 After a closure of around 20 days amid Covid pandemic, private hospitals have restarted the OPD facility for public from Thursday. This step has been initiated by the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Karnal, after a meeting with Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav yesterday, in which doctors were directed to ensure the safety measures to check the virus spread. Doctors have been told to sanitise the hospital and the patients, besides providing them masks if they come without it. The IMA has also been directed to report if they find any patients with flu or Covid symptoms. Around two days after the enforcement of lockdown, most hospitals withheld the OPD service and started providing consultation telephonically to general public. However, the emergency services were extended during this period. “We have restarted the OPD as per the directions of the district administration. The timing for the same will be from 9 am to 1 pm,” said Dr Arun Goel, IMA, Karnal, president. The doctors claim that they are ensuring all safety measures to curtail the Covid spread. “We are adopting all safety measures, which have been recommended by the district administration. We are sanitising patients as well as providing them masks if they do not have,” said Dr Kamal Charaya, a physician. Doctors appealed to the general public not to come to hospital if there was no urgency. “We have started the OPD facility for pregnant women also, but I request the general public not to visit hospital unless there is some emergency,” said Dr Priyanka Mimani. Dr Balbir Singh Virk, an ortho surgeon, said, “If someone has little bit problem, he/she can take consultation telephonically. I have directed all staff members to keep sanitising the hospital premises as well as every person entering and exiting the hospital. Only one patient is allowed at a time in the OPD.” The patients also welcomed the step and said that it would help ensure better medical aid. “I was suffering from stomach problem for the last two days, but the problem did not subside. I could not avail medical facility as OPDs were closed. Today, when I came to know about the reopening of OPDs, I immediately came to get myself checked. The OPDs should be continued even in all circumstances,” said Nirmala Devi, a patient.  “We were getting complaints that people are facing problems due to closure of hospitals, so we had held a meeting with the IMA, which assured us to resume the OPD service with a fixed timing. However, the emergency services will be available for 24 hours. The private doctors have to report to KCGMC if they find any patient having symptoms of Covid or flu,” stated the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/opd-services-resume-in-karnal-after-20-days-72088
17-04-2020||Chandigarh||DCs told to prepare for relaxations post April 20||Haryana Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora said keeping in view the guidelines issued by the government regarding relaxation in lockdown from April 20, all Deputy Commissioners (DCs) should prepare and plan for the permitted operations including auction of fisheries ponds, construction work, opening of dhabas and Common Service Centres (CSCs), etc.Apart from these activities, forest watering, irrigation and mining operations should also be carried out in a phased manner ensuring proper health protocols.She said the police would play an important role in monitoring and ensuring the adherence of guidelines issued for carrying out the economic operations.The Chief Secretary gave these directions while presiding over the meeting of the Crisis Coordination Committee with the nodal officers appointed for Covid through a video conferencing here.She directed that as the MNREGA labour was allowed for activities especially irrigation operations and water conservation, therefore the officers concerned should strictly ensure and closely monitor issuing of the e-Passes to everyone involved in these operations. She said DCs should ensure that only those brick-kilns permitted by the NGT must be opened.She further directed that the Industry Department should issue immediate directions to all industrialists and establishments to adhere to the checklist as per Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) given by the Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines.She added that every DC and civil surgeon should immediately hold meetings with the district chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and urge them to actively participate in reporting to the civil surgeons, district and public health authorities about any patient who has influenza or Covid symptoms so that the patient can immediately be sent for further sampling.Meanwhile, Additional Chief Secretary (Health), Rajeev Arora said the containment zone protocols and plotting of containment zones in the rural areas would be done in which mapping of a particular village which had been found to be a part of the containment zone would be included based on the latitude and longitude. Thereafter, a line of 3 km or whatever is required would be drawn and accordingly other areas which were also treated as containment zones, would also be included in these, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dcs-told-to-prepare-for-relaxations-post-april-20-72087
17-04-2020||Tribune Reporters---||Drones to catch lockdown violators in Ambala, F’bad||Ambala, April 16 After cracking the whip on national lockdown violators through police check-posts and patrolling, the district administration has now gone hi-tech to catch those violating the prohibitory order in Ambala. For this purpose, drones have been introduced to keep an eye from the sky. Sharing the details, Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma said the drones would click the photographs and shoot videos of all those caught roaming and moving outside during the lockdown and forward the same to the district police. The district police would scrutinise all the photos and videos received from the drones and would issue show-cause notices to those caught on camera. Under the first phase, two drones have been put to use in Ambala Cantonment pockets, which had been declared hotspot/ epicentre. Acting tough against the violators, the district police have challaned almost 2,500 vehicles, impounded 300 vehicles and imposed Rs 70 lakh fine on the violators for various violations during the first phase of the 21-day national lockdown. Faridabad: One of the Covid hotspots in the state, Faridabad has so far reported 33 positive cases. While 11 were discharged after treatment, over 1,200 are still under surveillance. Faridabad Police Commissioner IG KK Rao said these drones are capable of recording movement in public areas stretching many km. “Drones have a police siren which will be deterrent and a reminder that the police are watching,” said CP Rao.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drones-to-catch-lockdown-violators-in-ambala-fbad-72086
17-04-2020||---||8 of family test +ve in Panchkula||Chandigarh, April 16With 15 persons testing Covid positive on Thursday, the state’s tally jumped to 208. Eight of a family tested positive in Panchkula, while seven new cases were reported from Nuh. Health Minister Anil Vij announced that Health Department teams would visit every house for screening and if required samples will be taken.In Panchkula, an architect, his daughter and six members of his extended family tested positive in Sector 15 today. They had come in contact with the architect's wife who works as a post office employee and had tested positive earlier. It is not known how the post office employee got the infection. The administration has sealed Sector 15.In Nuh, three out the seven who tested positive today have a Tablighi Jamaat connection, while four others are primary contacts of Covid-positive patients. With this, Nuh now has 55 patients, the highest among all districts. It is followed by Faridabad (33), Gurugram (32) and Palwal (30).The cumulative number of samples taken so far reached 8,064 of which 6,465 tested negative and results of 1,408 were awaited. Fiftyone patients have been discharged so far and three have died. Today, the health bulletin of the state government also added 14 Italian nationals to its tally, out of which 13 have since recovered, while one elderly woman in the group passed away a few days ago even though she had been treated.Vij, interacting with mediapersons after a review meeting on preparedness with Home, Health and Family Welfare, Medical Education and Research and Urban Local Bodies Departments, said these four departments were on the forefront in the fight against Covid.He said advisories were being by the government and these were being implemented in the state as well. In this series, containment zone and buffer zones have been created. He said a letter had been written to the Indian Medical Association so that private doctors are asked to open their clinics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/8-of-family-test-ve-in-panchkula-72085
17-04-2020||---||Double pay only for Covid-duty days, doctors reject govt offer||Chandigarh, April 16Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s announcement to pay double salary to doctors and paramedics on the forefront of the fight against coronavirus will entitle them for increased pay only for days they work with Covid patients. ‘Will only demoralise cadre’ He said all doctors — whether in civil hospitals, PHCs, CHCs, or urban dispensaries — were performing activities aimed at controlling the Covid pandemic Irked by an internal communication of the Health Department asking districts to give details of the period for which doctors, paramedics, etc have been working with Covid patients, the Haryana Civil Medical Association (HCMSA) has rejected the offer and demanded that the government just provide N95 masks and protective gear.The Association has shot off a letter to Health Minister Anil Vij, stating that they had not demanded double salary and reiterated its demand to provide doctors sufficient medicines, safety gear.“As per an email received from the state headquarters, the benefit of double basic salary will be applicable for the period doctors work in isolation wards, ICUs and for sampling of Covid patients. This would demoralise the HCMS cadre. Hence, the HCMSA has decided not to take double salary on this pattern,” said Dr Rajesh Sheokand, general secretary of the HCMSA in the letter addressed to Vij.Sheokand has drawn Vij’s attention towards the fact that all doctors — whether in civil hospitals, PHCs, CHCs or urban dispensaries – were performing various activities aimed at controlling the Covid pandemic such as screening, treatment, sampling, testing, active field surveillance, treatment at quarantine centres, treatment of migrant labourers, OPDs, emergency rooms, postmortem, operation theatre and casualty.“Doctors posted in isolation wards and ICUs and doing Covid sampling use PPE kits and they know they are dealing with infected patients. But the doctors in the above-mentioned services are at higher risk because they don’t know whether or not the patient is Covid positive. They are attending to patients without even PPE kits or N95 masks,” he said.“The proposal for double salary was of the CM; we never demanded it. It is our moral duty to save lives,” the HCMSA said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/double-pay-only-for-covid-duty-days-doctors-reject-govt-offer-72083
17-04-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Govt ready with list of sites as construction to resume||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 16Haryana is readying to allow over 30,000 labourers to resume work at construction sites post April 20, once lockdown relaxations are granted by the Union Government.Sources in the Town and Country Planning Department said resumption of construction work would be allowed only where labour was presently housed at the sites. No to and fro movement of labour would be allowed, as of now.The sources maintained that the department had prepared a list of all such sites where construction work was in progress when the lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of Covid.According to information available with the department, construction was in progress at 219 sites in licensed colonies and at 116 change-of-land-use (CLU) sites in the state. While there were 26,000 labourers at sites in licensed colonies, there were nearly 4,000 labourers at CLU sites.The department was likely to give the go-ahead to these sites once relaxations were in place. Despite permission for construction, most of these sites might have to wait a week or more since they had no raw material in stock.With mining to resume on April 20, it was expected that supplies of steel, cement, bricks and grit would take a week to reach the sites, implying that construction work would resume in full swing at these sites by April 25.219 Workforce at time of lockdown Licensed colony sites116 Change-of-land-use sites||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-ready-with-list-of-sites-as-construction-to-resume-72082
17-04-2020||---||5 months on, Taraori farmers, arhtiyas await paddy payment||Karnal, April 16 Scores of farmers and arhtiyas of the Taraori Grain Market have been waiting to be paid for paddy procured by the government five months ago in November, despite the government’s claim of clearing payments in 72 hours.  Arhtiyas and farmers claim payment of around Rs 40 crore — Rs 32 crore of farmers and Rs 8 crore of the arhtiyas — is pending with the Food and Civil Supplies Department for paddy purchased on November 14. They have been running from pillar to post to get this payment. “Around Rs 40 crore is pending with the department, of which around Rs 32 crore is of farmers. The department delayed filing of reconciliation of data, due to which payments are delayed and we are suffering. We have approached Nilokheri MLA Dharampal Gonder, who also took up the matter with the higher authorities of the department, but no action has been initiated,” said Nathi Ram, president of the Taraori Arhtiya Association. He said farmers were approaching arhtiyas repeatedly for pending payment. Farmer Rishi Pal claimed he sold his paddy crop on November 14, but his payment was pending. “I am in a financial crisis and desperately need my money.” District Food and Supply Controller Anil Kumar  said:  this was due to delay in filing of reconciliation data of around 13,000MT paddy. “The last date for reconciliation of data was December 15, but somehow it got delayed for around 15 days. I have informed the higher authorities and hopefully their dues will be release soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-months-on-taraori-farmers-arhtiyas-await-paddy-payment-72081
17-04-2020|| Faridabad||32-yr-old woman with flu-like symptoms dies||A 32-year-old woman died under mysterious circumstances here early Thursday morning. Said to be suffering from influenza-related symptoms, her body was cremated as a Covid suspect in the afternoon.  Health officials, however, said it was unclear how the woman died and coronavirus could not be termed as the main cause of death at this point. “We have quarantined the woman’s husband and 63 persons residing in her neighbourhood and have sent samples of as many as 30 persons for testing,” said Dr Sanjiv Bhagat, a Health Department official. Relatives of the woman, a residing of a slum cluster in Sector 58 here, reported her death around 12.45 am.  “A team of officials took her to the hospital where her body was examined, disinfected, packed in a bag and handed over to Municipal Corporation officials for cremation as per Covid guidelines and protocol,” said the report submitted by the Health Department to the district authorities. Admitting that the woman was cremated as a suspected Corona case, a senior official said that since there was no record of her suffering from the disease, nothing could be said about the cause of death. “Samples of her husband and 30 other persons who had been in contact with her have been sent for testing. The test results will make the situation clear,” said DC Yashpal Yadav. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/32-yr-old-woman-with-flu-like-symptoms-dies-72080
17-04-2020||Hisar||Cop arrested for killing wife||A police constable posted as gunman with the Jind DSP today hit his wife with a stick, leading to her death, in the Housing Board Colony here. The accused, identified as Vikram, hailing from Dewas village in Bhiwani district, was residing in rented accommodation here. The cop returned home drunk last night, leading to an argument. The police said the couple had a scuffle this morning, after which Vikram hit his wife with a stick. She suffered injuries, leading to her death on the spot. The couple got married five years ago. A police spokesperson said the accused informed his in-laws and called the police. The police arrested the cop from his house. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cop-arrested-for-killing-wife-72079
17-04-2020||Rohtak||7 booked for running spurious liquor units||Several units involved in manufacturing and sale of illicit liquor were unearthed in Khidwali village of Rohtak district during a police raid on Thursday. The persons against whom a case has been registered include Ram Dass, Jai Kishan, Ishwar, Satyanarayan, Kaptan, Bal Kishan and Ram Kishan of Khidwali village, while Jai Kishan’s wife Poonam has been arrested. DSP Sajjan Kumar said on getting a tip-off, a special police team comprising of personnel from the Sadar police station in Rohtak and CIA-2 staff was constituted. “The team raided different sites at which illicit liquor was prepared and sold in the village. Seven cases have been registered and a woman has been arrested in this connection. In all, 160 litres of ‘lahan’ (a raw material used to prepare liquor) and six bottles of illicit liquor were seized during the raid,” the DSP said. Besides this, 215 bottles of illicit liquor were seized from different places in the district today. The Rohtak police registered 16 cases and arrested 10 persons for violating the lockdown orders today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-booked-for-running-spurious-liquor-units-72078
17-04-2020||Mahendragarh||Central varsity gets project on agro-waste||Department of Microbiology at Central University of Haryana (CUH) here has been granted a research project on utilisation of dietary fibres from underutilised crops and agro-wastes for food and feed.  Department of Science Technology (DST) has given the project under ASEAN India Science and Technology Development Fund, with Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), as their implementation partner.  “Dr Gunjan Goel from the CUH will focus on utilisation of waste resources in development of suitable food ingredient for human use,”said RC Kuhad, Vice-Chancellor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/central-varsity-gets-project-on-agro-waste-72077
17-04-2020||Ambala||Deputy CM visits procurement centre to review arrangements||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday paid a surprise visit at the Shahzadpur grain market in Ambala to check the ongoing mustard purchase arrangements.Procurement of mustard began in the state from April 15, while wheat’s procurement will commence from April 20.Chautala assured the farmers that every single morsel of their foodgrain produced in the state would be procured in a hassle-free manner. He directed the officials involved in the procurement process to help facilitate the peasants in bringing their produce to the purchase centres.The Deputy CM said in view of the Covid crisis, the number of purchase centres in the state had been increased from 67 to 162 so that the farmers wouldn’t have to travel too much for selling their produce.Terming the opposition’s apprehensions on procurement as “unfounded and unjustified”, Chautala said Haryana was the only state to have begun the procurement of mustard crop on MSP. “They should explain why their party’s governments hadn’t yet begun with the procurement of mustard in Punjab and Rajasthan,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/deputy-cm-visits-procurement-centre-to-review-arrangements-72076
