02-06-2021||World||Beer is latest vaccine incentive for Biden 'month of action'||President Joe Biden is announcing a “month of action” Wednesday to urge more Americans to get vaccinated for Covid-19 before the July 4 holiday, with an early summer sprint of incentives, including free beer, childcare and sports tickets to convince Americans to roll up their sleeves.In an afternoon address from the White House, Biden will announce a slew of new initiatives to ease barriers to vaccinations and to make getting shots more appealing to those who haven't received a dose yet. It comes as he is closing in on his goal to get 70% of adults partially vaccinated by Independence Day — essential to his goal of returning the nation to a pre-pandemic sense of normalcy this summer.“We’re looking at June as a critical month in our path to normal and as a critical month in order to continue the progress we’re making in our vaccination campaign," Courtney Rowe, the director of strategic communications and engagement to the White House Covid-19 response team, told the AP.The White House said Biden’s “month of action” will continue to use public and private-sector partnerships to encourage Americans to get shots, mirroring the “whole of government” effort Biden deployed to make vaccines more widely available once he took office.Anheuser-Busch announced a promotional giveaway Wednesday morning, saying it would “buy Americans 21+ a round of beer” once Biden’s 70% goal is met.Additionally, the White House is partnering with early childhood centers such as KinderCare, Learning Care Group, Bright Horizons and more than 500 YMCAs to provide free childcare coverage for Americans looking for shots or needing assistance while recovering from side effects.They're the latest vaccine sweeteners, building on other incentives like cash giveaways, sports tickets or paid leave, to keep up the pace of vaccinations.“The fact remains that despite all the progress, those who are unvaccinated still remain at risk of getting seriously ill or dying or spreading the disease to others," said Rowe.Aiming to make injections even more convenient, Biden is announcing that many pharmacies are extending their hours this month — and thousands will remain open overnight on Fridays. The White House is also stepping up its efforts to help employers run on-site vaccination clinics. It's launching a new partnership to bring vaccine education and even doses to more than a thousand Black-owned barbershops and beauty salons, building on a successful pilot program in Maryland.Biden will also announce that he is tapping Vice President Kamala Harris to lead a “We Can Do This” vaccination tour to encourage shots, that will include first lady Jill Biden, second gentleman Doug Emhoff and Cabinet officials. Harris' travel will be focused on the South, where vaccination rates are among the lowest in the country, while other officials will travel to areas of the Midwest with below average rates.“As we think about these next four weeks, we are making sure we’re using a ‘whole of America’ approach,” said Rowe. "It’s the private sector, it’s mayors, it’s colleges, it’s celebrities and social influencers, it’s our own government officials, but it’s also everyday Americans. It’s going to take all of us being part of this to get more people vaccinated and to put the pandemic behind us and keep it there.”To date 62.8% of the adult U.S. population has received at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine and 133.6 million are fully vaccinated. The rate of new vaccinations has slowed again to an average below 600,000 per day, down from more than 800,000 per day when incentives like lotteries were announced, and down from a peak of nearly 2 million per day in early April when demand for shots was much higher.The lengths to which the U.S. is resorting to convince Americans to take a life-saving shot stands in contrast to much of the world, where vaccines are far less plentiful. Facing a mounting U.S. surplus, the Biden administration is planning to begin sharing 80 million doses with the world this month.As part of the effort to drive Americans to get shots, the White House is borrowing some tools from political campaigns, including phone banks, door-knocking and text banking. The administration says more than 1,000 such events will be held this coming weekend alone. Additionally, it is organizing competitions between cities and colleges to drive up vaccination rates.Other new incentives include a $2 million commitment from DoorDash to provide gift cards to community health centers to be used to drive people to get vaccinated. CVS launched a sweepstakes with prizes including free cruises and Super Bowl tickets. Major League Baseball will host on-site vaccine clinics and ticket giveaways at games. And Kroger will give $1 million to a vaccinated person each week this month and dozens of people free groceries for the year.The fine print on the Anheuser-Busch promotion reveals the benefits to the sponsoring company, which will collect consumer data and photos through its website to register, and that it will only provide $5 credits to the first 200,000 people to respond once the nation reaches the vaccine threshold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beer-is-latest-vaccine-incentive-for-biden-month-of-action-101622647985669.html
02-06-2021||World||Palestine expresses concern at India abstaining from crucial UNHRC vote||Amid a perceptible shift in India’s Middle East policy, Palestine has expressed concern at India’s abstention during a vote at the UN Human Rights Council that resulted in the setting up of an inquiry into rights violations during the Israel-Hamas conflict in Gaza. Palestine’s concerns were conveyed by foreign minister Riad Malki in a letter sent to his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on May 30. The letter, accessed by Hindustan Times, stated that India’s abstention during the vote on May 27 “stifles the important work of Human Rights Council at advancing human rights for all peoples, including those of the Palestinian people”. The development comes against the backdrop of India dropping its traditional reference to support for the “just Palestinian cause” in at least three recent statements at the UN Security Council, General Assembly and Human Rights Council. The statements, however, retained the usual reference to a two-state solution to be achieved through direct negotiations to ensure lasting peace between the people of Israel and Palestine. Malki’s unusually strongly worded letter stated: “I write to express our concern by the position taken by Republic of India in the Human Rights Council 30th special session of 27 May 2021, on the seminal resolution [titled] ‘Ensuring respect for international human rights law and humanitarian law in Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and in Israel’.” It added, “Republic of India missed an opportunity to join the international community at this turning point, both crucial and long overdue, on the path to accountability, justice, and peace.” Following the adoption of the resolution, presented by the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) and the Palestinian delegation, by 24 votes, the Human Rights Council established an international commission of inquiry into “violations of international humanitarian law and all alleged violations and abuses of international human rights law” during the Israel-Hamas conflict. The move was rejected by Israel. India, Brazil, France, Italy and Nepal were among the 14 countries that abstained during the vote. It was not immediately clear whether Malki had written similar letters to his counterparts in other countries that abstained. Malki further said in the letter that the resolution was “not an aberration to the Human Rights Council”, and it was the “by-product of extensive multilateral consultations” and “thorough investigations into and reporting on Israel’s grave violations by States, United Nations experts, Human Rights Treaty bodies, and international organizations”. He added that the Palestinian people had been “excluded from the applicability of the universal and the indispensable principle of accountability, a prerequisite to justice and peace”. Malki contended that the root causes of injustice suffered by the Palestinian people include “decades-long dispossession, displacement, colonization, oppression...and the denial and violation of their every human right by Israel”. Unless these root causes are addressed, Malki wrote, the “situation will not only remain volatile, but will continue deteriorating with far-reaching and grave repercussions”. Palestine is ready to “engage positively and seriously to achieve this goal and realize peace in the region”, he added. In its latest statement at the UN Security Council on May 27, India said the ceasefire between Israel and Hamas has “arrested the sharp deterioration of the security situation” though the “situation continues to be fragile”. India reiterated its call for all parties to observe “maximum restraint and avoid acts of violence, provocation, incitement and destruction” and also underlined the need to respect the historic status quo in Jerusalem. While focusing on rehabilitation and reconstruction in Gaza, India called for resumption of dialogue between Israel and Palestine for a two-state solution. “The absence of direct and meaningful negotiations between the two parties has only widened the trust deficit, which, in turn, increases the chances for similar escalations in the future,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/palestine-expresses-concern-at-india-abstaining-from-crucial-unhrc-vote-101622652846352.html
02-06-2021||World||US lawmakers take another shot at removing per-country cap of green cards||A pair of Democratic and Republican US lawmakers on Wednesday re-introduced a bill in the House of Representatives that proposes to remove a per-country limit on employment-based green cards, which, has created a massive backlog of applicants, specially from India.The ‘Equal Access to Green Cards for Legal Employment Act 2021’, also called the EAGLE Act, proposes the phasing out of a per-country limit of 7% on the roughly 1 million employment-based green cards issued annually, and raising the cap on family-based green cards from 7% to 15% of a total of about half a million.The bill, which was introduced by Democrat Zoe Lofgren and Republican John Curtis, is similar to the one that passed the House of Representatives in July 2020 with overwhelming bipartisan support (365-65 votes). The Senate passed a similar bill with some amendments with unanimous consent in December.But, the amended bill did not come up for a vote in the Democrat-led House; only a bill approved by both chambers of Congress go to president for enactment. Longtime observers and trackers of this legislative effort, which has been under way for years now, said they believe the Democrats probably did not want then president Donald Trump to get the credit for the bill. And, they added, some tech companies who are deeply invested in the future of the bill because they are frequent users of the green card programme, to attract foreign workers, who are recruited initially through the H-1B visa programme.The 7% per-country limit, which was enacted by US Congress in 1990, has led over time to backlogs that were “unimaginable” at the time, said Representative Lofgren, who also heads the House subcommittee on immigration and citizenship. She added, “The effect has been that countries with relatively small populations are allocated the same number of visas as a relatively large-population country. The result? A person from a large-population country with extraordinary qualifications who could contribute greatly to our economy and create jobs waits behind a person with lesser qualifications from a smaller country.”Lofgren did not name any “large-population” country. But, applicants from India are the worst hit by the per-country cap. There are more than 300,000 people from India in the queue, according to latest data made available by US Citizenship and Immigration Services. But Immigration Voice, an advocacy group campaigning for the removal of the country cap, estimates the number to be much higher at 1.5 million. The current waiting time for Indian applicants has been put at - a theoretical probability - at 150 years by the Cato Institute, a conservative-leaning think tank. “In effect, there is a ban on Indian immigrants from getting a green card,” said Aman Kapoor of Immigration Voice. “India immigrants applying for a green card today are looking at the wait time of 150 years. It means there is practically a ban on Indian immigrants to ever get a green card. And, Eagle Act makes the system equal where every immigrant from every country will wait the same amount of time instead of the current system which condemns and bans immigrants from India. And the Congress must swiftly pass the Eagle Act to lift the ban on immigrants from India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-lawmakers-take-another-shot-at-removing-per-country-cap-of-green-cards-101622651046990.html
02-06-2021||World||Massive fire breaks out at oil refinery near Iran's capital||A massive fire broke out Wednesday night at the oil refinery serving Iran's capital, sending thick plumes of black smoke over Tehran. It wasn't immediately clear if there were injuries.The fire struck the state-owned Tondgooyan Petrochemical Co. to the south of Tehran, said Mansour Darajati, the director-general of the capital's crisis management team.Firefighters believe it struck a pipeline for liquefied petroleum gas at the facility, Darajati told Iranian state television. He did not elaborate.Associated Press journalists in central Tehran, some 20 kilometers (12.5 miles) away, could see the black smoke rise in the distance. Another AP journalist saw flames shooting into sky the from the site.It wasn't immediately clear what started the blaze. Temperatures in Tehran reached nearly 40 degrees Celsius (104 degrees Fahrenheit). Hot summer weather in Iran has caused fires in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/massive-fire-breaks-out-at-oil-refinery-near-iran-s-capital-101622649628623.html
02-06-2021||World||Sinopharm chairman says can provide over billion Covid-19 vaccine doses to world in second half of 2021||China National Pharmaceutical Group (Sinopharm) has the capacity to provide more than 1 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses to the world beyond China in the second half of this year, the firm's chairman Liu Jingzhen said late on Wednesday.That level of supply capability assumes vaccination demand in China is being met, Liu said at a panel of the Global Health Forum of the Boao Forum for Asia."Our annual production capacity exceeds 5 billion doses," Liu said, "This is our own capacity."He declined to disclose how many shots the state-backed drugmaker has agreed to give to the global COVAX programme for sharing doses, mainly with poor countries.Two vaccines from Sinopharm are being used in China, one of which has gained emergency use approval from the World Health Organization, a prerequisite for a vaccine to be included in the COVAX initiative.Liu said Sinopharm has also planned a manufacturing facility for a third shot, which is being tested in an early-stage clinical trial.The GAVI vaccine alliance is in talks with Sinovac Biotech , another major Covid-19 vaccine provider from China, to expand the COVAX portfolio, a GAVI spokesperson said on Wednesday.China promised in February to provide 10 million doses to COVAX.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sinopharm-chairman-says-can-provide-over-billion-covid-19-vaccine-doses-to-world-in-second-half-of-2021-101622648516510.html
02-06-2021||World||US suspends punitive tariffs on India, UK, EU nations in digital tax dispute||The US government announced Wednesday it is suspending for six months any punitive tariffs on Britain, India and four European nations while it works to resolve a dispute over digital services taxes."The United States is focused on finding a multilateral solution to a range of key issues related to international taxation, including our concerns with digital services taxes," US Trade Representative Katherine Tai said in a statement.The suspension, which applies to Austria, Italy, Spain and Turkey, comes at the conclusion of year-long investigation into taxes which Washington said discriminated against big US tech companies like Apple, Amazon, Google and Facebook.But USTR made clear it still had the option to impose the punitive duties on goods from the countries that adopted the taxes.President Joe Biden's administration is pushing for a 15 percent global minimum corporate tax that aims to resolve the issue of corporations sheltering profits in low-tax nations."The United States remains committed to reaching a consensus on international tax issues through the OECD and G20 processes," Tai said."Today's actions provide time for those negotiations to continue to make progress while maintaining the option of imposing tariffs... if warranted in the future."USTR in January suspended 25 percent tariffs on $1.3 billion in French goods imposed in the digital tax dispute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-suspends-punitive-tariffs-on-uk-india-eu-nations-in-digital-tax-dispute-101622648128648.html
02-06-2021||World||Stable Afghanistan good for India, China, US: Afghan envoy in Beijing||Afghanistan’s stability is in the best interests of the US, China and India, the Afghan ambassador to China has said, adding that it is important for New Delhi and Beijing to build trust over Kabul regardless of other issues.“Afghanistan as a stable country is in favour of countries such as the US, China and India,” the Global Times quoted Ambassador Javid Ahmad Qaem as saying at a press meet with Chinese journalists in Beijing on Tuesday. “It is more important how we and Pakistan can build trust, and how China and India can build trust regarding Afghanistan regardless of other issues. It is about peace in the whole region.”Qaem’s statement comes ahead of the fourth China-Afghanistan-Pakistan trilateral dialogue to be hosted via video link by Chinese state councillor and foreign minister, Wang Yi on Thursday.Wang will chair the meet to be attended by counterparts Shah Mahmood Qureshi from Pakistan and Mohammad Haneef Atmar from Afghanistan, the Chinese foreign ministry announced on Wednesday.The three foreign ministers will have in-depth exchanges of views on the Afghan peace and reconciliation process, practical cooperation and counterterrorism and security cooperation, the ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said.During his press interaction on Tuesday, Afghan envoy Qaem said that the advantage that China enjoys is that it has good relations with both Afghanistan and Pakistan and can play a critical role in building trust between these two neighbouring countries; trust is the real thing that will bring long-lasting peace in the region.He also expressed confidence that the Afghan army can deal with the Taliban after the US troop withdrawal. “Since 2014, we have been fighting by ourselves, except for some air support from the US for our national security forces,” Qaem added.He said around 1,500 Taliban fighters were killed by Afghan forces in May. “We have 350,000 national security forces, among whom there are special forces. We don’t have any fear of losing ground. I don’t see a lot of changes along with the withdrawal.“The withdrawal would be a surprise more to the Taliban than to us. There is no other way for the Taliban except to come back to the peace table. Therefore, we propose we should have a cease-fire and the international community should put pressure on the Taliban to accept that.”In May, Wang had said China hopes to see a “moderate Muslim” leadership in Afghanistan in the future and has assured the country of help in strengthening its anti-terrorism capacities as Kabul prepares for the departure of US troops later this year.In two separate phone calls to Afghanistan’s senior leadership on Monday, Wang laid out what Beijing sees on the road ahead for China-Afghanistan ties. “China hopes that Afghanistan’s future leadership will pursue a moderate Muslim policy, promote a foreign policy of peace, maintain friendship with neighbouring countries, and firmly combat all forms of terrorism. China will continue to play a constructive role in advancing the peace and reconciliation process in Afghanistan,” Wang told Afghan foreign minister Mohammad Haneef Atmar.During another phone call the same day with Hamdullah Mohib, national security adviser to Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, Wang emphasised that China endorses the “Afghan-led, Afghan-owned” principle, adding that Beijing supports all parties in Afghanistan in finding a broad and inclusive political arrangement through peaceful means.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/stable-afghanistan-good-for-india-china-us-afghan-envoy-in-beijing-101622646965887.html
02-06-2021||World||Orbital debris hits International Space Station, punches hole in robotic arm||A robotic arm of the International Space Station (ISS) is still functioning after being hit by orbital debris last month, according to the Canadian Space Agency. Nasa and the CSA first noticed the damage to Canadarm2 during a routine inspection on May 12. The experts from both space agencies took detailed images of the area and assessed the impact on one of Canadarm2's boom segments. They found that the damage was limited to a small section of the "arm boom and thermal blanket."“Despite the impact, results of the ongoing analysis indicate that the arm's performance remains unaffected. The damage is limited to a small section of the arm boom and thermal blanket. A hole approximately 5mm in diameter is visible,” the CSA said in a statement.The amount of orbital debris is continuously increasing as countries are launching space missions more than ever, according to a report jointly prepared by the European Space Agency and UN Office for Outer Space Affairs. The dramatic increase in the number of space launches in the past few years, especially from private companies, has compounded the problem of space junk.Also Read | China's rocket debris spurs calls for policies to mitigate space junkThousands of tons of debris - composed of defunct satellites, rocket bodies and parts of old satellites - pose risk to functional satellites, the ISS, and future missions. Nasa said in its January report that at least 26,000 pieces of space junk that are the size of a softball or larger could destroy a satellite on impact. It warned that over 500,000 pieces of debris are the size of a marble, big enough to cause damage to spacecraft or satellites, and over “100 million the size of a grain of salt that could puncture a spacesuit.”“The threat of collisions is taken very seriously. Nasa has a long-standing set of guidelines to ensure the safety of Station crew. The safety of astronauts on board the orbiting laboratory remains the top priority of all Station partners,” the CSA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/orbital-debris-hits-international-space-station-punches-hole-in-robotic-arm-101622645980012.html
02-06-2021||World||Roll back 2019 decision on Kashmir for better Pakistan-India ties, says PM Imran Khan||Relations between Pakistan and India cannot be normalised till New Delhi rolls back its decision of August 2019 to scrap the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Wednesday. Addressing a joint press interaction with Tajikistan President Emomali Rahmon in Islamabad, Khan said the full potential of the region can be achieved only if the situation in Afghanistan stabilises and there are better ties between Pakistan and India. Following back-channel contacts facilitated by countries such as the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Saudi Arabia, the militaries of India and Pakistan recommitted themselves to the 2009 ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) in February. However, efforts initiated by Khan’s government to resume normal trade ties fell through because of opposition to the move within his government. “The challenge for Pakistan is that the full potential of the region will be realised if there is peace in the region,” Khan told the joint media interaction, speaking in Urdu. Referring to Pakistan’s strained relations with India, he said, “Unfortunately, since their unilateral decision on Kashmir on August 5, 2019, and because of the violation of international laws and UN Security Council resolutions, it is very difficult for us to normalise trade with [India] because it will be a betrayal of the sacrifices of the Kashmiri people.” He added, “So till India reverses [these steps], our relations can’t improve.” His remarks were a reiteration of his recent comments that Pakistan can’t normalise ties with India until it reverses its 2019 decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and to split the state into two union territories. India has dismissed Pakistan’s demands as interference in its internal affairs. Khan further said, “If the relations don’t improve, then it will be a loss for India, Pakistan and the whole of Central Asia because the whole region can be connected.” Noting that the Central Asian states can access Pakistan’s Gwadar port for trade, he said, “But if our ties improve [with India], China is one side and Pakistan is in a pivotal position to connect the whole region. But this is all dependent on India rolling back the unilateral steps they took in Kashmir on August 5, 2019. Till they move back, the whole matter is stuck here.” Khan said he and Rahmon had discussed trade and investment and challenges such as climate change and the security situation in Afghanistan against the backdrop of the drawdown of US forces. “We need peace in Afghanistan. If the US leaves without a political settlement, like when the Soviets left Afghanistan in 1989, the resulting situation could lead to losses for Pakistan and Tajikistan. It could affect connectivity and trade and we [Pakistan and Tajikistan] fear that terrorism could increase,” he added. Pakistan and Tajikistan want a political settlement in Afghanistan that leads to stability and a government formed through consensus, and both countries will work with other nations for such a settlement, Khan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/roll-back-2019-decision-on-kashmir-for-better-pakistan-india-ties-says-pm-imran-khan-101622643605678.html
02-06-2021||World||China, Malaysia locked in tense stand-off over ‘fighter aircraft intrusion’||China on Wednesday said its fighter aircraft did not violate Malaysia’s airspace but was exercising freedom of overflight. Malaysia had earlier said it will summon the Chinese envoy to protest over an intrusion by 16 military aircraft into its airspace.On Monday, Malaysia’s armed forces said they had detected “suspicious” air activities over its administered area in the disputed South China Sea (SCS) region.Malaysia’s air force added that it had detected 16 Chinese planes - People’s Liberation Army (PLA) Air Force - flying within 60 nautical miles off Sarawak state of Malaysian Borneo on Monday, calling it a “suspicious” activity over the SCS and a “serious threat to national sovereignty and flight safety,” according to a Reuters report on Wednesday.Foreign minister Hishammuddin Hussein said he will summon the Chinese ambassador to explain “this breach of the Malaysian airspace and sovereignty”.In Beijing, the Chinese foreign ministry dismissed the allegations. “To my knowledge, it was a routine training conducted by China’s air force over waters to the south of Nansha Islands. It doesn’t target any country,” spokesperson Wang Wenbin said at a briefing.“During the training, China’s air force strictly complied with international law and didn’t enter the air space of any other country. The Chinese side has communicated with the Malaysian side over this,” Wang added.Chinese state media report said that the country’s air force “…reportedly dispatched 16 aircraft comprising strategic transport planes to the South China Sea for routine flight training on Monday, without violating the airspace of other countries”.“China and Malaysia are friendly neighbours, and China is willing to continue bilateral friendly consultations with Malaysia to jointly maintain regional peace and stability,” a Chinese embassy spokesperson in Kuala Lumpur was quoted as saying.China claims almost the entire South China Sea, citing historical records.Several countries including Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam also have overlapping claims.Tensions in the maritime region have increased since China built several man-made islands and turned them into military outposts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-malaysia-locked-in-tense-stand-off-over-fighter-aircraft-intrusion-101622642825875.html
02-06-2021||World||Myocarditis: All you need to know about disease linked to Covid-19||Israel on Tuesday reported a small number of heart inflammation cases, known as myocarditis, mostly in young men who were given shots of Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine. The country's health ministry said 275 such cases were reported out of 5 million people who were vaccinated from December 2020 to May 2021.A study commissioned by the Israeli health ministry said "there is a probable link between receiving the second dose (of Pfizer) vaccine and the appearance of myocarditis among men aged 16 to 30".The health ministry said 95% of the cases were mild and most patients spent no more than four days in the hospital. Israel has not put a pause on its vaccine roll-out; in fact, the Pfizer vaccine has been greenlighted for inoculating 12-15 year olds.Here’s all you need to know about the disease afflicting a minor population of young vaccine recipients:Myocarditis leads to an inflammation of the heart muscle. The inflammation weakens and enlarges the heart by creating scar tissue and forcing it to pump harder to circulate blood and oxygen throughout the body. Cardiovascular diseases are usually geriatric (related to old people) but myocarditis abide by no such age restrictions.According to Myocarditis Foundation, a body of physicians and researchers, the disease can affect anyone from young adults to kids and even infants. The high-risk population includes those who have reached puberty through their early 30’s. It affects males twice as often as females. It is also the third leading cause of sudden death in children and young adults.Viral infections can cause myocarditis and it starts with the invasion of the human body by a pathogen which replicates within and around myocardium causing myonecrosis. Myocarditis can also be triggered by natural toxins like snake venom.Patients with myocarditis experience symptoms of fatigue, chest pain, lightheadedness, swelling of feet and ankle, arrhythmia, and cardiac arrest. Many others likely have mild symptoms and are never diagnosed, according to researchers. However, a majority of patients exhibit no visible symptoms and hence this disease goes undiagnosed in large stretches of the population.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in the US too started to look into reports of Pfizer vaccine linked myocarditis in young recipients on May 22. The CDC said this condition was more prevalent among young males who had gotten their second dose. "Most cases appear to be mild, and follow-up of cases is ongoing," the CDC told reporters.Researchers have cautioned against pausing vaccination since Covid-19 itself can cause myocarditis and a plethora of other issues, adding that the benefits of vaccinating far outweighs the risk. A fact that Israel's pandemic-response coordinator Nachman Ash reiterated to Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myocarditis-all-you-need-to-know-about-disease-linked-to-covid19-101622640325008.html
02-06-2021||World||Australia, Spain, Sweden announce Covid-19 vaccine donations to COVAX||Australia and European countries announced fresh contributions to the COVAX doses-sharing mechanism on Wednesday in a bid to widen vaccination of people in low- and middle-income countries.Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said that his country was making a further $50 million donation to the GAVI vaccine alliance's COVAX facility, bringing its total to $130 million.Spanish Prime Minister Sanchez, who announced a donation of 15 million doses and 50 million euros ($61 million), said: "Only by leading by example we will be effective in preaching solidarity." Sweden, Austria and Luxembourg were among other countries to announce new donations, as well. ($1 = 0.8205 euros)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-spain-sweden-announce-covid-19-vaccine-donations-to-covax-101622639414910.html
02-06-2021||World||Iran's largest warship, Kharg, catches fire, sinks in Gulf of Oman||The largest warship in the Iranian navy caught fire and later sank Wednesday in the Gulf of Oman under unclear circumstances, the latest calamity to strike one of the country’s vessels in recent years amid tensions with the West.The blaze began around 2:25 a.m. and firefighters tried to contain it, the Fars news agency reported, but their efforts failed to save the 207-meter (679-foot) Kharg, which was used to resupply other ships in the fleet at sea and conduct training exercises. State media reported 400 troops on board fled the vessel, with some 20 suffering injuries.The vessel sank near the Iranian port of Jask, some 1,270 kilometers (790 miles) southeast of Tehran on the Gulf of Oman near the Strait of Hormuz — the narrow mouth of the Persian Gulf. Satellite photos from Planet Labs Inc. analyzed by The Associated Press showed the Kharg off Jask with no sign of a fire as late as 11 a.m. Tuesday.Photos circulated on Iranian social media of sailors wearing life jackets evacuating the vessel as a fire burned behind them. Fars published video of thick, black smoke rising from the ship early Wednesday morning. Satellites from the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration that track fires from space detected a blaze near Jask that started just before the time of the fire reported by Fars.Iranian officials offered no cause for the fire aboard the Kharg, though they said an investigation had begun. It comes after a series of mysterious explosions that began in 2019 targeting commercial ships in the Gulf of Oman. The U.S. Navy later accused Iran of targeting the ships with limpet mines, timed explosives typically attached by divers to a vessel’s hull.Iran denied that, though U.S. Navy footage showed Revolutionary Guard members removing one unexploded limpet mine from a ship. The attacks came amid heightened tensions between the U.S. and Iran after then-President Donald Trump unilaterally withdrew America from Tehran’s nuclear deal with world powers. Negotiations on saving the accord continue in Vienna.In April, an Iranian ship called the MV Saviz believed to be a Guard base and anchored for years in the Red Sea off Yemen was targeted in an attack suspected to have been carried out by Israel. It escalated a yearslong shadow war in the Mideast between the two countries, ranging from strikes in Syria, assaults on ships and attacks on Iran's nuclear program.The Israeli prime minister’s office did not respond to a request for comment Wednesday regarding the Kharg.State TV and semiofficial news agencies on Wednesday referred to the Kharg, named after the island that serves as the main oil terminal for Iran, as a “training ship.” It was one of a few vessels in the Iranian navy capable of providing replenishment at sea for other ships. It also can lift heavy cargo and serve as a launch point for helicopters.Like much of Iran's major military hardware, the Kharg dated back to before Iran's 1979 Islamic Revolution. The warship, built in Britain and launched in 1977, entered the Iranian navy in 1984 after lengthy negotiations. That aging military equipment has seen fatal accidents as recently as Tuesday, when a malfunction in the ejector seats of an Iranian F-5 dating back to before the revolution killed two pilots while the aircraft was parked in a hangar.In recent months, the navy launched a slightly larger commercial tanker called the Makran that it converted into serving a similar function as the Kharg.The sinking of the Kharg marks the latest naval disaster for Iran. In 2020, during an Iranian military training exercise, a missile mistakenly struck a naval vessel near Jask, killing 19 sailors and wounding 15. Also in 2018, an Iranian navy destroyer sank in the Caspian Sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/irans-largest-warship-kharg-catches-fire-sinks-in-gulf-of-oman-101622640059818.html
02-06-2021||World||Wuhan lab leak theory’s revival risks making US-China relations worse||Of all the issues that have roiled ties between China and the West since the pandemic emerged, none has been more sensitive in Beijing than questions about the origin of Covid-19.China last year responded to U.S. ally Australia’s initial push for an independent probe into where the virus came from with tariffs on exports of its barley and wine. Since then Beijing has repeatedly blasted calls for more transparency as politically motivated, and sought to deflect suggestions it came from a laboratory in Wuhan with alternative origin theories ranging from transmission via frozen-food imports to a release from U.S. bio-facilities.That made U.S. President Joe Biden’s revival of the lab theory last week -- by giving intelligence agencies 90 days to get closer to a definitive conclusion on the origin of the coronavirus -- all the more meaningful. The order came as political pressure increased following a series of reports suggesting the theory, which was prominently backed by Trump administration officials, had been prematurely disregarded. Even Facebook Inc. said it would stop taking down posts claiming Covid-19 was man-made or manufactured.The origin probe comes at a sensitive time in U.S.-China relations, with both governments showing signs they want to move beyond the vitriol that marked the last year of Donald Trump’s presidency. While Biden has kept in place Trump’s tariffs and sanctions against Beijing, his administration has also started to open a dialogue: Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen held her first call with Vice Premier Liu He on Tuesday evening in Washington, following his conversation last week with U.S. Trade Representative Katherine Tai.But the results of the lab leak probe could tie the hands of Xi Jinping, particularly if comes just before he has an opportunity to meet Biden at the Group of 20 summit in October. While Xi realizes that China’s aggressive response has hurt its standing abroad -- this week he urged officials to create a “trustworthy, lovable and respectable” image for the country -- the Chinese Communist Party has little choice but to vigorously resist any suggestion it mishandled or covered up a virus that effectively shut down the world.“The issue of the origin of the virus is deeply connected to the legitimacy of the CCP, so I do not expect that China will become more transparent -- it will fight this relentlessly,” said Bonnie Glaser, director of the Asia Program at the German Marshall Fund of the U.S., a Washington-based policy research group.“That said, China is unlikely to use the forms of economic coercion against the U.S. that it is using against Australia, in part because it fears U.S. retaliation in the form of further restrictions on high-tech,” she added. “It also fears the downward spiral of the U.S.-China relationship to dangerous levels.”Also Read | China must hand over the keys to Wuhan lab for Covid-19 origins and global goodSince the early days of the pandemic, some U.S. intelligence officials have suggested SARS-CoV-2 -- the coronavirus that causes Covid-19 -- may have leaked either accidentally or deliberately from the Wuhan Institute of Virology. Researchers at a high-tech lab there have studied other coronaviruses, including some that were isolated from bats.A World Health Organization report drafted with China earlier this year called the possibility of a lab leak “extremely unlikely” because no such virus was studied there before the outbreak and security protocols don’t appear to have been breached. The report, compiled with local researchers after Beijing finally allowed a group of WHO experts into Wuhan, said the most likely origin scenario was that the virus spread to humans from bats through an unspecified intermediary animal.Still, the White House criticized the report as incomplete, while WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said it wasn’t “extensive enough” and that the lab-leak theory needed more investigation. Other prominent Western scientists have urged that hypotheses about natural and laboratory spillovers be taken seriously until there is sufficient data to say otherwise.While Biden’s move to publicly announce the virus probe appeared “purely political,” Tedros’s criticism of the WHO report is harder for China to dismiss “and it’s driving them crazy,” according to Christopher Johnson, a former senior China analyst at the Central Intelligence Agency who is now a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. Either way, he added, China is unlikely to allow anymore access that would shed further light on the origin.“Finding a smoking gun on this would be nearly impossible, so the only way you could deescalate is to actually be talking to each other,” Johnson said. “Without that, the potential to inflame the relationship further is there.”Chinese diplomats and senior officials at the Wuhan lab have repeatedly denied that the facility was the source of the coronavirus. Responding to the Biden probe, Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian last week pointed to the WHO findings while questioning why U.S. intelligence agencies were getting involved.“How can anyone trust the findings from an ‘investigation’ conducted by such an intelligence organ with no credibility to speak of?” he said on May 27.Zhao also pointed to “suspicion-shrouded” Fort Detrick in Maryland, a base that is home to the American bio-defense agency. This was a repeat of a theory Zhao has long pushed that the virus may have originated in the U.S. Chinese officials have emphasized research showing evidence of coronavirus infections outside China in late 2019 and pointed to frozen food imports as a possible vector -- all part of efforts to cast doubt that the virus originated in or around Wuhan, the central Chinese city that saw the first known Covid-19 cases.Biden’s intelligence directive now ensures the discussion will continue for at least the next several months, and U.S.-China ties could get even worse if the probe ends up fingering Chinese officials, according to Hugo Brennan, an analyst at risk consulting firm Verisk Maplecroft.“If the U.S. intelligence community concludes that the ‘Wuhan lab leak’ theory is the most likely cause of the pandemic, it will see U.S.-China relations plummet to new lows,” he said. “Particularly if the consensus is that Beijing deliberately tried to cover up the leak.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wuhan-lab-leak-theory-s-revival-risks-making-us-china-relations-worse-101622635641598.html
02-06-2021||World||Israel finds possible link between Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine and Myocarditis disease||Israel health officials have found a probable link between Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE’s coronavirus vaccine and dozens of cases of heart inflammation in young men following the second dose of the vaccine, the Health Ministry said late Tuesday.The vaccine has been administered to more than 5 million people in the country, and the number of coronavirus cases has plummeted. The Health Ministry said on Wednesday that despite the possible link, it would expand its vaccination drive to 12-16 year olds. The US Food and Drug Administration has authorized its use for this age group.According to a study by health officials, there were 275 cases of myocarditis identified between December 2020, when the vaccination drive began, and May 2021, including 148 cases within a month after vaccination. Of these, 27 cases occurred after the first dose and 121 following the second dose. In both cases, about half were in people with previous medical conditions.At this time, there’s still no indication that the cases are due to the vaccine, Pfizer said in a statement. Myocarditis is often caused by viral infections, and Covid infections have been reported to cause the condition, the U.S. drugmaker said. BioNTech said more than 300 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered globally and the “benefit risk profile” of the vaccine remains positive.“A careful assessment of the reports is ongoing and it has not been concluded,” the company said. “Adverse events, including myocarditis and pericarditis, are being regularly and thoroughly reviewed by the companies as well as by regulatory authorities.”Most of the cases occurred in young men, especially those between 16 and 19 years old. In most cases, patients were hospitalized for four days or less, and in 95% of the cases were classified as mild, the ministry said.“The risks from contracting coronavirus are higher than the risks from getting the vaccine,” the Health Ministry said. The number of those who contracted myocarditis was small, and in most cases, patients recovered with no complications, it said.Israel said in late April that it was looking into the cases to see if there’s a connection with the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-finds-possible-link-between-pfizer-covid-19-vaccine-and-myocarditis-disease-101622634454903.html
02-06-2021||World||China’s global image should be ‘reliable, admirable’: President||President Xi Jinping has said China must improve the way it tells its “stories” to the world, urging officials to create an image of the country that not only matches its national strength but is also “reliable, admirable and respectable”.Beijing, the president said, should be open, confident but humble and expand the circle of friends who understand China. Increase the appeal and effectiveness of China’s international communication, Xi said.Xi made the remarks on Monday addressing a group study session of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China’s (CPC) Central Committee.Xi’s remarks on the need to carefully mould China’s global image comes in the backdrop of a diplomatically more aggressive Beijing as it tries to counter western criticism on a range of issues including the origins of the Covid-19 virus, allegations of human rights abuses and territorial disputes.Under Xi, who took over the reins in 2012, China has cast aside the CPC’s famous “hide-and-bide” strategy of keeping a low international profile in favour of “big country diplomacy” especially with the US and its allies like Australia.China needed to develop an “international voice” to match its national strength and global status, official news agency Xinhua said, citing Xi’s speech at the meeting.It also needed to strengthen propaganda efforts to help foreigners understand the CPC and the way it “strives for the happiness of the Chinese people”.“He also emphasised the efforts to introduce the Chinese culture abroad and strive to shape a reliable, admirable and respectable image of China,” the Xinhua said.The country needed to create a team of professionals and adopt “precise communication methods” for different regions, he said.It’s the second time in a week that Xi has spoken about presenting a better picture of China to the world.In a letter to China’s flagship English newspaper, China Daily, on its 40th anniversary on June 1, Xi said, “It should also better introduce China’s development philosophy, path and achievements, better present a true, multidimensional and panoramic view of China and make new contributions to promoting exchanges and communication between China and the world.”Xi’s messages come amid frequent criticism of foreign journalists’ reportage on China by the government and the state media.Calling it a response to the way Chinese journalists were treated in the US, Beijing last year expelled several journalists working for US news organisations as relations between the two sides deteriorated over several problems.Separately, Beijing banned BBC World News from mainland Chinese television networks after criticising the British broadcaster’s coverage of human rights in the northwestern region of Xinjiang as well as the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-global-image-should-be-reliable-admirable-president-101622633825159.html
02-06-2021||World||‘Our society is totally nuts’: Fauci emails on public fascination with him||In the early days of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, top US infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci was seen by many as a reassuring voice of reason when the Trump administration’s response to the pandemic was deemed chaotic. Fauci’s stance on Covid response, contradictory to then-President Donald Trump, won him admirers to a point that various merchandise named after the respected scientist became a huge hit in the American market.But the latest trove of emails obtained by The Washington Post as part of a Freedom of Information Act request shows that the longtime director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases was not pleased by the growing public fascination with him. On March 31, one of Fauci's colleagues sent him an article titled ‘Fauci socks, Fauci doughnuts, Fauci fan art: The coronavirus expert attracts a cult following.’“Truly surrealistic. Hopefully, this all stops soon,” Fauci replied, as per the emails published by the Post. In another note, he said, “It is not at all pleasant, that is for sure.”Also Read | When Fauci likened Trump supporters to 'crazy people in this world'A week later, Fauci received a Google News alert for his name, prompting the immunologist, who was then 79-years-old, to forward it to someone whose name and email address have been redacted in The Washington Post report. One of the articles was titled "‘Cuomo Crush' and ‘Fauci Fever’ — Sexualization of These Men Is a Real Thing on the Internet". Urging the person to click on the link, Fauci wrote, “It will blow your mind. Our society is really totally nuts.”Fauci’s security detail was also expanded to full time after he started receiving death threats from Trump supporters and, as recounted by him in a New York Times interview, even received a letter in the mail with a powdered substance in it. George Gao, director of the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, wrote to Fauci saying, “I saw some news (hope it is fake) that [you] are being attacked by some people. Hope you are well under such a irrational situation.”“Thank you for your kind note,” Fauci replied, as per the published correspondence. “All is well despite some crazy people in this world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/our-society-is-totally-nuts-fauci-emails-on-public-fascination-with-him-101622628426692.html
02-06-2021||World||Red Cross chief urges Israel, Palestine to end cycle of violence||The head of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) urged Israel and the Palestinians on Wednesday to find a political solution so violence like last month's hostilities over the Gaza Strip border might be prevented.On his first visit to Gaza in four years, Robert Mardini toured areas devastated by Israeli bombardments during the 11 days of fighting, including a road where 42 people were killed."It is really heart-breaking to see and to hear about the people who paid the ultimate cost of this escalation - women, children, civilians who were living safely in their apartments and were caught in this rubble that we see behind us," he told Reuters."I hope this is the last time I am coming to witness yet again the results and the humanitarian impact of yet again another cycle of violence and escalation."Gaza medical officials said Israeli airstrikes killed 253 Palestinians. Rockets and missiles fired by Palestinian factions killed 13 people in Israel."What is really needed is political leadership on all sides to avoid that people yet again are in the line of fire because of yet again another round of escalation," Mardini said."Political leadership to find a sustainable solution that is more sustainable than what we have been witnessing over the past decade and more."Asked whether he would discuss the prospects of a new prisoners' swap deal while the region, Mardini said the ICRC stood ready to help the parties should there be a deal."We have repeatedly offered our services as a neutral intermediary, so we will be renewing this offer yet again," he said.Standing by the rubble of the houses of Kolak family, which lost 22 members in Israeli airstrikes, Mardini spoke to some survivors."My grandfather died, my father died, his (father's) son died, his grandchild died, a dynasty was martyred," said Wasim Al-Kolak, 31, urging international prosecution of Israel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/red-cross-chief-urges-israel-palestine-to-end-cycle-of-violence-101622628250916.html
02-06-2021||World||Labor veteran Isaac Herzog elected as Israel's president||Isaac Herzog, a veteran politician and the scion of a prominent Israeli family, was elected president Tuesday, a largely ceremonial role that is meant to serve as the nation’s moral compass and promote unity.The anonymous vote was held among the 120 members of the Knesset, or parliament. Herzog will be Israel's 11th president, succeeding Reuven Rivlin, who is set to leave office next month after seven years in office.Herzog, 60, is a former head of Israel’s Labor Party and opposition leader who unsuccessfully ran against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in the 2013 parliamentary elections.He is scion of a prominent Zionist family. His father, Chaim Herzog, was Israel’s ambassador to the United Nations before being elected president. His uncle, Abba Eban, was Israel’s first foreign minister and ambassador to the United Nations and United States. His grandfather was the country’s first chief rabbi.Herzog defeated Miriam Peretz, an educator who is seen as a down-to-earth outsider. She was also seen as closer to the country's dominant conservative and nationalist political camp.Herzog has served as head of the Jewish Agency, a nonprofit that works closely with the government to promote immigration to Israel, for the past three years since resigning from parliament. He was widely seen as the favorite because of his deep ties to the political establishment. He will hold office for a single seven-year term starting July 9.The president, while largely a ceremonial head of state, is tasked with tapping a political party leader to form governing coalitions after parliamentary elections. Israel has held four national elections in the past two years amid a protracted political crisis.Netanyahu's opponents faced a midnight deadline Wednesday to put together a new coalition government. If they fail, the country could be plunged into another election campaign.The president also has the power to grant pardons — creating a potentially sensitive situation as Netanyahu stands trial for a series of corruption charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/labor-veteran-isaac-herzog-elected-as-israel-s-president-101622627750649.html
02-06-2021||World||Russian upper house votes to exit from treaty allowing overflight surveillance||The Russian parliament's upper house voted Wednesday to withdraw from an international treaty allowing surveillance flights over military facilities following the US exit from the treaty.The vote comes after US officials told Moscow last month that President Joe Biden's administration had decided not to reenter the Open Skies Treaty, which had allowed surveillance flights over military facilities before President Donald Trump withdrew from the pact.As a presidential candidate, Biden had criticized Trump’s withdrawal as “short-sighted.” Moscow has signaled its readiness to reverse the withdrawal procedure and stay in the 1992 treaty if the United States returns to the agreement.After the Russian upper house voted to leave the treaty, it would now come to Russian President Vladimir Putin for signing. If Putin endorses the exit, it would take effect in six months.Putin and Biden are to have a summit in Geneva on June 16. The meeting comes as Russia-US ties have sunk to the lowest levels since the Cold War times after Russia's 2014 annexation of Ukraine's Crimean Peninsula, the accusations of Moscow's interference in US elections, hacking attacks, and other irritants.The Open Skies Treaty was intended to build trust between Russia and the West by allowing the accord’s more than three dozen signatories to conduct reconnaissance flights over each other’s territories to collect information about military forces and activities. More than 1,500 flights have been conducted under the treaty since it took effect in 2002, aimed at fostering transparency and allowing for the monitoring of arms control and other agreements.Trump pulled out of the pact last year, arguing that Russian violations made it untenable for Washington to remain a party. Washington completed its withdrawal from the treaty in November.Moscow has deplored the US withdrawal, warning that it will erode global security by making it more difficult for governments to interpret the intentions of other nations, particularly amid heightened Russia-West tensions.The European Union has urged the US to reconsider its exit and called on Russia to stay in the pact and lift flight restrictions, notably over its westernmost Kaliningrad region, which lies between NATO allies Lithuania and Poland.Russia has insisted the restrictions on observation flights it imposed in the past were permissible under the treaty and noted that the US imposed more sweeping restrictions on observation flights over Alaska.As a condition for staying in the pact after the US pullout, Moscow has unsuccessfully pushed for guarantees from NATO allies that they wouldn’t hand over the data collected during their observation flights over Russia to the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-upper-house-votes-to-exit-from-treaty-allowing-overflight-surveillance-101622625966072.html
02-06-2021||World||Why a herd of 15 elephants has Chinese enthralled and officials worried||A herd of 15 wild elephants has captured national attention in China after walking through forests, highways, and urban areas for 500km over weeks, reaching the outskirts of Kunming city in southern Yunnan on Wednesday afternoon.The herd was in Yuxi, about 20km from Kunming, a city of seven million, the state-run Xinhua news agency said.Officials were scampering to issue early warnings and evacuate citizens to minimise damage in inhabited areas at the city border.Images taken by drones show six female, three male adults, three juveniles and three calves. The herd of Asian elephants has been followed by hundreds of forest officials in vehicles attempting to divert them away from populated areas with food, and by putting up temporary blockades.Traffic had to be suspended on the roads the herd took. They passed through several counties and occasionally wandered into villages and towns, triggering both alarm and awe.Television journalists have pursued the elephants, streaming live footage of the animals’ marathon migration onto social media platforms.Hundreds of millions of online users in China have followed the journey as the animals moved from one location to the other, leaving behind a trail of frantic forest officials. So far, they have “…wreaked havoc in 412 cases, damaging 56 hectares of farmland in the counties of Yuanjiang and Shiping alone, incurring direct economic losses of about 6.8 million yuan ($1.1 million).”“On the evening of May 27, they came upon the town of E’shan and walked the streets for six hours after authorities evacuated pedestrians and vehicles and warned residents to stay indoors,” the Xinhua report said.Until Tuesday, more than 360 people, 76 police cars and dirt trucks and nine drones were mobilised while 18 tonnes of elephant food had been prepared to lure the elephants from populated areas.Chinese wildlife authorities have told Chinese state media they don’t know why the herd left a nature reserve last year near the city of Pu’er, a region famous for its tea in Yunnan.The group had 16 animals, but the government says two drifted away to return to the forest reserve and a baby was born during the walk.Scientists are scratching their heads about the possible reason behind the walk.Chen Mingyong, an Asian elephant expert cited by Xinhua, said the incident was the longest-distance migration of wild elephants recorded in China.Chen said it was possible their leader “lacks experience and led the whole group astray”.Elephant researcher Becky Shu Chen told the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post (SCMP) that the herd might have become fearful and could now be driven by stress and panic.Chen, who researches on human-elephant interaction and works for the Zoological Society of London, said the last such movement of China’s elephants was probably about 400 years ago, when elephants roamed from the jungles of southern Yunnan to the waters of the Yellow River, thousands of kilometres north.“China has only about 1%, or about 300, of the world’s wild Asian elephants and their habitat is confined to the southernmost parts of Yunnan - the prefectures of Xishuangbanna, Lincang and Puer,” the SCMP report added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-a-herd-of-15-elephants-has-chinese-enthralled-and-officials-worried-101622624824770.html
02-06-2021||World||Pride month: All you need to know about American gay rights activist Frank Kameny||As the world celebrates Pride Month in June, Google honoured American gay rights activist Franklin Edward Kameny with a doodle on Tuesday. Kameny, hailed as one of the most prominent figures of the LGBTQ+ rights movement in the United States, is credited for creating one of the first gay rights advocacy groups in the country's history.In 1957, the then 32-year-old Kameny was denied federal employment for being gay. After being dismissed from his position as an astronomer in the US army, he became the first gay rights activist to file an appeal in the US Supreme Court. He was also among the first to challenge the American Psychiatric Association's classification of homosexuality as a 'mental disorder' in the early 1970s.In celebration of Pride Month, today’s #GoogleDoodle honors astronomer, veteran, & gay rights activist, Dr. Frank Kameny—an influential figure in the LGBTQ rights movement 🔭🌈❤️→ https://t.co/7gcVY14Jdi pic.twitter.com/jprSZhKeN1Though his appeal to the SC was denied, from that point onwards began his lifelong struggle to fight the system that denied equal opportunities to homosexuals.Born in 1925 in Queens, New York, Kameny graduated from Harvard University with both a master's degree and a doctorate in astronomy in 1956 before becoming properly involved in activism. After being fired from the Army Map Service in 1957, he began launching spearheading against homosexuality from 1961 onwards.The landmark 1975 lifting of the ban on hiring LGBTQ employees in the Civil Service Commission is seen as a direct result of his efforts against the homosexual policies of the American government.The Pride Month, observed to pay homage to those who took part in protests against a police raid that began in the early morning hours of June 28, 1969, is marked by the LGBTQ+ community showcasing support for the cause from across the world. The police raids, when they became violent, gave birth to the uprising by various lesbian and gay communities, eventually leading to the gay liberation movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pride-month-all-you-need-to-know-about-american-gay-rights-activist-frank-kameny-101622617082882.html
02-06-2021||World||Netanyahu rivals face midnight deadline to oust Israel's longest-serving leader||Rivals of Benjamin Netanyahu are up against a midnight Wednesday deadline to lock down a new government that would unseat Israel’s longest-serving prime minister.The camp led by the centrist Yair Lapid and the Jewish nationalist Naftali Bennett appeared to edge closer to its goal after two additional parties lined up on Tuesday behind the emerging coalition, including the United Arab List. Lapid, who was handed the mandate to form Israel’s next government last month after Netanyahu failed, is scrambling to finalize agreements with additional partners to approach a parliamentary majority.The rival bloc is made up of a factions with wildly different political views that have united in the effort to end Netanyahu’s 12-year run in power. The prime minister has been railing against the tie-up, claiming that the inclusion of left-wing and Arab parties presents a danger to the country, which has just come off an 11-day conflict with Hamas militants in Gaza and faces what he characterizes as an existential threat from Iran’s nuclear program.One of the remaining sticking points that his opponents need to overcome is a disagreement between Bennett’s Yamina party and one of the left-wing groups over the makeup of a committee to appoint judges, Israeli media reported. Yamina seeks to curb the powers of judges to overturn laws.The Bennett-Lapid bloc need a plurality of parliament’s 120 members to vote in favor of their government, otherwise their efforts collapse and Israel likely heads to a fifth election in 2 1/2 years. As things stand, they have locked up the support of 51 lawmakers and ultimately plan to rely on the backing of 61, the slimmest parliamentary majority.Israel’s political turmoil is rooted in Netanyahu’s corruption trial, which has divided the country and resulted in four rounds of inconclusive balloting. The prime minister maintains that he did nothing wrong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/netanyahu-rivals-face-midnight-deadline-to-oust-israel-s-longest-serving-leader-101622623185491.html
02-06-2021||World||Hong Kong coronavirus panel agrees to lower vaccination age to 12||Hong Kong’s expert advisory panel on Covid vaccinations has agreed to expand eligibility to children as young as 12, according to a person familiar with the matter, as the city works to boost lackluster inoculation rates.The younger group will be eligible to receive BioNTech SE vaccines, said the person, who asked not to be identified discussing internal plans. Still, the move is subject to final approval by the government, the person added. The recommendation was earlier reported by Cable TV.Hong Kong’s government said it has received an application about lowering of the age limit for BioNTech vaccines to people as young as 12 and the relevant phase-three clinical trial data from Fosun Pharma, the distributor of BioNTech vaccine in Greater China, according to a statement on Tuesday.“The Secretary for Food and Health will consider the suggestions by the advisory panel,” it said. “It is expected that a decision on the application for lowering the age limit for vaccination can be reached in short time.”The government has routinely followed the panel’s vaccine recommendations, usually within days.That move follows approvals from the US and Canada, paving the way for the mass vaccination of students before the start of the next school year. Singapore also authorized vaccines from Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE for children as young as 12 years old earlier in May.Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam announced a campaign on Monday to accelerate the city’s slow inoculation rates by September, with measures such as paid leave for vaccinated civil servants and possible additional restrictions for unvaccinated citizens. The Hong Kong Monetary Authority urged all financial institutions to “strongly encourage” staff in client-facing roles or support functions to get vaccinated.Hong Kong is increasingly looking to enlist businesses in the vaccination rollout, which has been impeded by a lack of trust in the Beijing-backed government and concerns about rare side-effects. The government has been ramping up efforts to encourage citizens to receive vaccines by providing policy incentives like reopening bars and shortening the quarantine period for vaccinated people.In April, the government opened up vaccines to residents aged 16 and older. People 16 and above are allowed to receive BioNTech vaccines, while those older than 18 can opt for shots made by China’s Sinovac Biotech Ltd. Those under 18 need parental consent to be vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-coronavirus-panel-agrees-to-lower-vaccination-age-to-12-101622615716482.html
02-06-2021||World||A third child? No, thanks, say young Chinese||China wants its women to have more children but for many young people, the government's big promises of support mean little because of soaring living costs and changing mindsets about families.On Monday, the world's most populous nation further relaxed its strict family planning controls, allowing couples to have three children after just 12 million Chinese were born last year -- a record low.But high costs, limited space and social norms shaped by decades of limits on family size will impede efforts to boost China's 1.41 billion population, experts warn."A lot of the women around me are quite repulsed by the idea of having children," 22-year-old masters student Yan Jiaqi told AFP in Beijing."So don't even talk about having three," she said.In 2016, China relaxed its "one-child policy" -- one of the world's strictest family planning regulations -- allowing couples to have two children as concerns mounted over an ageing workforce and economic stagnation.The latest easing is part of an increasingly desperate effort to stir a demographic boom before China's remarkable growth story is bogged down by the healthcare and pension bills for hundreds of millions of elderly.For the country's Communist leadership to be successful, it will have to persuade people like Yang Shengyi, a 29-year-old father of two, to have one more child.As he visited a Beijing toy store with his family, Yang said two young sons were already more than enough in the competitive squeeze of China's capital."We don't have that much money and there's not enough space at home, so I don't think there's any reason to have a third child," he told AFP."When our second child was born, there was suddenly only half of everything, and where we could originally give each child 100 percent we can now only give 50 percent."PAYING FOR THE PASTFor others, the thought of having any children at all or even marriage is off the table, as urban life takes its toll -- long working hours, expensive housing, and a punishing ladder into decent education.Young people today "might not have any thoughts of carrying on the family name, and feel that their own quality of life is more important," Yan Jiaqi said.This increasingly pervasive attitude has alarmed China's leaders, prompting Monday's policy pivot.But the vague pledges to support couples -- and women in particular -- with work-life balance if they have more kids did not make fast friends on Chinese social media.Instead, the new policy prompted derision among young Chinese already struggling with intense workplace competition and the pressure of supporting elderly parents without siblings to share the costs, thanks to the "one-child" edict.Social media users circulated memes making light of the idea of having children -- including an image of a discount-price triple-decker bunk bed -- and celebrating the relative financial freedom of childlessness.Others made raunchy jokes about boosting population growth.TOO LATE AND TOO LITTLEExperts say changing socio-economic conditions -- including the intense educational investments families make in their children and women wanting more say in their careers and family lives -- mean the government will need to do more than simply easing the rules."Having just one child or no children has become the social norm in China," Yi Fuxian, a scientist at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, told AFP.China's fertility rate stands at 1.3 -- below the level needed to maintain a stable population, according to the National Bureau of Statistics.Other countries in East Asia have also struggled to boost birth rates, with families shrinking in South Korea, Japan and Singapore despite government incentives.Yi said the relaxed birth policy was "too late and too little", and that China's best hope was to model its policies after Japan, "for example, providing free childcare, free education, housing subsidies for young couples"."Young people are under a lot of pressure," a woman visiting the Bund in Shanghai with her only child, who did not give her name, told AFP."They have no time to take care of kids at home because of work, and if they take care of kids full time, that means no work."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-third-child-no-thanks-say-young-chinese-101622614938374.html
02-06-2021||World||Covid variant found in India threatens to rapidly spread in sub-region: UNHCR||The highly-infectious Covid-19 variant first detected in India “threatens” to rapidly spread in the sub-region, including among refugees, the UN refugee agency has said as it warned of vaccine shortages in the Asia-Pacific region, including for asylum-seekers.United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) spokesperson Andrej Mahecic, at a press briefing in Geneva on Tuesday, said that the fragile health systems in many countries in the Asia and Pacific region have struggled to cope with the recent surge of coronavirus cases.“We are particularly worried about the situation in the Asia and Pacific region, which in the past two months has experienced the largest increase in the number of cases globally,” he said.Over this period, there have been some 38 million recorded Covid-19 cases and more than half a million deaths, the UNHCR spokesperson said.“The lack of hospital beds, oxygen supplies, limited Intensive Care Unit (ICU) capacities and scarce health facilities and services have worsened outcomes for those infected with Covid-19, particularly in India and Nepal. The highly infectious variant of the virus which first emerged in India threatens to rapidly spread in the sub-region, including among refugee populations,” Mahecic said.The B.1.617 Covid-19 variant, first detected in India, is divided in three lineages -- B.1.617.1, B.1.617.2 and B.1.617.3.The World Health Organization (WHO) has said that only B.1.617.2 is now a “variant of concern,” observing that lower rates of transmission have been observed for the other two lineages, making them no longer variants of concern.The B.1.617.2 is now labelled variant Delta and has been reported in 62 countries as of June 1.With Covid-19 raging in many parts of the world, the UNHCR warned of shortages of vaccines in the Asia-Pacific region, including for refugees and asylum-seekers.UNHCR spokesperson Mahecic said: “We urge an immediate and stronger support for the COVAX initiative, a worldwide effort aimed at achieving equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines."This is critical to save lives and curb the impact of the virus, particularly in developing nations. These countries host the vast majority of more than 80 million forcibly displaced people in the world. Yet so far, they have benefited from only a fraction of the world’s Covid-19 vaccines”.The UNHCR stressed that no one can be left behind in the global effort against the coronavirus."The pandemic will be defeated only when vaccinations become available everywhere on an equitable basis,” the agency said.It said that the current delays in vaccine shipments, brought about by limited supplies to COVAX, mean that some of the world’s most vulnerable people remain susceptible to the virus.“The UNHCR is adding its voice to the calls for countries with surplus doses to donate to COVAX, and for manufacturers to boost supplies to the COVAX facility,” Mahecic said.The UN refugee agency said that refugees remain especially vulnerable to the spread of Covid-19 as overcrowded settings, coupled with limited water and sanitation facilities, can contribute to increased infection rates and an exponential spread of the virus.It said that in Bangladesh’s Cox’s Bazar, where almost 900,000 Rohingya refugees are living in the single largest and most densely populated cluster of refugee camps in the world, the number of cases has increased considerably in the last two months.As of May 31, there have been over 1,188 cases among the refugees, with more than half of these cases recorded in May alone.There is also a “worrying increase” in the number of Covid-19 cases among refugees and asylum-seekers in Nepal, Iran, Pakistan, Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia.Some refugees, including in Nepal, have already received their first vaccine dose with COVAX-provided supplies while among the Rohingya refugees in the camps in Bangladesh, not a single vaccine has been administered yet, given the scarcity of supplies in the country, the UN refugee agency added.On Wednesday, India reported 1,32,788 new coronavirus infections, taking the country's tally to 2,83,07,832, according to the Union Health Ministry.The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,35,102 with 3,207 fresh deaths, it said, adding that the active cases were recorded below 20 lakh for the second consecutive day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-variant-found-in-india-threatens-to-rapidly-spread-in-sub-region-unhcr-101622614355390.html
02-06-2021||World||Nestle says updating health strategy after report claims 60% of its food portfolio is unhealthy||Nestle, the Swiss FMCG major, has said that it is reviewing its entire portfolio to update the nutrition and health strategy. The development comes days after a report in Financial Times claimed the majority of Nestlé's mainstream food and drinks portfolio failed to meet recognised standards of health and nutrition.The Financial Times report on Monday quoted from a Nestle document to say the company has acknowledged that more than 60 per cent of its mainstream food and drinks products do not meet a "recognised definition of health".On Tuesday, Nestle said it has launched a company-wide project to update its nutrition and health strategy. "It is looking at its entire portfolio to ensure that its products are helping meet their nutritional needs and supporting a balanced diet," a Nestle SA spokesperson said.For example, Nestle has reduced the sugar and sodium content in its products significantly in the past two decades, about 14-15 per cent in the past 7 years alone, the spokesperson added. "In recent years, we have launched thousands of products for kids and families that meet external nutrition yardsticks," he said.According to Nestle, it believes that a healthy diet means finding a balance between well-being and enjoyment."This includes having some space for indulgent foods, consumed in moderation. Our direction of travel has not changed and is clear: we will continue to make our portfolio tastier and healthier," the company said.Nestle is the maker of KitKat, Maggi and Nescafe - some of the popular food brands.The Financial Times said that it has seen a presentation circulated among top executives this year which said that only 37 per cent of Nestle's food and beverages by revenues, excluding products such as pet food and specialised medical nutrition, achieve a rating above 3.5 under Australia’s health star rating system."Within its overall food and drink portfolio, about 70 per cent of Nestle’s food products failed to meet that threshold, the presentation said, along with 96 per cent of beverages - excluding pure coffee - and 99 per cent of Nestle’s confectionery and ice cream portfolio," the media report further stated.Systems like the health star rating and nutri-score are useful in this regard and enable consumers to make informed choices.In India, Nestle is one of the leading players into the packaged food category. It presently operates eight production units in India and had reported net sales of ₹13,290.16 crore for 2020.The Indian market was ranked at number 11 in terms of contribution to Nestle’s global revenue in 2020.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/maggi-kitkat-maker-nestle-reviews-strategy-after-damning-report-about-its-food-portfolio-101622613045078.html
02-06-2021||World||'Inherent biases a challenge': Advocacy group on Sikh man's forced beard shaving||Several advocacy groups in the United States have filed complaint with the department of justice (DOJ) for the treatment meted out to Surjit Singh, a Sikh immigrant, at a detention facility in Arizona. These groups have said the 64-year-old's religious freedom was violated when his turban was removed and beard forcibly shaved.The incident happened last year when Singh entered Yuma county jail, He was sentenced to five years in prison for manslaughter after a fatal vehicle accident.Sikh Coalition, which has been leading the fight seeking justice for Singh, has urged the DOJ to examine the practices of Arizona Department of Corrections, Rehabilitation and Reentry (ADCRR) to ensure other incarcerated people are not subject to similar violations.Amrith Kaur, the legal director of Sikh Coalition, spoke to hindustantimes.com about the incident and the group's ongoing fight to secure a broader policy change. Here is the full interview:Q: What do you have to say about the shocking treatment meted out to Mr Surjit Singh?Amrith Kaur: The Arizona Department of Corrections, Rehabilitation and Reentry violated Mr Singh’s religious rights. Even if they are currently serving sentences in the criminal justice system, all people have a constitutionally protected right to practice their faith.Q: What has been the reaction of the prison authorities and how are you going to deal with what you term as an "egregious incident"?Amrith Kaur: The Arizona Department of Corrections has refused to put in place a policy that will keep them from violating the rights of other people who maintain religiously-mandated hair, even though they are required to do so under US law (namely, the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act or RLUIPA). On May 24, 2021, the Sikh Coalition, the American Civil Liberties Union, and WilmerHale LLP filed a complaint with the US department of justice seeking an investigation of the Arizona Department of Corrections, Rehabilitation and Reentry for egregious religious freedom violations. Through this complaint filed with the US Department of Justice, we ask that the Arizona Department of Corrections implement a policy that will keep them from violating religious rights in the future.Q: You said ADCRR's arbitrary policies should not violate anyone's religious rights. Can you elaborate on it?Amrith Kaur: Like I said earlier, what happened to Mr Singh at ADCRR was a violation of his religious rights. I want to add that Mr Singh’s faith requires him to maintain unshorn hair, including facial hair. The policies set forth by the Arizona Department of Corrections should not violate his or anyone else’s religious rights.Q: In the case of religious beliefs and the law of the land, what according to you should gain primacy?Amrith Kaur: The freedom of religion is protected by the First Amendment of the US Constitution. These are not mutually exclusive protections; religious freedom is part of US law and the two go hand-in-hand.Q: Don't you think that granting special rights keeping religious sentiments in consideration will open a Pandora's Box considering the prevalent emotionally charged atmosphere across the globe and in the US?Amrith Kaur: The freedom of religion is protected by the First Amendment of the US Constitution, and this freedom extends to all persons even if they are or have been incarcerated. Moreover, incarcerated individuals’ religious freedom is specifically further protected under RLUIPA. Thus, our complaint to the US Department of Justice underscores the need for the Arizona Department of Corrections to implement a policy, as well as a pattern and practice, in line with this constitutionally protected right on behalf of Mr Singh and all other similarly situated persons.Q: Does the prison manual offer Mr Singh any counselling facility? Has he been extended such a facility?Amrith Kaur: Not that we are aware of.Q: Do you think it's time for the state government run law enforcement agencies in the US to undergo a comprehensive race sensitization programme considering the string of such incidents around the country?Amrith Kaur: One of the biggest challenges that we face is the inherent biases that are present within our existing structures and policies. It is important that all government agencies complete a thorough review and analysis of the cultural competency of their policies and practices. Where these policies and practices are treating some religious or racial groups differently from others, agencies should critically review why and whether those policies and practices are violative. Further, agencies should consider updating those policies and practices to be more inclusive, which would be an important step towards protecting all of our civil rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/inherent-biases-a-challenge-advocacy-group-on-sikh-man-s-forced-beard-shaving-101622611560958.html
02-06-2021||World||Only one strain of Covid-19 variant found in India now of concern, says WHO||The WHO said Tuesday that only one strain of the Covid-19 Delta variant first detected in India was now considered "of concern", while two other strains had been downgraded.The B.1.617 variant of the virus, which has in part been blamed for India's explosive outbreak, has been dubbed a triple mutant variant since it is split into three lineages.The UN health agency last month declared the entire strain a "variant of concern", or VOC, but on Tuesday, it said only one of the sub-lineages deserved that label.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage"It has become evident that greater public health risks are currently associated with B.1.617.2, while lower rates of transmission of other lineages have been observed," the World Health Organization said in its weekly epidemiological update on the pandemic.The B.1.617.2 variant remains a VOC, along with three other variants of the virus that are seen as more dangerous than the original version because they are more transmissible, deadly or have the potential to get past some vaccine protections.In line with a decision announced Monday to refer to the variants using Greek letters, in a bid to avoid the possible stigmatisation associated with referring to them with the name of the countries where they were first detected, that variant has now been dubbed Delta."We continue to observe significantly increased transmissibility and a growing number of countries reporting outbreaks associated with this variant," the UN agency said."Further studies into the impact of this variant remain a high priority for WHO."In fact, a new hybrid variant announced by Vietnam's health authorities on Saturday appears to be a variation of Delta."What we understand is that it is this B.1.617.2 variant with one additional deletion in the location of the spike protein," WHO's technical lead on Covid-19 Maria Van Kerkhove told reporters Tuesday."We know that the B.1.617.2, the Delta variant, does have increased transmissibility, which means it can spread easier between people," she added.The B.1.617.1 sub-lineage has meanwhile been downgraded to a "variant of interest," and dubbed Kappa.And the B.1.617.3 is now not even considered of interest, WHO said, since "relatively few reports of this variant have been submitted to date."It has not been attributed a Greek letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/only-one-strain-of-covid-19-variant-found-in-india-now-of-concern-says-who-101622604317243.html
02-06-2021||World||China must hand over the keys to Wuhan lab for Covid-19 origins and global good||The ongoing debates on the possible origins of the pandemic are important in their own right. But, no matter where the needle eventually points the debate needs to acknowledge the dragon in the room. No objective, de-politicised discussion on the subject is feasible because of the depth and reach of China’s influence.The debate on the pandemic’s origins can be simply stated. Over thousands of years, viruses, bacteria and parasites that infect other animals sometimes ‘spillover’ to infect humans in close contact. These spillover events most often result in fever or more severe symptoms and usually do not result in human-to-human transmission.One reason why human-to-human transmission is rare is because of the ‘key’ that a virus uses to open the ‘lock’ on the surface of our cells. This key has good fit to open locks on other animals where it has incubated and evolved, but has a poor fit to open locks in humans, which may have similarities but also have substantial differences.Coronaviruses can infect bats but not cause them any significant ill-effect. They grow and multiply in their host and sometimes accumulate mutations that change the genetic code of the key. This randomly happens over decades. Rarely again, you have a new key which has a good fit to the lock in the bats cells but now also has a reasonable fit to the lock on the human cell. This new virus would have never seen a human, yet has the ability to infect one, and cause human-to-human transmission. This is the way natural evolution works.Now, should a human come in close contact — in a bat cave or a wet-market, with such a bat; they could be infected. And then transmit the disease to other humans. This is the natural ‘spillover’ hypothesis.Scientists all over the world research viruses. Such research brings basic knowledge and also gives us the understanding and tools to fight disease. When dealing with known or likely pathogens strict safety rules are required to be observed. Lab-leaks are not unknown but are rare, compared to the huge work on infectious diseases all over the world. Yet, they are not unknown. The smallpox virus has leaked from a lab in the UK, anthrax from the US and SARS-1 may have had a few lab leaks after its natural spillover. The H1N1 virus example is unusual. In a recent piece, The Economist reiterates a lab-leak origin of an engineered virus.ALSO READ: 'There's going to be Covid-26 and Covid-32 unless...': Experts warnCould Sars-CoV2 have emerged from a lab-leak, through an accident? The Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV) is one of the top virology labs in the world and research on corona viruses is intensely conducted there. One kind of research that is alleged to have been conducted is the culturing of coronavirus to enhance its infectivity to human cells or on mice containing a ‘humanised’ receptor for the virus.There are many technical debates, in addition to those in the popular press, on the relative likelihood of the two theories being correct. The animal ‘spillover’ is like buying a winning lottery ticket in a very big lottery. A very rare event for any single person, but still, it happens (only in this case, it is a big loss and not a big win). The lab-leak is akin to rigging the lottery.If the animal-to-human spillover is valid, then there will be animals in the wild, bats or pangolins, that harbour a virus identical to that found on the first cases in Wuhan. This has not been found yet, unlikely to be found soon and there is no indication that the Chinese are on a mission to find such an animal. We, therefore, do not have any proof of wild origin yet, and may not have one ever. The search is difficult in itself, even if it were to be conducted.ALSO READ: Covid-19 has no ‘credible natural ancestor’, created in Wuhan lab, new study claimsPeople have tried to look at the virus’s genome sequence or the kind of experiments conducted at WIV to garner evidence for the lab-leak theory. Just as circumstantial evidence is present to support the wild spillover theory, there is circumstantial evidence to support the lab-leak theory.Normally, the most parsimonious explanation would support a wild spillover. But, for this pandemic, WIV and China need to explain a lot. The lab-spillover can be easily ruled out if WIV opened its books to the WHO team and allowed lab-members to be interviewed. This kind of openness can easily dispel the critics, even as the difficult search for the wild animal that caused the spillover continues. Such an openness is most unlikely from China.The dragon's influence on US scientific researchChina’s lack of openness in this matter only fuels speculation that harms research and collaboration globally on important matters of planetary security and safety. This attitude, sadly, is expected. China has also, over the past few decades steadily established a stranglehold on global research that makes this lack of openness both global and worrisome. Science and technology thrives in an atmosphere of openness, criticism, debate, and competition. The rise of the United States and Europe in the 20th century are examples. Yet, China has risen even though it is a totalitarian state. China’s rise has happened by linking its economic progress to the welcoming of high-tech industry at Faustian and predatory terms. Its stellar scientific progress has happened by investing in western scientists and institutions at extraordinary attractive levels, in a similar Faustian bargain. China has beautifully used the strengths of an open system to build a science and tech economy in the shortest possible time.The West has been sleeping with eyes wide open as China cleverly exploited collaborative routes. This strategy has also made the global economy and global leaders in science, recipients of Chinese largesse in difficult times, unable to be objective about China. Global institutions—banks, trade bodies and health regulators— all moderate their criticism, if at all they criticise. It is not that they do not want to. They cannot. For example, the WHO has asked for a de-politicised environment so an investigation can be done fairly, it is clear that this is a futile statement.The debate on the pandemic’s origins will play its course and the truth will out. It may well be that the wild animal spillover is what occurred. But, this pandemic starkly tells us how dangerous it is for the world to be so dependent on every aspect of the planet’s future on what one big player with a stranglehold on the global economy and technology does. A strong pushback is needed, through an alliance of open and democratic forces who are willing to take the lead. It is a long journey that will take decades to complete. But, as a Chinese saying goes, the time to start is now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-must-hand-over-the-keys-to-wuhan-lab-for-covid-19-origins-and-global-good-101622596751207.html
02-06-2021||World||Meatpacking giant JBS says most plants operational by Wednesday following hack||Meatpacking giant JBS said most of its plants in the United States would be working by Wednesday after the company received a ransom demand in a cyberattack it believes originated in Russia."We have cybersecurity plans in place to address these types of issues... the vast majority of our beef, pork, poultry and prepared foods plants will be operational tomorrow," Andre Nogueira, JBS chief in the United States, said in a statement Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/meatpacking-giant-jbs-says-most-plants-operational-by-wednesday-following-hack-101622595226239.html
02-06-2021||World||Xi Jinping calls for greater global media reach||China President Xi Jinping said the country must improve the way it tells its "stories" to a global audience as it seeks to develop an international voice that reflects its status on the world stage, official news agency Xinhua reported.Speaking at a Communist Party study meeting, Xi said it was crucial for China to improve its ability to spread its messages globally in order to present a "true, three-dimensional and comprehensive China", Xinhua said on Tuesday.China needed to develop an "international voice" to match its national strength and global status, Xinhua said, citing Xi. It also needed to strengthen propaganda efforts to help foreigners understand the Chinese Communist Party and the way it "strives for the happiness of the Chinese people".The country needed to create a team of professionals and adopt "precise communication methods" for different regions, he said.China's relationship with foreign media has become increasingly tense in recent years, with local news outlets such as the Global Times often singling out foreign reporters for what it says is biased and unfair coverage.Several journalists working for U.S. news organisations were expelled last year as relations between the two sides deteriorated.China has also banned BBC World News from mainland Chinese television networks following criticism of the British broadcaster's coverage of human rights in the northwestern region of Xinjiang as well as the origins of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/xi-jinping-calls-for-greater-global-media-reach-101622594968245.html
02-06-2021||World||Amazon backs marijuana legalisation, drops weed testing for some jobs||Amazon.com Inc said on Tuesday it supports a proposed U.S. legislation to legalize cannabis at the federal level, and would drop weed-testing requirements for some recruitments.The e-commerce company's public policy team will be actively supporting The Marijuana Opportunity Reinvestment and Expungement Act of 2021 (MORE Act), which seeks to legalize marijuana at the federal level, its consumer boss Dave Clark said in a blog post.Amazon will also no longer screen its job applicants for marijuana use for any positions not regulated by the Department of Transportation, Clark added.While many U.S. states have legalized marijuana use, employers have so far largely refused to work with the industry as cannabis is still a classified substance at the federal level."In the past, like many employers, we've disqualified people from working at Amazon if they tested positive for marijuana use," Clark said. "However, given where state laws are moving across the U.S., we've changed course."Amazon was hit with a proposed class action suit, which claimed that the company was violating a New York City law by testing applicants for jobs at local facilities for marijuana, according to a Westlaw report. The company does not allow marijuana sales on its platform.Amazon also said it is tweaking its worker productivity tracking tool, "Time off Task.""Starting today, we're now averaging Time off Task over a longer period to ensure that there's more signal and less noise—reinforcing the original intent of the program," Clark said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amazon-backs-marijuana-legalisation-drops-weed-testing-for-some-jobs-101622594508602.html
02-06-2021||World||Finland PM to pay back meal expenses after uproar||Finnish Prime Minister Sanna Marin is pledging to pay back thousands of euros in meal expenses in a bid to contain the fallout from revelations about her family's taxpayer-subsidised breakfasts.The 35-year-old leader made clear on Tuesday she would no longer claim such expenses after pledging over the weekend to pay back over 14,000 euros ($17,000) she has received in reimbursements for breakfast and cold meals at her residence since taking office a year and a half ago."Because there are open questions regarding the meal allowance, I will pay the related costs myself," she said on Twitter on Saturday, adding that she will make sure the issue is looked into and guidance updated if necessary.On Tuesday she added that "I don't intend to use the meal allowance in future, even if it is ruled to be in line with the regulations," in an interview with broadcaster MTV3.She called for officials to swiftly determine whether the allowance is legal and whether the repayments should be taxed, and said: "I have other work duties to get on with than spending days on end looking into things like my family's food."Marin found herself in hot water a week ago when the tabloid Iltalehti reported that she has been claiming back about 300 euros ($365) per month for her family's breakfasts while living at her official residence, Kesaranta.Upcoming local elections After police and tax officials in the Nordic country pledged to look into the payments, the prime minister's office announced that the bill for breakfast and other cold meals at the residence was in fact 845 euros ($1,033) a week."As prime minister I have not asked for this benefit nor been involved in deciding on it," Marin said on Twitter at the time.Opposition figures have lined up to paint Marin as out of touch for making use of the meals perk, hoping that the revelations will leave a bitter taste in voters' mouths at the local elections in two weeks' time.Finland's low levels of inequality are a source of national pride, and leaders are typically valued for being down to earth and egalitarian.But figures from Marin's own centre-left government coalition, including her predecessor as prime minster Antti Rinne, have expressed their support for the PM.Marin, leader of Finland's Social Democrats, has enjoyed relatively high levels of public support since coming to office in December 2019, and her coalition has been credited with helping Finland maintain some of Europe's lowest coronavirus infection rates.Nonetheless her party currently lags in the polls behind the opposition, while the far-right Finns Party has been predicted to make record gains at municipal ballot boxes on June 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/finland-pm-to-pay-back-meal-expenses-after-uproar-101622593268064.html
02-06-2021||World||Britain wants extra AstraZeneca shots to fight 'beta' Covid-19 variant||Britain is in talks with Oxford and AstraZeneca for additional doses of their Covid-19 vaccine that has been modified to better target the "beta" coronavirus variant first identified in South Africa, and it will fund trials of the shots.Britain has previously secured 100 million doses of the vaccine, developed at the University of Oxford and licenced to AstraZeneca, and the health ministry said the extra doses under discussion would be tailored to target the B.1.351 variant.South Africa put use of AstraZeneca's shot on hold in February after data showed it gave minimal protection against mild-to-moderate infection caused by the country's dominant variant, now known as "beta" under a new World Health Organization labelling system.Oxford considers the variant top priority for vaccine developers, and AstraZeneca has targeted the development of new vaccines against variants by the autumn.Britain has committed to funding trials for the new adapted vaccine, which could be fast-tracked through the regulatory process following new guidance in March.Britain's health minister Matt Hancock is hosting a summit of Group of Seven (G7) counterparts in Oxford later this week, and he will use a speech on Wednesday to highlight Britain's role in the Oxford-AstraZeneca project.Hancock will also highlight that Britain is expected to hit the milestone of giving three-quarters of adults a first COVID-19 vaccine dose on Wednesday, the health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-wants-extra-astrazeneca-shots-to-fight-beta-covid-19-variant-101622591793983.html
02-06-2021||World||US President Joe Biden to suspend oil leases in Alaska's Arctic refuge||The Biden administration is suspending oil and gas leases in Alaska’s Arctic National Wildlife Refuge as it reviews environmental impacts of drilling in the remote region that has been the focus of a political fight for decades, according to two people who have been briefed on the administration's plan.The Interior Department order was set to be announced later Tuesday. It follows a temporary moratorium on oil and gas lease activities imposed by President Joe Biden on his first day in office. Biden’s Jan. 20 executive order suggested a new environmental review was needed to address possible legal flaws in a drilling program approved by the Trump administration under a 2017 law approved by Congress.The people briefed on the plan requested anonymity because the plan had not been officially released.The remote, 19.6 million-acre refuge is home to polar bears, caribou, snowy owls and other wildlife, including migrating birds from six continents. Republicans and the oil industry have long been trying to open the wildlife refuge, considered sacred by the Indigenous Gwich’in, for drilling. Democrats, environmental groups and some Alaska Native tribes have been trying to block it.The US Bureau of Land Management, an Interior Department agency, held a lease sale for the refuge’s coastal plain on Jan. 6, two weeks before Biden took office. Eight days later the agency signed leases for nine tracts totaling nearly 685 square miles (1,770 square kilometers). However, the issuance of the leases was not announced publicly until Jan. 19, former President Donald Trump’s last full day in office.Biden has opposed drilling in the region, and environmental groups have been pushing permanent protections, which Biden called for during the presidential campaign.The administration's action to suspend the leases comes after officials disappointed environmental groups last week by defending a Trump administration decision to approve a major oil project on Alaska’s North Slope. Critics say the action flies in the face of Biden’s pledges to address climate change.The Justice Department said in a court filing that opponents of the Willow project in the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska were seeking to stop development by “cherry-picking” the records of federal agencies to claim environmental review law violations. The filing defends the reviews underpinning last fall’s decision approving project plans.A coalition of groups has sued to invalidate the Trump-era approval. An appeals court earlier this year halted certain construction activities, and parties in the case later agreed to keep in place construction activity limits until Dec. 1 while the underlying case continued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-president-joe-biden-to-suspend-oil-leases-in-alaska-s-arctic-refuge-101622577992185.html
02-06-2021||World||US to drop charges against man accused in Capitol riot||The Justice Department plans to drop charges against one of the more than 400 Trump supporters it has accused of participating in the Jan. 6 riot at the US Capitol.US prosecutors asked a judge on Tuesday to dismiss all charges against accused rioter Christopher Kelly. It’s the first time the government has given up on a case in the far-reaching criminal investigation of the riot, which led to five deaths. Kelly was accused of unlawful entry and obstruction of an official proceeding, among other offenses.A spokesman for the Justice Department, Marc Raimondi, said the US was dropping the case because the charges against Kelly were “not consistent with what has been the standard across the other investigations.” Unlike other people who were arrested for their actions at the Capitol on Jan. 6, Kelly was not accused of committing serious crimes like damaging camera equipment or assaulting police officers.“This one was kind of an anomaly,” Raimondi said. “Most folks that were charged just for being on the grounds were charged if there were additional offenses, or some other serious charge.”Kelly’s lawyer, Edward MacMahon, declined to comment.In an arrest affidavit filed by the government in January, an agent with the Federal Bureau of Investigation laid out a series of social media posts in which Kelly discussed the Jan. 6 protests and circulated a photograph that appeared to show rioters inside the Capitol.Since the storming of the Capitol, federal prosecutors have charged alleged participants with a range of crimes, from disorderly conduct to conspiracy to block the certification of the election results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-to-drop-charges-against-man-accused-in-capitol-riot-101622577588990.html
02-06-2021||World||Shooting reported at Los Angeles County fire station||Authorities say there's been a shooting Tuesday at a Los Angeles County Fire Department station.Fire Department Supervisor Leslie Lua said paramedics responded to reports of gunshots shortly before 11 a.m. at Fire Station 81, about 45 miles (72 kilometers) north of Los Angeles.Neither Lua nor Los Angeles County sheriff’s Deputy Trina Schrader had information about injuries or arrests.Police tape is surrounding the fire station in the Agua Dulce area near Santa Clarita, and police cars and ambulances lined the street outside.A home about 10 miles (16 kilometers) east of the station is on fire, and there's a heavy police presence, but it's unclear if it's connected to the shooting and authorities didn't immediately have more information.The Fire Department described it as a “tragic shooting" on Twitter, saying the agency is “still in the process of gathering additional information" and it's cooperating with law enforcement “throughout this ongoing incident."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/shooting-reported-at-los-angeles-county-fire-station-101622574029016.html
02-06-2021||World||'I hope it doesn't happen': Benjamin Netanyahu says ready to risk 'friction' with US over Iran||Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Tuesday he's prepared to risk tension with the US if that is what it takes to neutralize Iran's nuclear capabilities.The embattled premier, whose political future is in question just 11 days out from a bruising war, said Israel's biggest threat remains the possibility of a nuclear-armed Iran.He said Israel is prepared to prevent that from happening even if the United States and other nations succeed in reinstating the 2015 Iran nuclear accord."If we have to choose, I hope it doesn't happen, between friction with our great friend the United States and eliminating the existential threat — eliminating the existential threat” wins, Netanyahu said.He spoke at a ceremony for David Barnea, the new chief of Israel's Mossad spy agency.Iran has accused Israel of being behind a number of attacks killing Iranian nuclear scientists or sabotaging Iranian nuclear facilities.Netanyahu's comments come amid ongoing talks in Vienna between nations seeking to update and reinstate the 2015 agreement, in line with President Joe Biden's campaign promise. His predecessor, Republican President Donald Trump, pulled the US out of the accord in 2018 and imposed sanctions on the Islamic Republic.The deal places curbs on Iranian nuclear activities in exchange for relief from crippling economic sanctions.Netanyahu staunchly opposes the agreement, arguing that it does not have enough safeguards to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons.Israel also says the deal must address Iran's support for militant groups, its military actions across the region and its development of long-range missiles capable of striking Israel.Iran says its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes only and says the nuclear deal should be reinstated without any changes.Netanyahu spoke about Iran on Tuesday as his rivals in the Knesset huddled to try to form a coalition government that would end Netanyahu's 12-year rule.The developments come amid a fragile truce between Israel and Hamas' militant rulers in the Gaza Strip after a brutal 11-day war that killed more than 250 people, most of them Palestinian.Hamas, which opposes Israel's right to exist and is considered a terrorist group by Israel, the US and other Western countries, receives millions of dollars of military aid from Iran each year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/i-hope-it-doesn-t-happen-benjamin-netanyahu-says-ready-to-risk-friction-with-us-over-iran-101622572532531.html
02-06-2021||World||US says ransomware attack on meatpacker JBS likely from Russia||The White House said on Tuesday that Brazil's JBS SA has informed the US government that a ransomware attack against the company that has disrupted meat production in North America and Australia originated from a criminal organization likely based in Russia.JBS is the world's largest meatpacker and the incident caused its Australian operations to shut down on Monday and has stopped livestock slaughter at its plants in several US states.The ransomware attack follows one last month by a group with ties to Russia on Colonial Pipeline, the largest fuel pipeline in the United States, that crippled fuel delivery for several days in the US Southeast.White House spokeswoman Karine Jean-Pierre said the United States has contacted Russia's government about the matter and that the FBI is investigating."The White House has offered assistance to JBS and our team at the Department of Agriculture have spoken to their leadership several times in the last day," Jean-Pierre said."JBS notified the administration that the ransom demand came from a criminal organization likely based in Russia. The White House is engaging directly with the Russian government on this matter and delivering the message that responsible states do not harbor ransomware criminals," Jean-Pierre added.If the outages continue, consumers could see higher meat prices during summer grilling season in the United States and meat exports could be disrupted at a time of strong demand from China.JBS said it suspended all affected systems and notified authorities. It said its backup servers were not affected."On Sunday, May 30, JBS USA determined that it was the target of an organised cybersecurity attack, affecting some of the servers supporting its North American and Australian IT systems," the company said in a Monday statement."Resolution of the incident will take time, which may delay certain transactions with customers and suppliers," the company's statement said.The company, which has its North American operations headquartered in Greeley, Colorado, controls about 20% of the slaughtering capacity for US cattle and hogs, according to industry estimates.US beef and pork prices are already rising as China increases imports, animal feed costs rise and slaughterhouses face a dearth of workers.The cyberattack on JBS could push US beef prices even higher by tightening supplies, said Brad Lyle, chief financial officer for consultancy Partners for Production Agriculture.Any impact on consumers would depend on how long production is down, said Matthew Wiegand, a risk management consultant and commodity broker at FuturesOne in Nebraska."If it lingers for multiple days, you see some food service shortages," Wiegand added.Two kill and fabrication shifts were canceled at JBS's beef plant in Greeley due to the cyberattack, representatives of the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union Local 7 said in an email. JBS Beef in Cactus, Texas, also said on Facebook it would not run on Tuesday.JBS Canada said in a Facebook post that shifts had been canceled at its plant in Brooks, Alberta, on Monday and one shift so far had been canceled on Tuesday.A representative in Sao Paulo said the company's Brazilian operations were not impacted.Food securityThe United States Cattlemen's Association, a beef industry group, said on Twitter that it had reports of JBS redirecting livestock haulers who arrived at plants with animals ready for slaughter.Last year, cattle and hogs backed up on US farms and some animals were euthanized when meat plants shut due to COVID-19 outbreaks among workers.A JBS beef plant in Grand Island, Nebraska, said only workers in maintenance and shipping were scheduled to work on Tuesday due to the cyberattack.US congressman Rick Crawford, an Arkansas Republican, called for a bipartisan effort to secure food and cyber security in the wake of the cyberattack."Cyber security is synonymous with national security, and so is food security," Crawford wrote on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-says-ransomware-attack-on-meatpacker-jbs-likely-from-russia-101622571823083.html
02-06-2021||World||Chinese blogger sent to jail for ‘slanderous’ comments on Galwan Valley clash||A blogger has been jailed for eight months for making comments considered slanderous and derogatory about Chinese soldiers who had died fighting Indian troops at Galwan Valley in June last year.Qiu Ziming, 38, has been charged with “slandering martyrs and heroes” and is the first person to be jailed under amended laws dealing with defaming People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers under China’s criminal law.Qiu, an internet celebrity with 2.5 million followers on microblogging site Weibo, had posted a comment in February seen by the government as offensive, months after the Galwan Valley clash that left 20 Indian and four Chinese soldiers dead.Qiu has been charged with commenting negatively on the four Chinese soldiers who died on the same day that China released the casualty figures for the first time since the June 16 clash.“Qiu, known as ‘Labixiaoqiu’ online, was also ordered to publicly apologise through major domestic portals and the national media within 10 days to eliminate the negative impact, a court in Nanjing, eastern China’s Jiangsu province ruled,” the state-run tabloid, Global Times, reported.Newly-amended laws carry a maximum sentence of three years in jail, but Qui got a lighter punishment because, according to the court, he had truthfully confessed to his crime, entered a guilty plea and said in court that he won’t commit the crime again.“He was detained a day later for stirring up trouble that brought about a severe negative social impact. Qiu’s Weibo account was also suspended,” the Global Times report said.On March 1, Qiu publicly apologised for the post during a prime-time national news broadcast on China’s state broadcaster, CCTV. “I feel extremely ashamed of myself, and I’m very sorry,” Qiu had said. “My behaviour was an annihilation of conscience.”China has been sensitive about comments perceived to be slanderous about the four PLA soldiers who died and one who was injured in the Galwan Valley clash.At least eight persons in China have so far been arrested, detained or have had proceedings initiated against them for insulting “PLA heroes and martyrs” online.Last week, a permanent resident of the US, Wang Jingyu, 19, wanted by China under similar charges, was freed by Dubai and boarded a flight to Turkey after spending weeks in detention.Beijing, according to The Associated Press, had sought Wang over his comments on the deadly clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers.Wang, a resident of Chongqing city, had questioned on social media why the Chinese government waited six months to release information about PLA casualty figures, sparking a harassment campaign that saw him flee to Istanbul, the AP report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-blogger-sent-to-jail-for-slanderous-comments-on-galwan-valley-clash-101622540094939.html
