21-06-2021||World||WHO planning technology transfer hub in South Africa for Covid-19 vaccines||The head of the World Health Organisation said it is in discussions with numerous companies and institutions to create a technology transfer hub for coronavirus vaccines in South Africa.At a press briefing on Monday, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the consortium involves a company called Afrigen Biologics and Vaccines, which will act as a hub both for making vaccines that use a genetic code of the spike protein, known as mRNA vaccines, and by providing training to other manufacturers to make these shots, including the company, Biovac Institute.“WHO is facilitating this effort by establishing the criteria for technology transfer,” Tedros said.“We are now in discussions with several companies that have indicated interest in providing their mRNA technology.”The German company BioNTech, which has partnered with Pfizer to makes its Covid-19 vaccine, recently announced it would scale up efforts to establish mRNA vaccine facilities across Africa.South African President Cyril Ramaphosa said the new WHO effort would “change the narrative” for Africa and help enhance the continent's ability to “take responsibility for the health of our people, for the health of Africans.”Ramaphosa said many people in developing countries were “still struggling for access to vaccines that are made in their billions in the north.”He said it was “just not equitable and not fair” that some people were denied access to Covid-19 doses because of where they live.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-planning-technology-transfer-hub-in-south-africa-for-covid-19-vaccines-101624299318908.html
21-06-2021||World||US to share millions of Covid-19 shots with Latin America, Africa and Asia||In a bid to fulfill their commitment towards global Covid-19, the White House on Monday announced the plan to share more than 50 million US coronavirus vaccine doses, out of which 75% of the doses will primarily go to Latin America and the Caribbean, Asia and Africa. The global distribution will be carried out under the COVAX international vaccine-sharing programme.The global aid plan fulfills US President Joe Biden's commitment to share 80 million US-made vaccines with countries around the world.The White House in its statement said: "As we continue to fight the Covidd-19 pandemic at home and work to end the pandemic worldwide, President Biden has promised that the United States will be an arsenal of vaccines for the world," the White House said in a statement.Of the 55 million remaining doses, some 41 million would be shared through COVAX, the White House said, with approximately 14 million going to Latin America and the Caribbean, some 16 million to Asia, and roughly 10 million to Africa.The other 25%, or roughly 14 million doses, would be shared with "regional priorities," including Colombia, Argentina, Iraq, Ukraine, the West Bank and Gaza."For all of these doses, those most at risk, such as health care workers, should be prioritized, based on national vaccine plans," the White House said.As greater numbers of people get vaccinated in the United States, the Biden administration has turned its focus increasingly to shipping vaccines abroad. International partners are eager to get even more.The Biden-Harris Administration will not use its vaccines to secure favours from other countries, the White House asserted.The White House said, in addition to sharing doses from its own vaccine supply, the Biden-Harris Administration is also committed to working with US manufacturers to produce more vaccines to share with the world.To that end, ahead of the G7, Biden announced that the US will purchase half a billion Pfizer doses and donate them to 92 low- and lower middle-income countries and members of the African Union.Earlier this month, Biden had laid out his priorities for the first 25 million doses from that pledge.Here is how the US is sharing vaccines globally:Through COVAX, the US shares approximately 14 million shots with the Latin America and the Caribbean which includes nations like Brazil, Argentina, Colombia, Peru, Ecuador, Paraguay, Bolivia, Uruguay, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Haiti, and other Caribbean Community (CARICOM) countries, Dominican Republic, Panama, and Costa Rica.In Asia, the US shares approximately 16 million shots. This includes nations like India, Nepal, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Maldives, Bhutan, Philippines, Vietnam, Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia, Laos, Papua New Guinea, Taiwan, Cambodia, and the Pacific Islands.With Africa under COVAX, the US shares approximately 10 million shots and the recipient countries will be selected in coordination with the African Union.The US also is also sharing Covid-19 vaccines directly with at least 30 other countries like Colombia, Argentina, Haiti, other CARICOM countries, Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, Panama, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Philippines, Vietnam, Indonesia, South Africa, Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana, Cabo Verde, Egypt, Jordan, Iraq, Yemen, Tunisia, Oman, West Bank and Gaza, Ukraine, Kosovo, Georgia, Moldova, Bosnia||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-to-share-millions-of-covid-19-shots-with-latin-america-africa-and-asia-101624294251715.html
21-06-2021||World||Pakistan PM, foreign minister face criticism for remarks in interviews||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan and foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi were criticised on Monday by politicians and social media users for their stand on matters such as sexual violence and the status of slain Al-Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden. In an interview with the news programme Axios on HBO, Khan said men would be affected if women wore “very few clothes” when he was asked about what the interviewer said was an “epidemic of sexual violence in Pakistan”. Khan preferred not to speak out on China’s treatment of Uyghur Muslims in Xinjiang, saying Pakistan prefers to discuss such matters with the Chinese side “behind closed doors”.Qureshi, in an interview with Afghanistan’s Tolo News channel, ducked a question on whether he considered bin Laden a “martyr”. Despite Pakistan endorsing a joint statement by China, Russia and the US in March opposing the restoration of an Islamic emirate by the Taliban in Afghanistan, Qureshi didn’t offer a clear answer when he was asked if he opposed the return of an Islamic emirate.Both Qureshi and Khan have been strongly criticised for their remarks in the interviews by Pakistan’s opposition politicians, civil society activists and social media users.Also read: As FATF begins plenary meeting, reports emerge of surge in Taliban fund-raising in PakistanWhen Khan was asked during the interview on Axios on HBO why he raised the issue of Islamophobia in the West while remaining silent on the genocide against Muslims in China’s Xinjiang region, he replied, “Whatever issues we have with the Chinese, we speak to them behind closed doors. China has been one of the greatest friends to us in our most difficult times. When we were really struggling, our economy was struggling, China came to our rescue.” He added, “So, we respect the way they are and whatever issues we have, we speak behind closed doors.” He also sought to turn the focus to the situation in Kashmir, saying, “How come this is such a big issue in the Western world? Why are the people of Kashmir ignored? It is much more relevant compared to what might be going on [with the] Uyghurs, 100,000 Kashmiris have been killed.”Asked if it makes him feel “sick” that he must be silent because of the money China has poured into Pakistan, Khan replied, “I look around the world, what’s happening in Palestine, Libya, Somalia, Syria, Afghanistan. Am I going to start talking about everything? I concentrate on what is happening on my border, in my country.”Khan faced more criticism for his comments on women and sexual violence. “If a woman is wearing very few clothes, it will have an impact on the men, unless they are robots. I mean it’s common sense,” he said.“We don’t have discos here, we don’t have nightclubs, so it is a completely different society [and] way of life here. So if you raise temptation in the society to the point and all these young guys have nowhere to go, it has consequences in the society,” he added.Referring to the remarks by Qureshi and Khan, senior Pakistani journalist Abbas Nasir tweeted, “Is OBL a martyr? Hmmm...I will let that pass. To a question on blaming rape victims: Women who wear too few clothes are a temptation. Men are not robots. Two of Pakistan’s finest minds. The first went to Cambridge, the second to Oxford and got a post-grad from Annabels, London.”Former Pakistani parliamentarian Farhatullah Babar tweeted, “How one explains @SMQureshiPTI refusal to call Osama a terrorist even knowing well the terror attacks launched by OBL? Qureshi doesn’t want to invite the question how a terrorist lived in a cantonment for years. Question inevitable. Answer is clear: complicity or incompetence.”Columnist Mehr Tarar said in a tweet, “Prime Minister Khan must refrain from giving his personal explanations for increase in sexual abuse and rape cases in Pakistan. Not a shred of evidence to prove that clothing has anything to do with Pakistan’s rape cases. I thought he had learnt his lesson after the last debacle.”Pakistan People’s Party leader Sherry Rehman, a former ambassador to the US, too questioned Khan’s remarks. “Does IK not know that by saying women should dress a certain way, he is giving oppressors and criminals against women a new narrative to justify their behaviour. There is NO justification for a prime minister to talk this way. Highly irresponsible and condemnable,” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-pm-foreign-minister-face-criticism-for-remarks-in-interviews-101624291416966.html
21-06-2021||World||Canada extends India flight ban till July 21||The Canadian government has extended the suspension of direct flights from India till July 21. The announcement in this regard was made on Monday by the Public Health Agency of Canada.The decision was intimated in advance to the Indian government, an official confirmed.The suspension was originally announced on April 22 and was originally scheduled to last for 30 days. However, it was extended by another 30 days on May 21. In a statement, transport minister Omar Alghabra said that “given the number of Covid-19 cases continue to be very high in India, we have extended our flight restrictions for this country. We will continue to assess the evolving situation and determine appropriate action going forward”.The move was originally precipitated by increasing pressure upon the government of Justin Trudeau to act on this matter after several cases of the Delta variant originating in India were reported in Canada. There had also been mounting demands from provincial governments to ban these flights at the earliest because of the risk of transmission of cases into Canada. While that ban came into place amid a record surge in cases in India in April, with the crisis lasting through May, it will remain in place despite a significant decrease in daily cases being reported in India now.However, the Delta variant of Covid-19 has become widely prevalent in Canada, with health authorities considering it to be 150% more transmissible than the original virus. At the same time, the Canadian Press reported that this variant, first located in India, had caused over 2,000 cases in the country by Friday, citing Canada’s chief public health officer Dr Theresa Tam. It also said that earlier in the week, that number was at 1,187, thereby denoting a spike of nearly two-third in the number of cases. Health authorities in the province of Ontario have also warned that the variant could well dominate the caseload within a month. Public health officials have yet to update the exact number of daily cases as yet, though the count for the other three variants is provided regularly.Prior to the flight ban, both Air Canada and Air India were operating almost daily flights between the Canadian cities of Toronto and Vancouver and New Delhi, India in an air corridor arrangement that came into place last summer. Passengers from India who arrive via an indirect route, through a third country, will have to provide a pre-departure negative coronavirus test result from the last port before continuing their journey.The Canadian government also announced that fully vaccinated citizens and permanent residents entering the country via air will no longer require mandatory hotel quarantine while they await results of an RT-PCR test taken on arrival at a Canadian airport. This relaxation will come into effect on July 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-extends-india-flight-ban-till-july-21-101624290876946.html
21-06-2021||World||Canada won't open border fully until 75% people vaccinated||The Canadian government announced a loosening of Covid-19 travel restrictions for fully vaccinated people amid warnings that a return to a completely open border will take awhile longer.Fully vaccinated Canadians and residents will exempt from the mandatory three-day hotel stay as well as a 14-day quarantine requirement on arrival to the country, Justin Trudeau’s government said in a statement on Monday. Travelers will still need to have tested negative for Covid-19 before they trip from their place of departure, and take a second test at the border.The move, effective July 5, is a first but incremental step to ease restrictions amid mounting impatience for the government to reopen the border between the two countries. A fuller reopening won’t happen until 75% of Canadians are fully vaccinated, Canada’s border chief said on Sunday. The world’s longest undefended border has been closed to most travel since March 2020. On Friday, the government extended the restrictions until at least July 21.“We haven’t reached the finish line, and the finish line is when a significant majority of Canadians, approximately 75%, are fully vaccinated,” Public Safety Minister Bill Blair told the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. on Sunday. At present, less than a fifth of Canadians have received two shots, according to data compiled by CTV News.The border restrictions have kept families apart, blocked tourists and students, and hampered the world’s largest bilateral trading relationship. While trucks and trains continued to move goods, Canada’s tourism and travel-related businesses lost an estimated C$20 billion ($16 billion) in revenue last year, according to one estimate.The new measures announced on Monday will help primarily Canadians living in the U.S. come home without the added costs and burden associated with the full quarantine. It could also expedite entry for new immigrants and non-permanent residents like students.Travelers will still need to quarantine until they receive the results of the second test. The new rules don’t apply to tourists and non-residents and partially vaccinated Canadians will still need to do the full quarantine.Airlines, tour operators and other businesses on both sides of the border have been pleading for a more comprehensive reopening plan, with the vital summer season about to begin, and Canada’s go-slow approach is causing frustration. Blair’s announcement Friday that Canada would extend the border restrictions was met with some unusually blunt language from Brian Higgins, a New York Democrat who represents a border district.Canada prioritized giving first doses to as many people as possible before moving on to second doses amid a shortage in vaccine supplies. As a result, some 66% of Canadians have received one shot, but only 18% have had two, the CTV data show. By contrast, about 45% of Americans have had two doses, according to the Bloomberg Vaccine Tracker.Despite its cautious stance, Trudeau’s government had approved a travel exemption for National Hockey League teams earlier this month for the final rounds of championship playoffs.Canada is expecting the delivery of 68 million doses by the end of July that should be enough to fully vaccinate the eligible population. Asked if that might allow Canada to reopen the border by the end of August, Blair said while he didn’t want to get ahead of the country’s public health agency, he was hopeful.“Clearly, as those vaccines arrive and as Canadians continue to get in those lines and get vaccines into their arms, we’re really optimistic that we can meet that threshold of 75%,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-won-t-open-border-fully-until-75-people-vaccinated-101624286885454.html
21-06-2021||World||US rescinds order on TikTok and WeChat, another Trump-era order revoked||The US Commerce Department on Monday rescinded a list of prohibited transactions with TikTok and WeChat, issued in September last year, paving the way for the Chinese-owned apps to function without restrictions.The Donald Trump administration had sought to impose severe restrictions on both the Chinese-owned apps.The move to rescind the prohibited transactions comes after President Joe Biden withdrew a series of Trump-era executive orders earlier this month. The Trump-era orders sought to ban new downloads of Tencent-owned WeChat and TikTok, and ordered a Commerce Department review of security concerns posed by those apps and others.The Commerce Department under Trump also had sought to ban other transactions that would have effectively banned WeChat's use the United States and later sought similar restrictions that would have barred TikTok's use.The department did not immediately comment.The Biden order directed the Commerce Department to monitor software applications like TikTok that could affect US national security, as well as to make recommendations within 120 days to protect US data acquired or accessible by companies controlled by foreign adversaries.WeChat, which has been downloaded at least 19 million times by US users, is widely used as a medium for services, games and payments.Biden's executive order revokes the WeChat and TikTok orders Trump issued in August, along with another in January that targeted eight other communications and financial technology software applications.The January Trump order directed officials to ban transactions with eight Chinese apps, including Ant Group's Alipay and Tencent's QQ Wallet and WeChat pay. No bans have been issued to date.The Trump administration had appealed judicial orders blocking the bans on TikTok and WeChat, but after Biden took office in January, the US Justice Department asked to pause the appeals.A separate US national security review of TikTok, launched in late 2019, remains active.With inputs from Reuters||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-rescinds-order-on-tiktok-and-wechat-another-trump-era-order-revoked-101624282674601.html
21-06-2021||World||Reports emerge of surge in Taliban fund-raising in Pakistan||As the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) began a plenary meeting on Monday that will assess Pakistan’s efforts to tackle terror financing, reports have emerged of a sharp increase in fund-raising by the Afghan Taliban on Pakistani soil.The FATF’s virtual plenary meeting, which will conclude on June 25, will decide whether to retain Pakistan in the “grey list” or the list of nations under increased monitoring by the multilateral watchdog. Pakistan was placed on the list in June 2018 for failing to curb terror financing and money laundering.Recent reports have said there has been a spurt in fund-raising and recruitment by the Afghan Taliban on Pakistani soil, especially in the restive Balochistan province. Several top Taliban leaders are believed to be based in Balochistan and form part of the Quetta Shura, named after the capital city of the province.Donations to the Afghan Taliban are on the “upswing” in Balochistan as the group intensifies attacks on Afghan forces ahead of the drawdown of US forces, locals told VOA. The international broadcaster funded by the US cited multiple sources and eyewitnesses as saying that fundraising for the Taliban “has continued in various parts of Pakistan”.A resident of Duki, 210 kilometres east of Quetta, told VOA that Afghan Taliban militants stay with coal miners in nearby mountains and come to the local bazaar every Friday to solicit 5,000 to 10,000 Pakistani rupees from shopkeepers.An unnamed member of the Balochistan assembly said members of the Taliban “openly hold fundraising campaigns” in several areas of the province such as Quetta, Kuchlak, Pashtun Abad, Ishaq Abad and Farooqia town. “It is not a secret,” he said, adding he suspected Taliban supporters use the money to fund the fight against the Afghan government.A resident of Quetta said he regularly witnessed Taliban members seeking funds at mosques. The resident quoted a Taliban member telling a congregation at a mosque that if someone cannot go for jihad or holy war, he should support the Taliban financially.Also read: HT Editorial - The real spoiler in KabulBoth VOA and Germany’s public broadcaster Deutsche Welle (DW) reported multiple videos have emerged on social media, showing clerics and others allegedly collecting donations for the Taliban. A former parliamentarian from Balochistan told DW that the Taliban is engaged in recruitment on Pakistani soil.These development come at a time when the Taliban have captured some 30 districts across Afghanistan in an offensive launched since the US military withdrawal began on May 1.In its reports assessing Pakistan’s counter-terror financing efforts since the country was placed on the grey list in 2018, FATF listed the Taliban among eight terror groups involved in fund-raising on Pakistani soil. In 2019, FATF’s experts concluded Pakistan had done a lot to align its domestic laws with international counter-terror obligations but failed to do enough on the ground to curb fund-raising or freeze assets of the Taliban, Haqqani Network, Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), Jamaat-ud-Dawah (JuD), Falah-e-Insaniyat Foundation, al-Qaeda and Islamic State.Since then, Pakistan has taken steps to crack down on fund-raising by LeT and JuD, but Indian experts believe little has been done to rein in the activities of the Afghan Taliban, especially the Haqqani Network, which has close ties with the Pakistani military.Following its last plenary meeting in February, FATF retained Pakistan in its grey list and urged the country to complete an action plan to counter terror financing before June, including steps to prosecute individuals and entities involved in such activities.Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said the fund-raising by the Taliban on Pakistani soil went against everything the world community was doing to tackle terror financing.“Now that the US has announced it plans to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan by September, the Taliban is strengthening its position, security-wise through offensive campaigns and finance-wise by the campaign to raise money. Given the Taliban’s long-standing connections with Pakistan’s deep state, the country provides a conducive environment for raising such finances. All this is mocking the efforts by FATF to neutralise Pakistan’s support for terror financing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-fatf-begins-plenary-meeting-reports-emerge-of-surge-in-taliban-fund-raising-in-pakistan-101624283857763.html
21-06-2021||World||Gilead's Remdesivir cuts Covid-19 death risk: Study||A five-day treatment course of Gilead's antiviral drug Remdesivir can reduce mortality rates in hospitalised Covid-19 patients and boost the chances of recovery to the extent of discharge within 28 days, an analysis showed.Gilead compiled the data from 98,654 patients which are from three retrospective studies of the real-world treatment of hospitalised Covid-19 patients.Remdesivir has brought down the risk of mortality by a significant margin of 54% and 23% in two studies, Gilead said. The results, the drugmaker said, were consistently observed at different timeframes over the course of the pandemic and across geographies.Remdesivir has been approved for emergency use in severely-ill patients in the United States, India and South Korea, and has received full approval in Japan.The drug enjoys approval in the US which has allowed emergency use of three antibody combinations that help the immune system fight the virus. But all the drugs have to be infused at hospitals or medical clinics, and demand has been low due to these logistical hurdles.In April, Gilead Sciences Inc said it will provide support to new local manufacturing facilities in India and donate active pharmaceutical ingredients to scale up production of its Covid-19 drug Remdesivir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gileads-remdesivir-cuts-covid-19-death-risk-study-101624280632355.html
21-06-2021||World||Wall Street sees green as US stocks open higher; banks, industrials post gains||Stocks are opening mostly higher on Wall Street, getting the week off to a positive start after the S&P 500 posted its biggest weekly decline since February. The benchmark index was up 0.3% in the first few minutes of trading Monday. Banks and industrial companies were doing the best, while several big technology companies were falling. That helped pull the tech-heavy Nasdaq composite down 0.4%. Investors will be keeping an eye on more data coming out on inflation this week, as well as earnings from Nike and FedEx. Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 1.48%.How world markets performedWorld markets were mixed Monday after a sell-off Friday on Wall Street gave the S&P 500 its worst weekly loss since February.Japan’s benchmark fell 3.3% but shares rose in London and Frankfurt. US futures were higher.Investors are still thinking over the Federal Reserve’s signal that it may raise current ultra-low interest rates sooner than expected and slow its market-supporting bond purchases.Part of the Fed’s mission is to keep prices under control. The fear is that burgeoning inflation may prompt central banks to dial back the lavish support that has lifted markets to new highs after they plunged at the onset of the coronavirus pandemic last year.Until its latest policy meeting, last week, the Fed had indicated it viewed recent price hikes as transient and would let the recovering economy run hot. Now it's forecasting raising interest rates twice in 2023.Asian markets opened mostly lower early Monday but the losses were contained.In Europe, Germany's DAX gained 0.3% to 15,493.53 and the CAC 40 in Paris edged 0.1% higher, to 6,573.41. In London, the FTSE 100 inched up less than 0.1%, to 7,021.31. The future for the S&P 500 gained 0.4% while that for the Dow industrials climbed 0.5%.In Asian trading, the Nikkei 225 gave up 953 points to 28,010.93 and the Kospi in Seoul lost 0.8% to 3,240.79. Hong Kong's Hang Seng index lost 1.1% to 28,489.00. Australia's S&P/ASX 200 declined 1.8% to 7,235.30.The Shanghai Composite index edged 0.1% higher, to 3,529.18.India’s Sensex gained 0.4% and Thailand’s benchmark fell 0.8%.On Friday, the S&P 500 fell 1.3% to 4,166.45 in a broad retreat, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 1.6%, to 33,290.08. The Nasdaq composite fell 0.9% to 14,030.38.Markets were spooked after St. Louis Federal Reserve President James Bullard told CNBC he expects the first rate increase may come as soon as next year.The Fed also has begun talks about slowing its $120 billion of monthly bond purchases, which are helping to keep mortgages and other longer-term borrowing cheap. But the Fed’s chair has said such a tapering is still likely a ways away.Any pullback in Fed support would be a big change for markets, which have been feasting on ultra-low rates for more than a year.The major US stock indexes remain relatively close to their record highs as the economy powers its way out of the recession caused by the pandemic. The S&P 500 is only about 2% below its all-time high set on Monday, and the Dow is within 5% of its record set last month.The 10-year Treasury yield was steady at 1.43%.In other trading, US benchmark crude oil rose 40 cents to $72.04 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It gained 60 cents to $71.64 on Friday. Brent crude, the international standard, picked up 38 cents to $73.89 per barrel.The US dollar was at 110.10 Japanese yen, down from 110.27 on Friday. The euro rose to $1.1898 from $1.1861.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wall-street-sees-green-as-us-stocks-open-higher-banks-industrials-post-gains-101624283327980.html
21-06-2021||World||Tornado in suburban Chicago uproots trees, damages houses; 4 injured||A radar-confirmed tornado swept through suburban Chicago, damaging homes, toppling trees, knocking out power and causing some injuries, officials said.At least four injuries were reported in Naperville, where a dozen homes were damaged and numerous large trees were downed by a probable tornado late Sunday, according to a report to the National Weather Service. The injuries reportedly weren’t considered life-threatening.“Our first priority was making sure that the families were OK but now we are moving on to handling the damage,” Linda LaCloche, communications director in Naperville, about 25 miles (40 kilometers) west of Chicago, told the Chicago Sun-Times.Officials in the nearby village of Woodridge said a tornado touched down late Sunday and a damage assessment was underway. There were no reports of significant injuries in the community, but people were urged to avoid the area due to downed power lines and trees.“We have no power at all. I’m sitting in the dark waiting to hear back about what’s going on and gathering reports,” Woodridge Mayor Gina Cunningham told the newspaper early Monday.Photos from Woodridge showed damaged fencing, toppled trees and a bent street sign.Residents in the nearby communities of Darien and Burr Ridge, about 20 miles (32 kilometers) southwest of Chicago, were urged to take cover around 11:15 p.m., the National Weather Service in Chicago said on Twitter.“This is a dangerous situation!” the agency tweeted.Video showed several large trees downed and damage to homes and vehicles in the path of the storm. Some gas leaks were reported in Naperville, and crews went door to door shutting off lines, LaCloche said.The threat of wind damage remained for a few hours as the line of storms moved over northern Illinois and into northwestern Indiana, forecasters said. The severe threat was declared over at 2 am local time.Late Sunday and early Monday, severe thunderstorms also brought gusting winds and drenching rains to parts of Michigan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tornado-in-suburban-chicago-uproots-trees-damages-houses-4-injured-101624276133987.html
21-06-2021||World||Won't meet Joe Biden, says Iran's president-elect Ebrahim Raisi||Iran's president-elect said Monday he would not meet with President Joe Biden nor negotiate over Tehran's ballistic missile program and its support of regional militias, sticking to a hard-line position following his landslide victory in last week's election.Judiciary chief Ebrahim Raisi also described himself as a “defender of human rights” when asked about his involvement in the 1988 mass execution of some 5,000 people. It marked the first time he's been put on the spot on live television over that dark moment in Iranian history at the end of the Iran-Iraq war.“The US is obliged to lift all oppressive sanctions against Iran," Raisi said at the news conference.Raisi sat in front of a sea of microphones, most from Iran and countries home to militias supported by Tehran. He looked nervous at the beginning of his comments but slowly became more at ease over the hour-long news conference.Asked about Iran's ballistic missile program and its support of regional militias, Raisi described the issues as “non-negotiable.”Tehran's fleet of attack aircraft dates largely back to before the 1979 Islamic Revolution, forcing Iran to instead invest in missiles as a hedge against its regional Arab neighbors, who have purchased billions of dollars in American military hardware over the years. Iran also relies on militias like Yemen's Houthis and Lebanon's Hezbollah to counterbalance against enemies like Saudi Arabia and Israel, respectively.On a possible meeting with Biden, Raisi simply answered: “No.” His moderate competitor in the election, Abdolnasser Hemmati, had suggested during campaigning that he'd be potentially willing to meet Biden.The White House did not immediately respond to Raisi's statements Monday. Raisi will become the first serving Iranian president sanctioned by the U.S. government even before entering office, in part over his time as the head of Iran’s internationally criticized judiciary — one of the world’s top executioners.The victory of Raisi, a protégé of Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, came amid the lowest turnout in the Islamic Republic’s history. Millions of Iranians stayed home in defiance of a vote they saw as tipped in Raisi’s favor.Of those who did vote, 3.7 million people either accidentally or intentionally voided their ballots, far beyond the amount seen in previous elections and suggesting some wanted none of the four candidates. In official results, Raisi won 17.9 million votes overall, nearly 62% of the total 28.9 million cast.Raisi’s election puts hard-liners firmly in control across the government as negotiations in Vienna continue to try to save a tattered deal meant to limit Iran’s nuclear program, at a time when Tehran is enriching uranium at 60%, its highest levels ever, though still short of weapons-grade levels. Representatives of the world powers party to the deal returned to their capitals for consultations following the latest round of negotiations on Sunday.Top diplomats from nations involved in the talks said that further progress had been made Sunday between Iran and global powers to try to restore a landmark 2015 agreement to contain Iranian nuclear development that was abandoned by the Trump administration. They said it was now up to the governments involved in the negotiations to make political decisions.Raisi's election victory has raised concerns that it could complicate a possible return to the nuclear agreement. In his remarks Monday, Raisi called sanctions relief as “central to our foreign policy” and exhorted the U.S. to “return and implement your commitments” in the deal.On Saudi Arabia, which has recently started secret talks with Iran in Baghdad to reduce tensions with Iran, Raisi said that Iran would have “no problem” with a possible reopening of the Saudi Embassy in Tehran and the “restoration of relations faces no barrier.” The embassy was closed in 2016 when relations deteriorated.Raisi struck a defiant tone, however, when asked about the 1988 executions, which saw sham retrials of political prisoners, militants and others that would become known as “death commissions.”After Iran’s then-Supreme Leader Ruhollah Khomeini accepted a UN-brokered cease-fire, members of the Iranian opposition group Mujahedeen-e-Khalq, heavily armed by Saddam Hussein, stormed across the Iranian border in a surprise attack. Iran ultimately blunted their assault.The trials began around that time, with defendants asked to identify themselves. Those who responded “mujahedeen” were sent to their deaths, while others were questioned about their willingness to “clear minefields for the army of the Islamic Republic,” according to a 1990 Amnesty International report.International rights groups estimate that as many as 5,000 people were executed. Raisi served on the commissions.“I am proud of being a defender of human rights and of people's security and comfort as a prosecutor wherever I was,” he said. “All actions I carried out during my office were always in the direction of defending human rights,” he added. “Today in the presidential post, I feel obliged to defend human rights.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wont-meet-joe-biden-says-iran-s-president-elect-ebrahim-raisi-101624275440118.html
21-06-2021||World||Iran's president-elect says 'no' to meeting Joe Biden||Iran’s president-elect says he’s not willing to meet President Joe Biden.Ebrahim Raisi, when asked about possibly meeting Biden, simply said: “No.”Raisi’s moderate competitor in the recent election, Abdolnasser Hemmati, said he’d be willing to potentially meet Biden.Meanwhile, Raisi called himself “a defender of human rights” after being asked directly about his involvement in the 1988 mass executions of some 5,000 people. Raisi was part of a so-called “death panel” that sentenced political prisoners to death at the end of the 1980s Iran-Iraq war.Raisi made the comments Monday in a news conference with journalists, his first since winning Friday’s election in a landslide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/irans-president-elect-says-no-to-meeting-joe-biden-101624272114051.html
21-06-2021||World||Imran Khan on Uighur Muslims genocide: 'China one of the greatest friends’||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan refused to comment on the treatment of Uighur Muslims in the Xinjiang region in western China by the XI Jinping government and said the situation in Kashmir is "far more relevant".In a recent interview with a journalist, Imran Khan was questioned on why he was silent on the atrocities on Uighur Muslims in China while being vocal about Islamophobia in the West. To which, Khan answered saying that "he is more concerned about what is happening at the border of his country." The Pakistani PM also said that he has been speaking about this with the Chinese people "behind the closed doors;" and as long as he has been informed, "this is not the case, according to the Chinese people.".@jonathanvswan presses Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on why he’s outspoken against Islamophobia in the West but silent about the genocide of Muslim Uyghurs in western China. Khan: I concentrate on what is happening on my border. Swan: This is on your border. #AxiosOnHBO pic.twitter.com/QdLfY1qXGLThe journalist, Jonathan Swan of Axio, asked why he felt a need to write a public letter about "Islamophobia" in the West? "It happened after the 9/11 attack when the word Islam terrorism came into existence,” Khan said, adding, "The moment you say Islamic terrorism, the man in the street in the West thinks there is something in Islam that leads to terrorism. Or Islam causes radicalism."Read more: 'Women wearing few clothes impact men, unless robots': Pak PM on rising sexual violenceIn the question, Swan was referring to the letter, Khan wrote in October last year to the leaders of Muslim-majority countries to draw attention to the "increasing Islamophobia that is spreading in European countries where sizeable Muslim populations reside".The journalist then asked Khan about the atrocities of Uighur which is happening just "across his border" and he is so outspoken about islamophobia in Europe and the United States and silent on the treatment of Muslims in western China?"What our conversations have been with Chinese, this is not the case," Khan said in response. "Whatever issues we have with Chinese, we speak to them behind closed doors. China has been one of the greatest friends to us in our most difficult times. China came to the rescue when our economy was struggling," he also said.Khan went on to say that he doesn't comment on what's going on in other countries because he's more concerned with what's going on in his own nation. "I look around the world, what is happening in Palestine and Syria, Somalia, Afghanistan. Am I going to start talking about everything? I concentrate on what is happening on my border in my country," he said.Also Read | Pakistan's terror net gets exposed again as documentary traces journey of Paris attacker linked to 26/11"It is much more relevant compared to what might be going on with Uighur," insisted Khan. "100,000 Kashmiris have been killed. There are 800,00 Indian troops are there. It is an open prison there and 9 million Kashmiris are put there. Why this is not an issue. I think it is hypocrisy," he alleged.Over the last two years, multiple reports from Xinjiang have emerged proving that the central government in China is carrying out forced labour and sterilisations on Uighur in an exercise dubbed as a "campaign against terrorism." Activists and some Western politicians have been raising voice against the same as they accused the Chinese government of torturing Uighur in so-called education camps and destroying mosques.Earlier this year in March, in rare US bipartisan agreement, the top diplomats of the former administration of Donald Trump and the new one of Joe Biden called China’s treatment of the Uighurs 'genocide' in line with a stance of Canadian and Dutch parliaments.Meanwhile, the Chinese government has denied the allegations and said that "some anti-China forces ignore facts and truth and wantonly fabricate all kinds of Xinjiang-related lies." "People of all ethnic groups in Xinjiang, including Xinjiang women, live and work in peace and contentment," the Chinese foreign ministry said in March as allegations of human rights violations in Xinjiang mounted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imran-khan-on-uyghurs-muslims-genocide-china-one-of-the-greatest-friends-101624272146610.html
21-06-2021||World||'Women wearing few clothes impact men, unless robots': Pak PM on rising sexual violence||Pakistan Prime minister Imran Khan drew flak after he once again blamed a rise in the cases of sexual violence on how women dress in the country. "If a woman is wearing very few clothes, it will have an impact on the men, unless they are robots. It’s just common sense," Imran Khan said in an interview with 'Axios on HBO'. "This is cultural imperialism. Whatever is acceptable in our culture, must be acceptable everywhere else. It's not," he added.Imran Khan's comments in the interview have caused a massive outrage on social media, with opposition leaders and journalists expressing anger and disgust against the misogynistic ideology. "Imran Khan is r*pe apologist and hates women," Anaya Khan, one of the users, tweeted with the video of the interview on the microblogging site.Also read| Afghanistan violence: Pakistan defends Taliban, blames ISIS insteadReema Omer, a legal advisor with the International Commission of Jurists, expressed disappointment after Khan reiterated his stance in victim-blaming in cases of sexual violence."Disappointing and frankly sickening to see PM Imran Khan repeat his victim blaming regarding reasons for sexual violence in Pakistan Men are not “robots”, he says. If they see women in skimpy clothes, they will get “tempted” and some will resort to rape," Omer said.Disappointing and frankly sickening to see PM Imran Khan repeat his victim blaming regarding reasons for sexual violence in Pakistan Men are not “robots”, he says. If they see women in skimpy clothes, they will get “tempted” and some will resort to rape Shameful!In April, Khan blamed "obscenity" for the rise in sexual violence cases in Pakistan during a live television interview and advised women to cover up to prevent temptation. "This entire concept of purdah is to avoid temptation. Not everyone has the willpower to avoid it," he said.Hundreds of people mobilised demanding an apology from him for his views and held a protest in Islamabad. The protestors criticised Khan for what they called "victim-blaming" and demanded an apology for the comment.As many as 11 rape incidents are reported in Pakistan every day in November 2020, with over 22,000 cases reported in the last six years. However, the conviction rate of these crimes is only 0.03 per cent, as only 77 of the accused have been convicted till then, ANI reported citing Pakistan's official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/women-wearing-few-clothes-impact-men-unless-robots-pak-pm-on-rising-sexual-violence-101624257728279.html
21-06-2021||World||Cryptocurrencies tumble amid China crackdown on bitcoin miners||Cryptocurrencies tumbled on Monday as China's crackdown on bitcoin mining expanded to the province of Sichuan.Bitcoin fell to as low as $32,288 for the first time since June 8, and was last down 7.9% at around $32,781.Smaller rival ether dropped below $2,000 for the first time since May 23, before trading 10% lower at 2019.01.Cryptomining is big business in China, accounting for more than half of global bitcoin production.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cryptocurrencies-tumble-amid-china-crackdown-on-bitcoin-miners-101624260745894.html
21-06-2021||World||Iran’s sole nuclear power plant undergoes temporary emergency shutdown: Report||Iran’s sole nuclear power plant has undergone an unexplained temporary emergency shutdown, the country's state TV reported.An official from the state electric company Tavanir, Gholamali Rakhshanimehr, said on a talk show that aired on Sunday that the Bushehr plant shutdown began on Saturday and would last "for three to four days.” Without elaborating, he said that power outages could result.This is the first time Iran has reported an emergency shutdown of the plant in the southern port city of Bushehr. It went online in 2011 with help from Russia. Iran is required to send spent fuel rods from the reactor back to Russia as a nuclear nonproliferation measure.The report came as top diplomats said that further progress had been made at talks Sunday between Iran and global powers to try to restore a landmark 2015 agreement to contain Iranian nuclear development that was abandoned by the Trump administration. They said it was now up to the governments involved in the negotiations to make political decisions.Earlier in the day, Tavanir released a statement saying that the Bushehr nuclear plant was being repaired, without offering further details. It said the repair work would take until Friday.In March, nuclear official Mahmoud Jafari said the plant could stop working since Iran cannot procure parts and equipment for it from Russia due to banking sanctions imposed by the US in 2018.Bushehr is fueled by uranium produced in Russia, not Iran, and is monitored by the United Nations’ International Atomic Energy Agency. The IAEA acknowledged being aware of reports about the plant, but declined to comment.Construction on the plant, on the coast of the northern reaches of the Persian Gulf, began under Iran's Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi in the mid-1970s. After the 1979 Islamic Revolution, the plant was repeatedly targeted in the Iran-Iraq war. Russia later completed construction of the facility.The plant, which sits near active fault lines and was built to withstand powerful quakes, has been periodically shaken by temblors. There have been no significant earthquakes reported in the area in recent days.Meanwhile, the European Union on Sunday chaired the final meeting in Vienna of the sixth round of talks between Russia, China, Germany, France, Britain and Iran.The nations involved in the negotiations have been trying to resolve the major outstanding issues on how to return the U.S. into the landmark nuclear agreement, which then-President Donald Trump pulled Washington out of unilaterally in 2018. Trump also restored and augmented sanctions to try to force Tehran into renegotiating the pact with more concessions.The meeting was the first since Iran’s hard-line judiciary chief won a landslide victory in the country’s presidential election last Friday. Some diplomats expressed concern that the election of Iran’s incoming President Ebrahim Raisi could complicate a possible return to the nuclear agreement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/irans-sole-nuclear-power-plant-undergoes-temporary-emergency-shutdown-report-101624257410163.html
21-06-2021||World||Indonesia's Covid tally nearing 2 million, 13,737 new cases recorded||Indonesia’s total Covid-19 cases nears 2 million with hospitals starting to fill up as the country grapples with the highly transmissible delta variant of the virus.The government confirmed 13,737 new cases on Sunday to bring the total to 1.99 million. Deaths have begun to pick up as the Covid-19 hospitalization rates exceed 70% in 87 cities across the country, with 371 people dying from the disease on Sunday. That’s the worst since April, according to government data.“Because this is concentrated in certain regencies and cities, we can still mobilize resources from other areas,” said Harif Fadhillah, chairman of the national association of nurses. “If we let this continue, the situation can become urgent and critical.”Indonesia is relying heavily on vaccines to stem the pandemic, with a pledge to administer 1 million doses a day in July, as well as movement limits. All non-essential businesses must stop operating at 8 p.m., while religious and social gatherings are banned in areas most at-risk, Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs Airlangga Hartarto said on Monday. The police and army have been deployed to ensure compliance, and the measures are effective through July 5, he added.The delta variant, which was first detected in India and has since spread globally, were a dominant strain in Kudus and Bengkalan towns in Java, which have became virus hot spots along with Jakarta.The hospitalization rate in Jakarta has exceeded 90% even if the government can add more as there are 34,000 beds in total with 17,300 currently allocated for Covid-19 patients, Health Minister Budi Gunadi Sadikin said at the same briefing. The capital is in need of 1,179 more healthcare workers, while neighboring West Java province needs 400, Fadhillah said.“The government isn’t choosing between health and the economy,” Sadikin said. “The president has ordered for the health issue to be resolved first because the economy won’t move if the health issue isn’t resolved.”The recent surge in infections had been predicted by the government, which forecast in May that cases could rise by 40% to 60% in four to five weeks after Eid holidays. A persistent increase in cases could threaten recovery in Southeast Asia’s biggest economy, which last year saw its first contraction in two decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesias-covid-tally-nearing-2-million-13-737-new-cases-recorded-101624257021633.html
21-06-2021||World||US envoy hopes North Korea responds positively on offered talks||President Joe Biden's special envoy for North Korea said Monday he hopes to see a positive reaction from the North soon on US offers for talks after the North Korean leader ordered officials to prepare for both dialogue and confrontation.Sung Kim, Biden's special representative for North Korea, is in Seoul to speak with South Korean and Japanese officials about the US' stalled diplomacy with the North over its nuclear programme and US-led sanctions.The trilateral talks followed a North Korean political conference last week where leader Kim Jong Un called for stronger efforts to improve his nation's economy, further battered last year by pandemic border closures and now facing worsening food shortages.After his meeting with senior South Korean diplomat Noh Kyu-duk, the US envoy Sung Kim said the allies took note of the North Korean leader's comments and are hoping the North will give a “positive response to our proposal for a meeting soon”.Sung Kim spoke later with Noh and Japanese nuclear envoy Takehiro Funakoshi over the stalled push to resolve the nuclear standoff with North Korea. “South Korea and the US will maintain close cooperation to keep the situation in the Korean Peninsula stable and find a way to resume the dialogue with North Korea as soon as possible,” Sung Kim told reporters.North Korea's economic setbacks followed the collapse of Kim Jong Un's ambitious summitry with then-President Donald Trump in 2019, when the Americans rejected the North Koreans' demands for major sanctions relief in exchange for a partial surrender of their nuclear capabilities.Kim Jong Un in recent political speeches has threatened to bolster his nuclear deterrent and claimed that the fate of diplomacy and bilateral relations depends on whether Washington abandons what he calls hostile policies.US officials have suggested Biden would take the middle ground between Trump's direct dealings with Kim and President Barack Obama's policy of “strategic patience.” But some experts say the North likely must take concrete steps toward denuclearisation before the Biden administration would ease any sanctions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-envoy-hopes-north-korea-responds-positively-on-offered-talks-101624256174904.html
21-06-2021||World||Lack of preparedness greatest failure of our collective ecosystem: US scientist||Describing Covid-19 as the worst health crisis in the recent memory, an American scientist leading the research wing of one of the top 20 largest pharmaceutical companies in the world has said that lack of preparedness has been the "greatest failure" of the collective ecosystem."I don't want to point a finger at anyone. In some ways it's a collective failure of our system. (While) it's the greatest success in our ecosystem our response to Covid-19 you might argue, it's also perhaps the greatest failure of our collective ecosystem, which was our lack of preparedness," Dr Andrew Plump, president of R&D, Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited, told PTI in an interview."Covid-19 is the worst health crisis of our generation or the generation before us. It has been a travesty. It's horrible what's happened across the world," said Dr Plump ahead of the 15th annual India-US Biopharma and Healthcare Summit on June 22, being organised by Boston-based USA India Chambers of Commerce (USAIC).However, there are silver linings and there are certainly learnings that can be taken forward, he noted."I think the most important learning is: Let's not get fooled again by history. History predicted this. We knew we were going to have a pandemic and in fact, we got lucky this time in some ways. Despite the massive losses it could have been, it could have been much worse," Dr Plump said.In a recent op-ed, he wrote that although the Covid-19 pandemic has been a human and healthcare disaster, by scientific measures the world was lucky this time."Covid-19 was far less lethal than its predecessors, less contagious than previous pandemic viruses, and we were able to quickly develop a cadre of effective vaccines. But luck is not a strategy," he wrote in an op-ed at STAT.A co-founder of the Covid R&D Alliance, which was established last year, Dr Plump argued that a pandemic needs to be given the same importance and priority by the government as they give to defense."The challenge with pandemics is that we think we can't see the enemy, so we don't even know where to start and so we don't do anything. But that's a fallacy. We know the enemy," he said, adding that science has advanced so much that eight or nine times out of 10 and they can project out."With 80-90 per cent confidence, we can guess what this virus is going to look like. Is it going to come from fluid, or it's going to come from coronavirus. So, we do know the enemy," he said.There are now enough analytical capabilities where they can survey viruses that exist in animals and can use advanced analytics, machine learning and artificial intelligence to even make better predictions."So we're not just basing what's likely to come from what's coming in the past, but we're actually basing our ability to protect ourselves against future pandemics by knowing specifically what's likely to come easy with these advanced analytics," Dr Plump said.Observing that there is a great scope for collaboration between pharma companies of the two countries, and in particular platforms like that of the USA India Chambers of Commerce, he said that first and foremost, innovation and science need to be the cornerstone."Secondly, we need to have an infrastructure, we need to have a focus, we need to have collaboration beyond the walls of science that include governments and policymakers and not for profit organisations and that's something else that the USA India Chamber of Commerce has done," he said.Referring to this year's theme of the conference "From N of one to N of a billion" Dr Plump said, "The theme is meant to symbolise the fact that we have become so innovative in health sciences that we're today able to make therapies drugs that can be tailored to a single individual.""But we recognise that if we don't make drugs that are also treating the billions of patients that live across the world, we're not serving our purpose," he said and suggested that the USA Indian Chamber of Commerce can elevate the dialogue of healthcare innovation and bring it ensure that it's focused as much on innovation as it is on access.He opposed the move to grant TRIPS waiver to certain Covid-19 vaccines at the World Trade Organization (WTO), as being proposed by India and South Africa and supported by the United States."It's horrible, because the issue is all of us want to create solutions that enable rapid resolution of a global pandemic. That's not where the gap is. The gap is in the supply chain. It's in manufacturing. It's in access," he said."You even saw in India, recently, how you rolled out a vaccination program. Here the government made a decision to decentralise a lot of the work and it backfired. Vaccines ended up going to the wrong people. Costs were driven up. It's not about IP. It's really an operational challenge that we're facing right now; it's not an intellectual property challenge," Dr Plump said.So, not only does it fail to answer the problem, but also creates a challenge in the future. Because innovation is driven by intellectual property, the ability to have some proprietary access to a discovery, he said."And, if you step in and create structures that can in a wanton way like what we see with the WTO remove intellectual property protection, you're going to put the brakes on innovation in the future. So, I think it's a horrible example of trying to do the right thing, but with the wrong solution," Dr Plump said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lack-of-preparedness-greatest-failure-of-our-collective-ecosystem-us-scientist-101624256186263.html
21-06-2021||World||Canada to extend flight suspension to India by another month||The Canadian government is expected to extend the suspension of direct flights from India by another month.The announcement in this regard will be made later on Monday by Canadian officials. The decision has been intimated in advance to the Indian government, an official confirmed.The suspension was originally announced on April 22 and was scheduled to last for 30 days. However, it was extended by another 30 days on May 21 and now another extension will be imposed for 30 days.The move was originally precipitated by increasing pressure upon the government of Justin Trudeau to act on this matter after several cases of the Delta variant of the coronavirus originating in India were reported in Canada. There had also been mounting demands from provincial governments to ban these flights at the earliest because of the risk of transmission of cases into Canada.While that prohibition came into place amid a record surge in cases in India in April, with the crisis lasting through May, it will remain in place despite a significant decrease in daily cases being reported in India now.However, the Delta variant of Covid-19 has become widely prevalent, with Canadian health authorities considering it to be 150% more transmissible than the original virus. At the same time, the Canadian Press reported that this variant, first identified in India, had caused over 2,000 cases in the country by Friday, citing Canada’s chief public health officer Dr Theresa Tam. It also said that earlier in the week, that number was at 1,187, thereby denoting a spike of nearly two-third in the number of cases. Health authorities in the province of Ontario have also warned that the variant could well dominate the caseload within a month. Public health officials have yet to update the exact number of daily cases as yet, though the count for the other three variants is provided regularly.Prior to the flight ban, both Air Canada and Air India were operating almost daily flights between the Canadian cities of Toronto and Vancouver and New Delhi in India in an air corridor arrangement that came into place last summer. Passengers from India who arrive via an indirect route, through a third country, will have to provide a pre-departure negative coronavirus test result from the last port before continuing their journey.Easing of norms for air travel is also expected on Monday, particularly with regard to exemption for the mandatory hotel quarantine for citizens and permanent residents who are fully vaccinated. For now, all those arriving require a negative RT-PCR test result prior to boarding and have to take another test on arrival and remain in the designated hotel till the result is available. Even with another negative result, they have to complete the full 14-day self-isolation period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-to-extend-flight-suspension-to-india-for-another-month-101624252535592.html
21-06-2021||World||Brazil passes half a million Covid-19 deaths, experts warn of worse ahead||Brazil's death toll from Covid-19 surpassed 500,000 on Saturday as experts warn that the world's second-deadliest outbreak may worsen due to delayed vaccinations and the government's refusal to back social distancing measures.Only 11% of Brazilians have been fully vaccinated and epidemiologists warn that, with winter arriving in the southern hemisphere and new variants of the coronavirus circulating, deaths will continue to mount even if immunizations gain steam.Brazil has registered 500,800 deaths from 17,883,750 confirmed Covid-19 cases, according to Health Ministry data on Saturday, the worst official death toll outside the United States. Over the past week, Brazil has averaged 2,000 deaths per day.Covid-19 continues to devastate countries around the region with the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) reporting 1.1 million new cases of Covid-19 and 31,000 deaths in the Americas last week. PAHO noted upticks in six Mexican states, Belize, Guatemala, Panama and some places in the Caribbean.PAHO warned that Colombia's Covid-19 situation is at its worst point yet, with intensive care unit beds filled in major cities.Experts see the toll in Brazil, already the highest in Latin America, climbing far higher."I think we are going to reach 700,000 or 800,000 deaths before we get to see the effects of vaccination," said Gonzalo Vecina, former head of Brazilian health regulator Anvisa, predicting a near-term acceleration in fatalities."We are experiencing the arrival of these new variants and the Indian variant will send us for a loop."Vecina criticized far-right President Jair Bolsonaro's handling of the pandemic, including the lack of a coordinated national response and his skepticism toward vaccines, lockdowns and mask-wearing requirements, which he has sought to loosen.Thousands of Brazilians protested against Bolsonaro's management of the pandemic in nationwide demonstrations on Saturday, blaming the administration for the high death toll and calling for the president's ouster.Raphael Guimaraes, a researcher at Brazilian biomedical center Fiocruz, said delays in the vaccination program in Latin America's most populous nation meant its full effects would not be felt until September or later.Guimaraes warned that Brazil could revisit scenes from the worst of its March-April peak, when the country averaged 3,000 deaths per day."We are still in an extremely critical situation, with very high transmission rates and hospital bed occupancy that is still critical in many places," he said.This week, new confirmed cases in Brazil accelerated to more than 70,000 per day on average, edging past India for the most in the world.Vaccination will be crucial in beating the virus in Brazil, since the country has failed to reach a consensus on social distancing and masks, said Ester Sabino, an epidemiologist at the University of Sao Paulo."We really need to increase vaccination very quickly," she said.However, evidence from neighboring Chile, which like Brazil has relied overwhelming on a vaccine developed by China's Sinovac Biotech, suggests it may be months before mass immunization will effectively curb transmission.Nearly half of Chileans have been vaccinated, but their capital Santiago just went back into lockdown as cases surged again to near peak levels.Brazil will need to inoculate some 80 million people to reach Chile's current per capita vaccination levels.That will require a more consistent supply of vaccines and ingredients in Brazil, which have been spotty in recent months, as imports from China were delayed after Bolsonaro antagonized Beijing with comments perceived as anti-Chinese.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-passes-half-a-million-covid-19-deaths-experts-warn-of-worse-ahead-101624249624851.html
