01-06-2020||The country did not need the GDP figures to know that the state of the economy was bad. However||GDP numbers at a low||Without going into the debate on the data, it does not take a rocket scientist to explain that the April-May figures are going to be worse. The economy is in a shambles. The poor bore the brunt, but the damage is spread over all sections of society. Attempts by the government to infuse cash through the MGNREGA scheme into accounts of the poor have met with some success, but it is not expected to kick-start the economy. Various packages announced by the Finance Minister have fallen short of expectations. The slide in household consumption is visible, as people lost jobs or took pay cuts. The spending power of the middle class has shrunk.Even as some businesses have resumed, much of the regular economic activity still stands frozen. Many economists believe the worst is yet to come. The government will have to do more. The declared financial package has not managed to stimulate demand. While government spending has increased, private consumption, which is the main engine of the economy, has fallen significantly. The Covid-19 fallout has battered the world. Measures taken by certain other countries, such as Canada, provide pointers. The government needs to be proactive in putting more money in the hands of the people. It needs to step in to do more and provide more. We all know that the figures for the next quarter are going to be dismal. To minimise the damage, what is needed is transparency, numbers that can't be questioned, and a proactive approach by the Central government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/gdp-numbers-at-a-low-92769
01-06-2020||In keeping with its policy to unlock businesses in a staggered manner and in deference to the demands of tourism hotspots like Goa||Hospitality biz unlocked||Jobs in the hotel industry account for nearly 9 per cent employment and over 9 per cent of the GDP. Industry figures put the number of workers at 73 lakh. Add to it the allied livelihoods that largely thrive on the hospitality services — the airlines, tour operators, transporters, vegetable farmers, fisheries, poultry, dairy — and we have crores of workers staring at a monetary crunch or joblessness. And, this squeeze is bound to impact the already dwindling revenues of states.However, despite the lifting of curbs in areas other than containment zones, the sector faces bleak prospects as most people are still hesitant to step out. To attract customers, the hoteliers and restaurateurs will have to spruce up their act and ensure social distancing protocols by spacing out the seating arrangement, maintain sanitation and hygiene, conduct thermal screening of the visitors and regulate the air-conditioning system so that fears of infection are kept at bay. Shrines and malls that also open on June 8 will need to adopt similar practices. The road to recovery is indeed long and weary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/hospitality-biz-unlocked-92768
