01-05-2020||COVID-19 has turned the spotlight on the doctors||NEET and clean||Irregularities in admissions and the preference given to moolah over merit are the bane of medical education in India. Vested interests have for long been allowed to evade the responsibility of separating the wheat from the chaff. NEET, aimed at regulating admissions and curbing commercialisation of education, has been under judicial scrutiny since its inception in 2013. Later that year, a three-Judge Bench of the apex court, in a 2-1 verdict, had declared NEET unconstitutional, observing that the test impinged upon the right of states, state-run universities, medical colleges and institutions, including those enjoying constitutional protection, to admit students as per their ‘own procedures, beliefs and dispensations.’ In 2016, however, the court had ‘restored’ the test and allowed review petitions against the 2013 verdict.As emphasised by the court now, NEET does not violate the fundamental right of any minority community to run educational institutions. The focus ought to be on adhering to nationally acceptable standards of excellence in education. Institutions that wish to operate behind a smokescreen can’t be expected to provide a level playing field for aspiring doctors. A centralised test can ensure that undeserving candidates, no matter from majority or minority communities, are weeded out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/neet-and-clean-78712
01-05-2020||While the announcement by the Centre permitting the movement of stranded migrant workers needs to be welcomed for it will provide them with relief||Return of the migrant||Confinement during the lockdown has been tough, but the arduous inter-state road journey with not many facilities en route is going to be harder still. There is no doubt the country is waging a grim war against the virus and while cases and deaths have mounted, the prolonged shutdown threatens to have adverse effects on productivity as most industries and agriculture depend on workers from different states. The food stocks have come in handy, but as the Punjab Finance Minister hinted, it may not remain the case and the state will have to opt for sowing more cotton if migrant workers are not available for paddy-sowing.In his address to the nation while announcing the lockdown, PM Narendra Modi urged fellow countrymen to stay put, wherever they were. It was followed by migrant workers taking to highways in a desperate attempt to reach their home states in the face of uncertainty, a perilous journey in which many lost their lives. The BJP’s allies like the Shiromani Akali Dal later pleaded for facilitating the return of the migrants even as Punjab clamped curfew and sealed borders, while Bihar CM Nitish Kumar has hailed the Centre for revising the guidelines. In the absence of proper transport facilities and the risk of transmission, the solution may fare no better than the problem itself. Better to devise ways to use the workforce as and when curbs in safe areas begin to be eased.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/return-of-the-migrant-78710
