01-09-2020||By imposing a fine of merely Re 1 on activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan for contempt of court||Bhushan fined Re 1||From the outset, the court wanted to give quietus to the controversy by attempting to persuade the lawyer to tender an apology and ‘save the grace of the institution as well as the individual’, even as Bhushan maintained that an insincere apology would amount to ‘contempt of my conscience and of an institution that I hold in highest esteem.’ But the fact remains that the offence of ‘scandalising’ the judiciary is vague and incapable of being qualified as a criminal law provision. Section 2(c)(i) of the Contempt of Courts Act doesn’t define the expression in question.Right to free speech and right to dissent are highly valued rights essential to make a democracy survive and thrive. That’s why several countries, including the UK, have done away with this archaic provision of the contempt law. While one would agree with the court that citizens’ faith in the institution of justice is the foundation for the rule of law essential for the functioning of a democratic society, the problem is not just about the definition. It’s also about violation of principles of natural justice as judges being the aggrieved parties — either as individuals or as members of the institution — hear the matter themselves and there is no provision for appeal in case it’s contempt of the Supreme Court. One expects the apex court to have a relook at the problem areas of the contempt law when it takes up the review petition to be filed by Bhushan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bhushan-fined-re-1-134509
01-09-2020||In one fell swoop||PLA at it again||The development has again exposed the hollowness of Chinese assertions about maintaining peace and tranquillity in the border areas, even as the Indian armed forces have effectively exercised carte blanche given by the government to scuttle another misadventure along the Line of Actual Control. India’s firmness has also been evident in the diplomatic arena, with the Ministry of Defence withdrawing from a multilateral war game to be held in Russia later this month. Though India has cited the pandemic and ‘consequent difficulties’ for its decision, which wouldn’t have pleased traditional ally Russia, the fact that Chinese and Pakistani troops are expected to attend the exercise had an important bearing on the matter.The latest skirmish lends greater significance to the upcoming meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation in Russia, scheduled to be attended by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. India can create an opportunity to red-flag Chinese duplicity, albeit informally, during interactions with the leaders of Russia and other countries. Though China has reasserted that border disputes should be delinked from bilateral ties, India needs to hold its ground and insist on complete disengagement of troops as a precondition for restoring economic cooperation, and that too in a phased, guarded manner. China should be made to realise by India and its allies that ‘business as usual’ is impossible after the unprovoked attacks and attempts to subvert India’s territorial integrity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/pla-at-it-again-134476
