02-01-2021||It is an irony that in Punjab||Scholarship money scam||The pupils who overcame odds to pursue studies are caught in a bind as the tussle between the colleges and the government over the release of funds is embroiled in an ugly mess of corruption. The report exposing the scam alleges a deep-rooted nexus of politicians, government officials and bank staffers. The rightful dues of the students and colleges have been apparently diverted to ‘ghost institutions’. That the scheme had such glaring gaps is alarming.With the scam becoming fodder for political rivals, a heated blame game was played out in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha earlier in August. Shrill cries were made for an investigation, like the one held in Himachal Pradesh, which has also been rocked by a similar racket. It remains to be seen if the big fish fraudsters are made to pay for the misappropriation of funds. Those culpable of cheating the poor students of their dues to study and improve their lot deserve to be dealt an exemplary punishment. At the same time, the process of handing over the degrees and marksheets to the students must be expedited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/scholarship-money-scam-192475
02-01-2021||When Donald Trump visited India in February last year||India and Biden||It appears that successive US administrations have cottoned on to where the gravy lies in ties with India. Ever since the US-India Defense Framework Agreement was renewed during Barack Obama’s visit in 2015, defence and security have occupied centre stage at each and every high level interaction. Quad has met four times in the past 18 months, but only US-India Economic and Financial Partnership dialogue was held in this period. The US-India Trade Policy Forum, said to be a key pillar of the strategic relationship, went comatose earlier. In the energy sector, plans for tie-ups in low-carbon alternatives and renewable energy exports have been overtaken by a simple buyer-seller relationship of petroleum. The US private sector capital is yet to meet the expectations of India’s infrastructure needs.The upswing in defence ties has created a vast opportunity for Indo-US amity. But its lopsidedness has produced constraints in India’s relationship with Moscow and Beijing. The only Indian apprehension with regard to the Biden administration seems to be a hard-press on human rights and majoritarianism. But currently, Washington has other countries as priorities on this count. The US would also not want to press India too hard for fear that defence ties that are posed to make a bigger leap do not get jeopardised. Ties have certainly moved much beyond Indira Gandhi’s exhortation to Ronald Reagan in 1982 to ‘find a common area, howsoever small’. But they should also not be straitjacketed into a couple of verticals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/india-and-biden-192446
