02-05-2020||SUBIMAL ‘Chuni’ Goswami||Goodbye, Chuni da||The days of the coronavirus have been especially mournful for Indian football — Goswami’s India teammate and rival as India’s greatest, PK Banerjee, died in the third week of March, ending a match made in heaven. Goswami, like Banerjee, was a very skilful footballer with extraordinary ability to dribble and manoeuvre the ball; what made both all-time greats was their game-awareness, electric thinking and decision-making on the pitch. Their football careers ran parallel, and their lives ended in days of gloom. They played at a higher level than other Indian footballers of any era. The great Jarnail Singh, a key member of the 1962 Asian Games team, once said: ‘We were a bunch of very good footballers. Chuni was different. He was an artist.’Goswami joined the Mohun Bagan junior team as an eight-year-old, played for their senior team at 16, and debuted for India at the age of 20 in 1958. He led India in 16 of the 36 matches he played for the national team. When only 26, he gave up international football to focus on cricket. He was a competent — if not extraordinary — cricketer who scored 1,592 runs and took 47 wickets in 46 First-Class matches. His finest hour as a cricketer came against the West Indies in 1966, when he led a combined zonal team to an innings victory over the visitors, picking up eight wickets and scoring 25 runs. The West Indies beat the national team 2-0 in the Test series on that tour!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/goodbye-chuni-da-79175
02-05-2020||THE economic catastrophe inflicted by Covid-19 is being touted in some quarters as a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for India to attract business and industry||Attracting investment||A task force has projected that Rs 111 trillion is needed over the next five years to build infrastructure projects and drive growth. With an already-struggling economy being put to severe stress by the lockdown, boosting investments has been the focus of PM Modi’s meetings over the past few days. He has sought to revive the proposal for a ‘plug and play’ approach, under which all regulatory clearances are put in place before a project is awarded to a private developer through an auction. The spoiler — this concept was tried out with five ultra mega power plants around five years ago, none of which has come up.Japan, China, even Vietnam, which has already cornered a chunk of the moving-out-of-China pie in the recent past, are cited as shining examples of industrial transformation in the face of extreme odds. With its unique challenges, India’s journey has not been less dramatic, but the underperformance has been stark. At this juncture, with its back to the wall, the government has very little room for a radical shift. For now, as the PM stressed, a more proactive approach to handhold investors is the way forward. Every crisis provides an opportunity. A more resolute and determined India Inc could be the country’s hope.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/attracting-investment-79174
