02-09-2020||Covid-19 has visibly brought to the fore the huge economic disparities in our country in many ways. What is sadder is the increasing realisation that a lot many are tipping over to the line of poverty||Net for the needy||A recent report of the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy reveals worrisome data. It says that 50 lakh people lost their jobs in July after the loss of 1.77 crore jobs in April and 1 lakh in May. It negates the gain of 39 lakh jobs in June when the lockdown was lifted. With children’s studies compromised, the country stares at a downfall of a huge chunk of society, unless steps are taken to ensure a level playing field for all. Statistics show a wide chasm between pupils having access to distance learning and those left out. The gap must be bridged with novel solutions and stimulus packages for the underprivileged.Mukesh Ambani had risen to the aid of the children whose father had to sell his cow to buy a smartphone for their studies in Himachal Pradesh, by presenting them with free Internet facility. There are lakhs of more needy children. Reliance’s Jio platform is today the biggest telecom network in the country. The company has mopped up over $15 billion during the lockdown through huge deals with global firms. Such Internet service providers should offer a subsidised data pack for students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/net-for-the-needy-134857
02-09-2020||The world’s severest lockdown has taken its toll. The Indian economy has shrunk by a fourth of its size in the April-June quarter||Lockdown contraction||It offers no solace to note that the US and the UK economies have shrunk by 31.7 per cent and 20.4 per cent, respectively, for, their recoveries would be quicker and their impact in terms of pushing people into abject poverty would be much lesser. Surprisingly, China, the source of novel coronavirus, has grown by 3.2 per cent during this quarter. Economists predict the contraction to continue for about six more quarters before the economy returning to the positive field. By enforcing strict lockdowns, the governments have forced people to consume less, thereby reducing the demand at an unprecedented scale, resulting in a dramatic reduction in tax revenue.Despite struggling to find money for salaries, governments like that of Punjab are still enforcing weekend curfews and night curfews. All the curfews have not stopped India from posting the third highest number of cases and deaths in the world. After failing to contain the disease, the governments now need to realise their folly in squeezing the demand and should ensure the economy recovers at the earliest. The Centre has failed to compensate the states for their GST shortfall and is pushing them into a debt-trap by forcing them to borrow instead of the former honouring its commitment. The Prime Minister and the Chief Ministers should immediately sit together to devise strategies for revival.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/lockdown-contraction-134858
