02-04-2020||A congregation in the times of Covid-induced social distancing is not merely an anachronism — it’s an open invitation to disaster. The headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat||Covid hotspot||This irresponsible behaviour, which is tantamount to criminal negligence, has prompted the registration of a criminal case against the Tablighi cleric. However, the AAP government and the Delhi Police can’t evade responsibility for their belated response. Firm action in mid-March could have prevented the situation from coming to such a pass.Even as this coronavirus hotspot has triggered the biggest single-day spike in cases so far, the communal spin being given to the whole affair on social media and by a section of the electronic media is an alarming development. Blaming Muslims for the spread of coronavirus across the country reeks of mischief and malice. It has been barely a month since Delhi was rocked by communal violence that claimed over 50 lives. The hate-mongers must not be allowed to rear their ugly head again. Former J&K Chief Minister Omar Abdullah, recently released after over seven months in detention, has taken exception to the vilification of the entire community, while pointing out that the majority of Muslims in India have adhered to government guidelines and advisories. Indeed, recklessness, like terrorism, has no religion. And, unless contained with an iron hand, it can prove to be no less destructive, as the Covid crisis has shown us.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-hotspot-64277
02-04-2020||THE Supreme Court has asked the Centre to ensure food||Harvest of hope||Crucial to this is the harvesting of rabi crops, to replenish the granaries that provide for food security. Agrarian states like Punjab and Haryana now have to find ways to ensure that labour is available. Punjab has decided to start wheat procurement on April 15, while Haryana will do it on April 20. The assurance that the lockdown would not be extended has given rise to hopes that the activity will pick up by then.The two states have suggested procurement in a staggered way, linked with incentives for the crop arriving late in the mandis. Earlier too, there used to be problems with procurement agencies delaying the lifting of the produce because of the moisture content being present more than the permissible limit. Haryana is already facing problems with combine harvesters getting stuck in other states while it has allowed shops selling seeds, pesticides and fertilisers to remain open for a fixed duration to maintain social distancing. The two states have tried to retain the workforce by clamping curfew and sealing borders, but a shortage could well be an opportunity for their own manpower to exert itself. Telangana has exempted agriculture from the lockdown and will lift the produce from the doorsteps of the farmers. That could well be a way out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/harvest-of-hope-64275
