02-07-2020||The Centre’s well-timed decision to extend the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) till November-end is expected to enable about 60 per cent of the country’s population to keep getting free ration amid the prolonged Covid-19 crisis. The majority of the migrant workers are back in their home states||Free ration for poor||Data compiled by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy shows that the country’s rural unemployment rate has fallen from 17.71 per cent in the first week of June to 7.62 per cent in the month’s last week. This drop is attributed to a sharp increase in the demand for work under MGNREGA and the availability of work opportunities during the ongoing kharif sowing season. The urban employment rate has also gone down, but it remains relatively high at 10.69 per cent. That’s where the Centre and the states should intervene promptly with remedial measures.The ‘One nation, one ration card’ scheme, intended to benefit people working in other states, has missed its June 2020 deadline for a national rollout. The government has announced to make it operational across India by March 2021. The ambitious scheme, which envisages the integration of about 80 crore consumers, more than 5 lakh ration shops and over 5.4 crore tonnes of foodgrains per year, needs meticulous planning and seamless execution to realise its vast potential. With government schemes focusing mostly on the poor, other sections of society have been left to fend for themselves. The salaried class, for instance, needs much more than an expression of gratitude from the PM for being ‘honest taxpayers’. Reining in the spiralling fuel prices could be one way of mitigating their woes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/free-ration-for-poor-107443
02-07-2020||The ghastly video of violence unleashed by an Andhra Pradesh Government employee on a differently abled woman colleague||Abnormally aggressive||Such extreme aggression in reaction to a reasonable demand is definitely not normal. For, the vital role of the protective face cover is felt by one and all. From day one of the outbreak of the disease, doctors have been emphasising the importance of wearing face masks — along with maintaining physical distancing — to combat the spread of the dreaded virus. Rising to the challenge posed by the contagious disease, the government has made mask-wearing mandatory in public and prescribed a fine of Rs 500 for those flouting the norm. People can be seen adhering to the directive, urgently driven by the need of shielding themselves and their contacts from possible infection. As a result, the global disposable face mask market is expected to grow at the rate of 53 per cent to reach $23.8 billion by 2027. The investigation into the Andhra man’s flare-up might unmask some underlying mental condition, exacerbated by the prevailing trying circumstances.Going by past experience, the World Health Organisation has highlighted the need to think about mental health as part of the public health response to Covid-19. There is significant evidence that a virulent sickness can cause widespread fear, panic, anxiety and xenophobia. As we deal with the physical, financial and social implications of the illness, the policymakers cannot ignore the psychological and psychiatric impact that it can have on not only the Covid survivors and frontline health staff but also the general public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/abnormally-aggressive-107444
