02-10-2020||Days before the Prime Minister’s scheduled visit to Himachal Pradesh to inaugurate the Atal Tunnel||Bridging digital divide||It is only in the fitness of things that the Centre has now asked the states to reopen schools in a graded manner after October 15. Having remained closed for over six months, schools will find the return to normalcy a lingering process as the Covid-19 situation remains fluid, which will mean a delay in resuming full-scale operations. The schools had been making the transition even earlier with smart classrooms, online payment of fee and other improvisations. But schools do more than just teach, they also help mould personalities through extra-curricular and sporting activities. By stipulating that the states cannot dilute, but make stricter, the relaxations, the unlocking exercise puts the onus of implementing the decision on them.The problem in Himachal also highlights the fact that policy decisions need to be tweaked when it comes to enforcing them in various parts of the country. Flexibility is needed so as to be responsive to the situation on the ground. With tourism, industrialisation and defence on its list of priorities, the state also needs to be attentive to digital empowerment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bridging-digital-divide-149731
02-10-2020||Even as the heart-wrenching gangrape and torture of the Hathras teenager who succumbed to the grievous injuries inflicted on her are reminiscent of the beastly Nirbhaya case of 2012||Ghastly funeral||These daughters must not only get quick justice but also be seen to have got justice with the strict laws enacted after 2012. It would be a bigger offence if they end up as just another digit in the expanding list of crime against women in this region. A National Crime Records Bureau report reveals the shameful fact that Rajasthan and Haryana accounted for the highest number of gangrape cases in 2019. With the conviction rate at a dismal 16 per cent in Haryana, it is no surprise that the epidemic of atrocities continues.Justice demands an immediate rolling of heads of law enforcers and protectors as well as the fast-tracking of the case to penalise the guilty. Only an end to the impunity that perpetrators seem to be bestowed with will instil a semblance of feeling of safety among girls to live their lives peacefully, to study, to enjoy, or go about their routine errands and chores. Plus, the significance of a cultural shift from a misogynistic outlook to an egalitarian one — emanating from homes and society — cannot be emphasised enough. Sadly, such cases are emblematic of the hard truth that the shift to an upbringing of boys encompassing a respectful attitude towards girls is agonisingly slow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/ghastly-funeral-149725
