02-12-2020||The doors to the White House seem to have opened for women||Women at the helm||Reinforcing this mindset is Biden’s building of his team to run the government. The announcements in the past couple of days point towards a trend in setting the gender balance right and making it more reflective of the country that is today home to a vast and multicultural set of demographics. These five women represent the growing empowerment and recognition of the abilities of the fair sex in varied fields: Janet Yellen as Treasury Secretary, Avril Haines as Director of National Intelligence, Linda Thomas-Greenfield as Ambassador to the United Nations, Cecilia Rouse as chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers and Neera Tanden as Director of the Office of Management and Budget. That they are among the initial lot and not the only ones to be trusted with strategic posts was clear as the septuagenarian President-elect declared another first: an all-women senior White House communications team led by Jen Psaki as press secretary and Kate Bedingfield as communications director.As the gritty and talented women leaders go on to prove their worth, hopefully, this trend will spiral till their rightful representation becomes the new normal. Marking the centenary of US women gaining the right to vote, this presidential election shows that though the doors to corridors of power have been slow to open for women, they are surely widening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/women-at-the-helm-178675
02-12-2020||A month after the Allahabad High Court observed that religious conversion for the purpose of marriage is unacceptable||‘Love jihad’ law||The first case under this legislation, which intends to crack down on ‘love jihad’ but doesn’t mention the controversial term, has been registered in Bareilly district on a man’s complaint that a youth from his village lured his daughter and was now forcing her to convert. ‘Love jihad’ is touted as a grand conspiracy under which Muslim men are out to convert Hindu women to Islam on the pretext of marriage. However, lack of clinching evidence in most cases has largely rendered it a figment of paranoid imagination. In 2009, the Kerala High Court had directed the state police chief to find out whether there was any organised movement to convert Christian and Hindu girls to Islam by dangling the marital bait. The probe found no conclusive proof to establish the existence of such a movement or the veracity of the allegations.Marriage is primarily a social and legal institution rather than a religious one. Unleashing the law on an inter-faith couple that duly completes the formalities for the registration of marriage reeks of prejudice and vendetta. The fact that the governments of some other BJP-ruled states are preparing to jump on to the anti-conversion bandwagon has fuelled speculation that the common objective is to demonise a minority community and criminalise conversion even by choice. Such draconian provisions are eventually an assault on our Constitution, which equally entitles all citizens to freely practise any religion. And love is meant to be celebrated, not sacrificed at the altar of religion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/love-jihad-law-178668
