03-09-2020||IN an affirmation of civil rights||Upholding civil rights||Not surprisingly, his release has been welcomed by the Opposition, with the Samajwadi Party raising the demand for the release of its leader Azam Khan, who is in jail on land-grab charges. Dr Khan has also told the government that it should perform ‘Raj Dharma’, a term the connotation of which has a familiar ring for the present BJP-led NDA government at the Centre for its use in another time, to underline the need for social harmony and inclusive politics. The doctor has also conveyed his apprehension of being implicated in another case in a reference to the prevailing law and order situation in the state.Dr Khan, a paediatrician at a hospital in Gorakhpur, the constituency of the UP Chief Minister, had landed in trouble when he accused the government of institutional failure after many children died there due to lack of oxygen cylinders. The state government also needs to dispel the charge of political vendetta and restore the confidence of the people, shaken due to measures like the seizure of property of the anti-CAA protesters. The release of Dr Khan by the court could well provide a stepping stone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/upholding-civil-rights-135477
03-09-2020||The tactical gains achieved by Indian troops in eastern Ladakh in recent days demonstrate the high level of military preparedness that is desirable at all times to confront a persistently hostile and provocative neighbour. India has managed to occupy several strategically important hilltops and other locations||Befitting reply||Even though China had lost an unspecified number of soldiers in the Galwan valley violence in mid-June, its evasiveness over the incident and the death toll has laid bare its embarrassment over being hoisted by its own petard. On August 31, the Chinese troops resorted to another misadventure even as the ground commanders of the two sides were holding discussions to defuse tensions. Such happenings underscore the gross mismatch between Chinese assurances and actions. No wonder, all the military and diplomatic talks held in the past two-and-a-half months have failed to produce any tangible outcome as the situation on the ground remains sensitive.China has been harping on the normalisation of ties, though it has done precious little towards this end of late. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying has asked ‘both sides to stick to the facts and have goodwill to maintain overall bilateral relations’, while conceding that there are some communication issues. It’s imperative for India to keep all channels of communication open so that China finds it increasingly difficult to hide behind the smokescreen of lies and cover-ups. If India keeps acting resolutely, it will continue to have the upper hand on the ground as well as at the negotiating table.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/befitting-reply-135478
