03-12-2020||AT a time when the country’s efforts have been directed towards battling the Covid-19 pandemic and finding a vaccine for it||India’s fight against malaria||While the coronavirus outbreak was initially reported from all over the country, the incidence of malaria is generally confined to particular regions. Preventive measures, medication, surveillance, community participation and sustained efforts played a role in containing malarial outbreaks. Whether the country is able to script a similar success story against the coronavirus remains to be seen. Areas where malaria is endemic are said to be at risk of suffering from the consequences of Covid-19 due to similarity in side-effects.Along with malaria, the country has striven to eliminate other diseases like polio. Pulse polio drops, administered across the country by health workers, were a reminder of our purposeful approach. The WHO’s observations should serve as a wake-up call not to relent in the fight to ensure overall healthcare. India has also been among the largest producers of the anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine, recommended early on during the pandemic, but later ruled out by health experts. Preventive measures to check Covid-19 like maintaining hygiene and sanitation are also factors that help in checking the breeding of vectors that cause malaria. The WHO has been in the eye of a storm, being accused by the United States of favouring China. India, while heeding its advice, would do well to keep its own counsel and take steps in keeping with its own needs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/indias-fight-against-malaria-179079
03-12-2020||NON-RESIDENT Indians||Unwarranted remarks||Politicians marking concerns, even if amplified at times, as community leaders over events taking place in their country of origin is par for the course, but the Prime Minister of the country, no less, choosing to join in is unsettling. Testing the limits of protocol with his remarks on farmer protests, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has added another chapter to his uneasy relationship with New Delhi. The Ministry of External Affairs has been quick to term the comments unwarranted and amounting to interference in India’s internal matters, along with a riposte that ‘it is best that diplomatic conversations are not misrepresented for political purposes’.Curiously, for all the concern shown for the protesters, a recent meeting of the Committee on Agriculture of the World Trade Organisation saw Canada, along with the US and European Union, questioning India’s agriculture trade practices and farmer-friendly policies. Ottawa also challenged India when it sought to defend its agricultural programmes like the minimum support price for staple crops such as rice, wheat and pulses. There is no denying that the new farm laws are contentious, or that the Centre fell way short in not only recognising the anger and distrust of the primary stakeholders, but also while engaging with them. But how is that Trudeau’s business? His public commentary was uncalled for.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/unwarranted-remarks-179053
