04-01-2021||It is freezing and also raining in north India; every compassionate soul ought to offer the warmth of her hearth to those out on the streets. It is a sad irony that thousands of proud farmers with homes and farms are braving one of the worst cold waves in recent times||Cold and cruel||The government insists that the new farm laws will revolutionise the Indian agriculture sector and make farmers prosperous. But change has to be brought in only with the consent of the stakeholders. If the intended beneficiaries do not accept a particular change, it will be undemocratic, rather authoritarian, to impose a new order. And the Government of India is doing exactly that — imposing a big shift in the way of farming without the willing consent of the farmers of Punjab and Haryana. The government should pause now for a couple of years and allow agriculture to remain a state subject, letting the state Assemblies decide whether they need to adopt the new farm laws.The best course of action would be to make the new farm laws a success in Bihar and any other willing state in the next two years and make the farmers of Punjab and Haryana seek out the promised prosperity by forcing their respective state governments to enact the new laws. A farmer looks only at the price of the produce and not at the buyer. It does not matter whether a government agency or a multinational company buys wheat and rice, what is important are the best price and practices. Let the laws be proved good elsewhere before provoking farmers to break police barriers and march towards Delhi in this terrible cold.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/cold-and-cruel-193328
04-01-2021||This exceptionally harsh winter season once again underlines how cruel it can be to the homeless poor||Raen basera? Where?||The poor occupancy of the night shelters speaks volumes of the implementation and management of the schemes meant for the intended beneficiaries. Problems needing urgent redress include lack of awareness about the shelters, unattractive amenities and difficult-to-reach locations. Having been ticked off by the Supreme Court in 2017 over aid to the urban homeless, the Khattar government was quick to announce the setting up of nearly 150 raen baseras and mobile night shelters across the state.Crores of rupees have been spent on these structures, The modern one in Karnal boasts of dormitories, beds, mattresses, toilet, geyser, kitchen, solar power, RO water and CCTVs. Grants worth lakhs are sanctioned under various welfare schemes to keep the homes running with the help of municipal corporations and NGOs. The homeless in Haryana number more than 50,000 (0.2 per cent of the population) as per the 2011 Census. It is a shame that the shelters which should be the go-to havens for the needy, especially during inclement weather, are not being put to optimum use. Commitments and slogans like ‘home for all by 2022’ ring hollow and far-fetched in this scenario.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/raen-basera-where-193292
