04-08-2020||As far as symbolism goes||Politics & spirituality||Unfortunately, the beneficiaries of this majoritarian venture often overstate the efficacy of Hindutva as a vote-catching, electoral magic wand. The slow growth and final crowning glory of the Sangh Parivar is not as much because of its core agenda, including Ram temple, Article 370 and triple talaq (part of the scheme to implement uniform civil code), as it ought to be credited to a dispirited Opposition in complete disarray. But the sad truth of the practice of majoritarian politics is that a formula wrongly attributed to be successful gets used repeatedly. Kashi and Mathura could become the next pit stops for the newer raths of communal wrath. Even the diminishing electoral returns on communal investments would only prompt the protagonists to push for further polarisation, making themselves believe that ‘ek dhakka aur’ would get them another term in government.The Covid times are inauspicious for religious and political events. Many in the Union and state governments are falling sick, testing positive and getting hospitalised. This should make the government reassess its priorities, particularly when the enemy is at our eastern doors. This is a moment when we want the nation united against the virus, on the economic crisis and the foreign policy challenges. The Supreme Court verdict has led to this Ram temple denouement, but now it should not further trigger internal dissensions. India cannot afford to remain a divided house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/politics-spirituality-121798
04-08-2020||The chaos and uncertainty triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic as well as the stringent lockdown imposed to contain its spread have affected lives and livelihoods in India. Even though the unlocking has been in progress for the past two months||Lockdown suicides||The figures for Kolkata, the ‘City of Joy’, are no less disturbing. Between April and June, at least 113 cases of suicide were reported, more than double the number for the corresponding period in 2019 (55) and 2018 (49). According to data compiled by a group of researchers, suicide was the leading cause of over 300 lockdown-related deaths that occurred in the country from March 19 to May 2.It was the suicide by film actor Sushant Singh Rajput that turned the spotlight on much-ignored mental health issues. However, the incessant focus on the case itself — the sordid blame game, the conspiracy theories — has brought things back to square one. The efficacy of the helplines being run by the authorities as well as NGOs remains debatable. Suicides by Covid-positive patients or their family members underline the paranoia and stigma that continue to be associated with the disease. It’s imperative to promptly reach out to a person showing signs of depression. The role of family and friends in providing succour can’t be overestimated. Financial and emotional support in these trying times can reduce cases of people taking an irreversible step. The Central and state governments, on their part, ought to ensure that the needy are not deprived of the benefits of relief and rehabilitation schemes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/lockdown-suicides-121764
