04-09-2020||A day before the Indian government banned 118 mobile apps with a Chinese link||Good riddance||The PUBG craze rose sharply in the country during the Covid-induced lockdown as online entertainment became a lifeline for homebound people. However, the game’s enormous popularity triggered apprehensions about its impact on children’s studies as well as their mental health. Though the government has cited concerns over citizens’ privacy and national security for the app ban — the third in just over two months — there is more to it than meets the eye, considering the ongoing standoff between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh. It is hoped that Indian startups will make the most of this opportunity to come up with quality apps that are in consonance with local laws and sensibilities and make a significant contribution towards revving the Indian economy.There is also a need to take a hard look at the larger picture — the deep penetration of Chinese brands into India’s entertainment and news industries. With Chinese telecom giants such as Oppo and Xiaomi accounting for eight out of every 10 smartphones sold in India, their stakes in India’s online market (second largest in the world after China’s) are quite high. The Indian online gaming industry is expected to be worth $1.1 billion (around Rs 8,250 crore) by 2021. Stricter quality regulations and import controls, along with innovation, can help India resist the revenue-devouring Dragon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/good-riddance-136112
04-09-2020||The sheer desperation was reflected in the courage shown by 15-year-old Kusum who fended off the snatchers who tried to take away her smartphone in Jalandhar. The daughter of a daily wager||Fighting for her phone||But it is not without its share of problems. Not all students possess their own phone. Lack of proper connectivity and buying data reinforces the fact that those from weaker sections must not be left out for lack of resources as the realisation dawns that online education will be co-opted along with offline teaching after the pandemic is over. It may not be possible to teach all the subjects online but this mode is turning out to be the mainstay of teaching in the crisis.In Punjab, the state government has launched a scheme to provide free smartphones for government school students. Ensuring that it reaches the real beneficiaries is important. The Internet infrastructure is also inadequate and needs strengthening. The government should also assess if the normal law and order situation has been affected on account of police personnel being deployed for Covid-related duties. Snatching is indulged in mostly by drug addicts who take away phones, earrings and chains to pay for their daily fix and women have been a prime target. Whether Kusum makes it to the list of bravery awards or not is immaterial, but her feat has highlighted the shift in the field of education, ensuring access to which remains as arduous now, as it has always been.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/fighting-for-her-phone-136111
