04-04-2020||THE ongoing lockdown has brought economic activity to a standstill across the country. The exodus of workers||Construction in limbo||The Centre recently directed states to use the unutilised sum of Rs 31,000 crore, collected as cess under the Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Fund, to provide relief to about 3.5 crore registered labourers. States such as Punjab, Delhi and Himachal Pradesh have already done the needful, but this dole leaves out the unregistered construction workers, numbering around 1.5 crore in the country. They should be factored in for handing out compensation.The situation is also worsening for the Indian export industry as China is gradually recovering from the coronavirus crisis and striving to put its economy back on track. Unless manufacturing units in India start humming with activity soon, Indian products run the risk of losing their global markets to China. The government’s decision to allow exporters having advance licences to ship pharmaceutical formulations that were placed in the restricted category a month ago is a welcome step. More such confidence-building measures are needed to help the industry get back on its feet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/construction-in-limbo-65294
04-04-2020||After getting the people of India to clang the plates on the Janata Curfew day on March 22||The invisible people||They have no government support, no religious or communal props, no collective bargaining; they are the real India — poor, uncared for and honest. They are in distress because they are not the ones who could have saved enough to tide over three weeks without earnings; yet not a single istriwala was caught breaking into a shop for his starving child’s milk or his pregnant wife’s roti. Instead, some of them chose to walk a thousand kilometres than beg for a meal. This is a moment to marvel at a poor Indian’s capacity to suffer the vicissitudes of life and also at the callousness of the rich towards those who have been condemned to eat by the sweat of their brow. The government and society at large seemed to have forgotten these people who have been quietly making the wheels of the urban life turn.Our Prime Minister is a great communicator. His every wish is a command for a large section of the country’s population. So, it is easy for him to ask the people to take care of the barbers, istriwalas and artisans in their neighbourhood. According to the International Labour Organisation, India’s informal sector accounts for over 80 per cent of our non-agricultural employment. And it is this huge section of the population that has been hit by the lockdown. They need immediate attention and a contingency fund, lest something should go terribly wrong.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-invisible-people-65293
