04-11-2020||EVEN as the Election Commission (EC) of India is conducting the Bihar Assembly elections and bypolls in 11 states amid restrictions necessitated by the Covid-19 pandemic||Court rap for Election Commission||Taking the EC to task for exceeding its brief, the apex court asked a probing question: ‘How can you determine who is their (party’s) leader?’ The poll panel’s argument that Nath’s plea had become infructuous as campaigning had ended cut no ice — and rightly so — with the Bench. Not for the first time, the EC has been accused of ignoring or condoning model code violations committed by leaders of the ruling party. Such allegations make it critical for the commission to be more cautious and avoid decisions that reek of partisanship. No party should have a grouse if the EC adopts the same yardstick while dealing with complaints from all sides.For the record, the commission had ordered the BJP early this year to remove a couple of leaders from its list of star campaigners for the Delhi polls over their controversial speeches. The EC then barred them from campaigning for a few days after their replies to the showcause notices were found unsatisfactory. The due process was apparently not followed in Nath’s case, prompting him to move the Supreme Court. The model code of conduct has a long list of guidelines for politicians and political parties. Eventually, it all boils down to how fairly and objectively the EC interprets the written word and takes exemplary action to deter the violators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/court-rap-for-election-commission-165642
04-11-2020||The Madhya Pradesh High Court’s order granting bail to a molestation accused on the condition that he would request the victim to tie him a ‘rakhi’ has attracted widespread criticism it deserved for displaying lack of gender sensitivity. During the hearing of a PIL filed by women lawyers against the order||Gender sensitivity needed||Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad recently told the Lok Sabha that the high courts of Patna, Manipur, Meghalaya, Telangana, Tripura and Uttarakhand didn’t have any woman judge at all, while the high courts of Gauhati, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and Sikkim had only one each. ‘Seventy years after the birth of a post-colonial independent state, there is still a need for change in attitudes and mindsets to recognise the commitment to the values of the Constitution,’ said a Bench led by Justice DY Chandrachud in February this year while paving the way for women in command positions in the Army. Venugopal has suggested that judges need gender sensitisation. The Supreme Court has indicated that it would lay down guidelines for judges to deal with such cases.While these steps must be welcomed, much more needs to be done. The Supreme Court collegium must take a conscious decision to elevate more women to the Bench. Else, it would be difficult to address the issue of male subjectivity in judicial decisions as reflected in the MP High Court’s controversial bail order due to under-representation of women in the judiciary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/gender-sensitivity-needed-165596
