05-01-2021||Justice delayed is justice denied — this oft-quoted truism sums up the plight of litigants who keep waiting for years||Reduce pendency||The disposal of cases in a reasonable time frame is a must to reduce pendency. For the record, over 10,000 cases have been awaiting adjudication for 20-30 years in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. In September last year, the Supreme Court had expressed shock that a criminal case registered against a Punjab politician back in 1983 was yet to be adjudicated, even though the court had in 2015 directed that the trial in cases against sitting and former lawmakers be conducted on a daily basis and concluded in one year from the date of framing of charges. Blatant disregard for the apex court’s directions is a reflection of institutional shortcomings.While the High Courts need to fill judges’ vacancies on priority by expediting the administrative process, various state governments should refrain from making things tougher for the judiciary. In July 2019, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had stated that more than 50 per cent litigation in courts across the country was being filed ‘on account of lapse or negligence of the state machinery’. Rather than indulging in a blame game, the focus should be on remedial measures to contain the caseload and prevent miscarriage of justice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/reduce-pendency-193741
05-01-2021||The approval by the national drugs regulator to Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield||Vaccines are here||Terming it a great occasion, the AIIMS director has listed the regimen to be followed: the Bharat Biotech vaccine will be used in an emergency situation when there is a sudden increase in cases, and as a backup. Initially, the Serum Institute vaccine will be given; 50 million doses are available and will be administered. Covaxin will be used only in ‘clinical trial mode’, where consent will be taken and side-effects monitored. Both the vaccines need 2-8 degrees Celsius storing temperature, making them cost-effective. Two doses will have to be taken 28 days apart and protective levels of antibodies generally would develop two weeks after the second dose. The advisory lays stress on taking the complete vaccine.The first group of beneficiaries will include healthcare and frontline workers, followed by persons over the age of 50 and those under 50 with comorbidities. Vaccine hesitancy is on expected lines, and repeated reassurances would be required on aspects of safety and effectiveness — preferably by experts and not politicians.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/vaccines-are-here-193740
