05-06-2020||The Covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated the problems plaguing India’s healthcare setup||Ailing healthcare||Subsidised education can serve its purpose if its beneficiaries work for a significant period in government hospitals rather than succumbing to the lure of the corporate sector. The situation on the ground is discouraging. In March this year, the Gujarat Assembly was told that nearly 85 per cent of MBBS graduates in the state opted out of serving in a rural area after passing out from government-aided medical colleges in the past two years. The measures taken by various states to make newly minted doctors serve in government health institutions have repeatedly been challenged in courts. In 2019, the Supreme Court had asked the Centre and the Medical Council of India to frame a uniform policy regarding compulsory service to be rendered by doctors who are trained in government institutions.PM Narendra Modi recently stated that work was underway to ensure that every district of the country has a medical college or post-graduate medical institute. The more doctors India has at its disposal, the better. But it would take much more than mere numbers to provide affordable healthcare for all. This goal can be achieved if all stakeholders work together in public interest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/ailing-healthcare-94642
05-06-2020||Opening of educational institutions is a ticklish subject. The coronavirus-positive cases are seeing a daily spike and experts are predicting a peak only in July. In such a situation||Reopening schools||Education, like life itself, has gone through an unusual phase these past three months. Those in urban centres have followed an online class routine, with all its positive and negative aspects. Those in rural locations have been at a clear disadvantage. Those in government schools, urban or rural, have been largely left to their resources. With a semblance of normalcy on the roads, the all-encompassing fear mentality may have given way to a regimen of exercising caution, but to expect parents to lower their guard and ignore the risk is unwarranted, and unfair. The anxiety for them, and the teaching fraternity, remains on how kids in crucial academic years may be losing focus, the uncertainty surrounding admissions, and the debilitating effect of the forced confinement on the younger ones.If malls can open, offices are functional, should children be denied access to schools? The logical reply would be in the affirmative, till an assurance that the curve has flattened, the risk has greatly reduced. A vaccine, of course, ends the debate. Like in the case of migrants, little thought has gone into the impact of the lockdown on students without resources. The alternative plans are practically non-existent. If education departments suddenly feel concerned and reopening schools is the only option they can come up with, there is a degree of insensitivity and hypocrisy involved. The same schools known for lack of facilities and the intent of those tasked with teaching are expected to rise to the occasion. The students deserve better, all the more now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/reopening-schools-94643
