05-09-2020||Even as the India-China border standoff is entering its fifth month||Diplomatic options||After a couple of months of uneasy calm, Chinese troops have resumed incursions in eastern Ladakh. Such misadventures have been countered with a forceful riposte by the Indian soldiers, who have managed to retain control of strategic locations. However, the military buildup and aggressive posturing by both sides have raised the spectre of an armed conflict that could only prove to be mutually destructive. It’s imperative to keep the morale of the troops high, but the bluster about battle-readiness and inflicting heavy losses on the enemy is best avoided. Though there have been several rounds of talks between military representatives, no breakthrough has been achieved so far. The prolonged stalemate on the ground has made diplomatic interventions all the more critical.India has made it clear that negotiations are the way forward. China has also acknowledged that both countries have the ability to resolve their border disputes bilaterally, but the sincerity of such assertions remains questionable. The Chinese proposition of delinking border issues from bilateral cooperation is rightly unacceptable to India. With India queering the pitch for Chinese investors, China is under pressure to safeguard its economic interests. It is hoped that the latest diplomatic overtures will lead to long-term de-escalation of troops, besides the restoration of normalcy in Ladakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/diplomatic-options-136583
05-09-2020||After being at the centre of a political storm over the posting of comments on its platform that allegedly promoted hate||Facebook acts, finally||Facebook has been under scrutiny for varied reasons. Its platform WhatsApp has faced the charge of facilitating the circulation of fake news and fomenting social trouble. It was in the news after being linked to accusations of data mining to influence voters in the US presidential elections. Of late, it has acquired equity stake in the Indian telecom giant Reliance Jio to enhance its digital footprint by tapping the vast Indian market. The ban on Chinese apps in India has also meant an advantage, with people preferring to switch over to rival platforms as the lockdown confined them to their homes, underscoring the need for connectivity.The ban on public congregations and movement due to the pandemic has also lent a new urgency, with some states in India scheduled to go to the polls in the months ahead and parties planning digital rallies. But it has also meant concerns over possible attempt to influence the choice of the voters. While social media platforms provide scope for entertainment and talent promotion, their abuse is fraught with implications. Being proactive, utilising technology like AI to filter content, can be of help.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/facebook-acts-finally-136582
