05-05-2020||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh led the country in paying tribute to Col Ashutosh Sharma||Tragic loss in J&K||Leading from the front, the Colonel killed in the Handwara operation, a decorated officer, was the Commanding Officer of 21 Rashtriya Rifles. Amid the huge setback, the families of those who laid down their lives showed exceptional courage, lifting the morale of the security forces and a grateful nation. Col Sharma’s wife, young daughter, mother and brother appeared on national television, brave and bold, proud and resolute. Maj Sood’s father, a retired Brigadier, would have made him swell with pride as he spoke about his son’s ultimate sacrifice. Calm and composed in this hour of tragedy that would alter their lives forever, they deserve a salute for their fortitude.The increasing number of casualties, including that of a senior officer, is a matter of concern, but no one can internalise the enormity of the loss better than the security forces themselves. Battle-hardened and familiar with the inevitability of operations not panning out as planned, despite a series of successes, the units are sure to rebound. The spate of encounters in the recent past points to a determined effort to crush any attempt to revive terror activity, which saw a notable dip following the lockdown post abrogation of Article 370 in August last year. The Handwara encounter has come as a massive blow, but the heroism displayed by the five men and their families has been exemplary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/tragic-loss-in-jk-80529
05-05-2020||After 40 days of curfew and total lockdown||Living with the virus||Till then, we need to consolidate the gains accrued from the 40-day halt in social and economic activities imposed by the government in a bid to contain the spread of the coronavirus. The shutdown period has given a window to the health sector to equip itself — with dedicated hospitals, isolation wards and ICUs, quarantine centres, ventilators, personal protection gear, masks, etc — to take the virus head-on. Even as the number of Covid-19 patients is up and counting, they are continuing to benefit from the commendable services rendered by medics, paramedics and other healthcare and frontline workers. The lockdown and prompt medical services have together contributed to the coronavirus curve not being overwhelming in the country.Utmost care needs to be taken even as we gingerly return to our workplaces and businesses and toil towards correcting the economy curve that has been hit hard. Letting the guard down can cost us dearly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/living-with-the-virus-80486
