05-12-2020||There cannot be a better global ambassador for teachers. In honouring Ranjitsinh Disale||Ranjitsinh Disale||Realising that language was the major hurdle in the humble setting, Disale used his creative and scientific mindset to ensure that the poor pupils did not suffer. He translated the textbooks into their mother tongue and embedded the books with unique QR codes to give students access to audio poems, video lectures, stories and assignments. With this, the twin challenges of our society were taken care of: his school boasted of 100 per cent attendance of girls and the village recorded zero teenage marriage. Not resting on local laurels, Disale has been using international online platforms to connect young people with the aim of advocating peace across conflict zones in India and Pakistan, Palestine and Israel, Iraq and Iran, and the US and North Korea. Through another project, he helps students from schools lacking in resources by taking them on virtual field trips.Even in receiving the coveted award, the teacher has set a new ‘teach, don’t preach’ goal: Disale has announced that he would share half of his reward money with the other finalists to support their ‘incredible work’. With such exemplary people and their inspiring acts, as the foundation rightly said, there is yet hope for a safe tomorrow, one that will better tackle critical problems like climate change, conflict and pandemics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/ranjitsinh-disale-180179
05-12-2020||EVEN as India’s Covid caseload crosses the 95-lakh mark and the death toll nears 1.4 lakh||Covid vaccine||Be it wholesalers, retailers or quacks, there are several vested interests who could jeopardise the vaccination drive by resorting to unfair practices such as overpricing, hoarding and the sale-purchase of unapproved drugs. There is also an urgent need to address the ills that plague our pharmaceutical system — misbranding, non-conformity to standards, inefficient or non-existent quality control. There should be no compromise on the safety and efficacy of the vaccine, whose success (or failure) will have a bearing on the country’s economic recovery.It’s laudable that the Centre has sought suggestions from states on who all will get the inoculation first. Centre-state coordination, which has been largely conspicuous by its absence during the pandemic, is a prerequisite to streamline the programme and make it reach all sections of society. It will be imperative to appoint nodal officers at state, district, and block levels to encompass all urban and rural areas. The nation has waged a grim battle against the pandemic so far, but the next couple of months are critical. Eventually, India’s Covid-19 campaign will be defined by whether the vaccine rollout is smooth or chaotic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-vaccine-180183
