06-08-2020||Pakistan has given vent to its frustration through a series of provocative steps coinciding with the first anniversary of the reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir and the abrogation of Article 370. Earlier this week||Pak desperation||The insistence on holding the Assembly elections in the disputed and long-suffering region of Gilgit-Baltistan, and that too amid the Covid-19 pandemic, is another instance of Pakistan’s duplicity. The country’s credibility has for long been under a cloud due to its continued support to terrorist organisations. In June, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), the global money laundering and terrorist financing watchdog, had decided to keep Pakistan on the grey list as Islamabad failed to check the flow of money to groups such as Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed. With the prospect of being downgraded to the black list looming large, Pakistan recently passed two Bills in another half-hearted attempt to fulfil the FATF’s requirements. The implementation of such laws in the past, however, has left a lot to be desired.Pakistan’s latest transgression comes less than two months after Nepal’s Parliament made a constitutional amendment to ‘update’ the country’s new political map which incorporated three strategically important Indian areas. These brazen actions by India’s neighbours smack of Chinese connivance in the backdrop of the LAC standoff. India needs to firmly refute such ridiculous claims and reassert its territorial sovereignty. Proactive diplomacy is a must to call the bluff of China and its pawns.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/pak-desperation-122784
06-08-2020||Coronavirus statistics are dismal most of the times||Corona count||Punjab needs to be extra vigilant as reports suggest that almost half the people testing positive are aged between 21 and 40 years, attributed to more mobility for employment purposes. This age-group would comprise roughly one-third of the state’s population by next year. Sadly, the message that caution is the name of the game has not been digested despite repeated appeals. An astounding 3.5 lakh people being fined and 1,500 being booked for not wearing a mask is a frightening level of negligence. With gyms opening, citizen-backed campaigns have to be activated for more responsible behaviour. The numbers will increase, but the risk and volume can certainly be reduced.In Haryana, an RTI query has led to revelation of a disturbing Covid-related figure: a 46 per cent rise in the number of deaths of infants between April and June compared to 2019. Restricted access to health services during the initial phases of the lockdown has been cited as the reason. The overall deaths in the state rose by over 2 per cent despite far less road accidents. OPDs were reopened only following directives in mid-April. The pandemic is unsparing, its effects are all-pervasive. Public health and public minding its health should remain the focal points.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/corona-count-122785
