06-06-2020||The callousness in attending to a Covid-19 patient lying dead in the washroom of an isolation facility in Charkhi Dadri is a blot on the Haryana Government’s preparedness in handling of cases. Despite detailed guidelines issued by the Centre regarding the protocol and procedure of dealing with Covid patients||Chinks in Covid armour||This single instance of recklessness negates by some degrees the commendable job that the medical and paramedical staff, along with policemen, have done so far as frontline warriors in fighting the highly contagious coronavirus. It also exposes chinks in the government’s claims of having put things in order during the over two months of lockdown, when the focus was on arming and readying the infrastructure — hospitals, wards, ICUs, isolation and quarantine facilities, a revolving fund of Rs 1,000 crore for each crucial department battling the virus — to cater to the surge in coronavirus-infected people.Haryana has also been caught on the back foot with the interstate movement in line with the revised policy as Lockdown 4.0 ended on May 31. Its flip-flop on sealing and unsealing the border with the NCR caused immense hardship to the commuters, prompting the Supreme Court to rule that Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana decide on a common policy within a week. The state’s health sector needs to brace up and reboot itself, for its hands are going to be full. Not only has there been a spike in Covid cases in the past few days — Haryana’s tally has crossed 3,300 — but even non-Covid patients, who had been neglected during the lockdown, can no longer be denied care and attention.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/chinks-in-covid-armour-95180
06-06-2020||CONNECTED by the Commonwealth as well as the Indian Ocean||India-Australia amity||Though China apparently did not figure in the talks, it was clear that the Indo-Australian bonhomie was partly influenced by their not-so-friendly relations with the former. India’s neighbour is keeping it on tenterhooks with brazen muscle-flexing along the Line of Actual Control, while Australia has been vociferously demanding a probe into China’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic. With China throwing its weight around in the Indo-Pacific, India and Australia have come out with a shared vision for maritime cooperation and stability in the region. Their support for a rules-based maritime order carries a stern message for China: respect sovereignty and international law, particularly the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea.The development comes less than three years after both countries, along with the US and Japan, formed the Quad coalition to work for ensuring a level playing field in the Indo-Pacific. With the aim of raising defence cooperation a few notches, the two countries have now inked a pact that will allow their militaries to access each other’s bases. India has also made its intent clear to source critical minerals from Australia, in an effort to reduce its dependence on China in this sector. With the long-time US ally firmly on its side, India is now in a stronger position to assert itself in the face of neighbourly high-handedness. The gains expected to accrue from the engagement with Australia should stand India in good stead in the post-pandemic world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/india-australia-amity-95193
