06-01-2021||The Supreme Court’s go-ahead to the controversial Central Vista revamp project clears the way for a new Parliament building. It is envisaged to be ready by August 2022||Clearance for Central Vista||The dissenting verdict came from Justice Khanna, who agreed with Justices Khanwilkar and Maheshwari on the aspects of the notice inviting bids, the award of contract and the order of the urban commission. Where he did not agree was on the issues of change of land use and environmental clearances. Several public figures have been quite vocal in expressing concern regarding the urgency to formalise such a grand project in the times of the Covid emergency and the potential damage to the environs. On the matter of conservation of heritage, the apex court wants clearances to be sought. Also on its to-do list is the setting up of smog towers. The project proponent has been asked to ensure these as an integral part, with directions to the Ministry of Environment and Forests to install smog towers in future projects.The groundbreaking ceremony last month was boycotted by the Opposition and frowned upon by the apex court since the case was pending. Now that the project has been approved, the Centre needs to reach out across the political spectrum and be mindful of the apprehensions. It claims the Central Vista will take care of deficiencies of the existing Parliament building like inadequate space, structural weaknesses and security problems, and save the public exchequer crores paid as rent for offices. That may be sound logic, but building an edifice for a forum meant for informed discussion and debate while giving these the go-by is a false start.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/clearance-for-central-vista-194333
06-01-2021||The case of the bio-secure bubble burst by five Indian cricketers in Australia has taken a jingoistic turn. Logic and sanity are the first victims when this happens. But the facts are plain enough. Five Indian cricketers did break Covid-19 protocol by dining indoors in a Melbourne restaurant. The rules allow the squad members to dine out||Players must respect rules||Some former players and analysts are claiming that the Australians are making a mountain out of a molehill in order to put pressure on the Indian players. It is claimed that the five players moved indoors only due to rain, and that they followed all other Covid-prevention rules. This sort of defence, based on jingoism, is not honest — clearly, rules were broken, and that is indefensible. One mistake can cause an outbreak of the virus, with disastrous results — in December, England’s tour of South Africa was called off after the outbreak of Covid-19 among players and staff at their hotel. The risks are real.The cost of creating a bio-secure bubble is high, as is the financial loss if a series is called off due to the outbreak of the virus. The players, some of whom have been in a bi-secure bubble for close to five months, are under mental stress and many of them wish to break free — if they cannot take it any more, they must quit the squad. But they can’t have it both ways. They are role models, and it is their responsibility to follow rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/players-must-respect-rules-194334
