06-07-2020||President Donald Trump did what was expected||The siege within||President Trump’s holding the pre-independence day event at Mount Rushmore was controversial to begin with. It faced objections of the local native Indian tribes whose land it is on, and health professionals. The fireworks that followed were banned in recent years because of fear that they could cause forest fires. On top of that was the danger of gathering a large number of supporters for a ‘mask-optional’ event, at a time when the infection rates and deaths due to Covid-19 are mounting. Indeed, his ill-conceived and ill-attended ‘no masks’ rally at Tulsa last month was followed by a record surge in the cases there.Historically, Independence Day functions have been used to showcase the unity of spirit of the United States of America by various US Presidents, notably Trump’s immediate predecessor, Barack Obama. The US is facing the twin challenges of the pandemic as well as social unrest on a vast scale. Both require a healing touch, forged by an empathic understanding of the issues and a rational approach, clearly articulated and acted upon. That was not what came from their President even as he stood under the gaze of past Presidents George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln and Theodore Roosevelt, and television cameras.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-siege-within-109162
06-07-2020||The undue haste being shown by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to come out with a Covid-19 vaccine — Covaxin — by August 15 this year smacks of an inappropriate eagerness to please the boss (the Modi government). As scientists||ICMR jumps the gun||Proclaiming the launch date of a vaccine candidate at a time when it has the approval to conduct trials for only phases I and II is indeed preposterous. The ICMR will get the nod for phase III only on the basis of the success of the first two phases. It entails checking for the vaccine’s effectiveness in generating an immune response to fight the disease by conducting human trials. Then, if all goes well, mass production of the vaccine too is a time-consuming process. That Bharat Biotech, its partner, has projected Phases I and II trial results for October, points to the long haul.There is only one way for the ICMR to redeem itself: by coming out with a sure-fire plan not restricted by overambitious targets. It is well known that given the rigorous standards expected, vaccines take decades to develop, that is if at all. Consider this: the HIV vaccine is still elusive after 30 years of research and one of the quickest vaccines — for mumps — took four years in the making. Regarding Covid-19, the frontrunner, University of Oxford, has set a realistic year-end target even as clinical trials for its experimental vaccine have progressed to the final stage. Our country’s apex body for biomedical research has, unfortunately, jumped the gun this time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/icmr-jumps-the-gun-109161
