06-10-2020||THE UP government is stooping to new lows in its gross mishandling of the Hathras case. Even as the probe has been referred to the CBI||Hathras mess||The Yogi Adityanath dispensation has gone all out to keep mediapersons away from the scene of the gruesome crime. In a vicious assault on the freedom of the Press, some journalists’ phones have been tapped and their conversations leaked. The obvious motive is to divert attention away from the instant case. The meeting held outside a former BJP MLA’s house in Hathras on Sunday, during which the accused were defended and an FIR sought against the woman’s family, is another abhorrent ploy to turn the matter on its head.Influential accused can go to any extent to intimidate the victim and her family, as witnessed in the 2017 Unnao rape case. The girl survived a car crash in which two of her aunts lost their lives, and her father died in judicial custody after being framed for illegal possession of firearms. Justice did eventually prevail as former BJP legislator Kuldeep Sengar was convicted and jailed for life. Attempts to arm-twist the Hathras victim’s family should also not go unpunished.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/hathras-mess-151538
06-10-2020||The decision of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) to contest the Bihar Assembly elections independently marks the beginning of a transition in state politics. While the JD(U) under Nitish Kumar has been in power for long||LJP out of NDA in Bihar||On its own, the LJP has never been a key player in state politics, preferring to lend support to governments. The decision to break free from the NDA in Bihar is a show of assertiveness and indication of a trend where regional parties are leaving or distancing themselves from the government because of the popular disapproval over farm laws, exodus of migrants and the Hathras outrage. The LJP has hinted at support for the BJP in case it forms the government in Bihar under its own CM. The latter has not specified its possible chief ministerial candidates, though it has leaders like Ravi Shankar Prasad, Shahnawaz Husain and present Deputy CM Sushil Modi. Their projection and acceptability will be crucial for political consensus.The entry of Chirag Paswan has implications for Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. The possibility of alternatives that it throws up should force a rethink on his part. The BJP-JD(U) alliance has mostly endured, but as a rupture on a previous occasion shows, politics is the art of the possible. The Bihar CM will be under pressure to prove that he is a still a wily practitioner of it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/ljp-out-of-nda-in-bihar-151523
