07-07-2020||China’s aggressive posture in claiming territory deep inside eastern Bhutan||Naked expansionism||John Sawers, former chief of MI6, the British secret service, has interpreted the Chinese incursion in Ladakh as an instance of intimidation to prevent India from forging an alliance with the US, Japan and Australia for a common approach towards China, and also to bolster Chinese interests in Pakistan. Analysts like Sawers want Chinese leaders to understand that “they will pay a price”, if they impose their hegemonic aspirations on other nations.China’s actions in Hong Kong, imposition of sanctions against Australia, its sinking of Vietnamese fishing boats in South China Sea, the Ladakh incursion and most recently its claims on the Sakteng Wildlife Sanctuary have all now prompted observers to arrive at an unambiguous understanding of China’s expansionist worldview, even in the context of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). India’s refusal to join the BRI or the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership had hastened the slide in Sino-Indian relations. So, a pullback of the Chinese troops from the Galwan valley, Hot Springs and Gogra to create a buffer zone should only be seen as a tactical move by China in its long-drawn-out strategic attempt to browbeat and subdue its neighbours into a client state status, as it has achieved in the case of Nepal and Pakistan. Chinese President Xi Jinping’s metamorphosis into a medieval monarch thirsting for battlefield glory and territorial overreach lies exposed, leaving Chinese enterprises vulnerable to political scrutiny.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/naked-expansionism-109547
07-07-2020||The killing of eight policemen who had gone to conduct a raid at the hideout of a gangster at Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh is shocking. The state has prided itself on making efforts to improve the law and order situation and the killing makes the claim fall flat. While the death of the policemen and the circumstances under which it took place needs a thorough probe||Killing of UP policemen||The methods undertaken by the Yogi government — to wipe out crime — have resulted in allegations of police high-handedness against even the small-time criminals with due process of law being dispensed with. The gangster in question has been accused in the past of gunning down a BJP minister inside a thana when Rajnath Singh was the CM. The state has also seen an influx of illegal arms and the crackdown resulted in criminals fleeing to adjoining states of Delhi and Haryana.Also, the enforcement of the lockdown has to a great extent depended on the police force for strict implementation, resulting in discontent. In the days preceding the pandemic, the UP Police cracked down on students at Aligarh Muslim University for protesting against CAA-NRC. The government should first ensure justice for the slain policemen, but at the same time take steps to reform and modernise the force. That corrective steps are needed goes without saying for the gangster is said to have received a tip-off from police sources. At the same time, policemen can’t be allowed to go trigger-happy. With its migrant workforce returning in large numbers and efforts being made to attract investment and generate employment, the state should remember that law and order remains a sine qua non for growth and controversies will only mar that reputation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/killing-of-up-policemen-109522
