07-08-2020||The Indian establishment seems to have finally come to terms with the Chinese designs. The Ministry of Defence document on the Chinese incursion in Ladakh uploaded on the MoD website on Tuesday (subsequently removed)||Taking China head-on||The refusal to pull back from Pangong Tso and all other positions now held by the Indian Army is another strong indicator of a new direction in India’s China policy. At the meeting of the army commanders on Sunday, the Chinese had asked the Indian side to vacate their positions to reciprocate the Chinese pullback. The old salami slicing trick was being played out once again and India was being asked to retreat from its own territory after China having shifted the Line of Actual Control further westwards. But India has decided to dig in for the long and cruel winter preparing for a Siachen redux.Meanwhile, the Chinese again got rebuffed at the United Nations Security Council on Wednesday trying to raise the issue of J&K. After its failed attempt in January, China sought a discussion on J&K ‘under other business’. But most members of the Security Council rejected the move by terming J&K a bilateral issue between India and Pakistan. China is opening all fronts against India. Military and diplomatic attacks have been launched; trade and cyber ones ought to be on the anvil. This is no time for the nation to get distracted by politico-religious symbolism. Instead, this is the moment of truth about the eastern neighbour, and the Indian response on the LAC or at the UN has to be considered and holistic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/taking-china-head-on-123293
07-08-2020||The disconcerting rise in the number of child marriages in the past five years in some pockets of Sirmaur district of Himachal Pradesh is reflective of the continued backwardness of the area. While 16 cases of children entering wedlock were reported in 2015||Sirmaur’s child brides||The administration would do well to tap this progressive lot among them and induct them in its task force involved in educating and motivating people to send their girls to school rather than lose their adolescence to matrimony and teen-motherhood and its associated health issues. More parents need to come forward and support the children’s transition to secondary school and postpone their marriage. No girl or boy should slip through the crack and get trapped in wedlock before the legal age. For that, it is essential that the teaching infrastructure in the six backward blocks is accessible and up to the mark. Educated and self-reliant women hold the key to bettering their socio-economic lot.The National Family Health Survey of 2015-16 shows a steady decline in the prevalence of child marriages across states, barring two — Himachal Pradesh and Manipur — which registered a marginal rise. In a heartening development, the median age of marriage for women increased from 17 years in 2005-06, to 19 in 2015-16. But despite all this, India holds the shameful tag of being home to the largest number of underage brides. An estimated 1.5 million girls below 18 years are wedded every year even though the union is null and void and attracts penalty. India is committed to ending child marriage by 2030 under the UN sustainable development goals. A lot needs to be done fast to catch up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/sirmaurs-child-brides-123287
