07-05-2020||The lockdown has predictably taken a heavy toll on the Indian job market. Migrant workers||Job losses mounting||These alarming figures belie the Central government’s commitment to protect lives as well as livelihoods. Jaan bhi, jahaan bhi seems easier said than done. Doles — in cash or kind — are only a quick fix. The resumption of economic activity, albeit in fits and starts, should go hand in hand with flattening the retrenchment curve. It is heartening that Punjab and Himachal Pradesh have managed to keep April’s unemployment rate as low as 2-3 per cent, even as Haryana is among the worst performers (43.2 per cent).Joblessness has been a sore point with the powers that be in recent years, coupled with a worrying tendency to undermine the sanctity of official statistics. In January 2019, months before the General Election, a leaked report on the periodic labour force survey had worked out the unemployment rate in 2017-18 at 6.1 per cent — a 45-year high. The damning findings had forced the government to issue one clarification after another. Soon after the poll results were out, the Labour Ministry had corroborated the data, but desisted from making comparisons with surveys conducted in earlier years. The Covid crisis makes it imperative to confront the problem head-on. Even as the migrants are being ferried back to their native places, the authorities can’t abdicate their long-term responsibility of keeping these people employed and employable. Now is the time to devise a post-lockdown action plan catering to all workers, formal or informal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/job-losses-mounting-81468
07-05-2020||After May 17||What after May 17||It would be unfair on the Modi government’s part to consider suggestions and views by CMs of states not ruled by the BJP as criticism of its noteworthy efforts in the fight against the pandemic. The task at hand is onerous. A combined effort is in national interest and of paramount importance. If the Punjab CM, who is not known to mince his words, asserts that those heading governments in states know better about what is happening in their areas, choosing to ignore or belittle what is being said would amount to poor judgement. The message is simple: we need each other and the battle asks of us to be in it together.Under pressure and not wanting to be seen as unsympathetic, states have been depending on self-devised protocols to manage the return of migrants and those stuck in other states. Any adverse implication, like the huge number of positive cases among Punjab pilgrims from Nanded, and a blame game and political to-and-fro is prompt. The Centre’s role has been less than satisfactory in helping out beleaguered states. Covid-19 is a public health issue and also one of sheer survival. A synchronised effort is the only option. CMs desperately seeking help is not a call for alms, it is a harsh reminder that what is expected is not forthcoming.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/what-after-may-17-81467
