07-01-2021||The brazen gun culture depicted in the Punjabi music scene today and the shooting of such songs to instant and huge popularity have led to discordant notes in society. The pitch and tone of the voices against the violence-ridden chartbusters have been rising. For||Brazen gun culture||Under pressure to contain the menace, the Punjab Government too has been toying with the idea of a cultural commission. Meanwhile, some offending artistes, off and on, find themselves on the wrong side of the law. But with their huge fan following forcing them to risk the run-ins with the cops, the battle against a crisis revolving around popular culture and violence is rendered more challenging.However, an unrelated crisis has ensured that the songs of Punjab do not remain off-key. The farmers’ agitation that is going on at full blast against the Centre’s new agriculture laws has rung in a melodious chime. A churning of the art and culture scene is evident as protesters and their supporters from various walks of life, including writers, poets, musicians and artists, are dipping into the rich folklore of the battle-weary border state to belt out ballads of struggle and resistance. As families and children from near and far join the peasants staying put on the Delhi borders, the paintings, slogans and songs playing out there are motivating and aspiring. The land is still fertile for a culturally robust output. Hope for an enriched, rather than a hollow, tomorrow floats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/brazen-gun-culture-194721
07-01-2021||INDIA’S Covid-19 vaccination programme has run into rough weather even before its rollout. The unsavoury war of words between vaccine manufacturers Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech seems to be over for now||Vaccine spat||In a face-saving exercise, Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech have issued a joint statement saying they will work together to develop, manufacture and supply the vaccines in the country and globally. It is hoped that both will walk the talk on providing global access to their potentially life-saving shots. Even better, they should let the vaccines do the talking.The controversy over the ‘premature’ clearance granted to Covaxin, even though its Phase-3 efficacy data will be available only by March, shows how the authorities have mishandled the situation. Prof Gagandeep Kang, one of India’s leading virologists, has made it clear that she would not take Covaxin as a vaccine until its efficacy data is made public. She has stressed the importance of transparency in building trust. The government needs to clear all doubts and misconceptions at the earliest so that the rollout is smooth and productive. India has waited long for the vaccine. Any hiccup or hesitancy at this stage might undo all the hard work done by scientists and researchers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/vaccine-spat-194720
