07-12-2020||Another round of talks over the farm laws is scheduled for December 9||Need a solution||The agitation has been bolstered by a wave of popular support, exemplified by the daily announcements of eminent sportspersons, writers and other people of repute returning national awards. Singers and artistes have lent an emotional chord; many have chosen to mark their presence at the protest sites. A sense of urgency while recognising the scale and scope of the crisis at hand will perhaps force a climbdown to reach a middle ground sooner rather than later. As the negotiations continue, both sides also need to lower the tempo of acrimony. The protest organisers have to double up efforts for maintaining the vibe of a peaceful congregation of citizens otherwise upset and angry. The ruling BJP has an even bigger responsibility, to ensure that a divisive narrative is not allowed to take shape and discourage attempts to discredit dissent.Rail services have remained paralysed in Punjab for the past over two months as part of the protests, but it took the march towards the national capital for New Delhi to take notice. Now that the protesters are being heard and seen, the Union Agriculture Minister’s appeal to let senior citizens, who have a sizeable presence at the protest sites, and children go home will go unnoticed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/need-a-solution-180871
07-12-2020||After much dilly-dallying||Punjab ULB polls||The urban landscape of the state under their watch is set for a progressive turn, if the record of governance by women councillors and sarpanches is anything to go by. Especially of those who took the wheel in their hands and navigated the tough political road, boldly steering away blatant attempts of backseat driving by the men of their family or community. While they have been visible on several fronts, such as opposing the opening of liquor vends, their contribution to debates on topical matters and getting clearances for roads, parks, streetlights, water supply etc. has been no less than that of their male counterparts.As they occupy seats of power, they need to learn to increasingly take independent decisions and exercise authority for the improvement of their constituencies. New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Arden’s firm handling of the situation during the coronavirus pandemic is the latest shining example of the capabilities of women leaders. Punjab is sure to gets its own Jacindas as the upcoming ULB polls promise to unveil and nurture many a woman leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/punjab-ulb-polls-180870
