08-06-2020||The self-assuredness in the Centre’s tone that not a single migrant worker died on Shramik trains due to lack of food||Dealing with national crisis||A startling revelation during the course of the hearing, again based on media coverage, was that 644 migrant labourers died during the lockdown. As the apex court delivers its verdict, the core issue that has gained traction is the urgent requirement of a data bank of migrant workers. The absence of actual numbers, as succinctly brought out before the Bench, aggravates these calamities by leaving the administering agencies under-prepared to deal with the challenges.‘It is in your hands to take care of them’ is the message the Bench has delivered to the states, in a clear indication that foolproof registration of workers who have reached home is on the cards, along with directions to launch employment schemes. The suggestion that states should also facilitate their movement if they want to go back to other states to work is noteworthy. While the Central and state governments have been asked to complete the transportation of migrant workers, whether by rail or road, in the next 15 days, the onus of ensuring their well-being will fall on the states. That is simply impossible without Central funding, like the MGNREGA push, which saw a record number of new job entrants last month. A national crisis requires a united response. Politics and blame game can wait for a later day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/dealing-with-national-crisis-96023
08-06-2020||With the government preparing to open hotels||Covid spike in Haryana||Haryana has insisted it is getting ready to open schools in July and colleges in August. The state’s Education Minister, Kanwar Pal Gujjar, said people cannot sit at home forever due to the fear of the pandemic. “We need to do all our work, so factories and markets have opened and the schools will open soon too,” he said, while failing to explain the same urgency for the areas excluded. Earlier, there has been a row over the sealing of borders by the states, forcing the Centre to tell Haryana, UP and Delhi to come up with uniform travel guidelines to remove hassles. This has to be done at the earliest so that people can commute to their place of work smoothly. These states need to assess the transmission in their containment zones so that life can limp back to normalcy.The lockdown technically extends till June 30. It is hoped that by that time, the situation would become conducive to resuming international flights and business in various sectors can get a boost in the national capital and its adjoining states. Reeling under the impact of the lockdown, it will take time to pick up the pieces. But the need is to plug the gaps in healthcare system. Business will then get a kickstart.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-spike-in-haryana-96017
