08-08-2020||INDIAN economy has been battered by the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown that continues in several states nearly five months after it was first imposed nationwide. Some rating agencies have forecast that the country’s GDP will shrink by as high as 10 per cent in the ongoing financial year||RBI’s loan plan||The debt restructuring scheme has been extended till March 2021 for businesses in the MSME (Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises) sector, which contributes around 30 per cent of the GDP and provides employment to about 11 crore people. Such enterprises have been crippled more by a slump in demand than by a financial crunch. Unless demand is revved up, these units will continue to gasp for survival despite the repayment breather. The RBI has proposed a separate resolution mechanism for personal loans. With the moratorium on EMIs set to end on August 31, this plan holds out hope for the salaried class, which has been hit hard by pay cuts and job losses.In a populist move aimed at providing much-needed liquidity to small borrowers, the RBI has hiked the loan-to-value ratio of gold loans from 75 per cent to 90 per cent. As the prices of the yellow metal are currently on the upswing, many people would be tempted to take loans now. However, this is a risky proposition in the event of a sharp drop in gold rates. Pushing loanees deeper into the debt trap is a recipe for disaster, not a silver bullet to rebuild the economy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/rbis-loan-plan-123588
08-08-2020||The seamier side of alcohol’s political economy is on display||Lid off liquor scam||In Punjab also, the police and the excise staff are being blamed for the Majha tragedy that has claimed over a hundred lives. While the state government has ordered the formation of two special investigation teams, a parallel magisterial probe has also been ordered. Police officials have been asked to furnish a detailed report on the investigations, recoveries, arrest of bootleggers, FIRs lodged and the statements of victims and witnesses. A list of the excise officials deputed in these areas and a record of the production and ownership of the distilleries have also been sought.The liquor business had gone underground during the lockdown. Shutting down of shops and vends affected not only sales, but also the revenue of states. With hotels and bars out of bounds, sales seem to have got diverted to black alleys, that too of spurious stuff. The tragedy in Punjab is being blamed on the leakage of de-natured alcohol from distilleries. There is no reason why Punjab, like Haryana, should not bring erring officials and racketeering distillery operators to book. It may require political will, but the loss of lives should be reason enough to ensure that the governments act resolutely.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/lid-off-liquor-scam-123590
