08-02-2020||NO fundamental right guaranteed by the Constitution is absolute. Article 19(2) empowers the State to impose ‘reasonable restrictions’ on exercising the fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression on various grounds||Internet curbs||There was no ambiguity in the court’s observation, but still Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has tried to clear a ‘misconception’. Prasad, who holds the portfolios of Communications, Information Technology and Electronics as well as Law and Justice, told the Rajya Sabha on Thursday that the court had stopped short of specifically declaring Internet access as a fundamental right. The minister was right in pointing out that the Internet was being misused for spreading violence and terrorism. Radicalisation through the World Wide Web is indeed a clear and present danger. However, no one can gainsay the indispensability of this technological marvel in our everyday lives. Be it healthcare, education, trade, tourism, transportation or banking, the Internet provides us a global gateway to avail of a plethora of services.Indiscriminate or disproportionate use of power to digitally cripple people betrays the State’s flawed assessment of the ground situation and lack of confidence in the law-enforcement machinery. The circumstances should be extraordinary enough to justify the curbs, which in any case need to be reviewed frequently so that the public does not bear the brunt of the disruptive measure for too long. In the long run, it boils down to regulating online operations and holding digital players accountable for the misuse of their platforms. The apex court has hit the nail on the head by stressing the need to distinguish between the Internet as a tool and the freedom of expression through the Internet. This can happen only if law and technology are on the same page rather than working at cross purposes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/internet-curbs-37492
08-02-2020||THE Rajya Sabha select committee’s report on the Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill||Expanding surrogacy||Significantly, in the case of married couples, the panel has dealt with the Bill’s twin concerns. It rightly seeks to make the process faster and simpler for them to become proud parents by proposing to not restrict surrogate mothers to close relatives. Instead, any willing woman should be allowed to give the service. Recognising that for infertile couples with proven medical conditions where normal pregnancy is ruled out, the waiting period of five years is too long, it has done away with the condition.The sensitive matter of people desiring children through surrogacy, and the rights of such children and surrogate mothers is loaded with moral, biological, emotional and financial issues. And, women end up bearing the socio-economic brunt as patriarchy continues to reign. Thus, regulation is certainly called for, but only after exhaustively considering the complexities involved. The combined advances in medical and legal domains as well as the social mindset provide a revolutionary foundation for the lawmakers to address the core concerns. The recommendation that the Assisted Reproductive Technologies (Regulation) Bill be taken up before the surrogacy Bill is laudable as it will clear many hurdles in the process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/expanding-surrogacy-37491
