08-01-2021||Among the foremost lessons learnt from the ongoing coronavirus pandemic is the urgency of containing its spread. The key to it lies in early detection by testing of suspected cases and isolation of those found positive. Alas! Even as this pandemic is still raging with lakhs of humans in its grip||Bird flu alert||And, when fears of avian flu surfaced as states were put on alert following the outbreak of the viral disease in Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh, the authorities bungled in the testing arena. The samples sent for testing from Barwala to the Jalandhar lab have been found to be insufficient, requiring another round of the exercise. This has cost crucial time. The final diagnosis, if pointing to the dreaded flu, will be further delayed as it has to be routed through the Bhopal lab. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare’s note first confirming bird flu and then retracting it only added to the goof-up. The mismanagement has impacted the beleaguered poultry business, which had just started to totter back to normalcy after suffering the lockdown-induced setback.Meanwhile, as reports of various migratory and local birds dying pile up from neighbouring wetlands and water bodies, including the Sukhna Lake in Chandigarh and the Pong Lake and Bilaspur areas in Himachal, there is a need to step up vigil and preventive surveillance. Equally important is to quell rumours and panic with a scientific approach to the situation. While a flu outbreak calls for the culling of birds, humans can safely consume properly cooked eggs and meat, say experts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bird-flu-alert-195199
08-01-2021||AN attempted coup||Blot on US democracy||First among those to restore order was US Vice President Mike Pence, who called in the National Guard and returned to the dais of the Senate to reconvene the Congressional proceedings and count the votes. He told Trump’s thugs, ‘You didn’t win.’ Equally strong was the condemnation by the Republican Senator and Chairman of Senate Committee on Judiciary, Lindsey Graham, who said, ‘Count me out. Enough is enough.’ Many Republican Congressmen have not just proclaimed Biden the legitimate President of the US, but have also denounced Trump by voting against his objections to the election process.This attack against the American bicameral legislature was fuelled by fake news and conspiracy theories spread over social media; thus, it is a fearsome trailer of new media’s potential to distort public opinion through white lies. Even the presidential election result of 2000 was challenged and was settled only after a US Supreme Court verdict, though it triggered works like The Best Democracy Money Can Buy by Greg Palast. While a book illuminates, a tweet incites, as discovered by Twitter and Facebook, which belatedly suspended Trump’s account for 12 hours. The National Association of Manufacturers, a pro-Trump lobbying firm, and many others have termed the mob attack seditious and asked Pence to invoke the 25th amendment to sack Trump. He deserves to be prosecuted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/blot-on-us-democracy-195200
