08-10-2020||The problem of stubble burning||Curbing stubble burning||The state recently appointed nodal officers to check straw burning and their services can be utilised to mobilise equipment, estimate straw yield and finalise compensation. Punjab is witnessing an agitation against the farm laws, making the ruling Congress mull taking recourse to steps under the Concurrent list so that the farmers are not affected, and the possibility of dealing with stubble burning can also be examined.The Supreme Court asking if the MSP can be withheld over farm fires appears to be a bit hasty. It amounts to withholding a portion of the minimum support price and releasing it later only after a verification that the stubble was not burnt. The court should bear in mind that the government provides MSP on 23 crops but not all are purchased at support price, mostly those that are vital for food security. Also, not all farmers are able to sell at the MSP and with their level of awareness, the chances of their getting unfairly penalised are real. It will also give the implementing agencies a handle to harass the farmers. The government should instead examine the possibility of roping in agencies involved in agricultural marketing in the task of managing crop stubble. With its elaborate state machinery, the problem should not be left alone for the farmers to solve.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/curbing-stubble-burning-152608
08-10-2020||China’s military muscle-flexing in its neighbourhood — be it in the Indo-Pacific||Quad cooperation||In his opening remarks at the meeting, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar reiterated India’s commitment to a rules-based world order, respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty, and peaceful resolution of disputes. Jaishankar, who had worked out a five-point agreement on de-escalation with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow last month, predictably stopped short of naming (and shaming) the neighbouring country. India should continue to explore the bilateral route for settling issues with China, but at the same time make the most of Quad cooperation for bolstering its security. Every country is justified in safeguarding its interests first before doing its bit to meet regional or global challenges.Both the US and India have been ravaged by Covid-19. Quad can help them emerge as influential players in the post-pandemic world. Economic recovery should be the top priority as of now rather than countering China’s assertiveness. Looking at the larger picture, it’s imperative for the coalition to ensure a central role for the 10-nation ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations), a major stakeholder in the Indo-Pacific, in the scheme of things. Quad should be open to engaging with other like-minded countries in the region, resisting the temptation of throwing its weight around. That will be a win-win situation for all of them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/quad-cooperation-152607
