08-12-2020||The more things change||IIM autonomy||Now, the government is considering a proposal to give itself the power to initiate an inquiry against the Board of Governors of an institute ‘if any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act’. The supposed trigger is a confrontation between the ministry and the IIMs over the latter’s decision to grant one-year MBA degree for working professionals. The government calls it a violation of UGC regulations, while the institutes cite similar degree programmes across the globe.The controversy is all the more unsavoury as it comes in a year in which the government unveiled the National Education Policy (NEP), a blueprint for ‘attaining global standards in quality education’. The policy envisages the setting up of model public universities for holistic and multidisciplinary education — on a par with IITs and IIMs. Such ambitious plans would be even harder to achieve if existing institutes such as JNU continue to bear the brunt of political interference. According to the latest QS Global MBA rankings, only three IIMs — based in Ahmedabad, Bengaluru and Kolkata — made it to the top 100. The government is well advised to let institutes of national importance work freely and do course correction, if required, on their own.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/iim-autonomy-181377
08-12-2020||Though pollution in the Yamuna||Cleaning up Yamuna||Like in the case of the Kali Bein, a tributary of the Beas in Punjab, that was cleaned with voluntary efforts supplementing the state measures, through community participation and the involvement of local bodies, the possibility of chalking out a similar plan for specific areas along the course of the Yamuna can be looked into. The model for rejuvenating the stream by Balbir Singh Seechewal had found acceptance with the government even to clean the Ganga. To check the froth formation in the Yamuna, states should ensure that manufacturers stick to the standards and the scientific parameters are not only enunciated clearly but also followed. Industrial units that do not conform to the standards should face action. Government efforts to contain pollution have not been lacking in intent with numerous bodies being set up as an example of it. But despite all this, bottlenecks remain.Though environmental agencies clarified that water quality had not improved significantly in the rivers despite the lockdown, the rise in pollution points to the need for planned urban and industrial growth as things get back to normal so that human activity is more regulated, not an easy task in view of the way lives revolve around the river banks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/cleaning-up-yamuna-181376
