09-05-2020||The Bhopal gas tragedy is invariably the reference point whenever any toxic leakage takes place. The 1984 industrial disaster has become a symbol not only of the magnitude of damage that negligence can cause||Another gas tragedy||Thursday’s vapour leak from the multinational chemical plant occurred when some workers were making preparations for re-opening of the unit after 44 days. About half of the 1,800 tonnes of styrene stored in a tank is said to have leaked before it was contained. Company officials claimed a team of 15 remained on duty at the factory throughout the lockdown period to monitor it. If that was not enough to prevent the mishap, something is drastically wrong.The usual suspects in an Indian setting are on and off-site disaster management plans that have not gone beyond gathering dust in a file; no regular third-party inspection, and, of course, the assured retention of licence despite being found wanting on several counts. The chalta-hai way of working is not incidental, it has been allowed to be institutionalised. Hence, whatever the scale of the incident, there is always someone to bail the company out, always some method to escape action once the outrage dies down. Fixing accountability, thus, has to be the starting point of any investigation. Unless an example is made out of what to expect if safety guidelines are not adhered to, the obvious flurry of new stipulations would serve little purpose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/another-gas-tragedy-82411
09-05-2020||The irony of this tragedy is not lost on anyone. A week after the Railways started running Shramik Special trains to take stranded migrants back to their native places across the country||No homecoming||The unfortunate incident has exposed glaring lapses in the exercise to ensure the safe return of migrants. The mishap occurred at a time when the Central and state governments were struggling to resolve the issue of paying the workers’ train/bus fare amid an acrimonious dispute. Till Thursday, the Railways had already run over 200 Shramik trains and ferried nearly 2 lakh people. The fact that some migrants are still undertaking long journeys by foot — as was the case when the lockdown was first announced in late March — underlines the need to remove the bottlenecks. Better coordination among the states and between various government departments can curb instances of people risking their lives and exposing themselves — and others — to transmission of coronavirus.Virtually no government has managed to convince the migrants to stay back. The assurance that they would be provided jobs as the lockdown curbs are increasingly eased has cut no ice with most of them. The best course is to help the workers return to their home states in a hassle-free manner. Despite being penniless and jobless, they have been law-abiding and patient enough not to venture out during the first six weeks of the nationwide lockdown. It’s time to end their ordeal so that they live to fight another day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/no-homecoming-82406
