09-04-2020||In September 2018||Spectre of poverty||The Centre needs to factor in these hapless and helpless people while taking a call on extending or gradually lifting the 21-day lockdown. A fortnight ago, the government had announced a Rs 1.7 lakh crore relief package for the poorest citizens. An assessment is required to determine how far this initiative has made a visible difference on the ground and to find ways to fix the bottlenecks.According to the University of Oxford’s Covid-19 Government Response Stringency Index, India has adopted the strictest measures among all countries in the world in terms of workplace and institution closures, travel bans and other indicators. The onus is on the government to strike a fine balance between according priority to public health and resuming economic activity in a phased manner. India has been battling poverty and hunger for decades, with mixed results. Coronavirus is the new enemy. Now, all wars have to be fought concurrently — and with equal determination — so that even the lowest stratum can stay afloat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/spectre-of-poverty-68634
09-04-2020||Even as scientists and epidemiologists are racing to find a clinically tested and proven cure for Covid-19||The Covid prescription||For this humanitarian act and solidarity with the global community in these trying times, India lifted the ban it had imposed last month on the export of 14 drugs essential for the protocol of treating Covid-19, including HCQ and paracetamol. It has plans to similarly help some other badly impacted and needy nations. Brazil and Sweden have also requested for the ‘wonder’ drug. Allaying fears of shortage at home, the government says this temporary restriction had enabled it to stockpile sufficient quantities of medicines required for domestic consumption and for all possible contingencies currently envisaged. Patients of auto-immune disorders like rheumatoid arthritis and lupus, who normally take HCQ, must also be taken into consideration. Now, as Ipca, Cadila Healthcare and other pharmaceutical firms ramp up their production capacities in keeping with the huge spike in demand, it would be a test for them to keep the supplies flowing. The order is tall, but manageable: India ranks third worldwide in pharmaceutical production by volume, accounting largely for low-price drugs.Meanwhile, besides the pills, the challenge before the pharma industry in grappling with the virus from spreading at home is multi-pronged. There are not enough PPE kits for healthcare staff and other handlers of patients. Many more rapid test kits to speed up Covid-19 screening are urgently needed. A long way before we go on the mend.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-covid-prescription-68626
