09-06-2020||POLITICS is all about ideas and ideals||Unending drift||Sonia is correct in assessing that the best poverty alleviation instrument available to the BJP-led government — MGNREGA — is a Congress legacy. But she is wrong in claiming that the employment guarantee scheme has radically transferred power to the poorest people. The Indian poor remains powerless, though MGNREGA is still the best security net woven by Indian politicians for those who might fall into the bottomless pit of starvation deaths. That the government has increased the overall allocation for MGNREGA to over Rs 1 lakh crore is again a validation of the Congress’ success in listening to the voices of the people’s movements in 2004, while preparing its poll manifesto.But now, more than the ruling BJP, the Congress needs to listen to the voices of the people, activists, its own workers, leaders, et al. The anchorless Congress is drifting in choppy waters with no compass nor a captain. It is no longer the Grand Old Party, which can float back to power by just biding its time in Opposition. It is a small party of smaller means with no defined party programme for agitational politics nor mobilising skills. The catastrophic economic contraction and the resulting misery of the lower and middle classes offer an objective political situation suitable for change. But an organisation with a proxy president and a proxy parliamentary party leader will never be able to seize this opportunity. Looking at the present predicament, Sonia seems more of an accidental politician than an organisational wizard credited with two Lok Sabha victories.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/unending-drift-96459
09-06-2020||THE progressive easing of restrictions this month is aimed at restoring normalcy amid the fast-rising count of Covid-19 cases. Facilitating hassle-free inter-state/intra-state travel is among the main objectives of the unlocking process so that people can return to their workplaces or visit shrines||Travel travails||The Railways is allowing only passengers with confirmed or RAC (reservation against cancellation) tickets, claiming that it would be ‘impossible’ to track those travelling on unreserved tickets. This argument does not hold water as the national transporter had decided last month to make the Aarogya Setu app, being run by the Central government for Covid-19 contact-tracing, mandatory for train travel. The app should be accessed optimally for tracking purposes so that passengers don’t face last-minute hitches. In keeping with the safety protocol, most states have their own apps/portals for the registration of train travellers.On the aviation front, India needs to resume scheduled international passenger flights in a graded manner at the earliest as several countries in Europe and North America have lifted the curbs on the entry of foreigners. The Vande Bharat Mission, under which special repatriation flights are being operated by Air India and other airlines to/from countries across the world, has outlived its utility. High fares, particularly unaffordable for students and workers, are a major stumbling block. Most such stranded persons are simply waiting for the ticket prices to come down. Online travel agencies, whose business was hit hard by the lockdown, should be involved for streamlining the booking process. Uninterrupted movement of people is a must to bring the beleaguered economy back on track.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/travel-travails-96454
