09-11-2020||The tortuous 2020 United States presidential poll process finally comes to an end||Biden, Harris are in||Compassion for less-fortunate people regardless of race, decency in public conduct, and modesty in speech have come back to being fashionable in the White House, and that is a matter of great relief; and all the more welcome if it sets off a global trend as most things American do. The governance of a global superpower cannot be left to reality TV celebrities and tycoons with a shady family. With experienced US politicians back at the helm, climate change, the Taliban imbroglio, religious radicalism in Europe and the emerging Chinese threat to world order ought to get a balanced and studied response instead of tweets-as-diktats. Meanwhile, the transition could be anything but smooth with the bad loser, Donald Trump, contesting the results in courts in an attempt to de-legitimise the mandate and derail Biden’s plans to create a bipartisan administration.Meanwhile, India will now have to think twice about global opprobrium before brazening out human rights violations with a Democratic regime, which is sensitive towards the anxieties of minorities. It is no secret that Trump’s reaction to Chinese aggression in Ladakh had helped India argue its case strongly at international forums and foster closer military ties with US’ allies through the Quad. Hence, it is legitimate for Indians to believe that a Vice President, who understands Asia better, will bring India and the US closer, while fastening our bilateral bonds and India’s role in its neighbourhood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/biden-harris-are-in-168210
09-11-2020||The court’s heart is in the right place as it goes all out in favour of senior citizens in distress over disputes relating to their rights for protection of life and property against transgression by their children and other close relatives. This is evident from a large number of court verdicts that have supported the elderly in matters of conflict between them and their relatives across the country in the past decade. Upholding the spirit of this sentiment is the latest ruling of the Punjab and Haryana High Court||Protecting elders||Considering the plight of senior citizens — rendered infirm with age and often suffering from lack of income — involved in long-drawn-out litigation with their children who ill-treat them, this Act was enforced in 2007. It enjoins upon the children to provide basic amenities and take care of their elders. It also takes cognisance of another sad reality: old parents being neglected, harassed, physically abused or even forced out of the house once they transfer their property and assets to their children or other relatives (if childless), with the hope of being looked after in their twilight years.The law has been rightly amended to give them protection by deeming such a deed as having been made by fraud, coercion or undue influence if they are abused. Empowering the executive to quash the agreement in such cases and restore the property to the anguished seniors has an added benefit. It saves them the trouble of hiring costly lawyers and moving overburdened courts. That the mistreated elderly have the right to take back their transferred property must be widely publicised. It will reduce instances of parental abuse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/protecting-elders-168187
