09-12-2020||Following the Supreme Court’s go-ahead||Central Vista project||Under the mega redevelopment plan, a triangular building with a seating capacity of 1,200 will be raised at an estimated cost of around Rs 1,000 crore. The Opposition has been quick to question this ‘extravagance’ amid the Covid pandemic, especially when the payment of local area development (MPLAD) funds to parliamentarians has been stopped for two years as part of a major cost-cutting exercise.It is hoped that judicial scrutiny will turn the spotlight on the alleged irregularities taking place on the ground. In September, the Delhi Government had given permission for the translocation of 400-odd trees from the site to eight pockets near India Gate. However, there are reports that the trees are being transplanted at a spot over 20 km away in violation of the authorities’ approval. The government needs to clear the air on this matter as well as the contentious issues related to environmental and other clearances, besides transparently giving details of the construction or demolition that has already taken place. Creating a veil of secrecy and riding roughshod over the rules can undermine this ambitious project. The new ‘temple of democracy’, which India would like to showcase proudly before the world as a post-colonial creation, should not be allowed to fall prey to controversy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/central-vista-project-181754
09-12-2020||With the better part of the year having been spent fighting the pandemic||Vaccine rollout for Covid||Also, vaccines have to be safe, effective and reliable. While the example of an 87-year-old Indian-origin man, Hari Shukla, being among the first to get the vaccine in Britain is heartening, the case of Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij testing positive for Covid-19, despite being administered the first dose of the trial vaccine, is bound to raise questions about the safety protocol and efficacy. The two-dose vaccine will also need watching out for any adverse effect. While the government may be right in pointing out the need to give the first dose to frontline healthcare workers because they are more at risk, administering the vaccine will also mean adding to the workload of the healthcare staff, already stretched because of the outbreak.There are plans to use mobile technology to reach the vaccine, especially in remote and rural areas, besides those on the margins. Digital technology no doubt helped negotiate the tough conditions in the aftermath of the pandemic, but that the vaccine will have to be administered physically means that technology will ultimately act only as a facilitator, for human interface will still be required. It will also mean technology upgrade even as health experts believe tele-consultation is no substitute for a physical check-up. As India narrows down its choice of vaccines, their suitability will depend in terms of pricing, storage and transport. Mass vaccination is also going to take time, well into the next year. It promises to be a long road ahead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/vaccine-rollout-for-covid-181753
