10-06-2020||The lockdown-triggered financial blow suffered by crores of people||Deep digital divide||While the dream of attending prestigious institutes of their choice of many a student seems unattainable now, there are others who face a loss of academic year or even studies as their parents grapple with hardships. The poor are falling behind their fortunate counterparts. What is more worrisome is that some may never bounce back into the reckoning. Online classes in an unequal ecosystem are a sure recipe for deepening the socio-economic divide. Resorting to virtual education to fill in the gap produced by the closure of schools and colleges without first ensuring a level playing field in terms of access to computers and Internet hotspots has served to widen the disparities between the haves and the have-nots.The transition to online education has not been smooth. Not only has it been a roller-coaster ride for students and teachers, even parents have been forced to pitch in and make time and material adjustments so as to enable an optimum learning ambience for their kids at home. Let these pitfalls be a learning experience for the authorities. Eliminating the barriers to participation in distance learning by addressing the technology gaps is the first step. No student should be deprived of studies or pushed to the brink for lack of facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/deep-digital-divide-96897
10-06-2020||The coronavirus pandemic and the consequent lockdown have already taken a heavy toll on lives and livelihoods worldwide||Recession looms||It is estimated that there are over 60 crore migrants in the country, of which nearly 25 per cent are in the major cities. Most of them have been rendered jobless, and their re-employment is a Herculean task. The government is banking too heavily on MGNREGA, which caters to the poorest of the poor. There are over 13 crore job card holders under this scheme, of which about two-thirds are active. The inadequate coverage shows that giving a fillip to MGNREGA is not enough to revive the economy.The industry needs a major push to stimulate domestic demand and supply. Easing the loan facility alone won’t bail out the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise sector, which employs 11-12 crore people and contributes around 30 per cent to the GDP. Lack of demand is as big a constraint as the monetary crunch for many of these units. Putting cash into the hands of the people is a good way to spur consumption. The unlocking process, though hazardous from the public health perspective, will prove to be justified and well-timed if the consumers’ purchasing power is restored.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/recession-looms-96898
