10-08-2020||The Amritsar body-swapping case is deeply disturbing and the allegations of transplant of organs of Covid-19 patients to other patients are alarming. The Punjab and Haryana High Court has done well to take note of the matter that it describes as ‘an inhumane and barbaric act’. Underpinning the urgency of getting to the bottom of the goings-on||Covid bodies’ swap saga||Two brothers were shocked to find that the body handed over to them by an Amritsar-based hospital was that of a woman, not of their father, a Covid-19 patient. But to their further agony, both came to know that the dead woman’s relatives had already cremated the body that they received — presumed to be that of the duo’s father — without checking it. Optimistic that their father could still be alive at the hospital, the brothers moved the court.Though their sanguinity turned out to be misplaced, the sordid saga pointed to a possible organ transplantation racket thriving in the hospital. The insinuation cannot be brushed aside easily, for it stems from the region’s history of the prevalence of an organised racket of kidney transplantations, with certain hospitals, doctors and middlemen forming a flourishing nexus to supply organs to rich clients. The allegations that organs of Covid-19 fatalities are being transplanted to unsuspecting patients looking for a lifeline should be probed thoroughly. This must be the guiding factor for the officer as he tries to unravel the case. It also needs to be ascertained if there was dereliction of duty by the hospital staff. It is vital, as the High Court judge said, that the system ‘be cleaned and brushed up, restoring the faith of the common man in the system’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-bodies-swap-saga-124488
10-08-2020||IT is too early to jump to conclusions about the crash-landing of the Air India Express flight from Dubai to Kozhikode in north Kerala on the Vande Bharat mission on Friday night with 190 passengers and crew on board. That the aircraft broke into two as it plunged over 35 ft down a cliff undoubtedly points towards the treacherous role played by the tabletop runway at the Karipur International Airport in the tragedy that took the lives of 18 people||Tragedy in Kozhikode||Captain Deepak Sathe aborted an attempt and then landed with heavy tailwinds, missing the touchdown zone on a runway covered with rainwater. The Air Force Academy’s Sword of Honour recipient, who was an accomplished fighter and test pilot, according to some accounts had ejected all the fuel as a precaution while landing. This is being cited in social media posts made by Captain Sathe’s relatives as the reason for the aircraft not bursting into flames and killing all on board. Though the possibility of the pilot’s error of judgement cannot be ruled out, the supreme sacrifice of Sathe and his co-pilot, Akhilesh Sharma, ought to be acknowledged.These accounts indicate acts of omission and commission by the authorities, who allowed big aircraft to operate from a tabletop with hardly any buffer between the runway and a steep drop ahead or space on either side; worse, the airport operator seems to have allowed water to collect on the runway, leading to aquaplaning. The question, as to why the aircraft was not diverted to Kochi by the air traffic controllers despite inclement weather, hangs in the air.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/tragedy-in-kozhikode-124489
