10-04-2020||THE nationwide lockdown is turning out to be a labyrinth of sorts for the Centre and the states — easier to enter than to exit. The move||Focus on hotspots||Over 80 per cent of the confirmed cases in India have been reported from barely 60 of the 700-odd districts. The focus has to be on these hotspots, where a targeted approach in the form of cluster containment can improve the situation. Grading of high-incidence areas should be done to explore the possibility of easing restrictions in some cases, subject to regular monitoring. The places largely or totally unaffected by the virus should get much-needed relaxations without delay. The success of the Bhilwara model, under which the town and its surrounding villages were hermetically sealed soon after about 30 persons tested positive last month, has caught the Centre’s eye, paving the way for its replication across the country. Still, a one-size-fits-all strategy is not advisable. Various states need to fine-tune their exit plans in a pragmatic manner. It’s hard to fathom why Goa — a domestic and international hub of tourism — has sought extension of the lockdown till April 30, even though the state has recorded less than 10 cases so far.The suspension of road, rail and air transport services has brought inter-city and inter-state movement to a grinding halt. Gradual resumption of this lifeline holds the key to reviving economic activity. Saving lives should go hand in hand with saving livelihoods.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/focus-on-hotspots-69068
10-04-2020||With the horizon of the coronavirus-induced disruption presenting a hazy picture||Covid spurs e-classes||However, the innovative picture is not all that rosy. It covers only the rich children, mostly enrolled in private institutions. The underprivileged students find themselves at the margins of this shift as they have no means to log in. The push for e-classes has brought into stark relief the huge digital divide in our country, and, worse, it portends a wider rich-poor gulf. For, as the privileged section with access to iPads, phones and computers powered by electricity and internet zooms ahead with lessons and modules, the vast majority of the students — largely from government institutions in smaller towns and villages — lacking such gadgets for online classes, is lagging behind.The authorities will have to address this gap, which smacks of adverse socio-economic repercussions, as the e-learning methods are likely to strike root and outrun the period of Covid disruption. A boost to government schemes of giving tablets to the poor kids and a look into the issues of internet penetration and load-shedding in remote corners are called for as education undergoes a reshaping.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-spurs-e-classes-69060
