10-07-2020||Unscrupulous elements||Covid profiteers||The widespread use of hand sanitisers has prompted all sorts of manufacturers to make a beeline for getting the official nod. Here too, irregularities have come to light. Punjab’s ayurveda authorities indiscriminately gave licences to applicants in the past three months, without bothering to verify which formulations were being used. Strict adherence to the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, was also given the go-by. The licence of a Jalandhar-based company was cancelled earlier this week after the hand sanitiser produced by it was found containing over 95 per cent methanol, which is mainly used as an industrial solvent and is unsafe for human consumption.Ranked third globally in terms of coronavirus cases, India finds itself at the crossroads. The immediate priority should be to improve the recovery figures and bring down the mortality rate. In a welcome move, the Centre has directed the domestic manufacturers of remdesivir to upload their stock status, supply and distribution chain details so as to ensure that the drug reaches the needy. Regular monitoring and prompt action by Union and state governments can deter the opportunists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-profiteers-110835
10-07-2020||The arrest of gangster Vikas Dubey from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh has come as a shot in the arm for the police force. Ever since the encounter at Kanpur in which eight policemen lost their lives||UP’s most wanted||Secondly, how did the gangster manage to easily travel across state borders, from UP to Faridabad in Haryana — where he also tried to check into a hotel using a fake ID — and then to Ujjain? At a time when movement is not without restrictions, such show of impunity may well indicate the kind of patronage he enjoys. For the UP Police that have been facing criticism over their tactics and handling of protests over the Citizenship Amendment Act, the arrest will come as a reprieve, though the fact that it was their Madhya Pradesh counterparts who effected the arrest will take away some of the gloss.The incident shows that the police can act if they decide to despite their many shortcomings. The state would do well to push ahead with steps to rejuvenate the force. Their requirements should be looked into and augmented. The police, by and large, are not an organisation where the lower rungs are taken care of. They have to deal with the civilian populace that exposes them to scrutiny and criticism, while requiring restraint that can get translated into indecisiveness caused by interfering politicians. That it has taken the killing of their own to have spurred the police into action should convey the message to the force, not just in UP but in all states, that rotten eggs within a force can lead to a deadly ambush one day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/ups-most-wanted-110805
