10-02-2020||That the level of debate and discourse in Parliament and outside needs to be elevated to ensure decorum and dignity in public life cannot be overstated. The unruly scenes in the Lok Sabha||Bedlam in Parliament||Rahul Gandhi, on his part, has accused the BJP of trying to prevent him from speaking in the House. Meanwhile, Chairman of the Rajya Sabha Venkaiah Naidu expunged a word from the speeches made by Modi and Ghulam Nabi Azad. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla also expunged Union minister Babul Supriyo’s remarks against Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. Recklessness in speech is pervasive, with BJP leader Anantkumar Hegde belittling Mahatma Gandhi’s role in the freedom struggle and Union minister Anurag Thakur getting banned from electioneering.The incident when Atal Bihari Vajpayee, a novice, told Jawaharlal Nehru in the Lok Sabha that he saw ‘glimpses of both Churchill and Chamberlain in him’, and the patriarch Nehru not getting offended and complimenting him on his speech, should serve as an example for the two parties. Parliament represents the people and our MPs should strive to set the standards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bedlam-in-parliament-38446
10-02-2020||The Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act||Magical cure? No!||The ubiquitous Internet and social media, along with their largely unregulated advertisements, have spawned a culture of instant gratification derived from virtual ‘likes’ and ‘followers’ that one can amass. As this kind of popularity largely springs from the fountainhead of the ephemeral physical appearance — fair skin, thick, black tresses, youth and the absence of any disability — millions of gullible people are falling prey to misleading ads promoting drugs and cosmetics that ‘promise’ or ‘guarantee’ to magically enhance skin fairness, or sexual prowess, cure certain diseases, obesity, stammering, infertility, ageing and graying, or increase height or brain capacity etc. By the time most people realise that they have been lured to a chimera, the damage is done. The new legal provisions intend to combat this exploitative malpractice by inflicting harsher punishment on such deceitful promoters, who, at present, seem to be raking in the moolah with impunity.Incidentally, in response to public concerns about irresponsible advertisements, last July, the Lok Sabha had passed the Consumer Protection Bill 2019 to plug the gaps in the advertising industry. Under the Bill, manufacturers, service providers and celebrity endorsers face penalty and prison for making false claims in ads on platforms across the print and electronic, e-commerce and virtual mediums as they constitute an unfair trade practice. Having set in motion the amendments to the rules, the government would now do well to quickly consider all suggestions and seal them into a law. Hopefully, it will prove to be the magical wand with which deceptive ads vanish into thin air.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/magical-cure-no-38444
