10-11-2020||The introduction of 33 per cent reservation for women in Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs)||Changes in PRIs||The endeavour, it appears, is to lend more weight to concepts of equal opportunity, active involvement, consensus on policy and reposing trust in the resource pool of experience. Equally important is to sensitise male co-workers. The downside of a one-term norm and rotation of seats could be a lack of consistency in policy and working style, and a discouraging pause for someone who has invested much time and effort in understanding the nitty-gritty of governance.A significant amendment is the Right to Recall, giving villagers the right to remove a sarpanch who fails to perform, even before his or her tenure is over. To remove the sarpanch, 33 per cent of the voters of the village will have to give a complaint of no-confidence in writing; removal would need 67 per cent approval. The idea is to ensure that the sarpanch prioritises works in accordance with the sentiments of the villagers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/changes-in-pris-168473
10-11-2020||The National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) ban on the sale or use of firecrackers in the National Capital Region till November 30 has literally come as a gasp of breath. If strictly enforced||Firecracker ban||Acknowledging every citizen’s right to breathe clean air, the NGT has observed that ‘celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases.’ India has already lost more than 1.25 lakh lives to the pandemic, even as several states are witnessing a resurgence of the disease after a short-lived lull. That is reason enough to keep the festivities subdued, neither noisy nor smoky, confining ourselves to the lighting of lamps or other means of illumination and avoiding large gatherings.Studies have found that particulate air pollution contributes 15 per cent to the Covid-19 mortality worldwide. Considering that India is among the countries worst affected by the virus, all states and union territories should ensure that the NGT’s well-intentioned initiative doesn’t go up in smoke. In 2018, the Supreme Court had banned the use of polluting firecrackers and allowed the sale of ‘green’ ones, an option endorsed by the tribunal for cities/towns where the air quality was moderate or better in November last year. However, the segregation of these products is easier said than done in view of dubious claims by manufacturers and vendors. A related direction, fixing hours for the bursting of crackers on Diwali, Gurpurb, Christmas etc. has largely proved to be futile due to lax implementation. While the ban is only for the short term, shunning firecrackers eventually ought to become a sane way of life — Covid or no Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/firecracker-ban-168468
