10-12-2020||A day after Bharat bandh||Climbdown on farm laws||The government’s proposal for amending the Acts has cut no ice with the farm unions. After the inconclusive meeting between a select group of farmers’ leaders and Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday night and the cancellation of official talks slated for Wednesday, the onus is now again on the government to break the deadlock. Led by the Prime Minister, the Centre has been harping on the benefits of the new laws, but has failed to address the farmers’ concerns. The attempts by some leaders of the ruling party to vilify the agitators have only worsened the situation. It’s natural for Punjab’s farmers to fear the worst as the state has a robust government procurement system that has stood the test of time. Any law that presumably tinkers with this set-up is bound to be viewed with mistrust by them. The government needs to reach out to the farming community, which was in the vanguard of the Green Revolution but is now grappling with indebtedness, diminishing profits and shrinking landholdings.The Centre’s immediate objective is to end the prolonged siege laid at Delhi’s borders, but at the same time, it has to come up with genuine proposals that would help farmers gain remunerative prices. Agriculture was the lone sector that registered growth during two successive quarters this year (April-June and July-September), even as the lockdown-hit Indian economy slipped into recession. The focus should be on strengthening the sector rather than causing disruptions that can adversely affect its performance and famed resilience.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/climbdown-on-farm-laws-182186
10-12-2020||BREAKDANCING — or breaking||Breakdancing at Olympics||However, the near-death of Olympics wrestling showed that the broadcasters have such a hold over IOC that even cornerstone sports are not safe in the pursuit of TV ratings and ad revenue. IOC, whose officials have been involved in corruption scandals in the past, is not immune to the lure of money. It’s not surprising — the revenue IOC earned from broadcasting deals for the 2018 Winter Olympics and 2020 Summer Olympics is in the range of $4.5 billion. He who pays the piper calls the tune — the broadcaster, with the inclusion of dancing in the Olympics programme, at the cost of traditional, ‘proper’ sports, is calling the tune. It is mindboggling that squash is not part of the Olympics but breakdancing is.From IOC’s point of view, including breakdancing in Paris 2024 makes sense — the Olympics viewership is ageing, and the TV ratings in the US for the 2016 edition were 15% lower than those for the 2012 games. The biggest share of IOC’s Olympics revenue comes from the US. Then, breakdancing was very popular at the 2018 Youth Olympic Games in Buenos Aires — this confirmed to IOC that it and other youth-oriented ‘sports’, such as skateboarding and climbing, would lure younger viewers. IOC’s ideals mutated beyond recognition over the last five decades — the inclusion of breakdancing in the Olympics programme shows that more than ever before, IOC’s focus is on profit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/breakdancing-at-olympics-182185
