10-10-2020||With the wheat-sowing season approaching||Five-fold field fires||With industrial and other economic activity yet to regain normalcy, it might be tempting for the farmers to take recourse to this environmentally hazardous method, but the government should take steps to curb the practice instead of looking the other way. In Punjab, farmers have been advised to plough back the straw into the soil instead of burning it and the compliance remains to be seen.The burning of crop straw has been a festering problem and there have been suggestions to look into the possibility of formulating a strategy for agricultural waste management to channelise its use for various purposes. Haryana has instituted a system of awarding panchayats that refrain from burning crop stubble and the possibility of a similar practice for Punjab can be looked into. Experts have repeatedly pointed to the fact that the practice of burning stubble needs changes in agricultural practices like the crop pattern and growing of varieties that are more environment-friendly while fetching good yield and prices. Bringing about change is not easy and the farmers have to be educated about the benefits to make them stick to the practice. Not that it had been easier earlier, but with their apprehension over the fate of the MSP regime, conforming to the rules will not be smooth for the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/five-fold-field-fires-153496
10-10-2020||As the first half of the current financial year gets over||GDP pangs||On the bright side, the World Bank expects India’s growth to rebound to 5.4 per cent in the next fiscal. The RBI is hopeful that the GDP could turn positive at 0.5 per cent as early as January-March 2021. With positive growth being merely wishful thinking as of now, the government would have to act decisively — and quickly — just to keep the contraction below 10 per cent. Ironically, agriculture, the only sector that bucked the negative trend during April-June, finds itself at the crossroads amid the farmers’ widespread protests against the new laws. The Centre needs to resolve the issues flagged by the farming community on priority so that agriculture and allied activities can lead economic revival by boosting rural demand.The upcoming festival season could prove to be a double-edged sword — spurring consumption on the one hand and heightening the risk of infection due to increased public movement on the other. It’s here that a major stimulus is required to sustain the gains. TheRs 1 lakh crore liquidity chest for banks is not enough. According to the RBI, private investment and exports are likely to remain subdued. The sooner India offsets the damage caused by Covid, the easier it will be to restore investor/buyer confidence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/gdp-pangs-153497
