11-09-2020||When a couple of days ago||Vaccine trial paused||India is keenly observing the developments as it stands to be directly affected. Oxford has partnered with the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) for making the vaccine, Covishield. The institute is enrolling around 1,600 healthy volunteers for the phase 3 trial of Covishield across 17 sites as its efficacy on the local populace too needs to be ascertained. The PGI, Chandigarh, is one of the chosen sites. Coincidentally, the PGI too has pressed the pause button on the recruitment of candidates to be administered the vaccine as it awaits safety approvals for the first 100 participants from the Data Safety and Monitoring Board. This rigorous check and balance is among the country’s strict drug regulation guidelines designed to enable a periodic review and evaluation of accumulated study data for the participants’ safety and progress.With such a thorough and meticulous system in place, the vaccine may be delayed a bit, but there would be no compromise on its safety before it is declared fit for mass consumption. The SII has assured the Drug Controller General of India that it would not go ahead till all concerns are addressed. It effectively puts to rest the controversy raised by the earlier show-cause notice received by the SII from the DCGI in this context. Meanwhile, the world waits eagerly, and with bated breath, for the final verdict on Covishield, as also the nearly two dozen other vaccines at various stages of trials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/vaccine-trial-paused-139351
11-09-2020||The formal induction of the first batch of five Rafale multirole fighter jets into the 17 Squadron at Ambala air base marks a new chapter for the Indian Air Force — the first imported fighter to be operationalised since the Russian Sukhoi-30s in the late 1990s. The jets had landed in the country in July-end||Welcome, Rafale||Amid the unprecedented border faceoff with China, the arrival of the fighters does provide a boost for military capability, but is it enough to alter the balance of power or signal a clear strategic shift in India’s favour? For the IAF, the depleting strength of fighter jets remains a huge challenge, and any possible collusion between the Pakistani and Chinese air forces only adds to the concerns. The Ministry of Defence recently approved the purchase of 21 Russian MiG-29 and 12 Sukhoi Su-30 MKI fighter aircraft as replacements. However, against an authorisation of 42 squadrons, the IAF is expected to have only 29 in 2023.At the ceremony, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh described the acquisition as a game-changer, while his French counterpart said in military terms, Rafale — which literally means a ‘gust of wind’ or a ‘burst of fire’ — lends India a world class capability and its Air Force an incredible sovereign tool. India’s military prowess and commitment is unquestioned. While a loud and unabashed reminder to the enemy of the price to pay for any misadventure is normal in these times, a toned-down grandstanding is not a sign of weakness. To the contrary, a country that sees itself as a major player in global politics should practise sobriety by saying less and doing more.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/welcome-rafale-139352
