11-02-2020||Expect the unexpected in Jammu and Kashmir. On that count||PSA against ex-CMs||The continuous detention of several political leaders since August 5 last year, following abrogation of Article 370, has drawn widespread criticism, but the Centre has not only refused to budge, there’s a marked hardening of its stand. The unsubstantiated accusation against Omar, of trying to stoke public anger, has been linked with his ability to ‘convince his electorate to vote in huge numbers even during the peak of militancy and poll boycotts’. In short, brickbats now for what was once considered a courageous act of defying the militant diktat. The Mehbooba file is more absurd, made to look worse because she headed till not so long ago a coalition government with the BJP. ‘Hot-headed and scheming person... referred for her dangerous, insidious machinations; usurping profile and nature,’ it reads. The PDP’s creation, it goes on, is dubious, the ‘green colour of the party flag reflects radical origin’.The language used is objectionable, the case made out could pass off as farcical were it not for the seriousness of the issue, only the intent is clear. And that is to ensure that the top political leadership of the Valley remains incarcerated. Questions about how that has helped the new administrators, or ensured public safety, are again likely to go unanswered, unless the courts intervene.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/psa-against-ex-cms-38971
11-02-2020||The superb triumph in the biennial Under-19 World Cup is a new high for Bangladeshi cricket||Roar of the Tigers||The Under-19 tournament is regarded as a springboard for cricketers keen to break into the senior team. Virat Kohli, Yuvraj Singh, Ravindra Jadeja, Shikhar Dhawan and Suresh Raina earned their stripes on this relatively small stage before carving a niche for themselves in the big arena. For the record, Yuvraj and Kohli have been part of World Cup-winning squads in the junior as well as senior categories.Despite the heart-breaking loss in the summit clash, India has every reason to be proud of its young guns. Yashasvi Jaiswal, the highest run scorer, was declared the player of the tournament, while Ravi Bishnoi ended up as the leading wicket-taker. India last won this World Cup in 2018, under Prithvi Shaw’s captaincy, with Shubman Gill being named the best player. Shaw and Gill have shown flashes of brilliance in the Indian Premier League. Both have been picked for the upcoming Test series against New Zealand, even as Shaw, who scored a century on his Test debut in 2018, is already playing for India in the ongoing ODI series. These talented youngsters need to grab every opportunity that comes their way. They can’t afford to rest on their U-19 laurels in the competitive world of cricket. Perform or perish — it’s as simple as that.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/roar-of-the-tigers-38956
