11-05-2020||Pakistan constantly changes its proxy and hybrid war strategy in Kashmir with an aim to bleed India with a thousand cuts. Ingenious cross-border smuggling of drugs and weapons has been an established ISI narco-terror model since long. A new||Narco-terror alert||Pushing narcotics and drug money into J&K and Punjab, experts stress, is not only aimed at financing terrorism, but also to encourage addiction. A former chief of J&K Police had remarked not so long ago on how drug menace was a bigger challenge than terrorism in the state. Contraband, he said, was being ‘pumped in from across the border by people who want our future generations to be addicted to drugs so that they can succeed in their nefarious ploys’. The huge drug seizures in the recent past along the Punjab border bear testimony to what some may consider an alarmist view.Narcotics are considered the foundation of organised crime worldwide. No other commodity, it is felt, can generate the kind of money to challenge the might of the State. The Valley being added to the notorious drug smuggling route has been red-flagged for a long time. It’s the profile of the operatives and their reach that has come as a surprise. The Pak deep state banking on crime networks, with an enticing money-making cocktail of drugs and sophisticated weapons on offer from across the border, poses a serious problem. Punjab has managed to break the deadly chain and a string of revelations has emerged. The mission is expected to be long-drawn.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/narco-terror-alert-83212
11-05-2020||On Friday||Koreans set the ball rolling||Germany is next — their football league, Bundesliga, will resume on May 16 after a 61-day hiatus. Bundesliga’s success would be crucial because it will be the first of Europe’s elite multi-billion dollar leagues to resume play. The scenario in Germany will be a mirror image of the K-League, with intense testing of players and staff, empty stands, and strict adherence to the safety protocols. In Germany, the number of new cases peaked in early April, and the authorities are cautiously optimistic that the worst is over. South Korea earned praise for its handling of the pandemic; the number of new cases peaked on February 29, but by early May, there were days with no new domestic cases.South Korea and Germany show that containment is the key to resumption of sport. That is the lesson for Indian sports administrators as well. Experts have said the cases are likely to peak in June-July — sport cannot begin before the pandemic has been contained. Made-for-TV sport is the way to go because letting fans into stadiums is out of the question. Clearly, sport, as life, will never be the same in the post-Covid-19 era, whenever that begins. Then, too, a second wave could be only a handshake away. Vigilance will be the key.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/koreans-set-the-ball-rolling-83209
