11-08-2020||Agriculture is the backbone of Indian economy||Post-harvest losses||There have been umpteen cases of foodgrains worth crores of rupees rotting in the open due to improper storage in Punjab and other states. Desperate growers dumping their produce on the road after a crash in prices is also a common sight. Once harvesting is over, losses occur due to several reasons: poor storage facilities, transportation problems, defective packaging, unfair marketing practices, flawed policies etc. The government claims that the ‘One Nation, One Mandi’ initiative, which promises farmers myriad options to sell their produce without the intervention of middlemen, is on the right track. The challenge is to ensure that farmers get the MSP (minimum support price) for their crop and they don’t have to face the ignominy of distress sale. In 2015, the Shanta Kumar Committee’s report had mentioned that barely six per cent of India’s agricultural households had benefited directly from selling wheat and rice to any procurement agency at the MSP. This alarmingly low figure shows that the majority of the farmers have been left to fend for themselves by successive governments.Apart from initiating reforms in the farm sector, the Centre needs to dispel fears that the tried-and-tested MSP regime would be done away with to clear the field for private players. Farmgate sales, whereby farmers sell their produce directly to the buyers, should be promoted so as to reduce storage and transportation costs. A food-secure nation owes it to those who make the granaries overflow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/post-harvest-losses-124931
11-08-2020||The phased embargo on the import of 101 weapons and military platforms marks a major reform initiative to boost the domestic industry. The Ministry of Defence’s ‘negative import list’ includes artillery guns||Boost for defence industry||The list follows elaborate consultations with all the stakeholders — the Army, Air Force, Navy, Defence Research and Development Organisation, the Defence Public Sector Undertakings, Ordnance Factory Board as well as the private sector. A huge opportunity has been provided to the defence producers to step up, and that too quickly. Execution would remain a key monitorable. Handholding cannot replace technological capability, capacity and advancement. Competing against the best in the world would require those best equipped to take on the task, not fly-by-night operators. The key challenges would be getting enough orders to make the production line economical, and an assurance that the item would be bought even if the cost is more than that of an imported one — at least at the inception stage.The defence procurement procedure, adopted in 2016, requires import as a last resort. The new list goes a step further as it takes away the option of importing the items. Boosting local manufacturing and reducing reliance on imports has not paid much dividends despite the noise around it for years. Indian manufacturers have a point to prove. The linkage with institutes of repute and focused research and development can be game-changers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/boost-for-defence-industry-124932
