11-12-2020||Non-covid patients have been going through an ordeal for nearly 10 months. On the one hand was the fear of exposure to coronavirus that kept many from seeking timely medical care||Non-Covid patients hit||Stories of their suffering have been regularly highlighted during the pandemic. The suspension of the Abohar-Jodhpur Express, also known as ‘Cancer Train’, spelt doom for many, mostly small farmers and their families of Punjab’s cotton belt, as they could not travel to Bikaner for further treatment. At the IGMC Cancer Hospital, Shimla, it is feared that the disease has progressed among 10 to 15 per cent patients, who could not visit the hospital because of the curbs. A report of the PGIMS, Rohtak, found that the lockdown resulted in poor blood sugar control among diabetes (Type 1) patients as diet and exercise were affected during the confinement period. Similarly, the condition of some renal failure patients on dialysis deteriorated. A study has shown that the lockdown will cost five to eight years of the gains in the fight against TB.Such preventable diseases and deaths among a significant section of the people are a blot on our health system. With the health sector slowly opening up, it is again time for the health warriors to rise to the challenges and shift focus to this lot. The crisis arising from the neglect of needy patients highlights our ailing system. India’s health indicators are among the lowest in the world. More funds need to be injected into it so as to strengthen the hospitals with more doctors and better facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/non-covid-patients-hit-182681
11-12-2020||THE tense standoff that started in early May at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh is nowhere near its end||Chinese shenanigans||His comments came a day after the Chinese Foreign Ministry’s business-as-usual statement that China and India are in ‘close communication’ on the border issue through diplomatic and military channels to ‘further ease tensions’. Communication alone can’t be of much help unless genuine efforts are made to bring visible improvement on the ground. It’s here that China has been found wanting. Last month, a ray of hope had emerged when the two armies broadly agreed on a three-step, time-bound process for the disengagement of troops and withdrawal of weaponry from all major friction points. This plan was in line with the roadmap worked out by Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow in September. However, China’s duplicity has precluded restoration of the status quo ante.Both nations have signed several agreements in the past three decades or so with the purpose of keeping large forces away from the border areas, but the Chinese military build-up has undermined the pacts. China has sought to delink the border dispute from bilateral ties, but India has firmly refused to do so. But this is not enough to make China see reason. India should forcefully insist that the neighbour walk the talk, and soon, or drop all pretences.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/chinese-shenanigans-182686
