12-06-2020||The shortcomings in public healthcare system have come to the fore along with a spike in Covid cases. In Haryana||Negligent hospitals||The allegation of negligence against the doctors, even at government hospitals, is unfortunate as they have been at the frontline of Covid duty. Haryana had earlier ordered an audit of Covid fatalities which included investigating the causes and the line of treatment. This should continue. The state of primary healthcare also needs to be checked. In Punjab, reports have said rural dispensaries are being rendered non-functional due to the pandemic as rural medical officers and pharmacists have been deputed at urban centres. It is also natural for the doctors to suffer from fatigue. In Jammu, suitable accommodation has been demanded for doctors who had tested positive. In Delhi, there has been a controversy with CM Kejriwal first stating that government hospitals were meant for the locals, only to be overruled by the Lieutenant-Governor.For the hospitals, it should be patients first. While private hospitals are mostly better equipped, the treatment is not affordable for all as the tests are costly. That leaves the government hospitals to cater to the majority. The crisis offers an opportunity to rejuvenate the public health system as the government’s flagship health insurance scheme is for the economically vulnerable. Despite its inadequacies, the quality of healthcare workers in government hospitals has helped cope with the pandemic pressure. It’s time to take stock as the pressure will shift to rural and semi-urban areas once the free movement of people starts taking place with the easing of restrictions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/negligent-hospitals-98024
12-06-2020||India’s Covid-19 graph has been alarmingly spiralling ever since Unlock 1.0 came into force this month||Holding exams risky||Rather than put lakhs of examinees at risk in the prevailing condition of the pandemic, many states and universities have cancelled the exams and evolved an alternative evaluation method of assessing the students by computing their average performance during the academic session, to promote them. Tamil Nadu, a state afflicted with one of the maximum cases in the country, dropped the plan of holding state school board exams when the Madras HC questioned the move. Maharashtra, overwhelmed by maximum cases, is promoting all students. Even as Kerala and Madhya Pradesh have gone ahead with the exams, it is hoped that their safety and sanitation protocols are irreproachable.Meanwhile, keeping schoolchildren’s security paramount, the HRD Ministry has rightly pushed the decision of reopening the schools in the country to mid-August, subject to the coronavirus crisis at that time. And when they open, the schools have the challenging task of implementing the guidelines designed for pandemic times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/holding-exams-risky-98012
