12-01-2021||Racism should have no place in any society||Stamp out racism||The matter is being investigated, and it would be unwise to jump to conclusions. But, on the basis of lived experience, players, immigrants and short-term visitors to that country report that some Australians display racist behaviour. Most Indians who have visited that country for some duration have their own ‘racism’ story to relate. Ravichandran Ashwin, who has toured Australia four times, said about the crowd on Sunday: ‘They have been quite nasty… But this time they’ve actually gone up a step higher and used racial abuse.’Abuse is often passed off as banter in grounds in Australia. It happens elsewhere too, but it seems that the ‘banter’ is the sharpest, with a racist edge, in Australia. It has emerged as a multicultural country only in recent decades — the ‘White Australia’ policy was discontinued only in the 1970s, and non-Whites became a sizeable chunk in even the biggest cities only over the last 20-odd years. Acceptance and assimilation can’t be instantaneous. Yet, most Australians are welcoming of visitors. When it comes to sport, though, even they can be extremely nationalistic. Glass after glass of beer, while ‘barracking’ opposition players, can cause anyone’s latent racism to bubble over. This seems to have happened in Sydney. The authorities will do well to stop the abuse of players, and punish the perpetrators if it turns racist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/stamp-out-racism-197136
12-01-2021||The Supreme Court has rightly taken the Centre to task for its mishandling of the farmers’ agitation||Apt dressing-down||In a scathing observation made in August last year, the apex court, while hearing a plea regarding the Tablighi Jamaat congregation, had said that governments did not act till the courts directed them to do so. A similar script is being played out now, with the Centre stubbornly sticking to its guns over the agriculture-related Acts and promising, at best, some amendments. What’s worse, the government has tried to pass off the stir as being Punjab-centric, whereas farmers from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and other states have also been vocal in opposing the laws. The vandalism witnessed on Sunday at Kaimla village in Karnal district, where Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar was scheduled to hold a kisan mahapanchayat but had to cancel it, unfortunately shows that the discontent is manifesting itself in violent ways and how quickly things can spin out of control.Invoking Gandhi’s satyagraha, the court has reaffirmed the citizens’ right to stage a peaceful protest, even as it has expressed concern over the prolonged presence of agitators, especially the vulnerable elderly, at Delhi’s borders. It is hoped that the court’s welcome intervention will rouse the government to be part of the solution rather than of the problem. The Centre can no longer hide behind the fig leaf of the ‘potential benefits’ of the new laws. Its strategy of forcing the states to toe the line has backfired. The government has to learn to ‘let go’, starting with deferment of the implementation of the Acts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/apt-dressing-down-197122
