12-08-2020||The Congress is patting itself on the back for having resolved the Rajasthan crisis — a diversion during the pandemic that was of its own making and totally avoidable||A needless crisis||Jyotiraditya Scindia’s switchover to the BJP and the collapse of the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh in March this year should have roused the rudderless Congress out of stupor so as to prevent a repeat in other party-ruled states. However, the Grand Old Party, which doesn’t have a full-time president since May 2019 — when Rahul Gandhi quit following the Lok Sabha poll debacle — allowed the situation to deteriorate in Rajasthan before springing into action. Though the Gehlot government looks safe as of now and Sachin is still in the Congress camp, the party can’t afford to be complacent. The role played by the BJP in destabilising the government along with Sachin points to an unholy pact in which power takes precedence over people’s mandate and party ideology.The impatient Sachin didn’t acquit himself well in this sordid tussle. His revolt fizzled out as the Congress took an unusually tough stand and the BJP failed to lure Congress MLAs. The beleaguered Congress derives whatever strength it has from its regional satraps. The onus is on the high command to act as a bulwark against a rampaging BJP and make the best use of its leaders, young or old.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/a-needless-crisis-125375
12-08-2020||The Supreme Court has asked Haryana||Checking stubble burning||The onset of the paddy season this year has coincided with the unlocking of the economy and resumption of activities so vital to sustain life and livelihood. It is important to take preventive measures so as not to slow down the return to normalcy. The country’s agricultural bounty sustained it through the rigours of the pandemic and the lockdown and while the problem does need attention, it will call for a holistic approach so that the balance is not upset. Air traffic, road and rail transport are yet to resume fully in the country. Their resumption may well coincide with the winter months, during which pollution is high due to stubble burning. It will be imperative to ensure that normal life is not marred by operational hazards in controlling pollution.Delhi has taken an initiative to promote the use of electric vehicles. While the response to it will have to be seen, more steps will be needed to cut down on pollution, a cause for great distress. The judiciary taking up the cudgels for air purity in the National Capital Region is welcome, but it is important that the stakeholders themselves remain proactive in the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/checking-stubble-burning-125352
