12-05-2020||Reviving the economy and supporting the vulnerable sections remain a challenge as the nationwide lockdown to combat the pandemic enters its final phase. Clarity on the next course of action will unfold only in the coming days||Opening up the economy||The Visakhapatnam incident, on the other hand, where gas leaked from an industrial plant, is an instance where maintenance work and safety protocols were found wanting. That industrial safety is imperative for national security cannot be understated. Even as the Centre consults the states on the action plan, they are trying to face the problems in their own way. While Punjab has announced that it is advancing the date for sowing paddy, Haryana has asked its industries to register, issue passes to workers and work in shifts. In Himachal, labour shortage is hampering construction work, despite the state having given the nod for it as input costs have gone up. There has been a ruckus in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh area, with workers demanding entry to join work, throwing social distancing norms to the wind.The MHA has asked units to treat the first week of the opening of plants as a trial period, but the government does not seem to be sure of what it says is community compliance, the crowds at liquor shops being a case in point. India has been clear in choosing between life and livelihood. With the Covid death rate relatively low, it’s time to open up the economy gradually. It is best done in a manner that is reassuring and transparent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/opening-up-the-economy-83560
12-05-2020||UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres observed last week that the coronavirus pandemic had unleashed a tsunami of hate and xenophobia. Though he didn’t name the countries adversely affected by the infodemic – the rampant spread of malicious misinformation and fake news on social media – there is no gainsaying that the menace has assumed alarming proportions in India. The Muslim community has been the target of a no-holds-barred vilification campaign ever since the Tablighi Jamaat’s mid-March congregation in Delhi emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot. An audio clip||Fighting the infodemic||Days after Lockdown 1.0 was enforced, the Supreme Court had dubbed panic and fear as bigger problems than the pandemic itself. States such as Maharashtra, the worst-hit in the country in terms of Covid-positive patients, have been registering cases against people allegedly spreading rumours, misinformation and fake news. Some social media platforms have been raising awareness among the digital community about the creation and sharing of falsehoods. However, inadequate checks and balances and lack of synergy among the stakeholders have emboldened the mischief mongers and rabble rousers to keep adding fuel to the fire.The Centre needs to lead from the front here as well. Transparency holds the key to conducting the exercise of separating the truth, even if it’s inconvenient to the ruling dispensation, from all the lies and half-truths. The authorities should keep all communication channels open so that people are not misled by anti-social elements who feed on mistrust and hatred.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/fighting-the-infodemic-83561
