12-02-2020||That it took four days for the Delhi Police to even register the case of molestation of Gargi College girls against a group of unruly trespassers when the students were enjoying their annual fest on the campus lawn is a matter of great concern on many fronts. Even as the horrific groping and sexual assault on the young girls by the lewd gatecrashers is painful enough||Security breach||The authorities took action only when organised cries for justice by the Gargi girls against the blatant violation and abuse became shrill; they could no longer shrug off the matter as victims of the mayhem at the college on February 6 shared their shocking experiences on the social media and the Delhi Commission for Women issued notices to the Delhi Police and the college for their alleged inaction in the molestation. The wait for yet another inquiry report into yet another shameful episode of a Delhi college/university begins.Violent attempts to stifle student activism in recent days in JNU and Jamia Millia have left a disheartening trail. Masked goons had a free run in JNU to browbeat students seeking a rollback of fee hike. Law and order on the campus is the bedrock on which the youth depend for stepping out to attain degrees and the ways of the world. Any breach in the security calls for urgent and stringent action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/security-breach-39453
12-02-2020||A PARTY that won over 300 Lok Sabha seats last year used all its might to wrest control of a 70-seat Assembly — but in vain. The BJP’s second successive rout in the state elections of Delhi is a massive rejection of its divisive campaign that revolved around negativity and hatred. The plank of national security had worked wonders for the party in the 2019 parliamentary elections||Delhi debacle||This desperation betrayed the party’s disconnect with the people of Delhi despite having swept all Lok Sabha seats in the Capital last year. The ruling party at the Centre neither projected a CM face nor came up with a concrete road map to address local issues. The leaders who delivered incendiary speeches didn’t even get a rap on the knuckles from the top brass. BJP MP Parvesh Verma dubbed Arvind Kejriwal a terrorist, a throwback to the ‘AK-49’ label the then Gujarat CM Narendra Modi had given to his Delhi counterpart ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Such name-calling was like water off a duck’s back for Delhi’s voters, who preferred the basics to theatrics.Assembly and parliamentary polls are poles apart. This electoral truism was hammered home by the voters of Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand over the past year or so, but the BJP didn’t bother to learn any lesson. The behemoth miserably failed to position itself as a viable alternative to the fledgling Aam Aadmi Party. Its attempts to provoke AAP to take an unambiguous stand on the CAA-NRC came a cropper as Kejriwal astutely stuck to the development agenda, virtually appropriating PM Modi’s mantra of ‘minimum government, maximum governance’. With a misplaced Plan A and no Plan B, the BJP’s crushing defeat was inevitable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/delhi-debacle-39451
