12-11-2020||Mumbai Indians brought the curtain down on IPL-13 with a clinical performance in the final on Tuesday night||Mumbai’s IPL triumph||Mumbai’s win also ended 52 days of welcome relief of live sport on TV in this Covid-hit year, even if actual action was taking place hundreds of miles away, in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Before IPL-13 began, there was apprehension over cricketers being afflicted with Covid-19 during the course of the tournament, and a few players did opt out. But, in a testament to the effectiveness of the bio-secure bubble put in place by the organisers, the event went off without trouble. The bio-secure bubble proved to be a blessing in disguise for another significant reason: It reduced the possibility of players being directly approached by match-fixers or corrupters, who are known to be very active in the UAE. There was only one report of a player being made a ‘corrupt approach’, and the matter is under investigation.Even though cricket’s purists are not big fans of the Twenty20 format, the IPL did cheer fans, who had been starved of live sporting action due to disruptions caused by the pandemic. It also resurrected the Country vs Club debate, as Mumbai Indians’ Rohit Sharma chose to play on despite an injury that had caused him to be dropped for the national team’s tour of Australia. That tour begins later this month, and fans now look forward to the national team returning to action for the first time since March 2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/mumbais-ipl-triumph-169470
12-11-2020||The NDA’s hard-fought victory over the Mahagathbandhan shows that Bihar’s voters have preferred status quo||Challenges in Bihar||Caste politics brought gains to the NDA as well as the RJD-led alliance in the polls, but what the state needs now is a positive agenda to hasten economic recovery and help its residents regain livelihoods. Bihar’s unemployment rate, which had shot up to 46 per cent in April-May, is now down to under 10 per cent. However, much work has to be done to keep most of the migrants gainfully employed in the state itself. The BJP had promised the creation of 19 lakh employment opportunities after RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav vowed to sanction 10 lakh government jobs. The ruling alliance can start off by filling vacant government posts, reportedly running into lakhs.The Covid-19 crisis has woefully exposed Bihar’s ailing health infrastructure. As the virus continues to pose a threat, the government needs to prioritise healthcare with far higher budgetary allocations. With the Opposition sizeable enough to keep the BJP-JD(U) combine on its toes, there is no room for complacency or laxity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/challenges-in-bihar-169469
