12-12-2020||IN March||Protest against ‘mixopathy’||The pandemic put pressure on a healthcare system that was underprepared to deal with the exigency. Hospitals saw a shortage of beds and equipment with doctors from the paramilitary forces being drafted in some instances. There was pressure on the supporting staff who had to perform long hours of duty in PPE kits. Care for those suffering from other diseases was hit, leading to aggravation. While revamping the healthcare infrastructure, the government also had to guard against its dumbing down, like in the case of the Patanjali drug that was later clarified to be only an immunity booster, with the ICMR distancing itself from it. The country has had parallel systems of medicine since ancient times, but anatomical dissection and the application of scientific evidence-based practices differentiate the modern system of medicine from alternative practices.There is also a race against time to find a vaccine for Covid-19. The government would do best to rely on the already existing robust vaccination programme, sparing other branches the trouble of getting involved in the exercise. The network of clinics and dispensaries that had shut after the pandemic outbreak should be allowed to reopen, fresh recruitments made and the families of those who lost their lives should be compensated. Training ayurvedic students for surgery appears to be an ill-conceived step.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/protest-against-mixopathy-183046
12-12-2020||IN 2012||Facebook under lens||Unlike Europe, which has sought to penalise Big Tech for the growth-at-all-costs mentality, US regulators have maintained a hands-off approach to avoid any hindrance to the continued success. The lawsuits, thus, represent the most significant political and legal challenge to Facebook in its more than 16-year history. Governments across the world would be keenly watching the rare bipartisan efforts by American decision-makers on cutting digital empires down to size, and making them accountable for business practices. The legal filings cite internal messages from Facebook boss Zuckerberg, such as one 2008 email that said it was ‘better to buy than compete’. What is being sought is divestment of assets, effectively breaking up one of Silicon Valley’s most profitable firms, and restore competition ‘so that innovation and free competition can thrive’. Whether Instagram and WhatsApp will be cleaved off will be decided in courts, and it could take years to resolve.Personal social networking is central to the lives of billions. The market dominance by a handful of powerful firms — with vast troves of data and money — is an uncomfortable fact. Their ever-expanding footprint and the consequences they pose, particularly during elections, are issues of serious concern. Ensuring that profits are not put ahead of consumers’ welfare and privacy has to be the primary objective, even if that requires slicing of the digital imperium or stricter scrutiny.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/facebook-under-lens-183045
