12-10-2020||Prolonged protests||Fighting for farmers||Punjab has been presented with an unusual political stage where the main adversaries, the Akalis and the Congress, have both chosen the Modi government as the whipping boy. Their loudest slogans, however, are reserved for each other. In Haryana, the ruling BJP-JJP alliance is being made to strive hard to not be seen as anti-farmer, while the Opposition senses a real opportunity. Lost in the cacophony of the vicious back-and-forth for political one-upmanship is the voice of the protesting farmers, and the cause. That perhaps explains the hardening of their stand, from disrupting movement to upping the ante on demands.If standing up for the farmer was the sole issue at play, more thought could have been given to a joint political effort, and applying pressure on the Centre to address the apprehensions, enter into negotiations and find a middle ground. Instead, a political slugfest filled with accusatory and unconciliatory overtones is gaining traction, within the states as well as in New Delhi. An attempt by the BJP or Opposition parties only to present a maximalist position on the contentious laws is a confrontationist approach, not one aimed at a negotiated settlement. Let us hope the missive attributed to the Union agriculture secretary is the way forward to talk, listen and if necessary, amend.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/fighting-for-farmers-154451
12-10-2020||IN a fitting recognition of the need to contain the scourge of global hunger and the commendable efforts of the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) towards fighting it||Peace Nobel for feeders||In India, the grim picture unfolded during the lockdown, marked by the march of millions of migrant labourers trudging back home, bringing into sharp focus their misery as they bore the brunt of businesses getting shut down. Caught on the wrong foot, the government scrambled to provide food and financial stimulus for their sustenance. The disruption again raised the issue of criminal wastage and rotting of foodgrains even as our food procurement, storage and public distribution systems failed to usher in reforms to plug the gap between plentiful farm produce and unfed mouths. Closely related is the issue of women and children being disproportionately deprived of nourishment. The Global Hunger Index-2019 ranked India at a lowly 102 out of the 117 countries mapped.While the WFP assisted 97 million people in 88 countries last year, the growing food insecurity calls for a world order enabling policies that make nations self-sustainable. Funded largely by the rich nations, the world bodies and agencies are, at present, tilted towards furthering their interests. With millions more on the brink of starvation, ensuring meals to all has become more challenging.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/peace-nobel-for-feeders-154452
