13-05-2020||The standoff between the council of ministers and the Chief Secretary in Punjab is unfortunate||Ministers vs Chief Secretary||The Congress government in the state preferred an element of continuity in administration by retaining senior officials from the previous government after coming to power. Now, too, all efforts should be collective and directed at fighting the pandemic, the state’s interest coming first. A Finance Minister getting exercised over the resource crunch is understandable, but to boycott meetings is churlish. The primacy of elected representatives is undeniable in parliamentary democracy, but differences in opinion and consensus should define decision-making.There have always been rumblings over the dilution of the authority of the ministers because of the clout of the PMO at the Centre and the Chief Minister’s Office in the states. It is often left to the bureaucracy to do the delicate balancing act between the primus inter pares and the cabinet colleagues as it involves reconciling disparate demands. Karan Avtar Singh offending the ministers would have delighted Sir Humphrey Appleby.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/ministers-vs-chief-secretary-83921
13-05-2020||It’s a no-brainer that intra-state and inter-state movement of doctors and other healthcare workers should continue uninterrupted during a national emergency. Medical and paramedical staff can’t be expected to deliver Covid and non-Covid services efficiently if they keep facing lockdown restrictions. Time is of the essence when an ambulance is on the move; any delay – even of a few minutes or even seconds – can make the all-important difference between life and death. But such is the lack of coordination between the states that the Centre has to intervene and state the obvious. The Union Home Secretary has written to the Chief Secretaries of all states and union territories||Passage for doctors||The Ministry of Home Affairs has also red-flagged reports that many private clinics and nursing homes are not being allowed to open at several places. The states and UTs have been told to ensure that such establishments operate without any obstacle. It’s a knotty issue as a section of private doctors is reluctant to resume work, despite warnings from the authorities that their licences would be cancelled if they don’t do the needful. Last week, a private nursing home in Indore was temporarily closed after two doctors treating non-coronavirus patients were found Covid-positive. Governments have been cracking down on private hospitals that are operating without following the safety protocol, prompting doctors to play truant and avoid scrutiny.The onus is on the authorities to tap the potential of private facilities to supplement the public healthcare setup. The trust deficit has to be overcome with collaborative efforts and confidence-building measures rather than adopting a punitive approach. The concerns of the frontline health workers should be addressed on priority because India can’t hope to contain Covid-19 without their active involvement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/passage-for-doctors-83922
