13-07-2020||Diplomats talk the talk well||Walk the talk, China||India and China need to move forward. However, adventurism comes at a cost, and in this case, has set back the goodwill between the two countries that took decades to build. ‘Why should we fight against each other, which will only hurt those close to us and gladden the foes?’ asks the envoy. He is right. Beijing would have done well to think of this before the incursions and the subsequent escalation. After the border clash, it has taken extraordinary effort by both governments to start the de-escalation process, and the ties between the two nations have been severely affected. The Chinese Ambassador’s message is a positive one, and indeed reflects the long-term goals of both countries, but any progress will naturally be slow and cautious.Communication will be the key in promoting peace and building confidence between the two nations. The border question is an old one. The arrangement by which Special Representatives held meetings of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on Border Affairs would need to be strengthened. All this, however, hinges on the political resolve of Beijing. For that to happen, China will have to take concrete steps to convince a sceptical India of its intentions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/walk-the-talk-china-112104
13-07-2020||The rise in cases of sexual offences involving family members during the Covid lockdown is a cause for concern. For instance||Lockdown crimes||There have been cases of fake Facebook accounts being made and obscene pictures of girls being uploaded. The police have admitted that the misuse of information technology is the prime reason behind the rise in crimes against women. What exactly is being done to curb cyber crime is what matters. The police earlier said that the surge was also because the courts had enlarged the definition of crime, but that cannot be a reason for precluding vigil on the ground. Adequate number of women police personnel should be deployed to encourage women to come forward and lodge their complaints. The region also has to deal with the menace of drug abuse and the trade in narcotics.All across the country, the lockdown has seen schools, colleges and coaching institutes being shut, business and industrial establishments getting closed, along with job losses and reduced incomes. Whether the spurt in crime reflects socially deviant behaviour or is indicative of a general trend needs to be determined and checked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/lockdown-crimes-112128
