13-06-2020||But for a few bright exceptions||NIRF rankings||However, it is lamentable that among the universities, Panjab University has slipped five notches down to the 26th spot (overall, 44th) from last year. It is a sobering reminder of the university not putting in enough efforts to improve or live up to the promise reflected in the first NIRF rankings of 2016, when it was ranked the 12th best in the country. The gains made in certain departments such as law, management and dental sciences have not been enough to lift it. Other institutes have galloped past it as it has registered drops in the crucial parameters of teaching, learning and resources, research and professional practice, graduation outcomes, and perception.Topping the chart of institutes from the region at rank 39 is the young IIT, Ropar. Continued focus on setting higher goals has propelled it up. Even amid the pandemic, IIT-Ropar has been active in R&D and collaboration with the industry. The prototype developed by its researchers to test people for Covid-19 without human intervention is awaiting a clinical trial. Equally impressive is its work on conceptualising a doffing unit to dispose of PPE kits as also the machine to help deliver food and medicines to Covid patients. Other well-known universities and institutes of standing in the region that have the potential, but have of late failed to keep up with the Joneses, would do well to make amends. Engagement of education with the socio-economic aspects is the key to progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/nirf-rankings-98430
13-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid crisis||The irony is not lost on anyone: the Arvind Kejriwal government, which retained power partly on the strength of its healthcare initiatives such as mohalla clinics, has been found wanting in containing the spread of the pandemic. The lapses were glaringly exemplified by the death of Covid-positive police constable Amit Kumar last month. One Delhi hospital after another washed its hands of Kumar (32), who eventually fell victim to official apathy and red tape that deprived him of timely medical treatment.In a move that reeked of desperation, the AAP government decided recently that the city’s public and private hospitals would only cater to local residents. The indefensible order was withdrawn after the Lieutenant Governor put his foot down. Another controversy has erupted now over the death toll: there is wide disparity between the figures put out by the government and those claimed by the municipal corporations. The unsavoury blame game shows that various bodies are working at cross-purposes rather than presenting a much-needed united front. Transparency is a must to bridge the ever-widening trust deficit. No matter how hard to achieve, Centre-state coordination can help in arresting the slide. It’s primarily up to the powers that be to prevent Delhi from being overrun by the lethal virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/delhis-covid-crisis-98431
