13-02-2020||The Congress seems to be making a virtue of its diminishing relevance. After it again drew a blank in the Delhi Assembly elections||Clueless Congress||Sharmistha’s blunt statements are right on the mark. This party is unrecognisable from the one that ruled Delhi for 15 years in a row and also led the UPA at the Centre for a decade. The Congress has delivered a series of underwhelming performances in the past year or so after it wrested the Hindi heartland states of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh from the BJP. Restricted to just 52 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the national party has had no qualms about piggybacking on regional outfits to form the government in Maharashtra and Jharkhand. It took the Congress over two months to find another president after Rahul Gandhi quit in a huff. But the prospect of having a non-Gandhi chief was nipped in the bud. In an inevitable anti-climax, Rahul was succeeded by his predecessor, Sonia Gandhi. It’s probably just a matter of time before the past-her-prime Sonia hands over the reins back to her son.Amid the leadership muddle, the Congress has been unable to consolidate its position in states where it has strong satraps, such as Punjab. The manifesto implementation committee for the state was formed only recently, almost three years after the party came to power. The Congress’ hidebound predictability has become its undoing. Unless it revamps and reinvents itself, the party that played a key role in shaping the post-colonial nation will be history sooner than later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/clueless-congress-40834
13-02-2020||The deposition of a witness is the key to the cause of justice. To ensure that the trial is not compromised and the case is successfully prosecuted||Failing the witness||And when Justice Ranjit Singh, former chairman of an inquiry commission, who recommended that security be given to Surjit, blames us ‘all’ for ‘being insensitive to the plight of this person who suffered at the hands of the police because he had helped the cause of justice’, the matter acquires credence. The authorities must bring to book not only those who harassed Surjit, but also those who had not listened to his repeated grievances and pleas for justice.The Behbal Kalan saga has dictated the political and religious narrative in Punjab in the past over four years. It has seen two commissions of inquiry, an SIT, a CBI report and court proceedings. But the victims are still awaiting justice even as the forces inimical to them are seeming to ride roughshod over them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/failing-the-witness-40832
