13-11-2020||Amid the prospect of a typically harsh winter in Ladakh||Making headway||China has been notorious for cocking a snook at past agreements, making it difficult for India to believe that the neighbour will walk the talk, as and when an actionable plan is formalised. Such a pact should be applicable to the entire LAC, including the fiercely disputed Depsang plains. The probability of China using the de-escalation exercise as a ruse to distract Indian troops is not ruled out. The key to effective disengagement will be to ensure simultaneity of the process. Once the removal of troops and equipment is completed and mutually verified, both nations can develop a framework to designate the contentious areas as no-conflict zones.In his recent address to the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, which has India among its members, Chinese President Xi Jinping stressed on the historical inevitability of ‘good neighbourliness’ prevailing over a ‘beggar-thy-neighbour’ approach. That’s something China needs to practise itself first if it’s really keen on bridging the trust deficit. Unless there are sustained confidence-building measures, India would have to remain as watchful as ever, if not more.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/making-headway-170018
13-11-2020||There is damning evidence of the air quality falling to hazardous levels due to various factors at the onset of winter every year as smoggy haze blankets the skies. It is seen in the aggravating condition of patients with breathing and pulmonary problems as they pant for clean air. Yet||Seeing red in ‘green’||However, this green signal is seldom green or followed to the T and the lame intent goes up in smoke as the indiscriminate bursting of crackers plays havoc with air. Lack of exemplary penal action goads the offenders to have ‘fun’ at the expense of the sick whose problems worsen. Especially so, in these Covid times. How ‘green’ the crackers are has been disputed by experts. Even the ‘greenest’ of them emit just 30% fewer pollutants. The QR code on crackers intended to unravel their quality by displaying if they contain banned poisonous chemicals barium, arsenic, lead etc has been neither propagated nor implemented in totality.This year, some states are showing the way by imposing a ban on crackers. Public will, demonstrated by shunning crackers and celebrating festivals by lighting diyas and adopting other eco-friendly modes at an individual level, is equally essential. Every little step matters as India, home to some most polluted cities of the world, faces the colossal task of controlling the mix of industrial gaseous effluents, construction dust, vehicular emissions, farm fires and, yes, firecrackers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/seeing-red-in-green-170017
