13-10-2020||RAFAEL NADAL proves the age of miracles is not past. His win over Novak Djokovic in the final of the French Open on Sunday was nothing less than astounding for its ease. Nadal swatted aside one of the greatest players ever as if toying with a novice||Nadal’s French miracle||All that mattered little when Nadal took court — aware that he must stamp his dominance early, he blasted Djokovic off the court without conceding a game in the first set before completing a facile 6-0 6-2 7-5 win. Djokovic was left shattered, staring at the red clay, shaking his head in disbelief at the level his rival was playing at. Nadal, though ecstatic, said the scoreline did not matter: ‘Maybe it’s a little bit more beautiful to win 6-4 in the fifth, than winning in straight sets, no?’ This comment shows Nadal, the ultimate fighter, revels in the thrill of the contest, not mere numbers.Nadal tying Federer’s record will enliven the debate over the greatest player of all time. Nadal, Djokovic and Federer each seem to have a legitimate claim on the ‘greatest’ tag. Federer is the only man to have won three separate Grand Slams at least five times and has over 100 professional title wins. Nadal’s record is lopsided though as 65% of his Grand Slam titles have been won in Paris. Djokovic has beaten his two great rivals more than he's lost to them. It makes greater sense, however, to halt the comparisons and enjoy what remains of the golden era of men’s tennis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/nadals-french-miracle-154935
13-10-2020||The judiciary has hit the headlines for the wrong reasons once again. In an unprecedented move||Open letter to CJI||Naidu and some of his associates are facing corruption charges in connection with land deals. Last month, the Andhra Pradesh High Court restrained the media from reporting about allegations of corruption in land deals in Amaravati. Coming from a CM facing a large number of cases, the allegations have to be taken with a pinch of salt. Also, the Reddy government’s move to go public with the content of the CM’s letter, without waiting for the CJI’s decision, can’t be appreciated. But it’s equally true that successive governments at the Centre have misused the CBI and other Central agencies to settle political scores with rival leaders. The UPA government instituted several cases against Jaganmohan after his father’s death in a helicopter crash.But the issues involved are far more serious than corruption allegations against the CM or the TDP leader who are engaged in a political slugfest. Justice Ramana is likely to be the next CJI in April 2021, after Justice Bobde demits office. Reddy’s letter raises questions which can’t be simply termed as an attempt to scandalise the judiciary. He is neither an activist, like advocate Prashant Bhushan, nor a disgruntled judge like Justice CS Karnan who levelled mindless allegations against several judges, inviting contempt proceedings from the Supreme Court. What is at stake is the very credibility of the judiciary as an institution. It’s high time the CJI takes steps to address the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/open-letter-to-cji-154934
