14-05-2020||The Rs 20 lakh-crore stimulus package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at 8 pm on Tuesday||The long walk home||Every day, there are new stories of unfathomable distress; of people tiredly trying to walk from Punjab to Bihar, Karnataka to Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra to Odisha, Himachal Pradesh to Madhya Pradesh. This unending train of tragedy has to be stopped immediately. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has on Wednesday unveiled a slew of measures to inject liquidity into the medium, small and micro enterprises (MSMEs) that are shutting shops, pushing workers out with no security net — social, economic or political. Workers of bigger enterprises have the luxury of collective bargaining, but not the 90 per cent of India’s workforce, who are walking home. The FM’s considerable cash doles should stop the MSME sector from bleeding to death; for every worker out on the street, there is also a proud employer staring at debts and deprivation.Punjab is a prosperous state that imports labour from eastern India, yet even Punjabis are slipping into grinding poverty, forcing workers into destitution. The Tribune reported from Jalandhar the story of Sarabjit Kaur and Sukhwant, house helps reduced to begging because of the Covid panic. The worst fear of the poor resorting to suicides is coming true in cities and these suicides can only be attributed to governmental apathy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-long-walk-home-84472
14-05-2020||Anew slogan||Mega stimulus package||In a mega stimulus package, the Finance Minister has announced measures to restart the economy, including Rs 3 lakh crore collateral-free automatic loans for MSMEs, revising upwards the investment limit, introducing an additional criteria of turnover and no global tender for government procurement up to Rs 200 crore. Clearance of all pending payments is another big takeaway. The statutory PF contribution has been slashed by 2 per cent to increase the take-home salary. The 25 per cent cut in tax deducted at source for non-salary payments is also a huge relief. A six-month extension has been given to government contractors to finish projects.It is an undeniable fact that the drive to push manufacturing has met with limited success. The much-touted ‘Make in India’ has not lived up to potential. Aware of the ground reality, PM Modi has made clear his commitment to remove all domestic hurdles before manufacturing units and attract from China the global value chain. The vigour and hope reflected in the speech have to be translated into recognisable action. The first tranche of the package would soothe frayed nerves, but the road ahead is long. Forget about adding, will it bring back jobs? Is it a booster shot or a survival kit for the industry?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/mega-stimulus-package-84470
