14-09-2020||The Delhi Police’s handling of the investigation into the riots in Northeast Delhi in February has been hitting the headlines for all the wrong reasons||Riots probe row||The original chargesheet was against Pinjra Tod members Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal and Jamia Millia’s Gulfisha Fathima in connection with the violence at Jafrabad, where an anti-CAA sit-in was held before the riots began. The supplementary chargesheet, citing disclosure statements of Narwal and Kalita, says both were given directions by Ghosh, Apoorvanand and Roy to protest in different parts of Delhi against the CAA and the NRC. Yechury and Yadav have been named in Gulfisha’s statement of taking part in anti-CAA demonstrations to ‘provoke and mobilise’ crowds. Is there an attempt to bracket the protesters with rioters and teach a lesson to those who stood up to the government against the new citizenship law?A former top cop’s letter to the Delhi Police Commissioner points out that action is being taken against ‘peaceful protesters’ while ignoring senior BJP leaders who made provocative, communal speeches in the build-up to the violence. ‘True patriots’, he adds, are being entangled in criminal cases. The police would have a forceful rejoinder ready, no doubt, but the onus lies squarely on it. An investigation coming under a cloud is a huge disservice and severely dents the image of a professional force.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/riots-probe-row-140996
14-09-2020||The spread of the novel coronavirus has reinforced the need for unified strategies to deal with the global crisis. Even when India went under a complete lockdown in March-end and inter/intra-state borders were sealed in a bid to break the chain of the virus||Medical oxygen supply||No doubt, with India’s caseload of over 47 lakh and daily infections in excess of 95,000, the situation is challenging. The state health departments feel overwhelmed and under-equipped to handle the pressure. However, at the same time, the pandemic has once more awoken the world to the importance of unity and solidarity in dealing with crises. There has been all-round recognition of cooperation, as was evident in the facilitation of the supply of medicines, such as hydroxychloroquine or remdesivir, ventilators and PPE kits. Now, with vaccines round the corner, countries and companies have entered into pacts with the aim of benefiting one and all.This multilateral commitment was palpable at the UN General Assembly on Friday, with 169 nations, including India, adopting its omnibus resolution on a comprehensive and coordinated response to the pandemic. It aims at ‘unhindered timely access to quality, safe, efficacious and affordable diagnosis, therapeutics, medicines and vaccines, and essential health technologies for the Covid-19 response’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/medical-oxygen-supply-140965
