14-07-2020||THE great Indian misfortune is our political class. The raging pandemic or the neighbour’s incursion on the northern borders does not deter politicos from toppling the government even in a border state. The spectacle in Jaipur could not have been timed worse. For no reason||Sachin Pilot’s gamble||Sachin Pilot, at 26, was the youngest member of the Lok Sabha in 2004. In 2009, he was a Union minister and in 2014, he became the president of the party’s state unit, despite a massive defeat from the Ajmer constituency — all because of his dynastic credentials as Rajesh Pilot’s son and political heir. To his credit, Sachin did do a good job while heading the party in Opposition from 2014 till 2018, when the Congress won the Assembly polls. His friends in the Delhi media amplified his hard work manifold. Yet, he stooped to display an ugly haste, getting his supporters to block roads, demanding to be made Chief Minister.The Sonia-Rahul leadership has only itself to blame for the present predicament as it had in 2018 succumbed to blackmail and given the dual charge of the party organisation and Deputy CM’s post to the same young man in a tearing hurry. The Special Operations Group cops’ notice to Sachin in the MLA-poaching scandal was probably the proverbial last straw for the CM and the Deputy. After all, Sachin is being accused of plotting with the BJP to bring the government down. The BJP, which wants Operation Madhya Pradesh repeated, has not played its cards yet; though the Central government has coincidentally sent Income Tax sleuths to search Gehlot’s close aides. It is business as usual for our politicians.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/sachin-pilots-gamble-112669
14-07-2020||CRICKET emerged from a 117-day quarantine in good health — West Indies achieved a very fine win in the first Test in Southampton on Sunday||Cricket out of quarantine||Europe seems to have seen off the worst of the pandemic and life is limping back towards normalcy — and thus it was possible for sport to make a return in that continent. Domestic football leagues resumed in various countries, in stadiums filled with cardboard cutouts of fans and recording of cheers broadcast over the sound system. But international sport seemed to be a step too far, until cricket stepped up. It was almost essential, too, for the England and Wales Cricket Board were facing financial ruin — they stood to lose £380 million if the entire summer’s cricket were wiped out due to the pandemic. Thus, cricket made a return, with a new normal — foreign players quarantined on arrival, players repeatedly tested for the virus, no saliva used to shine the ball.No spectators allowed, please — that’s the new normal. There were no cheers when the ball went over the boundary rope, or when a wicket fell, or when West Indies recorded a great win. The biggest precaution was in the planning — all the summer’s matches are being played in a biosphere bubble so that there is zero contact with the outside world. Two venues were selected — in Southampton and Manchester — because they have big hotels on site to host everyone connected with the match, from players to officials to broadcasters. That is the template for cricket to make a return to grounds across the world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/cricket-out-of-quarantine-112668
