14-12-2020||With the first tranche of the eagerly-awaited Covid-19 vaccine expected to roll out in a few weeks||Race to get vaccine first||While the states and union territories have plunged headlong into making databases of people for the coveted Covid jabs, some thorny arguments have come to the fore as groups lobby to be classified as essential workers or the vulnerable. Such a push by Haryana’s VIPs — MPs, MLAs and bureaucrats — is unfair. The clout they wield can trample over the ordinary but more needy people. They must ask themselves if they were out during the strict lockdown among the Covid warriors who were fighting the pandemic at risk to their lives and health or safely ensconced in their homes.More such difficult conversations will have to be made. For example, what about those cramped in jails or crowded business establishments; the farmers and labourers; the commuters and the newborns? Containing the spread of transmission of the flu must be crucial in this dialogue. Those at the tail end need to show calm and patience, and wear masks and maintain social distancing as they wait for their turn. The prospect of early herd immunity should keep them going.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/race-to-get-vaccine-first-184010
14-12-2020||The West Bengal government’s decision not to send the state’s Chief Secretary and the DGP to New Delhi despite the Union Home Ministry’s summons in the wake of a mob attack on BJP chief JP Nadda’s convoy is in keeping with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s style of politics. The attack by alleged supporters of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) needs to be condemned in no uncertain terms||Attack on Nadda’s convoy||With the Assembly elections due next year in West Bengal, both the TMC and the BJP will try not to be seen as ceding ground. With the Congress and the CPI(M) on the margins, the TMC now sees the BJP as a potential challenger after the saffron party made gains in Bihar and the local bodies’ elections in Hyderabad. Already, there are efforts afoot to cobble a coalition to take on the BJP-led government at the Centre.As for the BJP, it has past experience in dealing with Mamata Banerjee as an ally when Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had to deal with tough coalition partners shaking the confidence of the government. Even amid the recent standoff, there have been conciliatory gestures like Prime Minister Modi paying a visit to West Bengal during the pandemic to assess the damage caused by a cyclone and promising assistance. Agitational politics is characteristic of Mamata Banerjee, who took on the decades-old Left rule in the state, laying siege to police stations even as a minister. As Chief Minister, she has had an indifferent relationship with the Governor. It might be difficult for a non-BJP-ruled state to get all its demands met by the Centre, but it must be done in a spirit of constructive opposition, in the best spirit of federalism.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/attack-on-naddas-convoy-184009
