14-11-2020||November 26 will mark the 12th anniversary of the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks. Far from showing any semblance of sincerity in delivering justice to the families of 166 victims from 15 countries||Pak at it again||The 921-page document contains the names of a select few members of Lashkar-e-Taiba, a UN-designated terror entity. Included are the crew members of the boats used to execute the attacks, those who purchased the engine, life jackets, financiers who arranged foreign currency to obtain the Voice Over Internet Protocol connection for terrorist communication. The vital link is, however, missing. There is no mention of masterminds Hafiz Saeed and Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi. The other two most wanted men for India, Masood Azhar and Dawood Ibrahim, are also not listed. It is an exercise mired in deception, hoping to serve little purpose than performing a meaningless ritual.The Ministry of External Affairs has come out with a strongly-worded reaction, but Pakistan’s non-committal and dismissive approach only makes New Delhi’s task more arduous. A foolproof case has been presented on the sequence of events, listing those involved in the planning, on who carried out the terrorist attack, and at whose behest. Even this is proving to be inadequate. Pakistan’s moves on the US-China-Afghanistan strategic chessboard makes the road ahead tougher. Howsoever challenging and painstaking, India should and must be relentless in the pursuit of justice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/pak-at-it-again-170510
14-11-2020||The unveiling of Atmanirbhar Bharat 3.0 stimulus package worth Rs 2.65 lakh crore||Booster shot||These are bleak figures, but the silver lining is that the worst seems to be over. India’s hopes of a turnaround rest on the current quarter, which is seeing near-normal economic activity as the festive season is in progress, even as a fresh surge in Covid-19 cases is threatening to disrupt the momentum. Though it is wishful thinking to expect positive growth in this three-month period, the government needs to go all out to come close to the target with more proactive steps.From real estate to manufacturing, virtually no sector has been left unaddressed in terms of incentives and concessions, but much depends on boosting the confidence of consumers and investors. Spurring consumption has to go hand in hand with better handling of the pandemic. During the lockdown, the prevailing uncertainty forced people to save rather than spend. As per estimates, household financial savings rose to 21.4 per cent of the GDP in April-June, mostly bank deposits, up from 7.9% in the corresponding period a year ago. The pent-up demand is getting released now, but whether spending will remain high even after the festive season is over is a moot point. Consolidation of the gains from the cumulative stimulus package, amounting to almost Rs 30 lakh crore or 15 per cent of the GDP, will determine how quickly and strongly Indian economy makes recovery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/booster-shot-170512
