15-09-2020||INDIA can no longer afford to gloat over its ‘surgical strike’ on apps with Chinese links. An international exposé by several newspapers has revealed how insidiously China is taking the cyber route to keep prominent Indian citizens under surveillance. According to a news report||Chinese surveillance||It’s obvious that merely a keen interest in Indian affairs is not propelling this humongous exercise. Offering ‘threat intelligence services’, Zhenhua is busy building a ‘relational database’ which records and describes associations between individuals, institutions etc. The interpretation and analysis of data undoubtedly serve strategic purposes.In a technology-driven world, information is ammunition. And China can’t have enough of it, especially when the data pertains to a formidable neighbour that is capable of protecting its territory from intruders. The large-scale data mining, which reeks of snooping, is a wake-up call for India, which needs to look beyond military, diplomatic and economic options to counter the Chinese threat. Citing concerns over citizens’ privacy and national security, the Indian government has banned over 200 apps in less than three months. But that is merely a drop in the ocean when we look at the larger picture. Chinese companies call the shots in India’s smartphone sector and the scenario is not going to change anytime soon. What India can do urgently is to incorporate stringent provisions in the Information Technology Act to curb third-party collection and misuse of data. ‘Know thy enemy,’ said Chinese military strategist and philosopher Sun Tzu. It’s time India does the needful to pre-empt China’s nefarious moves on the ground and in cyberspace.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/chinese-surveillance-141455
15-09-2020||Naomi Osaka has shown that good girls win||Naomi’s masked statement||In times when celebrities endorse expensive branded masks, Naomi’s simple black masks with names of black victims of hate crime — the youngest was Tamir Rice, a 12-year-old carrying a plastic toy gun, killed by police in a playground — touched hearts and lent a powerful voice to the Black Lives Matter (BLM) movement. Statistics drown the individuality of victims of crime; by naming the victims — even if only seven among thousands — Naomi humanised them. She reminded people that institutionalised racism and bigotry are deeply entrenched in every country, every society — one only needs to become honest to see and acknowledge them.It’s not very original to be an idealist at 22, as Naomi is. But she’s not an accidental activist — daughter of a black American from Haiti and a woman from Japan, Naomi is acutely aware of what being the ‘other’ feels like. She has lived in Japan and the US and has travelled the world. She has seen the bigotry of people, whether they are American, Japanese or from anywhere else. Even before she became a superstar, she had acquired a following among sports writers for her idiosyncratic and intelligent sense of humour and her sensitive and profound comments on social issues. Her dignified and deep commitment to the BLM movement is completely in character and a lesson to all of us.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/naomis-masked-statement-141456
