15-06-2020||Nothing can be more disconcerting than the country’s apex court having to intervene to ensure that doctors and medical workers at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 are paid their salaries and given proper accommodation. ‘In war||For the doctors||The Supreme Court’s censure over the treatment meted out to coronavirus patients in various states and the undignified disposal of bodies, described as ‘horrendous, horrific and pathetic’, demands serious introspection. Being overstretched and overwhelmed do not add up as an explanation. Repeat incidents can only be seen as systemic indifference. The fight is long and hard; unethical practices by those in the medical fraternity and associates have to be called out. An emergency situation is no licence to cover negligence and callousness with a shroud of legitimacy.Is humanness losing out in the process of saving human lives? Is paranoia taking precedence over concerns of health safety? Covid-19 is unlike anything the medical practitioners and those entrusted with governance have encountered. Slip-ups are anticipated, there is no ideal prognosis on how to go about it; the burden of responsibility can be extremely trying. But over four months since the first positive case in the country, priorities must have been generalised. On the list would be an honest endeavour, no matter the constraints, to provide every citizen who tests positive the best possible care. The end result may be heartbreaking, but that should not be on account of any lack of effort. That is a legitimate expectation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/for-the-doctors-99255
15-06-2020||Halfway as the country trundles towards the lockdown deadline||Reviewing lockdown||The plan of action will be clear only later. The Punjab CM has said that the pandemic is likely to peak in August, while the Union Education Minister does not expect schools and colleges to reopen before that month. The one commonality to the problems faced by the states is restarting economic activities amid the restrictions. The Centre is besieged by the pandemic as also by trials to get peace restored on the borders. There are apprehensions over community transmission speeding up once all restrictions are lifted. What is now being witnessed is a change in emphasis as also an organised or rather captive bid to resume economic activity. Jharkhand is sending workers to bolster infrastructure on the China border for the Border Roads Organisation (BRO), even as it first saw the return of migrant workers. After the initial exodus, there are reports of farmers in Punjab sending vehicles to bring back workers, even as the crisis offers a chance to break free from the wheat-paddy cycle and opt for crop diversification. And the healthcare sector has had to redefine its priorities, though much needs to be done.Restrictions on movement remain. The Railways has run trains for dedicated purposes, while special flights have evacuated Indian nationals stranded in other countries. The next step could be allowing free movement. Despite a surge in Covid cases, economic activities shouldn’t get curtailed any further.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/reviewing-lockdown-99211
