15-02-2020||IT’S an irony that the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)||SAD situation||The SAD decided not to contest the Delhi elections apparently due to differences with the BJP over the exclusion of Muslims from the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). Later, the Akali Dal did announce its support for the BJP candidates, but the latter still came a cropper in Sikh-dominated constituencies. Despite being a minor constituent of the BJP-led NDA with just two Lok Sabha seats, the SAD has toughened its stand on the CAA. On Thursday, former CM Parkash Singh Badal said minorities had to be taken along to successfully run a government, while reminding the Centre that all religions should be respected. The Akali patriarch made it clear that his party would not blindly follow the BJP on burning issues. His assertion also seemed to be aimed at helping the beleaguered SAD regain a foothold in the state.The return of the Ajnalas, days after the expulsion of the Dhindsas, underlines the party’s state of flux. With the Assembly elections two years away, the Badals face a Herculean task rebuilding the avowedly Panthic party’s image that was battered and bruised by the alleged mishandling of the sacrilege cases and the subsequent protests during the SAD-BJP rule. Presenting a credible alternative to the ruling Congress would be challenging too, besides the tightrope walk on the party’s see-saw ties with the BJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/sad-situation-41749
15-02-2020||RISHI SUNAK is Britan’s new Chancellor of the Exchequer. The rising star of British politics was PM Boris Johnson’s pick after the resignation of Sajid Javid. A Conservative MP for Richmond in Yorkshire since 2015||UK’s new Chancellor||Sajid Javid, who has the distinction of being among the shortest-serving finance ministers, was a hawk and had noticeable and public differences with his Prime Minister and his chief adviser, Dominic Cummings. Sunak now faces a tough challenge, but his background in finance and international exposure will stand him in good stead, as will the confidence PM Johnson has in him. Expectations of a stimulus in the new budget have pushed the markets, and the pound, up. Now it will be for Sunak to deliver on these expectations.Persons of Indian origin being in top positions around the world is hardly news now. However, of one being Chancellor of the Exchequer, traditionally regarded as the second-most important political position in the UK, is a rare feather in the cap. No doubt, Sunak will be judged by his performance, but his steadfastness in his political beliefs and a vision that dovetails with that of Prime Minister Johnson are indicators of the path that he is likely to take. Unlike Javid, Sunak campaigned for Leave in the EU referendum, and his constituency followed his lead with 55 per cent voting Leave. He has a personal equation with PM Johnson and is open to advice from the Prime Minister’s office, something that was a sticking point with Javid. It remains to be seen how dexterously he handles the competing pressures and maintains the independence expected from the Treasury. Post-colonial Britain is, indeed, a world where Britons of Asian origin are getting a chance to play a significant role in the post-Brexit world. That’s all that an immigrant asks for, an opportunity. The rest is taken care of by talent and hard work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/uks-new-chancellor-41725
