15-10-2020||Incorrigible as ever||China’s Ladakh rant||Ladakh’s UT status, granted last year with the bifurcation of J&K, is India’s internal matter. China is trying to use the festering border dispute as a pretext to meddle in India’s affairs and mislead the international community, but this could prove to be yet another exercise in futility. In August this year, coinciding with the first anniversary of the abrogation of Article 370, China had repeatedly sought in vain to initiate a discussion on Jammu and Kashmir at the UN Security Council. Interfering in a bilateral matter, China had called India’s decision ‘illegal and invalid’, parroting the line of its all-weather friend Pakistan.India has been rightly insisting on speedy and complete disengagement of troops from the flash points in eastern Ladakh and the restoration of status quo ante of April. China, however, is reluctant to do a climbdown, cocking a snook at past as well as present pacts. The seventh round of military talks has been euphemistically termed ‘positive and constructive’ as there is no breakthrough in sight. The gains achieved during the ministerial parleys are likely to be short-lived in view of the trust deficit. India has no reason to lower its guard in the diplomatic arena or on the ground. The PLA’s incursions have been effectively repelled by the Indian troops in recent months, but the former can resort to more misadventures during the harsh winter ahead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/chinas-ladakh-rant-155973
15-10-2020||The failure of the authorities in Haryana to allot flats meant for BPL families in Bahadurgarh shows how the government machinery functions when it comes to implementing schemes on the ground. The flats||BPL flats unallotted||Bahadurgarh is an industrial town with proximity to Delhi and Rohtak with a large working class population that caters to business and industries in the area. In fact, there are other cities in Haryana like Faridabad, Gurugram and Sonepat that have been favoured as residential hubs because of their locational advantage. While housing schemes are planned keeping in view the growth in population and income slabs, failure to execute it timely points to bottlenecks underlining the need for remedial steps. Besides identifying the beneficiaries, credit facilities and subsidy, if provided for, has to be ensured. Also, clearance by the nodal agency for giving possession is required.The JNNURM was conceived to give impetus to urban infrastructure and services. Its aim was to make cities ‘efficient, equitable and accountable’ by making them partners in economic and social development and ensuring inclusive growth. But the aim of the ambitious scheme itself is under a cloud now with the pandemic and the lockdown having seen the migration of the workforce from the cities in large numbers, defeating its very purpose. Accordingly, plans chalked out for these sections are likely to get affected. With economic activities yet to gather steam, there is uncertainty over the return of the workforce and the government may well have to rethink its priorities to ensure its aims are achieved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bpl-flats-unallotted-155915
