16-05-2020||THE US accounts for around one-third of the world’s Covid-19 cases and more than one-fourth of the fatalities. The clamour for holding China accountable for the alleged cover-up that led to the global spread of the pandemic has been growing rapidly in America. US President Donald Trump’s tough talk on taking Beijing to task articulates not only the Americans’ rising animosity towards China but also his own re-election ambitions. Trump is finding himself under increasing pressure to walk the talk. Early this week||American uproar||Not surprisingly, Trump’s own accountability is under scrutiny. Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee and a former Vice President, is out to corner the President for a ‘catastrophic set of failures’ in his approach to China. The American citizenry is sharply divided over Trump’s handling of China. Considering the geopolitical ground realities, it will be tough for the US to wage a trade war on its own against another superpower.America’s moves are being watched closely by India, which has its own battered economy to rebuild. With self-reliance being the new buzzword, New Delhi would be better off engaging with Washington. India would have to recalibrate its strategy time and again, depending on how and to what extent the US hurts China.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/american-uproar-85449
16-05-2020||In this summer of unprecedented privations||Onus on the states||After the second tranche of relief announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday, the onus is now on the state governments to stop the walking migrant workers, offer them cooked food, shelter and transportation to the nearest railway station. The Centre has sanctioned Rs 3,500 crore to provide five kg of rice or wheat and one kg of pulse free for two months to those migrant labourers who do not possess a ration card. This ought to provide immediate relief to eight crore migrants. Free foodgrains and allocation of Rs 5,000 crore for street vendors can immediately stop the exodus if the state governments imaginatively spread the word and implement these decisions, whereas, one nation-one ration card, affordable rental housing complexes for migrants and the Rs 6,000 crore worth employment generation programme for tribals are all policy pronouncements that would need time for implementation. The hiked MGNREGA rates of Rs 202 per day and the 40-50 per cent buoyancy in the number of beneficiaries ought to calm the frayed nerves of the returning migrants.However, the primary implementing agency for all these relief measures are the state governments, which should not have allowed the migrants to become so desperate that they had to walk from Punjab to Bihar or Maharashtra to Odisha or Himachal Pradesh to Madhya Pradesh. Sitharaman on Thursday reiterated that the Centre had provided Rs 11,000 crore to the state governments to set up relief centres to house the migrants and to provide them with cooked food. Ration shops on their own will not be able to distribute free grains and pulses. Only the state governments can make a difference now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/onus-on-the-states-85447
