16-07-2020||The fear of catching infection plays a bigger role than lockdown orders in making people stay at home and avoid high-risk locations||Restrictions are back||As a last resort, various states and UTs have cracked the whip. Strict curbs are back in most parts of the Kashmir valley. Himachal Pradesh has added 10 high-load Covid cities to the compulsory institutional or paid quarantine list, combined with additional formalities for all outsiders. A lockdown is in place in Bengaluru and Pune. Uttar Pradesh has decided to enforce stringent restrictions during weekends. The Punjab government has barred all public gatherings, while restricting social gatherings to five persons and wedding functions to 30 guests instead of 50. Those found violating the curbs shall face mandatory FIRs. A test case would be that of the political leaders. Their capacity to do as they wish, when they wish is without limits. How they are dealt with and how they conduct themselves would send a strong message.The pandemic is here to stay, for now, and living in denial defies logic. The process has been difficult, anxiety-prone and stressful, and not much is expected to change soon. Defiance is not the answer, compliance is. When the whole of humanity is affected, taking care of oneself means taking care of the other. This is a time of personal sacrifice for public good.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/restrictions-are-back-113530
16-07-2020||As the ever-rising tally of coronavirus cases casts a shadow on the reopening of schools and the possibility of children relying on online classes for an uncertain period increases||Capping kids’ screen time||When the pandemic-induced lockdown coincided with the onset of the new academic year, educators scrambled to compensate the schoolchildren for the disruption in their studies. Lessons began to be imparted through the digital medium in the confines of homes, sparking a debate on their cognitive impact, reach and access. Both the teacher and taught suddenly found themselves in the deep end of a new tech-based pedagogical mode. Irrespective of their expertise or equipment, they were overnight expected to adapt to imparting/ingesting knowledge via hi-tech Internet-powered computers, laptops, iPads and smartphones. Meeting this huge challenge meant digging deep into pockets and logging in unreasonably long and odd hours. Equally at sea, parents were willy-nilly made partners in this exercise. They had to not only provide costly gadgets to their wards — or, risk being left behind in this highly competitive zone of children securing up to 100 per cent marks — but also monitor their activities.In the absence of any limit to the time the children were allowed to be online, their screen time shot up. This not only raised the spectre of the impressionable young minds digressing into the big, bad virtual world, but also endangered their health. Under the circumstances, the HRD norms on online instruction — notwithstanding its flaws — aim to best tide over the tough time till regular classes resume. However, they fail to tackle the niggling issue of reaching out to the poor children deprived of e-learning for want of necessary digital infrastructure. Denial of a level playing field goes against the right to education of the young children. If this gulf is not bridged, it is bound to have long-term socio-economic repercussions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/capping-kids-screen-time-113525
