16-04-2020||It was a dam waiting to burst. And it did||Bandra furore||The shocking incident caught everybody napping, be it the police, the Railways or the Maharashtra Government. The spot is located barely 2 km from the residence of CM Uddhav Thackeray, yet the labourers managed to flout the prohibitory orders, trickling in from nearby places. This free-for-all shows that the governments have failed to streamline relief operations for the jobless workers. Rather than indulging in the all-too-familiar blame game, the Central and state governments need to urgently work out ways to address the concerns of the migrant population.The Railways’ inexplicable move to keep bookings open during the 21-day lockdown — despite the unlikelihood of resumption of passenger services amid the pandemic outbreak — was exactly what the rumour-mongers needed to mislead the people. The Bandra episode has sharply brought under scrutiny the hazardous spread of rumours and fake news through social and electronic media. An FIR has been registered against a TV journalist over his incorrect report that trains would restart. The authorities must crack the whip on fake news, which poses a threat to law and order. A proactive approach is needed to counter misinformation before things spin out of control. The media, on its part, should put in place a foolproof fact-check mechanism, leaving no room for ambiguity or manipulation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bandra-furore-71791
16-04-2020||The contours of the promise made by PM Narendra Modi that restrictions on certain industries and sectors would be eased in areas that are not Covid-19 hotspots or containment zones from April 20 have become clear||Easing lockdown curbs||The lifting of curbs on agriculture, the mainstay of our country, is in sync with the time of harvesting of rabi crops. Punjab, which has officially started wheat procurement, has a massive task ahead, rendered more challenging by the need to keep the virus at bay. The authorities and arhtiyas have their hands full as they prepare to procure 135 lakh tonnes of crop, worth Rs 26,000 crore, that is expected to arrive in the mandis — their number increased to 3,691 to maintain social distancing. Packaging, loading, unloading and transport of agriculture produce, similarly call for a staggered approach. Thankfully, many migrant labourers had preferred to stay back in the state in anticipation of the harvest season when the lockdown was first announced.Given the constraints necessitated by the deadly virus, education, hotel, entertainment and other sectors remain reined in. Till all lives and livelihoods inch towards normalcy, government policy must factor in the affected populace in its aid and stimulus packages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/easing-lockdown-curbs-71784
