17-09-2020||There is a surge in the demand for medical oxygen cylinders as the country is faced with an onslaught of Covid-19 cases||Stocking medical oxygen||Sadly, sensing an opportunity in this adversity, unscrupulous dealers have jacked up the prices and are selling these essential commodities on the black market, leading to fear of shortage of supplies. After stories of medical oxygen scarcity in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra trickled in, panic-buying of oxygen cylinders has started in Punjab, too. With a large chunk of the population suffering from comorbidities such as hypertension and diabetes, the dread of the need for oxygen therapy is palpable. The data bears out the alarm: since August, the Covid situation in Punjab has deteriorated, with the state reporting over 45,000 cases and more than 1,400 deaths. While the national case fatality rate (CFR) has declined to 1.7 per cent, Punjab has bucked the trend and is witnessing a high CFR of nearly 3 per cent.The Capt Amarinder Singh government must allay the fears of the people and assure them of adequate quantities of medical commodities vital to fight the Covid battle. There are reports that the nodal officers appointed to deal with the pandemic have tied up with medical oxygen manufacturers to keep up the supply and ensure a cap on the prices. The officers also have the onerous task of strengthening citizens’ faith in the government facilities and abilities. It is vital to check the undue panic and resultant hoarding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/stocking-medical-oxygen-142154
17-09-2020||INDIA’S electronic media||Restraining rabid shows||Making a scathing observation that most of the channels are running for the sake of TRPs, the apex court has suggested that a panel of apolitical experts be set up to help in self-regulating the electronic media. Despite legislative checks and balances, the situation has only gone from bad to worse. Enacted in 1995, the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act empowers the authorities to prohibit the telecast of programmes that are likely to cause communal discord. Last week, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting had merely asked Sudarshan TV to ensure that its show did not violate the programme code, while ruling out pre-censorship.The electronic media is already under judicial scrutiny over the no-holds-barred coverage of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and the subsequent probe. The whole case has been reduced to a Bollywood potboiler. Citing freedom of speech to justify objectionable content is fraught with dangerous consequences. The Constitution authorises the State to impose ‘reasonable restrictions’ on the exercise of this right on the grounds of maintaining public order, decency, morality etc. With the State not doing the needful at times, the judiciary has taken upon itself the tough task of striking a balance between safeguarding free speech and other constitutional values. The rabble-rousing TV channels, in turn, should introspect why their credibility is in free fall.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/restraining-rabid-shows-142155
