17-12-2020||That only 25 of the 76 extinct water bodies of Faridabad can be revived — as is clear in Haryana’s response to the NGT — underscores the dismal state of affairs. At the same time||NCR’s water woes||Sailing in the same boat of acute water infrastructure crisis is the other city bordering Delhi in the state: Gurugram. In the last 60 years, as the small town boomed into today’s Millennium City, impending doom was lurking behind the all-round greed of ‘development’. The alarming decline of 82 per cent in its groundwater table in the last decade and loss of 389 of the 640 water bodies in the last six decades has put Gurugram in the unenviable list of 20 cities that would be left with no groundwater by 2020, as per the Niti Aayog. With natural water bodies lost to mindless concretisation, a monsoon, instead of recharging the groundwater or storing rainwater, results in flooding. The residents are perennially fretting over water woes.Clearly, there is no scope for further apathy or slip-ups. The key role that water bodies play in the supply of water for domestic needs and agriculture cannot be over-emphasised. And, giving hope that all is not lost are the conservation efforts afoot to restore the ecological glory of the region, such as recycling the waste and reviving the indigenous flora and fauna. The award-winning restoration of the Wazirabad bundh by desilting is a shining example of good practices involving civil society-government collaboration. Indeed, water management strategies can succeed only when all stakeholders pitch in. Only then will our pitchers remain filled with water.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/ncrs-water-woes-185433
17-12-2020||CHINA’s aggressive posturing along the Line of Actual Control and its growing footprint in the Indian Ocean region have prompted India’s armed forces to considerably raise their level of preparedness on land||Maritime command||The long-awaited move comes 19 years after India established its first unified command — the Andaman and Nicobar Command (ANC). Over the years, the ANC has been plagued by inadequate development of infrastructure, with a slew of environmental and coastal regulatory clearances being a major challenge. The unsavoury tug of war between the services is another stumbling block. The prolonged standoff in Ladakh apparently made the defence top brass look for ways to fast-track plans to strengthen the ANC. These projects should be executed without delay, even as the focus would eventually shift to the proposed maritime command, which is likely to be based in Karnataka. In view of the Andaman & Nicobar experience, infrastructural issues and mandatory clearances should be dealt with on priority so that the command becomes operational in a year or so, as envisaged.The Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Bipin Rawat, has big plans to integrate the Army, Navy and Air Force while ‘retaining the niche capabilities of each service’. Considering the current geostrategic scenario, it’s clear that no single service can handle a conflict situation on its own. The key is to make the integration seamless so as to multiply the country’s combat potential. The maritime command will serve its purpose only if various forces work as a cohesive unit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/maritime-command-185432
