18-09-2020||With over 51 lakh cases and around 84||Russian vaccine||Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials of Sputnik V have demonstrated ‘no serious adverse effects and a stable immune response in participants’, according to a research paper published earlier this month in The Lancet. However, these two phases had just 70-odd participants — too small a sample size to arrive at definitive conclusions. It’s the result of Phase 3, in which thousands of people are involved to ascertain the efficacy and safety of the vaccine over a period of a few months, that matters the most.After the Indian Council of Medical Research caused a stir by setting an improbable deadline (August 15) for an indigenous vaccine, the government is understandably wary of jumping the gun. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said in Rajya Sabha on Thursday that the coronavirus vaccine will be made available in the country by the start of next year. India is the manufacturing partner of Covishield, a vaccine candidate developed jointly by the University of Oxford’s Jenner Institute and AstraZeneca. British-Swedish pharma major AstraZeneca had to suspend global trials recently after a participant in the UK showed a serious side-effect. However, Oxford has stated that the trial illnesses may not be due to the vaccine shot, even as trials have resumed in Britain, Brazil and South Africa. Under the circumstances, the Russian vaccine could be India’s best bet to save millions of lives, provided the notorious Indian red tape is not allowed to impede the process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/russian-vaccine-142652
18-09-2020||The mixed reaction in Himachal Pradesh to the decision to do away with restrictions on entry to the hill state||Himachal opens borders||The Chief Minister’s announcement that the decision is in line with the Centre’s appeal for unlocking, even though the number of Covid cases has crossed 10,000, is a candid admission that Himachal can no longer sustain itself with a closed-door policy. The economy has to get back on track and livelihoods have to be created. While reassuring the people about the arrangements and preparedness to deal with the virus cases, he also brought attention to the state’s low fatality rate of 0.8 per cent, as compared to the national figure of 1.64 per cent, and even higher in neighbouring Punjab.Opening or keeping shutters down on hotels, resorts, eateries and tourist sites is best left to individual choice — or, if a panchayat or a civic body so wishes, that of a village or a town — but applying brakes on trade and business cannot be the state policy. That distinction has been made clear, and rightly so. However, the government should remain mindful of the apprehensions about a huge surge in coronavirus cases and tread carefully. Unrestricted entry is fine, but Himachal has to guard against any softening of the stand on taking precautions. Standard safety guidelines for tourists and those coming home would be in their interest, and those of the hosts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/himachal-opens-borders-142653
