18-08-2020||WITH hardly a day going without a rape case making headlines in India||Brutal rapes rattle UP||Despite the stringent provisions made in the law to ensure protection for women and children against sexual offenders and predators after the atrocious Nirbhaya rape case of 2012, there is no let-up in crime against women. The latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data points to some appalling figures. Compared to 32,559 rape cases registered in 2017, the number went up to 33,356 in 2018. Significantly, every fourth victim was a minor in 2018 and in nearly 94 per cent cases, the victims were known to the offenders. Uttar Pradesh reported the third highest cases, after Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.This is the result of multiple factors. First and foremost, it reflects the abject failure of our society to bring up our sons to respect women and their agency. Exacerbating the situation are the poorly conducted investigations and slow justice system. The conviction rate for rape is only 27.2 per cent. As the majority of criminals get away with impunity, it is not surprising that law remains a poor deterrent, especially for the well-connected and highly placed people. Though the Yogi Adityanath government came to power on the promise of ending jungle raj in UP, women are far from the promised land. The victims must get justice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/brutal-rapes-rattle-up-127689
18-08-2020||MAHENDRA SINGH DHONI||Dhoni calls it a day||Dhoni’s legacy is unquestionable: Definitely India’s greatest limited-overs captain, probably the greatest finisher in white-ball cricket, and a great captain in Test cricket. India won three biggest ICC trophies under him, his mark evident on each triumph — the 2007 T20 World Cup, the 2011 50-over World Cup and the 2013 Champions Trophy. India became the No. 1 Test team for the first time under Dhoni in 2009. As a batsman, he started out as an aggressive strokeplayer who hit the ball incredibly hard; he evolved into a very cerebral batsman who paced his innings perfectly in every format of the sport. He was not the most natural wicketkeeper but was lightning-fast and worked very hard on his skills behind the wickets.The sum of all this is that he became a superstar, a man who soared past even the likes of Sachin Tendulkar and Rahul Dravid on the popularity charts. He was an advertiser’s dream, a dashing sports star with a mane of flowing hair which earned the admiration of even Pakistan’s head of state. Our greats in the past have bickered over captaincy. Dhoni, though a born leader, did not covet captaincy and gave it up of his own will. He may have been a bit late in ending his career, but the gulf he leaves won’t be filled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/dhoni-calls-it-a-day-127685
