18-07-2020||What had initially appeared to be an intra-Congress tussle in Rajasthan has turned into a ‘Congress vs BJP’ slanging match after the emergence of audio clips in which Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat is purportedly heard having a conversation with a Congress MLA and a BJP leader about toppling the Ashok Gehlot government. The state’s Special Operations Group has promptly registered a couple of FIRs on a complaint by the Congress. An impartial||Rajasthan slugfest||Attempts to subvert democracy and the electoral process have become far too common in recent years. Several states have witnessed post-poll machinations and short-lived governments, with the latest casualty being Madhya Pradesh. The Congress had wrested power from the BJP by winning the 2018 MP Assembly polls, but the latter turned the tables on the ruling party earlier this year with the help of some obliging MLAs. In Goa and Manipur, which produced hung Assemblies in 2017, the BJP formed the government despite having won fewer seats than the Congress. Last year, the long-drawn-out Karnataka ‘nataka’ and the Maharashtra muddle also amounted to a betrayal of the voters’ mandate.Whenever a government finds itself on shaky ground, the clamour for strengthening or reviewing the anti-defection law gets louder. Indeed, loopholes in this law enable unscrupulous elected representatives to switch loyalties as whopping sums of money allegedly change hands. With the power struggle in Rajasthan set to get uglier inside as well as outside the courts, the credibility of the parties concerned has come under sharp scrutiny. How the major players acquit themselves will demonstrate their respect, or lack of it, for democracy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/rajasthan-slugfest-114498
18-07-2020||The coronavirus pandemic has served to rewrite the priorities of the country’s healthcare system. The surge in the number of cases and the lopsided nature of the medical facilities available||Cap on treatment cost||Private hospitals, on their part, have maintained that the capping of the cost is unfair as it also means treating the underlying co-morbidities. The focus has to be on clinical outcome, not just the cost. The high cost of treatment in private hospitals has also been ascribed to the health cess imposed in this year’s Budget on the import of medical equipment which most private hospitals do to provide specialised healthcare. Actually, therefore, the initiative to put a cap on the cost of treatment should have come from the Centre itself, instead of leaving it to the states.There has been a growing realisation that the cost of treatment for Covid has to be brought down to combat its spread. Some effort in this direction is already visible with IIT-Delhi coming out with a low-cost test kit and the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research suggesting a cap on the price of a drug like Remdesivir to reduce the cost of treatment. The government has been urging people to use masks, maintain hygiene and practise social distancing as preventive measures to ward off the disease. The pandemic has seen a push to healthcare but it has to be inclusive and not Covid-exclusive by extending facilities to all medical institutions and bringing all practitioners of the trade under its ambit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/cap-on-treatment-cost-114497
