18-06-2020||Amid the global race for a Covid-19 vaccine||Life-saving steroid||The steroid can be especially beneficial for India, which is recording thousands of Covid cases and hundreds of deaths on a daily basis. The country has a very high recovery rate as the cured patients far outnumber the active cases. The mortality rate is relatively low (around 3%), but it’s still a cause for concern, and that’s why India urgently needs a lifesaver. As per estimates, it costs less than Rs 5,000 to save a life with low-dose dexamethasone.Dexamethasone is expected to work in cases where antiviral drug remdesivir may not prove effective. Remdesivir, which has been used for ebola, apparently shortens the recovery time for Covid patients, but the evidence is not solid enough to establish whether it also reduces mortality. Though India, the US and a few other countries have approved this drug for emergency use, its limited supply is turning out to be a stumbling block. Another challenge for the Indian government is to block remdesivir imports from unauthorised suppliers based in countries such as Bangladesh. Given the desperate situation, well-regulated use of dexamethasone can turn the tide and lessen the lethal impact of the virus that has ravaged developed as well as developing countries around the world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/life-saving-steroid-100709
18-06-2020||The bloody clash on the Line of Actual Control on Monday night should have been averted. The loss of 20 soldiers||Resolute response||Meanwhile, the usually rabid Chinese propaganda newspaper, Global Times — considered to reflect the thinking of the Chinese leadership — has taken a benign, reasonable stand offering peace and goodwill, claiming the nondisclosure of Chinese casualties as proof of restraint. Though Global Times unambiguously attempts to claim military superiority over India and conveys Chinese concerns of Washington offering a ‘lever’ to worsen India-China ties, the tone is uncharacteristically reconciliatory. The mouthpiece says that China ‘does not and will not create conflicts’. This could be deceptive diplomacy at its best. But such deception ought to be responded with a greater degree of cautious cynicism.Foreign policy and national security are matters of grave import, which ought to be sagaciously handled. Instead, some Indian politicians have a tendency to use border disputes and potential flashpoints as instruments of petty politics against domestic rivals. The PM’s decision to call an all-party meeting is a step in the right direction. His statement on a ‘befitting reply’ to China ought to dispel doubts about India’s indignation. There is no need for bravado in utterances that can affect bilateral relations adversely. India-China relations have always been edgy since India offered asylum to Dalai Lama. China sees India as a threat and has worked overtime to bolster its western front. India should reciprocate by guarding its eastern front, quietly and effectively with resolute response to any act of aggression.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/resolute-response-100710
