18-12-2020||THE Supreme Court’s suggestion to put on hold the implementation of the contentious new farm laws to enable negotiations with the farmers needs serious consideration||Pay heed to apex court||The protesting unions seem indifferent to the idea of constituting a panel to break the deadlock, arguing that the time for such an exercise was before enactment of the laws, and sticking to their line of not budging till the laws are repealed. There has been an apparent hardening of stand on the Centre’s part, too, with senior leaders going for the jugular. Reservations and rancour on both sides notwithstanding, obduracy cannot be a goal in itself, nor the determined efforts to bring the other down. A call must go out across the spectrum — be it those holding the reins of power, the protesters and supporters, politicians of all hues and civil society at large — to tone down the rhetoric and invest in talks, no matter the time it takes. The Centre has to show the magnanimity to take the lead.The sight of farmers spending nights out in the biting cold and the spate of deaths, including the suicide by a preacher, are extremely disturbing. Every day that the protest continues only adds to the distress. Any reform is a sign of executive will, butit cannot be shoved down the throats of the affected people or be seen in terms of victory or defeat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/pay-heed-to-apex-court-185916
18-12-2020||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has started proceedings against judicial officers||Welcome action||The pandemic exacerbated problems for the judiciary in the form of discontinuation of physical hearings in courts, prolonging litigation even further. While the use of video-conferencing did help to some extent, the reach of technology is equally important for seamless working. Along with the judges and the lawyers, there are other staff that help in court work, making monitoring a tough job. The Punjab and Haryana High Court had faced a complex situation earlier in the cash-at-doorstep case in which action was initiated. A former Chief Justice of the High Court, Tirath Singh Thakur, who went on to become the CJI, had lamented before the Prime Minister about the load of litigation and vacancies not being filled or getting stuck at the level of the government.Of late, appointments have been made to High Courts, which can be termed as a right step. Along with this, there is a need to build on the relationship between the Bar and the Bench to enable a hassle-free atmosphere for functioning. Frivolous litigation also needs to be guarded against. The subordinate judiciary plays a crucial role in the dispensing of justice. The possibility of training and sensitising its members should be looked into to make it efficient and effective along with the welcome measures taken by the HC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/welcome-action-185918
