19-05-2020||The Rs 40||Relief on ground||In another major reform, a new public sector enterprise policy envisages at least one state-run company in strategic sectors, and eventual privatisation of state-owned firms in other segments. The disinvestment programme would get a boost, but what will and won’t be strategic is a key decision. Further consolidation and mergers in the banking sector also seem to be on the cards. The suspension of new bankruptcy filings on loan defaults for a year and raising the threshold for insolvency under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) to Rs 1 crore is likely to insulate MSMEs from IBC proceedings.Across five tranches, Nirmala Sitharaman has presented 54 measures in total, of which 30 are policy reforms. The infusion of less-than-expected liquidity, which is seen as crucial to the revival of the economy, remains a concern. ‘Jitna bhi karo kum hai,’ she replied to a question on whether the Centre could have done more. The focus, she stressed, should be on where the money is going, how it is used to prevent an MSME from closing shop, and how it is going to help workers to get wages. No argument on that. To what extent and how soon the measures bring about a quantifiable change on the ground would be the real test.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/relief-on-ground-86668
19-05-2020||As hordes of migrant workers trudge to their far-flung hometowns and villages in UP||Labour crunch imminent||However, with the Central government providing the fiscal push to help the small and medium industries rev up, the onus of winning back the confidence of the workforce — the backbone of our industry — rests with the state government and the employers. The task of reassuring lakhs of workers suffering from a sense of having been left in the lurch is uphill, but the promise of payment of pending wages and adequate work is a potent tool. The depleting workforce following the imminent exodus of nearly 10 lakh workers who have registered to leave Punjab is worrisome. Ludhiana is the most impacted as 40 per cent of the state’s 2.52 lakh units are located in this industrial hub. Similarly bleak is the condition in neighbouring Haryana and Himachal Pradesh as they scramble to stem the tide of outgoing labour.The migrant workers would do well to impassively weigh in their livelihood in the states of their karma against that in their home states which are already creaking under the burden of a huge influx of returnees that entails a quarantine period and shrinking job opportunities under MGNREGS. With the trains having chugged back on track, the prospect of visiting home a bit later with pockets full should appeal to their sentiment. An assurance to this effect is needed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/labour-crunch-imminent-86671
