19-02-2020||In a historic order upholding the right of women to equal opportunity in the Indian Army||Lady in command post||History is witness to a number of awe-inspiring and brave women leading thousands of men in battles, including the famous Joan of Arc and our very own Rani of Jhansi. Recognising the valour and capability of women in military matters in the past couple of decades, countries such as the US, Israel, North Korea, France, Germany, Netherlands, Australia and Canada have allowed women in groundbreaking combat positions. While stopping short of granting this role to the Indian women, the Supreme Court judgment notably rubbished the patriarchal concept that portrays women as weak by pointing out the fact that 30 per cent of our women officers are deployed in conflict zones. This effectively exposes the government stance that women are physiologically unfit for higher Army ranks as farcical and hollow.In the light of the forward-looking order that bestows dignity on able women, it is now a question of time before women officers in the Indian Army acquire positions of command. In the meanwhile, the rank and file of the military would do well to throw outdated perceptions of male superiority out of the window — that are generally proffered to keep them down — and be prepared to take orders from them. The mission is of utmost importance and women are equally capable of helming it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/lady-in-command-post-43733
19-02-2020||In a welcome initiative||Siege at Shaheen Bagh||There have been signs of a thaw with Home Minister Amit Shah expressing regret over the statements made by ministers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi clarified that the CAA had nothing to do with Indian Muslims and that there had been no discussions on the NRC in his government. But concerns remain. Bangladesh is worried over migrants even as Prime Minister Modi has taken up the cause of Tamils in Sri Lanka, while that country described the CAA as the internal affair of India.The need is to be flexible and reach out to the protesters. The agitationists should recall the Gandhian method of withdrawing protests when needed. The Delhi elections are over and the government should reassure its citizens. A political problem should have a political solution. The date for next hearing in the case happens to coincide with the visit of US President Donald Trump. Convincing the protesters to lift the siege at Shaheen Bagh would help assuage concerns on this count.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/siege-at-shaheen-bagh-43732
