19-01-2021||The fiat issued by a district health official in Jharkhand asking government staffers to get vaccinated or be prepared for salary interruption was rather unusual. The order — later withdrawn after a backlash — was also contrary to the directive of the state Health Minister that cautioned about the proper exercise of the vaccine and warned against making it experimental. While the inoculation drive for the coronavirus has finally got off the ground||Vaccine diktat||The government plans to get healthcare and frontline workers inoculated in the first phase. Arrangements have been made to watch out for harmful reactions as adverse effects have been reported in some cases. It has been clarified that vaccination is voluntary but advisable, with senior health officials like the AIIMS Director in Delhi leading from the front by taking the shot along with other health workers.The vaccination drive is supposed to be citizen-centric, available to everyone, anywhere and anytime. The eligibility conditions have been laid down by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to help in prioritising the recipients. Technical glitches and other hassles may account for the initial hesitation and confusion but they need to be sorted out. The administering of the vaccine is restricted at the moment and there are apprehensions of problems to be encountered when the drive enters its third phase to cover those above the age of 50. A vaccine for Covid marks the culmination of efforts to contain the virus. In the early stages of the pandemic, hygiene and social distancing were advocated to contain the surge. The relevance of precautionary measures remains even as the efficacy of the vaccine unfolds gradually by having a better understanding of the population receiving the jab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/vaccine-diktat-200334
19-01-2021||The upcoming Union Budget is a not-to-be-missed opportunity for the government to make the most of some positive developments||Budget expectations||The ongoing financial year has wreaked havoc on millions of lives and livelihoods. According to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the country’s economy is projected to shrink by 7.5 per cent in the fiscal ending on March 31, 2021. The International Monetary Fund and the World Bank have painted an even gloomier picture — a contraction of 10.3 per cent and 9.6 per cent, respectively. But the worst seems to be over. On the bright side, a UN report has forecast that the country’s economy could prove to be the ‘most resilient’ in South and South-West Asia over the long term.Repeatedly accused of eschewing a dialogic approach, the government is apparently keen to prepare a Budget that will factor in inputs from a wide range of stakeholders. During recent deliberations with the Prime Minister, some top economists had suggested three ways to revitalise the economy: intensify privatisation, avoid challenging international arbitrations, and increase infrastructure spending. Former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan has stressed the need to prioritise spending with the aim of providing relief to poor households and small businesses, which bore the brunt of the pandemic. Restoration and creation of jobs must be high on the government’s to-do list. The vaccination programme is expected to reduce Covid-19 to a footnote in public memory, but that alone won’t be enough to raise the confidence of consumers and investors. A lot will depend on well-thought-out policy interventions that inspire trust.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/budget-expectations-200333
