19-09-2020||The start of the IPL today||IPL in the Emirates||For the first time ever, the whole of the IPL would be played outside India — two earlier editions were played partly outside India due to the General Elections. The choice of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to host the IPL is understandable, but also somewhat dismaying. The UAE seems to attract a lot of people interested in corrupting sport — just five days ago, the International Cricket Council (ICC) charged two UAE cricketers for accepting ‘bribe/gifts’ in order to fix matches. In April, the ICC banned Deepak Aggarwal, a Dubai-based owner of a T10 League franchise, for ‘obstructing or delaying an investigation’, following uncovering of corrupt practices in cricket. Aggarwal, who is a free man as there are no criminal charges against him, is interested in the IPL, too. During the 2018 tournament, he illegally sought team information from Sunrisers Hyderabad player Shakib Al Hasan, who was banned when this came to light.The track record of the Indian board and IPL management is not stellar when it comes to acting strongly against corruption — remember how they tried to brush the IPL betting and spot-fixing scandal under the carpet in 2013? It’s not a good sign that BCCI has discarded the services of the ICC’s anti-corruption unit for the IPL and instead, hired a private sports integrity solutions company. Let there be play, but let there be integrity in sport, too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/ipl-in-the-emirates-143175
19-09-2020||In the glare of unbridled power||Harsimrat Badal’s resignation||The Akali Dal-RSS alliance was cemented in 1967 when theGurnam Singh government was propped up in Punjab by Jana Sangh and the Communists. And it was with Jana Sangh support that Parkash Singh Badal first got sworn in as Chief Minister on March 27, 1970, as the leader of the Akali Dal (Sant group) along with Balwant Singh and Balram Das Tandon of Jana Sangh. It is this 50-year-long relationship that is getting severely strained as Badal’s daughter-in-law walks out of the government.The three farm Bills were discussed and approved by the Union Cabinet, where Harsimrat Badal could have put her foot down. The new laws dismantling the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee regime allowing farmers the benefit of seamless movement of produce with the protection of Minimum Support Price seemed a progressive step for the farmers till a statewide agitation shook the political leadership. The Congress turned it into a successful mobilisation ploy against the Centre and the Akalis, leaving the Badals with little choice but to cut themselves adrift as they launch the 2022 poll campaign. It is still not clear whether the agitation is triggered by the fears of the arhtiyas or farmers, for PM Narendra Modi, while reaffirming the continuance of MSP, has slammed middlemen for misinforming the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/harsimrat-badals-resignation-143177
