20-08-2020||The leadership crisis that has bedeviled the Congress for over a year now||Grand old issue||Ever since Rahul Gandhi quit as the grand old party’s president after the second successive poll debacle in the General Election last May, he has firmly stood his ground, bucking repeated demands by senior Congress leaders to retract his resignation. However, since that did not lead to the election or selection of a non-Gandhi leader acceptable to the faction-ridden AICC, Sonia Gandhi was chosen as the interim party chief last August. The matter has remained in limbo, necessitating her continuation even a year later. The vacuum at the top has rendered the second-most important party in the country a rudderless one.Any further delay in the smooth transition of power and the passing on of the baton will push the directionless organisation further adrift in the choppy political waters. A clear hierarchy must be established if it has to stay relevant. The Congressmen must arrive at a decision on a leader — whether it is a Gandhi, a non-Gandhi, a young Turk or a veteran. A strong Opposition is an essential element for a healthy democracy. The grand old party that has won the confidence of the electorate for a major chunk of the post-Independence period owes it to the people to get its act together. It would be a pity if the Congress were to squander away its rich legacy. With various names popping up regularly for a possible president, it is apparent that there is no dearth of experienced persons of political acumen and administrative qualities ready to take on the leadership mantle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/grand-old-issue-128683
20-08-2020||That identity-based politics is gaining traction is reflected in the announcement by Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan that all government jobs in the state will be given to the locals. Though Chouhan’s statement is being seen as a political compulsion in the light of the Assembly bypolls in the Chambal-Gwalior region||Govt jobs for locals in MP||States like Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh have also pitched for giving jobs to locals post-lockdown. This is mostly because of the reverse exodus of migrants that has created a job shortage. But what Chouhan has to make sure is that, first, there are enough jobs. Even in the government sector, there are no jobs. Along with the public sector, the organised private sector has seen job losses, pay cuts and manpower rationalisation. Now, as economic activities start to pick up, the concern is about finding people to do the work. Offering jobs will also mean ensuring the required qualification. Promising government jobs to the locals is no solution for unemployment, for which the state also needs to attract investment and encourage private enterprise.A final roadmap of the MP plan is awaited but a distinction will be needed between ‘domicile’ and ‘place of birth’. In Jharkhand, for example, Babulal Marandi resigned as the chief minister after proposing a domicile policy for the state that had seen an influx of outsiders in the wake of industrialisation, creating a ‘locals versus outsiders’ situation. It led to huge protests. Indicating place of birth was to be a requirement if a nationwide NRC were to be implemented and it had caused confusion. Political though Chouhan’s concerns may be, he will be required to tread with caution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/govt-jobs-for-locals-in-mp-128677
