20-06-2020||The news of the release on Thursday evening of 10 Indian soldiers||Taking on China||The massive Chinese buildup, the extent of intrusion, if any, the Indian response — similar to the quick messaging on what transpires along the Line of Control, the government will have to rework its communication lines with the country on the LAC situation. It’s a crisis India is facing, not the government alone. Given the dexterity with which the Chinese machinery can put a spin, it is in India’s interest to say it as it is, even if what emerges does not look good. One, you are saved of the burden of trying to consistently prove wrong the barrage of falsehoods and more important, it can give shape to a coherent and united resolve to counter the adversary.This is no time for political squabbling or one-upmanship, but withholding information even from the Opposition and brushing aside tough questions related to national security is an unworthy reaction. The all-party meeting, thus, was the correct call, though the controversy over non-inclusion of some political parties was entirely avoidable. Taking the country along rather than avoiding the unavoidable is a far better proposition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/taking-on-china-101658
20-06-2020||Security arrangements in jails continue to be a matter of concern for states like Punjab and Haryana. At Ambala Central Jail||Phone seizure in jails||The frequent recovery of phones also serves as a pointer to the condition of inmates. There are not just convicts but also undertrials lodged in jails and getting justice is usually a long-winded process resulting in delays. But considering that jails also house gangsters and hardcore criminals, the use of phones for criminal activities like drug trafficking and extortion, or to fuel social unrest, is common. A provision for restrictive use with proper monitoring can take care of legitimate concerns of needy prisoners. The sale of SIM cards and handsets also needs monitoring, which is tough because of their easy availability. The location of the jails is a key factor as well. In Amritsar, the prison is situated close to a densely populated area and illegal material is occasionally flung over the boundary walls.Overcrowding creates myriad problems in jails, leading to clashes among inmates or between prisoners and the staff members. Prisons are also short of staff and amenities. Though decongestion of prisons has been done to some extent during the Covid-induced lockdown, the process ought to be streamlined in the long run. A plan initiated by Punjab to fix jammers and full-body scanners, besides using sniffer dogs, should be expedited. There is a need to keep a constant watch on security personnel to weed out those who operate in connivance with prisoners. The repeated seizure of phones inside jails makes it clear that an overhaul of the whole security system, based on state-of-the-art technology, is required.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/phone-seizure-in-jails-101625
