20-04-2020||With the lockdown extended till May 3||Longing for home||Amid this chaos, Uttar Pradesh has sent buses to bring back its students from Kota in Rajasthan and Haryana is keen on bringing migrant workers back from shelters to their homes within the state. Haryana has also allowed soap and detergent-making units to start work with limited manpower after first giving permission to pharmaceutical and cattle feed industries. Punjab has been affected badly by the coronavirus pandemic, especially when wheat harvesting has begun. The state has identified 24 containment zones and ordered rapid testing in all of them so that while the sick can be treated, others can be allowed to get back to work gradually. The state has taken preventive measures like making masks compulsory and not allowing services in these areas, but how long can it hold on is the question. The lockdown will have to be sustainable. But as the death of an ACP in Ludhiana shows, doing so will not be easy.Punjab has sent nearly one lakh tonnes of wheat and rice to other states through special trains during this crisis. The state will have to find ways to keep the economic clock — of which farming is the backbone — ticking. Deploying migrant workforce for these works, albeit after testing, could be one way out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/longing-for-home-73527
20-04-2020||AS the world continuously debates over how and when to reopen the pandemic-stricken economies||Business as usual||The WHO advisory wants any reopening to be slow and only when there is capacity to isolate cases and trace contacts. It also wants countries to wait at least two weeks to evaluate the impact before taking further action. Several European countries that have borne the brunt are taking a step-by-step, wait-and-watch approach. Italy, the worst hit, has lifted restrictions on stationery and children’s clothes shops but all other lockdown measures remain in place. In Spain, construction and manufacturing sectors returned to work on April 13 but the nationwide confinement, in force until April 26, is likely to last until May. Germany, which is Europe’s largest economy, will allow stores, car dealers and bike shops to reopen from April 20. Classes in schools will resume in the first week of May. Denmark, which was one of the first European countries to shut down, reopened care centres and schools for children in the primary grades on April 15. All other restrictions would apply at least until May 10.Back home, some experts predict that the easing of restrictions this week in parts of the country could see 45 per cent of the economy becoming operational. The least turnaround time is expected for the transport and farm operations. That said, the extent of distress, the sheer number of those affected and the inadequate state support only make the lockdown exit strategy more challenging in India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/business-as-usual-73526
