21-08-2020||For the security they offer||New recruitment agency||A preliminary examination is proposed to shortlist candidates for Group B and C non-technical posts. In place of the current model of several exams by different agencies, a candidate would be able to apply for a vacancy with the respective agency based on the NRA common eligibility test score. The test will be conducted for three levels: graduate, higher secondary and matriculate candidates. The final selection shall be made through separate tiers of examination conducted by the respective recruitment agencies.Conservative figures put at 61 lakh the number of salaried employees set to lose jobs this year. The unemployment rate among youngsters below the age of 25 could touch 32.5 per cent. These are not merely numbers, these are human stories. The pandemic-induced layoffs in the travel, tourism, food and services sectors have been on a massive scale. Employees once sacked are unlikely to be re-hired anytime soon, given the slow takeoff of the economy after the lockdowns. The governments have not done anything significant to help the private sector keep businesses afloat to save as many jobs as possible. Creating jobs is a challenge staring the Central and state governments in the face.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/new-recruitment-agency-129109
21-08-2020||Spurious liquor||Accountability for 120 deaths||There are gaping holes in the story about how denatured spirit reached Tarn Taran from Delhi after changing hands in Ludhiana and Moga. It especially needs to be explained how the businessman, apparently without any authorisation, managed to buy the harmful substance for purportedly preparing hand sanitisers and then in turn sold it to makers of illicit liquor. In recent months, The Tribune has red-flagged not only the pilferage of denatured spirit from distilleries but also the rampant use of lethal methanol for manufacturing adulterated sanitisers. However, the state authorities have been slow to put two and two together.Any attempt to shift the focus away from ascertaining the complicity of excise officials and distillery operators will only defeat the purpose of the probe and increase the likelihood of another major tragedy. Punjab can take a leaf out of Haryana’s book if it is really keen to stem the rot. The indictment of an Excise and Taxation Commissioner and a police officer by a special inquiry team probing the liquor scam in the neighbouring state demonstrates zero tolerance to dereliction of duty. The Punjab government has now decided to use GPS technology to monitor the transportation of extra neutral alcohol and ethanol by distilleries. Such a high-sounding move might come a cropper as long as the nexus between officials, manufacturers, suppliers and vendors continues to flourish. The buck has to stop here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/accountability-for-120-deaths-129110
