21-04-2020||PM Modi’s message about attaching ‘primacy to unity and brotherhood’||Bridging sectarian schism||It is an unfortunate fact that a large number of infections were traced back to a particular gathering. The spread of the virus is also tied to the dispersal of individuals who caught the disease there. All this has been given a communal colour. What to talk of individuals, even government agencies have been identifying those affected by the pandemic by their religious tags. The absence of clear instructions that would bar the discussion of the religious persuasion of the afflicted, which is often done when there are riots, etc., has led to right-wing vitriol, even from legislators of the ruling party, and commentators who spout the same line. A tremendous strain on the social fabric of this country, and the rest of the world, has been caused by the disruption attributable to the pandemic. This includes the lockdown and the economic consequences that have arisen due to it, the hardship caused to the public at large, and the lack of adequate provision to redress the needs of the poor. This is a time for the healing touch, not to further divide the people of this nation.Internationally, India’s rightful image as a secular state has suffered because of the ill-advised utterances of some right-wing activists. International organisations and some countries took exception to the treatment of minorities. Indeed, even India’s traditional friends in the Islamic world found it necessary to be critical. Now that the Prime Minister has sent a clear message, government agencies should follow it. The first step would be to desist from sending out bulletins that identify patients by faith, and not to allow such identification, or any discrimination against any community. We must fight this invisible enemy together.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bridging-sectarian-schism-73948
21-04-2020||ALONG with the medical staff on the frontline in the fight against Covid-19||Attacks on public servants||In Haryana, nearly 300 persons have been booked for attacking cops and healthcare professionals. Elsewhere, the atrocious attack on cops at a check-post in Punjab and the unruly scenes of medical workers being chased away in an Indore cluster led to national outrage. It is not just while working that the medical staff have been facing discrimination; it has followed them home. The increasing instances of abuse, attack and social boycott that the frontline warriors are being subjected to, can be attributed to a host of reasons. The fear of getting infected, the frustration at being confined home, the stress of job loss or shortfall in earnings, the loneliness and vulnerability that surround the unpredictability that the pandemic has managed to inject in the minds of people. None of these can still adequately explain how empathy can so brazenly turn into anger and distrust.Despite appeals by the PM himself, the medical staff, in particular, continue to face the threat of eviction by panicked landlords and neighbours. Calling doctors ‘incarnations of God’ who are saving lives while putting their own in danger, PM Modi has repeatedly cautioned people against harassing healthcare workers. His word is not taken lightly. The persuasive communicator that he is, he clearly needs to say more, and often enough. The healthcare staff cannot be expected to fight their own battle outside hospitals too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/attacks-on-public-servants-73939
