21-01-2021||India’s Covid-19 vaccination programme||Vaccine hesitancy||Despite the government’s assurances, the fact that Covaxin was given emergency use authorisation in the clinical trial mode is weighing heavily on the minds of some of the intended recipients. The fear of being treated like a guinea pig is probably making them shy away from the jab. The delay in releasing efficacy data for the vaccine’s Phase 3 trials has aggravated the trust deficit. The reluctance of the ‘Covid warriors’ can demotivate the masses. The resulting ripple effect will be detrimental to the whole programme that has been launched after months of painstaking research and trials.Transparency and communication are of essence when crores of citizens are to be inoculated. The government should be proactive in addressing AEFI (adverse events following immunisation). Also at stake is the country’s reputation as the world’s biggest manufacturer of vaccines. India, which has started exporting the shots, can’t allow apprehensions and misconceptions to gain ground. The onus is on senior doctors and medical officers to come forward to receive the jab; dilly-dallying on their part will send a wrong message to the juniors. Though there has been a significant decline in coronavirus cases and fatalities in recent weeks in India, the role of vaccines in containing the pandemic can’t be overstated. The authorities need to quickly get their act together to smoothen the rollout.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/vaccine-hesitancy-201391
21-01-2021||Sensing the fury of nature being unleashed upon them as miners dig out sand rampantly and illegally from the Sutlej riverbed||Plundering Sutlej sand||Despite the Rs 70-crore bridge having been rendered risky, the miners accused of breaching the rule of staying 500 metres away from a bridge seem to be enjoying impunity. High-level orders, too, seem to get crushed under the clout that the sand robbers are alleged to wield. In March 2018, a tweet by CM Amarinder Singh had ruffled some feathers. He made public the spotting of JCB machines mining away on the banks from his helicopter and had ordered a probe with the aim of fixing responsibility. The Punjab and Haryana High Court has rapped the knuckles of the authorities concerned innumerable times for failing to check the loot.But now, the imminent devastation to people’s lives and livelihoods caused by degradation of ecology looms large. The worry and agitation of Chamkaur Sahib residents is justified. Sustained pressure for remedial measures is the need of the hour. Such a movement holds the key to checking the blatant plunder and punishing the mighty mining mafia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/plundering-sutlej-sand-201389
