21-10-2020||It is sad that Muttiah Muralitharan||Turning against Murali in TN||Muralitharan is a role model, and the fact that a movie on him seems profitable led a Mumbai production house to launch a biopic on him. But some Tamil political leaders are dead set against Muralitharan. The sight of a lion, the Sinhalese symbol, on Sethupathi’s shirt in the film’s trailer incensed them — they prefer the traditional Tamil totem of a tiger, the symbol of the Chola empire. They alleged that Muralitharan supported Sri Lanka’s Sinhalese regime when ‘Tamils were being killed by it’, citing his comment, made last year, that 2009 was the happiest year in his life. Muralitharan clarified that his happiness was caused by ‘the end of war’, and expressed relief that ‘in the last 10 years, there haven’t been any deaths on either side’.The Sri Lankan army and leaders complicit in war crimes must be brought to justice — it’s tragic that they’ve gone scot-free. Muralitharan has said he considers ‘all ethnicities as one and the same’ — this essential humanist sentiment is lost on those determined to stoke fires of enmity for emotional or political reasons. Exactly 100 years ago, Muralitharan’s grandfather migrated to Sri Lanka — Muralitharan is Sri Lankan and must not be turned into a pawn in Tamil Nadu’s political contest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/turning-against-murali-in-tn-158786
21-10-2020||Punjab||Punjab’s farm Bills||The agitating farmers’ main apprehensions are that the Centre wants to do away with the tried-and-tested MSP regime and leave them to fend for themselves before the corporates. The Union government has largely failed so far in allaying these fears and convincing the farmers of the benefits of the new legislations. The Bills and the resolution unanimously passed by the Punjab Vidhan Sabha are not only aimed at placating the farming community but also to score political brownie points, with the state going to the polls in early 2022.With agriculture listed as a state subject in the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, the non-BJP-ruled states have been accusing the Centre of enacting the laws without bringing them on board. The trust deficit has only widened ever since the ordinance route was adopted in June to propose sweeping reforms in agriculture — the lone sector which held its own during the crippling nationwide lockdown. The Centre-state tussle threatens to impede agricultural operations, an unwelcome scenario that can delay economic recovery, unless a middle ground is found sooner than later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/punjabs-farm-bills-158787
