21-12-2020||Competitive politics between Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the BJP is all too evident in West Bengal with Home Minister Amit Shah accusing the ruling party of regionalism. This has been preceded by an exit of leaders from the TMC to the saffron fold. While such developments may not be surprising in the run-up to the state elections||Battleground Bengal||The BJP, buoyed by its tally in West Bengal in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, also needs to tread with care. The state government held its ground and refused to send IPS officers on Central deputation after the recent assault on BJP chief JP Nadda near Kolkata. The party has levelled charges of political vendetta unleashed by the TMC, accusing it of registering false FIRs against its workers. The BJP’s stance on the CAA and the minorities, especially the illegal immigrants, is also bound to create insecurities. The party lays claim to the legacy of Syama Prasad Mookerjee, but it has a long way to go in West Bengal, starting with rebutting the charge of being a party of outsiders. The party is also not left with too many allies in the NDA, a factor that should prompt it to tone down its rhetoric.West Bengal has a history of poll violence. Political parties would do well to desist from pandering to parochial sentiments and insist instead on a blueprint for the economic development of the state. The withdrawal of the Tatas from the Singur plant did not serve to send the right message. Economic inclusiveness is as important as social inclusiveness to prevent sectarianism from coming to the fore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/battleground-bengal-187327
21-12-2020||With the CBI concluding that the 19-year-old Dalit girl of Hathras was gangraped and murdered by four men from||On track to justice||a dominant caste in September — contrary to the UP government’s view — the case is finally on the right track and there is hope for justice. The verdict leaves the government red-faced as it used all its might and dirty tricks to prove otherwise. When the grievously injured victim, in her dying statement from hospital, accused the four of this heinous crime, the state law enforcers would have done well to undertake a fair probe and punish the guilty. Instead, the authorities brazenly kept insisting that no rape had been committed. Stigmatised socially, too, the family was rendered a pariah in its own village for bringing a ‘bad name’ to the neighbourhood.The grief-stricken family’s cries for a fair investigation were rebuffed and trampled upon. With the hurried and hushed cremation of the girl in the dead of night, against her family’s wishes, the state police had gone off on a tangent that smacked of burying the truth rather than getting to the bottom of the matter to nail the guilty. Giving the case the colour of ‘honour killing’, the girl’s brother was accused of murdering her for ‘befriending’ men from another caste. When voices of outrage against the blatant charges gathered momentum in the shape of protests and reports in both local and international media, the government sought to project them as a conspiracy to tarnish its image. It even sought to muffle the cries by the offer of ex gratia or a government job to the family.Finally, rattled by the widespread condemnation of its handling of the Hathras case, the Yogi Adityanath government let the CBI investigate the case. Now, with charges of sexual assault confirmed, a fast-tracking of the case to bring out the truth is called for. A strong message of zero tolerance of attacks on girls will also tear into the misogynistic and patriarchal tendencies that are the root cause of gender crimes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/on-track-to-justice-187326
