22-07-2020||The story of the Seventh Fleet Task Force 74 led by the world’s longest warship||Sailing into a new future||Meanwhile, in Washington, the US House of Representatives on Monday unanimously passed an amendment to the National Defence Authorisation Act decrying Chinese incursion in the Galwan valley of Ladakh and growing territorial assertiveness. If by the Ladakh incursion, China attempted to project its power in the neighbourhood and teach India a lesson for refusing to kowtow to its Belt and Road Initiative or gulp down the ignominy of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, it has achieved neither. Instead, China has only succeeded in formalising India’s strategic ties with the US into a mutually beneficial military relationship, wherein the eastern neighbour proves to be a cause of common concern.Often a country’s foreign policy choices are forced upon it by a lack of options. Chinese aggression, intransigence and refusal to de-escalate have forced India to abandon its long-held hopes of an Asian century, where China and India could have been partners in prosperity. India will soon appreciate that it is easier to be hostile than be cautious and in this context, Foreign Minister S Jaishankar’s statement is of great consequence: India has to shed its caution and step out confidently to articulate its interests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/sailing-into-a-new-future-116209
22-07-2020||So desperately awaited has been this piece of good news that one could almost hear the whole world collectively heave a sigh of relief at the cautious promise of Oxford University’s coronavirus vaccine being round the corner. With the initial phase III trials of humans showing positive results||Covid vaccine soon||With the world watching the accelerated programmes with bated breath, on display is the marvel of science and human endeavour. The Oxford vaccine, like the Chinese shot developed in late June, has been designed to safely (with no serious side-effect) protect a person from the virus by prompting an immune response in the body by making antibodies (to attack the coronavirus and disable it) and T-cells (to help the immune system trace the infected cells in the body and destroy them).However, despite the encouraging findings at this early stage auguring well, one can only hazard a guess when conclusive evidence of the efficacy of the injection to halt the disease and its transmission will be available. The test of time is crucial and critical. But, hearteningly, the pharmaceutical firms associated with the vaccine developers are girding up for mass production. On this score, India can hope to be one of the earliest beneficiaries as Oxford has partnered with the Pune-based Serum Institute of India for making the vaccine. Plus, our indigenous vaccine, Covaxin, helmed by AIIMS, is on an accelerated mode of testing. The waiting game is not over, yet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-vaccine-soon-116211
