22-05-2020||The Centre has allowed partial resumption of domestic passenger flights from May 25||Allay flyers’ fears||It’s a race against time for various airport and airline authorities as they must ensure that everything is in place by Monday. A longer window would have been preferable, but the domestic aviation industry has been hit so hard by the Covid lockdown that it will grab this opportunity to put things back on track. A leading Indian credit rating and research agency recently projected revenue losses of Rs 25,000 crore during the ongoing financial year for this industry, which is inextricably linked with the tourism sector and OTAs (online travel agencies).Air travel is the quickest mode of transport for long distances; amid a pandemic, it’s arguably the safest as well. Still, the industry would have to come up with confidence-building measures to reassure passengers and make them get back on a plane. Physical distancing on board is a prerequisite that ought to necessitate modification of the seating arrangement. No less important is airconditioning and the possibility of airborne transmission of the virus. Regular monitoring of the air flow is essential to providing a safe environment to the flyers as well as the crew. If all stakeholders act responsibly, the restart of domestic air travel could give a much-needed fillip not only to the aviation and allied sectors but also to Indian economy on the whole.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/allay-flyers-fears-88203
22-05-2020||As cyclone Amphan ripped through east India||In the eye of the storm||The FCI has been asked to ensure the availability of foodgrain — especially rice, a staple diet in the region — for those marooned. Work is on for early restoration of power and telecommunication services. Railway infrastructure has suffered damage and a process to restart its operations is on. The coastal areas have been a witness to raging cyclones from time to time, like Phailin, Hudhud and Titli. But the difference between these and Amphan is probably the fact that the authorities have been able to evacuate a large number of people this time.Odisha learnt its lessons in 1999. The damage is restricted to agriculture and no loss of life has been reported. It has built roads, bridges, embankments, shelters and communication links. After the super-cyclone, the state has worked to prepare a culture of disaster preparedness. The integrated test range at Chandipur is also reported to be unaffected by the storm. This time, the pandemic has made the efforts more arduous as it involved sanitising cyclone warning centres and ensuring social distancing. Both Amphan and Covid convey that early warning can help mitigate damage in such cases, an idea which both PM Modi and CM Mamata Banerjee should find agreeable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/in-the-eye-of-the-storm-88175
