22-09-2020||There could not have been greater irony than what was on display on Sunday afternoon when the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill||Disdainful haste||The government’s hideous hurry to pass the legislations resulted in unseemly scenes in the Rajya Sabha, with the rule book being flung at the chair, microphones broken, members climbing atop the secretary general’s table and even the Lok Sabha having to be adjourned because of the sit-in protest by Rajya Sabha members. Parliament is all about the Opposition. When 12 Opposition parties seek a vote on resolutions against the Bills, the Chair should have allowed the division; instead, the resolutions were denied and the Bills passed with a mere voice vote, devaluing the entire process.If the reforms are indeed beneficial for the farmers, the government should have let the Bills go through the parliamentary process while responding to each and every query inside and outside Parliament, assuaging the hurtful disquiet among the farming community. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, who prides himself as a representative of the farmers, in a newspaper article insists that ‘I would like to assure that whether it’s Minimum Support Price or Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees, all existing systems will continue’. The Prime Minister could have made similar, solemn promises during the debate. The government should not try to brazen out the damage caused by the ugly altercations in Parliament, for it would only be understood as arrogance of power. It should patiently explain the Bills, clause by clause, and be ready to undo whatever provisions that may hurt farmers’ interest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/disdainful-haste-144712
22-09-2020||The Covid-19 pandemic has worryingly been relegated to the sidelines in Punjab||No room for laxity||The gross neglect of patients is exemplified by the death of an elderly woman at Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala on Sunday. She somehow went out of the ICU by herself and fell unconscious on the stairs of a Covid ward. Left unattended for about 45 minutes, she was eventually taken back to the ICU and put on ventilator support. However, the woman died a few hours later. The bizarre turn of events points to dereliction of duty by doctors and paramedics in the ward.A high proportion of people suffering from non-communicable diseases and the increasing elderly population are being cited by medical experts as the main reasons for Punjab’s high Covid fatality rate. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday blamed the irresponsible behaviour of people for the surge in coronavirus cases in the country. Punjab is no exception in this regard. Indeed, state Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu recently attributed the fast-rising death toll to the ‘unhealthy’ lifestyle of Punjabis, carelessness among the people and the arrival of NRIs. All these factors are significant to some extent, but there is no denying that the state badly needs to improve its healthcare infrastructure to meet the unprecedented challenge. Accountability should be fixed promptly whenever any act of negligence by the health staff is reported. There should also be no relaxation when it comes to enforcing Covid safety norms. Punjab will sink deeper into the mire if the government lifts its foot off the pedal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/no-room-for-laxity-144708
