23-05-2020||The hotel industry in Gurugram has thrived on its proximity to the Delhi airport as also its status as the preferred destination of the corporate world that enriched its clientele base. But the lockdown saw the suspension of both international and domestic air travel||Gurugram hotels as PGs||The closure is now forcing the property owners to seek a change of business by letting out the premises as paying guest accommodation, besides offering banquet halls, swimming pools and clubs to meet expenses. As many as 40 hoteliers have now sought to approach the state government for nod to change of land use (CLU) that will help them sell off their property to pay loans. As they plan to petition the Haryana CM for redress of grievances, the fear is that their number might grow.It’s time for remedial steps. Already, announcements have been made about the resumption of domestic flights and train journeys. But so long as there is no complete resumption both on the domestic as well as international routes and the movement of people gets unhindered, there is little chance of normalcy returning. There are restrictions with no onboard meals allowed for now, while restaurants have been asked to offer only home delivery. Many of the hotels were used to put up Indian nationals evacuated from other countries for their quarantine period and they will have to reorient themselves as and when business gets back to normal. Running a hotel needs both capital and manpower, that too skilled. The hospitality sector too will need a stimulus. A change of business may or may not turn out to be viable. It’s better to first try the optimum utilisation of what is already there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/gurugram-hotels-as-pgs-88704
23-05-2020||THE escalating tension between Indian and Chinese armies along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) couldn’t be more ill-timed. While India is battling the Covid-19 pandemic on a war footing||India-China logjam||The latest confrontation has laid bare gaps in the implementation of confidence-building measures agreed upon by both sides, such as strengthening the mechanisms for sharing information and resolving disputes through dialogue. A major hindrance is the lingering trust deficit, which is attributed to some thorny issues: China’s continuing military and diplomatic support to Pakistan and the two neighbours’ contesting claims over Arunachal Pradesh and Ladakh.The developments have given the US — the country worst hit by the virus — another reason to lambast China, with Alice Wells, a State Department officer, terming the border flare-up a ‘reminder that Chinese aggression is not always just rhetorical’. Though this is a welcome vindication of India’s stand, New Delhi must tread cautiously and remember that there are no free lunches in the world of diplomacy. There is no gainsaying that an early settlement of the boundary question would serve the interests of India and China as both are eyeing a bigger role in the post-pandemic world order. The Wuhan-Mamallapuram gains should not be frittered away.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/india-china-logjam-88705
