23-11-2020||THE news that the first batch of the Covid vaccine can be delivered by February next year will come as a relief for the country battling the pandemic. The Serum Institute of India||Race for Covid vaccine||The country does have a vaccination programme which is available at government and private hospitals and the feasibility of administering the Covid vaccine as part of it can be examined. Most vaccines are for diseases that are fatal, with the novel coronavirus being no exception. The government intends to make use of an app to digitise information about the procurement, distribution and immunisation schedule with a certificate being issued, much like the card in the case of the present immunisation programme.There is increasing pressure on the Indian government to produce results as countries such as the US, Russia and China are making significant progress in their search for a vaccine. The report about the vaccine comes amid a resurgence of the virus in Delhi, even as states like MP, Gujarat and Rajasthan have clamped prohibitory orders to ensure compliance with precautionary measures. Delhi has even hiked the fine for not wearing a mask which, along with social distancing, has been advocated as the best way to ward off the disease. In the United States, President-elect Joe Biden has been seeking a mask mandate, which remains the cheapest alternative available to check the virus, instead of shutting down the economy. Prevention will remain a good option till a safe, effective cure becomes available.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/race-for-covid-vaccine-174472
23-11-2020||Signalling a marked shift in approach||New banking landscape||The banking landscape in the country is clearly set for a big change. Permission to large industrial houses to convert their NBFCs to full-scale banks will make them bigger than many mid-sized banks. The move could address the risk posed by large non-bank lenders whose growth goes unchecked, as experienced in the IL&FS and DHFL debacle. A fresh wave of consolidation in the banking sector could also be on the cards. The suggestion that payments banks can convert into small finance banks after three years of operations can potentially benefit Paytm, Jio and Airtel.Do the recommendations augur well for the customer? Time will tell. Given the rise in bank failures and the trust deficit when it comes to lenders dealing with defaulting big guns, the regulator will have to be more than careful in distributing bank licences. The significant shift in the ownership structure of private sector banks would invite concerns of taking the sector into the brazen territory of crony capitalism, and that can only be addressed through stricter regulatory monitoring and by strengthening the supervisory mechanism.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/new-banking-landscape-174447
