23-10-2020||Asmooth||Patchy uphill ride||The sight of newly-constructed stretches filled with boulders and closed for traffic is not only depressing, but also leads to questions about the efficacy of the technology and practices being adopted. Even road stability has emerged as a worrying factor in certain parts. The unpredictability quotient in hill engineering is without a doubt high, but failure of proven techniques — and that too repeatedly — is a lame excuse for a project of such magnitude and importance. Clearly, more diligence was called for. Does it not qualify as a waste of public expenditure? And should there not be a demand for accountability?The survey is aimed at assessing the need to devise additional measures to ensure that the four-lane highway does not suffer from repeated landslides, especially during rains, after its completion, which is expected by March next year. Hopefully, lessons drawn from the experience on the Parwanoo-Solan section will be taken into consideration in future endeavours. The need to usher in development has to rely on technological prowess, not mere eagerness. Road construction activity demands huge sacrifices by those living and working in the vicinity and commuters alike. If the end result is a hack job, it is a great disservice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/patchy-uphill-ride-159859
23-10-2020||Even as the Mumbai police are investigating the alleged manipulation of Television Rating Points (TRPs) by news and entertainment channels||Turf war over probe||A similar script had played out in the Sushant Singh Rajput case a few months ago. The Bihar Police lodged an FIR even though the actor’s death had occurred in Mumbai and was being investigated by the local cops. The two police authorities’ slanging match over jurisdiction had ended only when the Supreme Court okayed the transfer of the case to the CBI.There is a growing perception that the CBI, once infamously dubbed as a caged parrot by the judiciary, has been reduced to a tool unleashed by the ruling party at the Centre to fix its rivals. The Maharashtra Government has claimed that general consent was withdrawn to ensure that the Central agency was not misused for political purposes, even as it’s too much to expect the state police to go about its job without any interference. A worthwhile investigation into major cases is ruled out unless various agencies work in close coordination rather than stepping on each other’s toes. The CBI’s apparent attempt to ‘appropriate’ a case raises doubts about its credibility. Such an intervention won’t serve the cause of justice. Amid this politically motivated turf war, a free and fair probe is the prime casualty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/turf-war-over-probe-159860
