24-09-2020||Less than a fortnight after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi came up with a five-point roadmap to resolve the Ladakh standoff||De-escalation or deception||Disengagement of troops from the friction points on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is a prerequisite for de-escalation of tensions. Over the past four months or so, eastern Ladakh has seen it all — bloody skirmishes, firing of shots, incursions by Chinese troops and pre-emptive action by Indian soldiers. Several rounds of talks at the military level didn’t bear fruit as the Chinese army persisted with its brazen misadventures. On the diplomatic front, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh recently conveyed India’s firm stand to his Chinese counterpart in Moscow, followed by the Jaishankar-Yi talks.Adopting an unusually conciliatory tone, Chinese President Xi Jinping said in his pre-recorded address to the UN General Assembly that his country would ‘continue to narrow differences and resolve disputes with others through dialogue and negotiation.’ This should be music to India’s ears, but past experience has shown that China can be taken at face value only at one’s peril. India can’t afford to let its guard down along the entire 3,488-km-long LAC. With the Ladakh region bracing itself for a typically harsh winter beginning next month, the Indian troops would have to step up vigil to ensure that the Chinese army doesn’t try to capitalise on the bad weather to make mischief. India shouldn’t expect a quick end to the border standoff, which has remained under the glare of the international community. With the US and its allies calling China’s military actions unprovoked and provocative, India needs to cash in on this support to make the neighbour mend its ways.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/de-escalation-or-deception-145685
24-09-2020||For the beleaguered hospitality industry||Hope for hoteliers||The lockdown meant hardships for the hospitality industry. At many places, hotels offered to turn themselves into quarantine centres, faced with the prospect of maintaining the property, paying salaries and repaying loans. In Uttar Pradesh, which saw the return of migrant workers in large numbers, tourist places like the Taj Mahal and the Agra Fort have now been opened to tourists, with restrictions in place. Besides the economy, the other aspect has been about people getting confined to their homes amid the lockdown for a long period of six months, with restrictions on social gatherings and movement only complicating the situation, depriving them of opportunities for human interface. The opening up of the tourism sector may well offer an opportunity to break out of this confinement.But there is still some way to go before the situation gets reversed. Transport services are yet to reach their optimum, though the Kalka-Shimla toy train made a special run for the NDA exam candidates. Tourist arrivals have mostly been from neighbouring states, unlike in the past when international travellers would also arrive in large numbers. The industry has to put in place technology to fight the virus without charging excessive tariff and highways and cities will have to contend with traffic jams and pollution. The climb back to normalcy remains an uphill task.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/hope-for-hoteliers-145680
