24-08-2020||Faced with the daunting task of conducting elections amid the Covid-19 pandemic||Poll amid pandemic||The EC has indicated that it wants the poll process to be inclusive. Those in quarantine will also be allowed to vote during the last hour of polling and the use of postal ballot is expected to be liberal. There will be separate guidelines for containment zones. The arrangements will mean that the electoral exercise may prove to be expensive. More polling booths and counting centres will be set up to meet social distancing norms. Meticulous rehearsal to fine-tune the preparations and a proportionate deployment of security forces will be called for as Bihar has seen poll-related violence in the past. Provision for health insurance of those on duty has been made in view of their vulnerability.Political parties in Bihar have been disinclined to the holding of polls amid the pandemic and protested against the BJP’s virtual rallies on the ground that it deprives them of a level playing field. But after the long confinement due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, the elections will spur the politicians to go out and connect with the masses. A successful conduct of the polls may provide a blueprint for the future and also serve to strengthen democracy in the face of adversity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/poll-amid-pandemic-130514
24-08-2020||IT is time to rethink and reimagine the national sports awards. This year’s awards were not bereft of controversy||Sports awards need overhaul||In theory, the Arjuna Award system — for leading sportspersons — should not go wrong: This points-based system, introduced in 2014, assigns points to different levels of achievement. However, it is weighed heavily in favour of Olympic sports, to the detriment of sports such as golf, chess, polo or snooker. For instance, despite India being in the midst of a chess boom, no Arjuna Award has been given to a chess player since 2013, and no chess coach has been given the Dronacharya Award since 2006. Often, the discretion of the selection committee overrules the points system, as does the political decision to promote indigenous sports such as kho-kho or Mallakhamb — thus athletes/coaches of these sports override the points system.The Khel Ratna recommendations are purely discretionary and often flawed. The recognition for table tennis player Manika Batra defies logic — she won the Arjuna Award in 2018 for her exploits at that year’s Commonwealth and Asian Games, and now she's been given the Khel Ratna for that very show even as her performance has waned. Women's hockey team captain Rani Rampal has also got the Khel Ratna, though her achievements seem relatively paltry for this award. The selection committee is liable to err or be pressured. There is a very persuasive view that the state should simply provide infrastructure, funds and jobs for sportspersons and get out of the business of handing out awards — awards politicise sport and divert the energy of sportspersons. But since populism can’t be done away with, the least that should be done is to reorganise and reform the awards system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/sports-awards-need-overhaul-130532
