24-11-2020||Hoist by its own petard||Kerala’s U-turn||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said a detailed discussion on the matter would be held in the Assembly. This should have been done in the first place rather than adopting the unilateral ordinance route. Putting the cart before the horse is fast becoming the new normal. The backlash against the Centre over the three farm laws, which were also initially promulgated as ordinances and later enacted as Acts, should have alerted the state government to desist from ramrodding a legislation through without any democratic consultation. However, the ruling party kept defending the indefensible till it found itself cornered on all fronts, with even the CPM’s central leadership expressing reservations over the draconian provision.The Kerala Government is already grappling with a credibility crisis over the gold smuggling case and other scams. If the ordinance was intended to be a diversionary ploy, as claimed by the state’s Opposition, it has eventually proved to be counterproductive. The fears that the amendment can be used as a tool to unleash political vendetta can’t be brushed aside. As far as cybercrime control is concerned, better policing, not a gag order, is the way forward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/keralas-u-turn-174855
24-11-2020||NON-CONFORMIST behaviour is coming into display with public places getting swarmed by people not wearing a face mask despite safety protocols repeatedly being advocated even as Covid-19 is yet to relent. Though it is natural for pandemic fatigue to set in||Mask as metaphor||While advances have been made in the search for a vaccine with pharmaceutical companies claiming varied success, it is still some months away before it will be available for the public with the variation in pricing being another cause for concern. Will the government’s flagship health insurance scheme include vaccination along with treatment and testing for the coronavirus will be known only gradually. By advocating the use of masks, like the Punjab CM did by saying, ‘Mask hi vaccine hai’, governments are also being realistic as the long wait for the vaccine is being tested by the concerns of the people who have to earn their living.Even as the Prime Minister begins his consultations with the Chief Ministers to take stock of the situation, the Supreme Court has asked for a report on the measures taken and the help needed from the Centre as well as the situation in hospitals. It is time to correlate needs with priorities. In the present times, wearing a mask is essentially a precautionary measure and unlike in the US, should not be allowed to become the subject of a debate between the liberals and the conservatives. The challenge before the government will lie in convincing the people to abide by the social distancing norms, not an easy task with livelihoods at stake.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/mask-as-metaphor-174854
