24-10-2020||The suspension of public transport and the closure of gyms during the Covid-induced lockdown spurred the use of bicycles||On the right track||The experience of cities such as Delhi and Chandigarh shows that cycle tracks and footpaths are brazenly encroached upon by motorists and roadside vendors. Many drivers treat them as a thoroughfare to bypass the unending traffic jams and also to park their vehicles, forcing cyclists and pedestrians to risk their lives on busy roads. Poor or no lighting on these routes renders them unusable after dusk. The GMDA’s initiative could come a cropper if these issues are not addressed at the outset.Merely constructing parallel paths won’t help in easing the Millennium City’s traffic woes. Strict enforcement of rules is required. Regular road safety campaigns for residents should be a proactive exercise, not just a formality. Such programmes should involve traffic cops at all levels. The entire road infrastructure has to be revamped to encourage people to travel on foot or on a cycle, at least in their neighbourhood. The public bicycle sharing scheme, which has been tried out in Bhopal and other cities but has only flattered to deceive, should be made user-friendly through cheaper rentals and easier access to the bikes. At the same time, the authorities need to improve public transport drastically so that fewer commuters clog the roads with their vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/on-the-right-track-160298
24-10-2020||The BJP’s surprise decision to make free Covid-19 vaccination in Bihar an election promise adds an avoidable and uncalled-for political twist to the battle against coronavirus. The Union Finance Minister and not a party functionary making the announcement only makes it look and sound worse. Singling out a state and steering the vaccine conversation from identifying who needs it on priority in any part of the country to who should get it as a poll promise amounts to fiddling with management of an unprecedented public health emergency. Within hours of the BJP||Covid vaccine politics||Suddenly, from a cooperative Centre-state national resolve, a political agenda has been injected into the Covid containment processes. The implications of encouraging competitive federalism and a state-versus-state, party-against-party tussle for getting access to the vaccine stocks could be grave. There will be genuine apprehensions in various state capitals about whether the Centre plans to dilute a national vaccine management plan.In a bid to douse the criticism, a Union minister did allude to the fact that if a vaccine comes, it will be for the whole of India, not just one state, but that is not the message the manifesto tends to give. The Prime Minister has repeatedly assured that there will be no shortage of funds for the gigantic undertaking of vaccinating the second most populous country after China. On the eve of the festival season, he even warned citizens that the disease was still active and present, and they would be putting their own lives and those of their family members at risk if they were irresponsible about safety measures. The BJP choosing to make vaccination an election issue, too, cannot be deemed a responsible approach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-vaccine-politics-160295
