25-06-2020||Retracting on its earlier ruling||Haryana scraps exams||Previously, the government had exempted all students from exams, except the final-year ‘resident’ students, and their exam was scheduled to be held in July. However, embedded in it was a sub-clause that would have failed the test of equality: expressing its inability to cater to the hostel needs of outstation students in view of Covid-19, the government had exempted final-year students residing out of Haryana from the exam. Even as the Punjab and Haryana High Court issued a notice to the government on the NSUI plea, Haryana retreated and cancelled the exams. Now, like their other colleagues, the final-year students will be promoted on the basis of their earlier exams and internal assessments. Those desirous of improving the scores to qualify for competition for further studies in prestigious professional institutes have the option of taking offline exams to be held later, when the pandemic subsides.With this decision, Haryana joins Madhya Pradesh in scrapping the exams for final-year candidates. Multiple scenarios emerge as Maharashtra has made these exams optional and Delhi University has gone in for online exams, necessitating an examination by the UGC. Considering that different colleges are governed by different councils and universities are autonomous bodies, the UGC faces the tough task of protecting the students’ interests as it reviews the exam guidelines in tandem with apex professional bodies like the Medical Council of India, AICTE and the Bar Council of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/haryana-scraps-exams-104052
25-06-2020||Trust deficit between India and Pakistan has worsened in recent years in the wake of major terrorist attacks carried out by Pakistan-backed outfits on Indian soil — Pathankot and Uri (both in 2016) and Pulwama (2019). With Pakistan failing to convince India — and the international community at large — of its commitment to stamping out terrorism emanating from its territory||Diplomatic downgrade||Pakistan’s preoccupation with Kashmir and its support to cross-border terrorism have been fuelling diplomatic discord. Islamabad had expelled the Indian High Commissioner after India decided to withdraw special status to Jammu and Kashmir in August last year. Pakistan has denied any violation of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations by its officials posted at the High Commission in New Delhi, but it has not done enough to dispel doubts and inspire confidence.Indian diplomats and consular officials are allegedly under constant surveillance in Pakistan. Their harassment and intimidation, apparently at the ISI’s behest, validates India’s zero-tolerance approach. National security must remain the benchmark for India while dealing with a hostile and unreliable neighbour like Pakistan. With over 2,000 cases of ceasefire violations by Pakistan — seen as a ruse to push militants into J&K — being reported this year till June 10, India can’t afford to let its guard down.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/diplomatic-downgrade-104020
