25-04-2020||The exodus of migrant workers posed a major challenge to Central and state governments during the first phase of the lockdown. Millions of them walked or pedalled for hundreds of kilometres to reach their homes in other states||Stranded migrants||Even as the MHA order failed to address the key issue of sending migrants back to their own states, various state governments have not been proactive in pointing out this anomaly or making arrangements at their own level. In stark contrast, inter-state coordination is facilitating the hassle-free return of students hailing from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh who were stuck in the coaching hub of Kota (Rajasthan) due to the lockdown. True, the number of homesick workers would be far higher than that of these students, thus requiring logistics on a far bigger scale, but the states should not use it as a pretext to abdicate their responsibility of ensuring safe passage to their residents.Allowing limited movement by road, subject to the strict implementation of safety norms, can curb the menace of unauthorised inter-state travel. Chief Ministers need to take up this matter forcefully during their online interaction with the Prime Minister on Monday. At the same time, it is imperative to conduct an on-the-spot assessment of the functioning of relief camps set up with the aim of making workers stay put. Apart from homesickness, the inefficacy of these camps can prompt migrants to choose hazardous means to reunite with their families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/stranded-migrants-75801
25-04-2020||There is merit in Captain Amarinder Singh’s request to his counterparts in other states to strongly pursue with the PM a bailout package||Bailout for states||Lockdown 2.0 ends on May 3, but strained for resources and struggling to garner any income, several states are desperate for economic activity to be back on track. Mamata Banerjee wants the lockdown to be quickly scaled back in stages: ‘lift 25 per cent in the week beginning May 4, reopen 50 per cent in the second week, and total rollback should happen in two weeks after May 4’. Captain Amarinder’s request to the Centre to allow sale of liquor, a critical source of earning for the state, may have been turned down, but it does point to the severity of the financial crisis.A mega stimulus package is said to be in the works for the manufacturing and services sectors, but the delay in fine-tuning the contours on how to raise resources is making the industry more restive. India's GDP growth, according to Fitch Ratings, is estimated to slip to 0.8 per cent for the current fiscal as compared to 4.9 per cent growth in the previous fiscal, before rebounding to 6.7 per cent in 2021-22. On the ground, prospects of a quick economic recovery appear weak. In this scenario, a collaborative Centre-state roadmap would make more sense.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bailout-for-states-75800
