25-08-2020||The Congress has been a house divided for quite a while. The tussle between the old guard and the young brigade||Congress mess||Some of these ‘pro-reform’ leaders, bereft of winnability in the electoral arena, have done precious little to reinvigorate the beleaguered party. Had they really believed in ‘collective leadership’, they would have by now admitted their role in the party’s free fall and made amends. The fact that they are still around indicates that these opportunists have their own axe to grind and won’t desist from enfeebling the party.The stormy CWC meeting further accentuated the deep fissures within the party. The allegation/insinuation that some of the dissenters were playing into the hands of the BJP can’t be brushed aside, despite the damage control by the party that prompted Kapil Sibal to retract his outburst on Twitter. The BJP has been feeding on the Congress’ infighting in recent years, growing more powerful partly due to lack of resistance from the main Opposition party. It’s no secret that the ruling party is simply waiting for the Congress to implode. The onus is on the latter to close ranks and make a fresh start, with or without the Gandhis at the helm. It’s time for the Congress to act resolutely for its own good.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/congress-mess-131051
25-08-2020||The collapse of a slab of the 6-km-long flyover under construction in Gurugram on Saturday puts the spotlight once again on the quality of work and material invested in public infrastructure — highways||Flyover collapse||Luckily, a major tragedy was averted in the Gurugram case. Due to the Covid-induced weekend and night-time restrictions in Haryana, the traffic at the time of the crash — around 10 pm — was light on the otherwise generally busy Sohna Road of the Millennium City. Two labourers have landed in hospital with injuries. A couple of days earlier, Gurugram residents had had to bear the consequences of another shoddy piece of road work when a stretch of the busy Iffco Chowk caved in following torrential rain. No lessons seem to have been learnt from a similar incident of last August, when a part of an underpass on MG Road gave in to the monsoon fury. The authorities seem to have scant regard for commuters who frequently encounter resultant hiccups in smooth rides; and roads barricaded for indefinite periods seem to be par for the course. The Sohna Road accident is likely to be a setback for the July 2021 deadline of the flyover project.A speedy probe and ferreting out of reasons that led to the huge concrete blocks of the flyover falling down, as also punishment to those guilty of giving safety and quality norms the go-by, are essential. Along with this, frequent checks of works under progress will go a long way in reforming the general culture of unaccountability and blatant corruption in works involving big budgets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/flyover-collapse-131028
