25-02-2020||During the Constituent Assembly debate on December 10||Majestic solitude||The relationship between the judiciary and the executive, both pillars of democracy, is back in the spotlight, courtesy the praise showered by Justice Arun Mishra, one of the seniormost judges of the Supreme Court, on PM Narendra Modi. Doubts about the independence and impartiality of the judicial system are bound to be raised whenever such adulation is made public. Justice PN Bhagwati had lauded the Indira Gandhi government during the Emergency. When she returned to power in 1980 with a thumping victory in the elections, Justice Bhagwati wrote a congratulatory letter, admiring her ‘iron will and firm determination, uncanny insight and dynamic vision.’ A judge of the apex court bowing and scraping before the powers that be — Bhagwati’s transgression not only lowered the majesty of the judiciary but also shook the faith of the people in the august institution.A judge who has openly expressed his admiration for the head of a government would obviously come under scrutiny while hearing cases in which that government is a litigant. The Central Government is one of the biggest litigants in the Supreme Court. It’s critical for the well-being of a democracy for the judicial and executive arms of the State to respect the constitutional line that separates them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/majestic-solitude-46870
25-02-2020||It was undoubtedly an accident waiting to happen. That most of the innumerable PG spaces that have sprung up in the booming Tricity are tinderboxes||Paying with their lives||With this rampant skirting of rules and regulations, safety is the first casualty. Slack law-enforcement has led to beds and berths in cramped, hazardous rooms and dirty washrooms being unscrupulously offered to thousands of young students and professionals. Hardly any student or fresh employee is rich enough to afford good lodging. The majority is needy and, sadly, forced to overlook the pathetic condition of houses.Only a fraction of the PG owners are registered with the administration and provide the necessary living standards. A clampdown on all clandestine operations is urgently needed to prevent such horrific tragedies. Not only are such people depriving the corporation of water and electricity tariffs at commercial rates, but also shirking their duty of helping the officials keep a tab on the populace. Youngsters and their parents would be advised to check on this score and shun the illegally run ‘PGs’. And, yes, plus promise to be responsible residents themselves: an asset to the locality, not a nuisance. A symbiotic relationship between the landlord and the PGs would make the City Beautiful more beautiful.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/paying-with-their-lives-46867
