26-09-2020||Medical education in the country will now be regulated by the National Medical Commission (NMC)||From MCI to NMC||The necessity for setting the house in order has been excruciatingly felt during the current pandemic as facilities run short of the caseload, even as dedicated doctors and paramedics have earned much respect. With non-Covid patients struggling to get remedial attention, the fault-lines in public healthcare stand starkly exposed. There is an acute need for more doctors, especially in rural areas. An impeccable stream of graduates passing out through a fair method of screening and exams every year is the prerequisite to filling the void.But, however well-meaning the changes proposed to be injected into the system may be, the output rests on the members manning the panels. They have to be of unimpeachable integrity. The new norms, sadly, leave scope for the Centre to usurp the states’ authority and foist its own people — a bane loaded with attendant irregularities. Allowing private colleges to ‘sell’ 50 per cent seats and giving a limited licence to practise medicine for community health providers stick out among the sore points. The onus is on the NMC, along with its autonomous boards constituted to regulate medical education, ratings, registration and ethics, to root out the rotten practices and clean the Augean stables.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/from-mci-to-nmc-146685
26-09-2020||The impact of Friday’s Bharat Bandh||On a sticky wicket||The significance of the farming community as a vote bank is not lost on any political party, least of all the BJP, which has won two Lok Sabha elections in a row by huge margins. Still, the ruling party has been adamantly defending the flawed Bills. On Friday, PM Narendra Modi reiterated that small and marginal farmers, who account for 86 per cent of the population that survives or thrives on agriculture, would benefit the most from the reforms. Ironically, it’s this major chunk that is fearing a wipeout if the new laws come into force.The contentious Bills were first promulgated as ordinances in early June. Voices of dissent were heard sporadically during the three months preceding the start of the monsoon session of Parliament, but the BJP did not pay heed to them. No wonder the party today finds itself under ever-increasing pressure to revoke the ‘anti-farmer’ laws. The PM has said it’s the ‘responsibility and duty’ of all party workers to save farmers from ‘rumours’ and explain to them the importance of the agricultural reforms. Had this exercise been initiated in June itself, the BJP might have eventually succeeded in developing consensus on the matter. Now, nothing less than a climbdown by the government would placate the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/on-a-sticky-wicket-146683
