26-06-2020||The dubious claim of having found an ayurvedic cure for Covid-19 and advertising the ‘kit’ purportedly concocted to treat patients has landed Ramdev’s firm||Patanjali’s dubious claim||With the coronavirus count crossing the 95-lakh mark and the graph showing no sign of ebbing, no doubt, everybody is eagerly looking forward to an effective formulation from some of the many firms, researchers and scientists working overtime worldwide to develop a vaccine or medicine for the dreaded disease. Even the authorities concerned are fast-tracking their endeavours in a bid to get results quickly. In such times, to mislead people with a ‘100 per cent cure’ without following the due process or the rigorous testing that is required — as Patanajli, a leading herbal products’ firm, has apparently done — amounts to nothing but professional misconduct and an unethical practice and it calls for stringent penalty.The adversity has given rise to many an opportunist riding on the popularity of ayurvedic and herbal alternatives to allopathic products. Unsuspecting people have been subjected to a market flooded with fake hand sanitisers. In April alone, the Advertising Standards Council of India alerted the Centre of about 50 publicity campaigns run by ayurveda and homeopathic drug makers offering ‘cure’. While these were mostly unknown local manufacturers, Patanjali is a big name. Exemplary action would set the standard for the advertisement and sale of drugs and cosmetics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/patanjalis-dubious-claim-104715
26-06-2020||One of the few bright spots amid the pandemic and the prolonged lockdown has been the performance of the agricultural sector. Despite the restrictions imposed in mandis to contain the spread of Covid-19||Fortify MSP regime||The farming community is a key vote bank that no political party can afford to ignore, let alone antagonise. The BJP-led NDA government, which has set itself a hard target of doubling farmers’ income by 2022, has already initiated direct benefit transfer for subsidies and crop payments so that the commission-pocketing middlemen can be kept out of the equation as far as possible. Now, the Centre needs to remove doubts and misconceptions about the ordinances. The MSP regime and the public procurement system have facilitated assured marketing for farmers for decades, even though rising input costs and unremunerative prices are eating into their profits. Strengthening the existing setup that has made the nation food-surplus, coupled with empowering the farmer to strike the best bargain for his produce, can go a long way in keeping agriculture viable.Though agriculture is a state subject, the sector has been ailing as state governments prefer to work in silos, going all out to appease one lobby or the other. A national market for farm commodities, as and when established, could be a win-win situation for all stakeholders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/fortify-msp-regime-104714
