26-10-2020||By blacklisting the builders who have defaulted on completing their previous projects on time||To homebuyers’ aid||That there are nearly 50 such developers already on the list of the Gurugram area alone shows how widespread this practice is and that it has been continuing with impunity as real estate moguls flex their money and muscle power. A survey of the residential market of the country, including prime projects, in 2019 revealed that 1,665 RERA-registered housing projects were delayed by over five years. With thousands of consumers knocking at its door for justice, the Supreme Court has also ruled that it is primarily the government’s duty to step in to rescue them.The HRERA decision to rein in the erring builders by denying them fresh licences shows a mirror to the regulatory authorities of other states as well. Nationwide stringency would restore the trust of the consumer as it serves to throw a spanner in the works of promoters taking to the immoral path of diverting funds collected for one project to another before finishing it — the common reason for missing timelines. This illegal practice leaves in the lurch the poor buyers who have invested their lives’ savings for a house. Add to it the arbitrary escalation in the cost of construction over the years and the middle-class buyer feels weighed down doubly. The pinch of paying EMIs and rent for extended periods, not factored into initially at the time of commitment, has been rendered more painful in these times of lockdown-induced job losses and pay cuts. Strict norms are needed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/to-homebuyers-aid-161172
26-10-2020||The Covid-induced lockdown resulted in millions facing extreme hardship||India’s ‘filthy air’||Vehicular and industrial pollution, farmers burning crop stubble to clear fields, festive fireworks, all contribute to the deadly cocktail. The courts and the NGT have been actively pushing the authorities to do more. A National Clean Air Programme was launched last year; the PM’s interest in renewable energy is well documented; there has been a switch to Bharat Stage VI vehicle emission standards. A concrete policy, however, has not materialised. The endless bickering among states has ensured the absence of a concerted, unified response.It was Trump who chose to walk out of the 2015 Paris Accord, aimed at limiting the global temperature rise, claiming an unfair deal for his country and undue benefits for India, among others. What he forgets is that India’s total emissions of greenhouse gases are less than half of that of the US. Whosoever wins the presidential election next month, a new round of international power play on climate change awaits New Delhi, and with it a fresh look at the energy-mix. Finding solutions to homegrown problems should be the real area of focus. As a prominent writer commented, instead of getting all insulted, why not take it up as a challenge to clean up our surroundings and our air?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/indias-filthy-air-161173
