26-12-2020||The detection of a new coronavirus strain in the United Kingdom has come with its own set of challenges for India. It has led to the cancellation of flights from that country amid the New Year festivities and raised doubts over the proposed visit of the British PM for the Republic Day function. Then there is the task of tracking the travellers who have moved to different states upon their arrival||Keeping track of travellers||Institutional quarantine being recommended in case of the new strain will not help matters because of problems like inadequate availability of hospital beds and the burden it puts on the people economically. Amid apprehensions about the new strain, which is more transmissible, being drug-resistant, the government has clarified that it will not impact vaccine development and that the jab will be equally effective in this case too. But the government has not come out with the exact roadmap for rolling the vaccine out and plans still appear to be nebulous, with pricing and efficacy yet to be spelt out.With many countries imposing fresh lockdowns to check transmission, safeguards are needed to prevent any exigency. Night curfew had been imposed in some states but has been relaxed after protests. Restrictions on social gatherings though continue as a safety measure, but all this only impede a return to normalcy. Reviving the economy will require that no more shutdowns are imposed and for that prevention, rather than the remedy, will hold the key.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/keeping-track-of-travellers-189383
26-12-2020||THE political crisis in Nepal||Unrest in Nepal||Political and economic stability in Nepal matter a lot to China as it has invested billions of dollars under its ambitious Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), which includes the Trans-Himalayan Multidimensional Connectivity Network — an economic corridor that consists of several major infrastructure projects. Moreover, in 2018, China had apparently played a role in the merger of Nepal’s two communist parties which were then led by Oli and Prachanda. Regarded as a pro-China leader, Oli had riled India earlier this year by redrawing the country’s political map, laying claim to the Indian territories of Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani. The brazen move had impacted relations between New Delhi and Kathmandu at a time when tensions were running high at the India-China border.The current turmoil comes amid India’s efforts to restore friendly ties with Nepal through recent visits to that country by Army Chief Gen MM Naravane and Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla. Though India is not keen to meddle in Nepal’s affairs, it can’t afford to let a scheming China undo all the confidence-building measures. New Delhi should keep a close watch on Beijing’s moves and at the same time assure Nepal of its unstinting support, no matter which way the wind blows.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/unrest-in-nepal-189382
