27-04-2020||Dramatically clean air and sparkling rivers||Budha Nullah still toxic||Sadly, amid this boon, the Budha Nullah of Ludhiana presents a picture of gloom. There is little improvement in the quality of water in this toxic vein of the city, though most of the nearly 2,000 industrial units and thousands of small hosiery and dying units are shut. Heaps of solid waste dot the surface as the water has receded drastically. The only discharge into it is the domestic wastewater, exposing the inefficacy of the city’s sewage treatment plants.But it would be sadder if the authorities did not take the opportunity afforded by the lockdown to clean the nullah of poisonous heavy metals and other pollutants. Reports have indicated that while the Beas is cleaner now, the same is not the case with the Sutlej into which effluents from the nullah flow. It’s perhaps time to spend the Rs 650 crore announced by Punjab for rejuvenating the nullah in its Budget in February. Cleaning this drain, a huge health hazard, should be a priority along with the reopening of the industry. The nullah is crying to be restored to its pristine glory, when it was the ‘Budha Dariya’. Choking a water body will mean taking away the life-breath of a vibrant city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/budha-nullah-still-toxic-76904
27-04-2020||The sudden suspension of six debt funds by a major mutual fund house has led to nervousness among the investors who found out on Friday that the fund had blocked their redemptions and other exit routes. At stake are investments worth Rs 26||Debt debacle||Franklin Templeton has tried to reassure its investors that the money invested in the six funds would be returned to them, but only when the papers it holds mature. While the fund house blames illiquidity, the quality of the assets is being questioned too. Since the fund holds substantial below-AAA-rated papers in the corporate bond market, there are few takers for them at this time. Concerned about the impact of the fund house’s decision, the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) has given assurances about the quality of other schemes and stressed that the assets under management of these six schemes constitute less than 1.4 per cent of the industry’s aggregate. The RBI, too, has assured that liquidity would be available.The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and the government need to step in swiftly with measures that protect the investors. Redemptions need liquidity, and this is where the RBI assurances and SEBI regulations that allow mutual funds to borrow against their assets to meet liquidity come in. It would be necessary to ensure that this borrowing does not come at an excessive rate since that would have further negative consequences. Projecting confidence is fine, but concrete steps must be taken to ensure that the investors retain confidence. Every investor understands the nature of the market. However, there is an expectation that investors would be able to redeem their money at any given point. When this option is taken away, there is apprehension, even fear. Coupled with the present economic scenario, things can take a worrying turn, and thus there is a need for clear directions from the government and quick, effective intervention by the agencies concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/debt-debacle-76901
