27-05-2020||Bharat Darshan is certainly not on your itinerary when you are desperate to return home after braving a two-month-long lockdown. The 1||Streamline travel operations||Chaos also marked the resumption of domestic flights on Monday as last-minute cancellations by airlines left thousands of passengers stranded. Among them was a soldier, Naik Satish Kumar, who travelled from Ambala to New Delhi in a bus, only to find out that his early-morning flight to Kolkata had been cancelled. Timely communication could have spared him and many others a lot of trouble. Lack of coordination between the Central and state governments – a glaring roadblock witnessed during all four phases of the lockdown – reared its head again as Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu allowed only limited operations or delayed reopening of their airports owing to a spike in coronavirus cases. A slanging match between Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray exemplified the Centre-state discord.The Centre has taken a bold decision to restart domestic flights and enhance rail services at a time when the country is recording thousands of Covid-19 cases on a daily basis. The well-intentioned move, however, could prove counterproductive if passengers keep facing hardships due to mismanagement. Once the authorities have factored in the health protocol, they ought to ensure hassle-free travel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/streamline-travel-operations-90451
27-05-2020||A war of words has broken out after UP CM Yogi Adityanath’s announcement that his state will set up a migration commission to help find jobs for workers returning home and that any state that wants labourers from UP has to seek its permission. The statement met with a strong response from MNS chief Raj Thackeray who hit out||UP initiative on migrants||The UP initiative has a precedent in Kerala, where a department of Non-Resident Keralites Affairs exists. The department takes into account the problems faced by the people, who do not reside there, and aims to safeguard their rights and rehabilitate those who return home after spending many productive years elsewhere. After the pandemic, the department has allowed people stuck in different parts of the country to register and return.The task at hand for Yogi Adityanath is enormous, with an estimated 20 lakh people having returned. Most belong to the unorganised or informal sector, and it reveals the unregulated way in which work gets done. While the push-and-pull factors may have accounted for the migration — fuelled by industrialisation and urbanisation — the crisis could well offer an opportunity for both the place of work and the workforce to address the needs arising out of the changed circumstances, ensuring some stability and social security. With already too many government agencies implementing sundry schemes, the priority should be to ensure workers do not get a raw deal with now even the apex court taking note of it. It will call for greater coordination. The exodus should not end up in a confrontation between the home and host states. Betterment of the system should remain the aim.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/up-initiative-on-migrants-90431
