28-08-2020||That there can be no place for politics of hate in a democracy has been amply demonstrated by a court in New Zealand||Bridging religious divide||Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern described it as a terrorist attack, stating that Tarrant would now have ‘no notoriety, no platform, and we have no cause to think about him, to see him or to hear from him again’. For those who lost their family members, the decision is expected to bring a measure of healing and closure of a chapter of hatred. It also amounts to rebuttal of an ideology that hopes to create rift on racial, religious, cultural and political grounds. Tarrant wanted to influence ideological conflict within the United States over the ownership of firearms, the latest instance of violence in Wisconsin after the police shooting of a black man lending credence to his thinking. It’s not surprising that New Zealand made its gun laws stricter after the 2019 incident.The Christchurch shootings showed how social media can be used to disturb social cohesion, for the violence was live-streamed by the perpetrator. The court has exhibited firmness by not dithering in its pursuit of justice and in the manner of dispensing it. Ethnocentric views are out of place in an inter-dependent world and extremity a sign of alienation. An inclusive society needs to guard against it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bridging-religious-divide-132373
28-08-2020||The merits of the argument for and against waiving the interest on the loan moratorium notwithstanding||Problem with lockdown||Is there proven research on Sunday shopping carrying a much higher risk for coronavirus, but not through the week? That liquor shops remaining open till much after the deadline is not a public health scare, but all other businesses are? The pandemic’s reach is widening, the need to act tough and drill sense is understandable. Ordering closure of shops cannot be the solution, especially when no help has been forthcoming for the losses accrued and the staff and owners in most cases have been very particular about following safety norms.We pointed out in these columns in April the plight of the invisible people — the millions of hardworking, honest, uncared-for Indians — in the most effective lockdown in the world. It was left to the administrator, politician or bureaucrat to decide who will sink, how much and how fast. It was argued at the very outset that a graded but positive response, and not a negative clampdown, was the answer. Four months down the line, has anything changed? Life has to go on, and must. Restrictions, penal provisions are all fine, but any strategy that rests on depriving people of their livelihood is flawed. If you can’t help, at least don’t make it worse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/problem-with-lockdown-132387
