28-07-2020||Opinion polls increasingly suggest that President Donald Trump’s approval ratings are falling||Protests up, numbers down||Disturbing images of militarised police forces confronting unarmed protesters, using tear gas, and baton-charging veterans have all provided grist for the media. Federal agents in Portland, Oregon, have been seen as overly aggressive, picking up people from the streets without identifying themselves, and behaving in such a manner that the city administrators have repeatedly asked them to vacate Portland. Now, President Trump is sending agents to other cities, whether they want them or not. While the discontent was primarily against local police forces that are controlled by cities, now it has become a Trump administration vs the protesters’ fight.The Trump administration is on the back foot. It has failed to handle the Covid-19 crisis. The process of providing bailout money to small business is rife with allegations of fraud and corruption. The lack of a coherent response is also seen in international relations, as well as matters of domestic policy. Many of the appointments are ad hoc and candidates’ qualifications questionable. The fall in opinion poll numbers is therefore easy to explain. However, the spectre of a President who does not operate within the norms becoming more belligerent can’t be ignored. Looking at the riots and ugly confrontations in various cities, it is evident that the Trump administration is under siege.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/protests-up-numbers-down-118807
28-07-2020||Even as the paddy kharif crop is being sown||Managing paddy straw||The plan is designed for a triple impact. Not only do the farmers stand to profit from the pact, but it also serves the necessity of preserving soil health and ecology. Plus, immeasurable are the resultant long-term benefits to be accrued to the health of the people of the affected area — spread as far as Delhi — as they will be saved from the bane of breathing polluted air. The plight of crores of people gasping for clean air has even moved the Supreme Court into reprimanding the governments of Haryana and Punjab for not taking enough measures to address the burning issue.But rather than drawing well-planned steps to fight the problem, the governments have been resorting to knee-jerk reactions or imposing penalties on erring farmers despite their ineffectiveness to yield the desired results being evident over the years. As smog-laden air bogs down the populace every season, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh conveniently sidestep the problem by indulging in blame game. Taking a cue from the Ambala experiment, the CMs of the four states need to brainstorm together and evolve a plan to preempt another bout of air pollution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/managing-paddy-straw-118799
