28-05-2020||Chinese President Xi Jinping’s call to the People’s Liberation Army on Tuesday to think about worst-case scenarios and to scale up battle preparedness has come at an inopportune moment during a face-off between China and India in Ladakh. Coming as it does from the highest Chinese authority||Daring the Dragon||But instead of offering India reasons to remain equipoised, the Chinese are merely offending India by focusing on its vulnerabilities. Every small border skirmish gets magnified and overstated in Indian media, particularly in the toxic electronic media with its hyperventilating, super-nationalist anchors. So, even if China is attempting to thwart India’s border infrastructure construction in a benign stand-off, or it has grand plans to throttle India’s new economic aspirations, it has done it the wrong way. A public opinion is getting created, which will force the government to strike a strong, muscular pose.India, unfortunately, has not learnt from its own past follies or the history of its neighbour. The Chinese grew keeping their head low, turning the rhetoric down, avoiding bravado and working hard to get cats from all over to catch their mice, to quote Deng Xiaoping. So, instead of poking a creeping dragon with announcements that could be read as a statement of intent against Chinese imports, India ought to focus on building its economy. The government has so far done well to create capabilities on the LAC and to stand firm against Chinese incursions. India survived the last Cold War, despite being on the losing side; it should thrive during the next one with elastic diplomacy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/daring-the-dragon-90904
28-05-2020||With the coronavirus-induced lockdown stretching to over two months and crowded spaces continuing to be potentially hazardous for an indeterminate period||Open book test unfeasible||Oblivious to this ground reality, Delhi University, which has students enrolled with it from all over the country, has proposed to hold open book exams from home in July. It is not surprising that nearly 90 per cent of the over 50,000 students responding to a survey conducted by the Delhi University Teachers Association have rejected the DU plan. For, caught unawares by the sudden lockdown, many of them do not even have the textbooks and reference material with them.Clearly, it is not yet time to introduce the open book examination system, despite the many pros of the concept that aims to test the examinee’s understanding of the subject, rather than just the recalling of lessons or a memory test. The books that are available to the student for reference only support him in his ability to formulate, analyse or evaluate a given topic. Unless he has prepared well for the exam, referring to the books under a time constraint is bound to be unproductive. But, at this juncture, the educationists will need to think of some other imaginative modes of testing the students, in a manner that gives them all equal opportunities and exposes them to the least risk of contracting Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/open-book-test-unfeasible-90882
