28-04-2020||THE Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent nationwide lockdown have alarmingly raised the spectre of hunger and starvation||Food security in peril||A day after the lockdown came into effect on March 25, the Centre had announced a Rs 1.7 lakh crore package to help the vulnerable sections tide over the crisis during the ensuing three-month period. Ensuring food security was a key feature of this relief package, which offered free distribution of 5-kg foodgrains per person and 1-kg pulses per household —over and above the subsidised allocation for ration-card holders. With the One Nation One Ration Card scheme yet to be operational across the country, lakhs of migrant workers had little option but to rush back to their native places to avail themselves of the doles.Despite the Centre’s repeated assurances to the Supreme Court about taking care of the jobless, displaced workers, things have not been progressing smoothly on the ground. Last week, Union Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Ram Vilas Paswan had admitted that 39 lakh of the 71 crore people supposed to be covered under the NFSA were not receiving benefits as they did not have ration cards. The Central and state governments must synergise their efforts without delay in order to provide universal access to food — with or without ration cards. Both should ensure that genuine beneficiaries get the help they so desperately and immediately need. Greater lockdown relaxations, subject to compliance with the safety norms, can help bridge the demand-supply gap.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/food-security-in-peril-77180
28-04-2020||THE damage to the wheat lying in the open at various grain markets across Haryana and Punjab due to the untimely rain is a cause for concern. Agricultural activities have already been affected due to the lockdown imposed amid the coronavirus pandemic that has curtailed farm activities||Crop loss due to rain||The shortage of labour and the difficulty in procuring jute bags from West Bengal, where the mills are shut, has made the government co-opt the middlemen and there have been complaints that only the big landholders or registered farmers are being called first to mandis, implying a misuse of the token system. Strict monitoring will ensure it does not happen. Usually, girdawari is ordered when crops are destroyed due to natural factors. This time, the government suggested a bonus over and above the MSP for the crop that is lifted after May 1 to compensate for staggering the marketing. This is expected to help the farmers facing the problem of higher crop moisture content. Government agencies normally dither on this count, making the farmers sell their produce to other buyers, increasing chances of being short-changed. Because of the restrictions, procurement is expected to continue longer and care will have to be taken to wind up the process before the monsoon arrives.As the states mull ways to exit the lockdown, effective procurement will also mean putting money into the pockets of farmers so that shops in towns and cities can look up on the strength of the rural bounty that has truly helped the country negotiate the rigour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/crop-loss-due-to-rain-77179
