28-09-2020||AS the United Nations marks 75 years of its foundation||India’s place in UN||India, which has previously served seven terms as a non-permanent and elected member of the Security Council, has been re-elected for a two-year term starting January 1, 2021, a move welcomed by the PM. A place on the high table of five permanent members, however, is what New Delhi firmly believes is a deservedly appropriate spot. Hence, the assertion: ‘How long would a country have to wait particularly when the transformational changes happening in that country affect a large part of the world?’ A certain level of weariness with the reform process came through in the remark that the people of India are concerned whether this will ever reach its logical conclusion. Choosing to focus on the big picture, while leaving junior diplomats to deal with the confrontational issues, played out well while contrasting India’s behaviour with that of some new rising powers: ‘When we were strong, we were never a threat to the world. When we were weak, we never became a burden on the world.’Calling out the global body for failing short in leading a joint fight against the pandemic, PM Modi became the first world leader to declare that India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used for all of humanity. India’s open-handed approach of external aid is in marked contrast to that of several other countries, and a laudatory statement of intent of a responsible world power.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/indias-place-in-un-147671
28-09-2020||The announcement of the schedule for the Bihar Assembly elections amid the Covid-19 pandemic is a significant step towards restoration of the electoral process. The Election Commission announced the dates on the day protests against the new farm legislations were held in several states||Poll-bound Bihar||The litmus test will lie in conducting the elections successfully in a state that has a predominantly rural setting in the backdrop of the return of migrant workers in large numbers and the annual feature of floods ravaging the countryside. At stake will be Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s political capital, tested by the health emergency and the impatience and recalcitrance of his allies and adversaries. The Bihar CM earlier drew flak for his flip-flops, joining hands with the BJP, then dumping it to form an alliance with Lalu Prasad Yadav’s RJD, only to be back in the NDA fold. The BJP has made it clear that Nitish Kumar will be the NDA’s CM face, but if symbolism were to count in politics, he wouldn’t be found short, as he paid tributes to Raghuvansh Prasad Singh of the RJD on his demise and brought back Jitan Ram Manjhi to fend off the Paswans.During the Covid-induced lockdown, Nitish Kumar came under fire as he refused to bring back Bihari students stranded in Kota (Rajasthan), citing the strict MHA guidelines, even as BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh sent buses for its residents. His policy on prohibition is now being criticised as other states tap into revenue from liquor sales. Being held under exceptional circumstances, the battle for the ballot promises to be a challenging and exciting affair in Bihar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/poll-bound-bihar-147672
