29-08-2020||In a welcome ruling||Quota within quota||The Supreme Court has rightly observed that the benefit of quota is by and large not percolating down to the ‘neediest and poorest of the poor’. The constitutional objective of achieving equality through reservation will remain a distant dream as long as there are haves and have-nots within the reserved castes. Allowing states to make sub-classification, provided they do it rationally and reasonably, can help in ensuring equitable distribution of the largesse. The presidential list of SCs and STs is not set in stone. Parliament has the power to include or exclude castes and tribes from this list. Hence, the argument that states giving preference to certain Scheduled Castes would amount to tinkering with the list does not hold water.A system that offers no opportunity, for instance, to a scavenger’s child to move up the social ladder badly needs to be reformed. Article 46 of the Constitution provides that the State shall promote educational and economic interests of the weaker sections and protect them from social injustice. Here, a lot depends on the political will and intentions. The judiciary has a key role to play in curbing overreach by governments which may handpick quota beneficiaries for electoral gains. Earlier this year, the Supreme Court had quashed an order issued in 2000 by the Andhra Pradesh government that provided 100 per cent reservation to ST candidates for the posts of schoolteachers in scheduled areas and left out SCs as well as OBCs. A level playing field can make all the difference.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/quota-within-quota-132974
29-08-2020||Most spheres of life that had come to a halt during the nationwide lockdown have been subsequently unlocked gradually in a bid to bring normal life back on track. In the same spirit of moving on in the evolving situation||Final-year exams on course||Given the prevailing pandemic, the states have the leeway to tweak the dates and decide on the mode of the tests: online, offline or a blend of the two modes. In order to safeguard the interests of the students, the states/universities would be advised to get down to the process at once and make up for the lost time. Already, a section of pupils that has not yet taken the exams is at a disadvantageous position vis-à-vis those who have. While nearly 600 of the 800 universities in the country have either completed or are in the process of conducting exams, globally, too, most prestigious institutes, including the MIT, Cambridge and Oxford, have held the exams.Additionally, the states and universities have the onerous task of ensuring the safety of the examiners and examinees. The exam centres will have to be well equipped with the tools to keep Covid at bay. Any laxity in providing enough masks, sanitisers, gloves or ensuring social distancing as well as safe transport facilities would compromise their health and could prove to be counterproductive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/final-year-exams-on-course-132969
