29-02-2020||The Delhi Police are under fire for largely failing to stop rioters from running amok in northeastern areas of the Capital earlier this week. Two Special Investigation Teams (SITs)||Probing question||With their image sinking to a new low, the Delhi Police will witness a change of guard from tomorrow when senior IPS officer SN Shrivastava will assume the additional charge of the police chief after incumbent Amulya Patnaik demits office. On Monday, the day all hell broke loose, Shrivastava had been repatriated from the CRPF and appointed as the special commissioner (law and order) of the Delhi Police. Speculation was rife last week that Patnaik could get an extension, but the apparent mishandling of the anarchic situation put paid to that possibility.The SITs’ main job would be to nail the perpetrators of the violence and unearth the underlying conspiracy, but it’s equally important to identify the cops who were guilty of dereliction of duty. It would be an onerous task for police officers to conduct a free and fair probe against their own peers or subordinates. With the Centre’s credibility at stake and the BJP-led NDA’s constituents getting restive, a court-monitored inquiry is needed to establish the culpability of the law-enforcers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/probing-question-48570
29-02-2020||The flip side of the agricultural bounty in Punjab — of foodgrain stock going waste — has again been flagged by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India||Rotting wheat stocks||Arrangement is made to store foodgrains in different ways, like in covered godowns, silos and on elevated plinths. There are rules stipulated for the storage. Fumigation and treatment of crops with pesticides have to be undertaken in the godowns whereas in the covered-at-plinth (CAP) storage system, wooden crates are used for dunnage and the stacks are covered with specially fabricated waterproof polythene covers and tied with ropes. Despite this, the vagaries of weather like unseasonal rain create problems. This arrangement is meant to be temporary. What compounds the problem is the slow movement of grains from the godowns — where they are mostly stored for the Central pool — to the designated destinations. With the other states also witnessing an increase in the production of crops, grain disposal takes time, exacerbated by the shortage of labour, transportation and packaging material like gunny bags. With the stock of previous years still not disposed of, the procurement of fresh grain stock and their storage becomes a tough task.Also, there are districts in the state that are in need of more storage space and districts where there is no requirement. The Punjab Chief Minister had written to the Centre last year for permission to construct more covered godowns to cover the storage gap. That may be one solution, but ways will also have to be thought of to ease the load on the godowns. Despite the country’s self-sufficiency, allowing foodgrains to rot is something that can well be done without.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/rotting-wheat-stocks-48569
