29-05-2020||EVEN after death||Mother of Muzaffarpur||The host states did not care for these men and women, forcing the Supreme Court to order them to ensure food, shelter and transportation. The home states, after initially trying to push them back, are now indifferent to the plight of those returning in desperation — dead or half dead. Well, nothing much was expected of the home states, but the hosts should remember that their farms and factories would need the migrant labourers sooner than they would have imagined. Some of the employers have already announced doubling of salaries and other incentives. If only they had the wisdom to see the tragedy while it was unfolding.The Central government, meanwhile, has woken up to have an updated Code on Social Security. This is part of a policy initiative to redefine ‘migrant workers’ aimed at getting them access to the social security cover under the Employees’ State Insurance Cooperation. If the new code offers a strong social security net for the migrants with monetary and health benefits, it would assuage their deep distress to some extent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/mother-of-muzaffarpur-91348
29-05-2020||The Punjab Cabinet’s in-principle approval to direct transfer of cash to farmers from the next financial year instead of providing electricity for free comes on the back of the Centre making it a pre-condition for an additional loan. In the state||DBT in power sector||Leveraging the DBT scheme in the electricity sector has been part of the roadmap for structural reforms, aimed at better targeting of subsidies. There has been an unending debate on whether there is such a thing as free electricity. Those advocating change say power needs to be metered, bills need to be paid and if any state government wants to give subsidy, it can do so through direct transfer. That it will benefit many more farmers than those under the free power scheme and ensure more equitable distribution of subsidy are the other arguments forwarded. However, those against it are convinced that the intent is to do away with free power and harass the farmers since there is no assurance that the cash transfer would actually take place. So, it is the intent that is being questioned and not the idea.NITI Aayog’s draft national energy policy contends that not recovering the price of electricity that is distributed will only lead to discoms losing steam within no time. DBT, it is felt, makes the efficiencies or inefficiencies of discoms clear. Punjab’s farmers are in deep distress. Any proposal that offers a better deal needs an informed debate. If it is fundamentally flawed or unsuitable, the facts will come out. Why shy away from talking about it? Discuss the issue threadbare, but not on the streets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/dbt-in-power-sector-91314
