29-10-2020||The signing of the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA)||BECA boost||The latest agreement comes amid the prolonged standoff at the Line of Actual Control. America has been vociferously backing India and bashing China over the border unrest, and the third edition of the 2+2 dialogue provided US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo a platform to tear into the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). More importantly, Pompeo asserted that India and the US were taking steps to strengthen cooperation against all threats and not just those posed by the CCP. India’s interests are best served if America stays firmly on its side even if China is taken out of the equation.Even as India has had its hands full this year with the Covid-19 pandemic and Chinese aggression, the country has made rapid strides towards cementing defence ties with its Quad partners. In June, India and Australia signed a pact allowing their militaries to access each other’s bases. A similar agreement with Japan came to fruition last month after years of negotiations. At the recent Quad meeting in Tokyo, all four members had reaffirmed their commitment to ensuring peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific region. The support of such formidable allies ought to give India military and diplomatic heft to put China on the back foot. It’s also hoped that the sharing of technology will contribute significantly towards bringing India nearer to the lofty goal of Atmanirbharta in the defence sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/beca-boost-162611
29-10-2020||Brazen daylight murders by suitors who stalk girls and use weapons when their advances get rejected are a blot on Haryana. The latest victim of such gruesome crime is Nikita Tomar||The chilling pattern||The abhorrent gender crime puts a chilling question mark on the state’s tall claims to have made considerable progress in saving the beti. It certainly calls for renewed efforts to combat the social evil. Making matters worse are the lapses and loopholes in the law enforcement and judicial systems that allow the perpetrators to escape the net lightly. Exemplary and swift punishment to all assassins, no matter how mighty or well-connected they may be, will certainly drill a sense of fear and deter potential killers. It will save many girls from fatal attacks by men ‘enraged’ by a no. Woo a girl you love with love, not threats. And, respect her decision, either way. Boys need to be groomed by both families and schools to adopt this mantra from childhood.The huge strides made by girls in education and sports in Haryana get a beating by the repeated blood-curdling pattern of killing of women by the men spurned. It is indicative of the disturbing fact that patriarchal and misogynistic mores remain deeply entrenched in our society. Till they are uprooted, the brave girls resisting pressure to give in to bullies and abusive boys will end up as mere statistics in the rising crime graph.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-chilling-pattern-162609
