29-12-2020||THE Jammu and Kashmir High Court’s observation that government properties were being illegally occupied by political persons even when they were no longer holding any office is a pointer to a malaise that runs deep not only in the new Union Territory||Misuse of govt property||It has been a tradition to allot accommodation to VIPs to help in the discharge of their public duties. But reluctance to vacate the premises, despite umpteen notices, has invited court intervention even in Lutyens’ Delhi. While bungalows have been turned into memorials to honour the memory of leaders in some cases, it is important to have clear guidelines in place for eligibility and eviction, and ensure their proper implementation to check the tendency for misuse. The impression of political vendetta also needs to be dispelled by not singling out parties or leaders.The court frowning on the allotment of bungalows to ineligible individuals is a timely reminder to not only those entrusted with the enforcement of policy, but also the beneficiaries who continue to be brazen despite being in illegal possession of government property. Their reluctance not to adhere to the law of the land needs to be called out. Providing accommodation in cities is a tough job and strict action should be taken in cases of misuse. At the same time, a way should be found to put the public assets to use in a rightful manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/misuse-of-govt-property-190771
29-12-2020||THE Indian government’s decision to informally tell airlines not to fly Chinese nationals into the country is not merely a precautionary measure aimed at checking the spread of Covid-19. There is more to it than meets the eye||Getting back at China||One of these vessels, MV Jag Anand, stranded near Jingtang port in Hebei province since June, is carrying a huge consignment of Australian coal. Despite repeated requests, China is neither allowing the ships to be docked nor their crew to be changed, while insisting that it is only adhering to the stipulations on quarantine measures. China’s claim that these developments are not linked to its strained ties with India as well as Australia does not hold water. Last month, China had taken exception to Australia’s decision to take part in the Malabar naval exercise that also featured India, the US and Japan. With Canberra barring Chinese telecom giant Huawei from its national 5G network over security concerns, besides raising the pitch for an international inquiry into the origin of the virus, Beijing has retaliated by restricting several Australian exports, including coal.India’s latest move will hurt China’s business interests as the latter’s nationals have been travelling to this country for work and trade purposes even during the pandemic. Though India has made a statement by imposing travel curbs, it needs to redouble efforts to end the maritime stalemate and provide relief to the harried crew members. New Delhi should go all out to expose the double standards being adopted by Beijing while implementing Covid-19 regulations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/getting-back-at-china-190770
