30-09-2020||After the meeting on September 11 of the foreign ministers of India and China||Chinese duplicity again||Now, the Chinese have yet again proven why their promises and agreements cannot be taken at face value. In a statement, written in Mandarin and offered to the Beijing correspondent of an Indian daily, the Chinese foreign ministry has reiterated its 1959 claim line as LAC, making a unilateral assertion which it knows is anathema to India. Worse, it has blamed the border standoff, tension and clashes entirely on the India Army, making a mockery of the dialogue process. Yet, this statement is important because it finally, after decades, makes the Chinese recalcitrance on the border issue its officially declared policy.The then PM Narasimha Rao ought to be blamed for accepting the term LAC with no mutually agreed definition in 1993 during his Beijing visit when the two sides signed the Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the LAC. Now, the Chinese have gone back to Zhou Enlai’s letter of November 7, 1959, to highlight and underline the claims that they have made all along without exchanging maps to scale. For the Chinese, it is ‘a traditional, customary line’; but it is only a ‘disconnected series of points that could be joined up in many ways’, as former National Security Adviser Shivshankar Menon explained in his book. Now, the Modi government can quote Jawaharlal Nehru to reject the 1959 claim, asking the Chinese whether it is something that they created by aggression.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/chinese-duplicity-again-148721
30-09-2020||As yet another girl of an Uttar Pradesh village succumbs to the brutal physical torture that she was subjected to following her gang-rape in a field where she was working||Another reprehensible rape||When the convicts in the Nirbhaya case were hanged to death as an exemplary punishment in March this year, her mother's reaction was: ‘Women now will feel safe.’ Sadly, the string of cases since then bears out that our daughters remain vulnerable to violence as ever, as sexual offenders and predators are not deterred enough. The two separate incidents of violent sexual assault on two adolescent girls, followed by the killing of one of them in mid-August in Uttar Pradesh, are fresh in memory.Clearly, a two-pronged approach is needed to take on this reprehensible evil. Foremost, the boys have to be sensitised towards respecting girls as equal partners and with agency of their own, both at home and in school. Secondly, the law enforcement system, particularly in UP, must be made accountable by punishing cops for dragging their feet. The government had last September proposed to set up over 1,000 fast-track special courts to dispose of the nearly 1.66 lakh pending cases of crime against women and children. Till the social prejudice that devalues women is not rooted out, it is not quite a country for women.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/another-reprehensible-rape-148720
