30-07-2020||The farcical state of affairs in Rajasthan in the past few days was not only a new low for Indian democracy but also a brazen affront to the Constitution. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot was in a tearing hurry to hold an Assembly session||Towards a floor test||The crisis was finally resolved with the Governor agreeing to call a House session on August 14. Only a floor test can put an end to the latest round of resort politics, horse-trading and engineered defections. Time and again, the judiciary has specified the course of action, but the political will to tread that path has been found lacking. In SR Bommai v Union of India (1994), the apex court made it clear that a trust vote was the only way out to dispel doubts about whether the Council of Ministers continued to enjoy the confidence of the House.Relying on this landmark judgment, the court had stated earlier this year in the context of the Madhya Pradesh case that the Governor was right in telling the CM to hold a floor test if he was, prima facie, of the view that the government had lost majority. Any dilly-dallying on the part of the Governor or the CM would have betrayed political compulsions. The border state needs a functional, stable government to face the Covid challenge and implement public welfare schemes. It’s time to get the numbers game over and done with at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/towards-a-floor-test-119741
30-07-2020||The treatment for coronavirus has thrown up its own set of problems. With no known protocol for treating the disease||Covid drug cartel||Hospitals for Covid treatment in Gurugram are now under the scanner because the drugs are supposed to be directly provided to the hospitals by the manufacturing company after verifying patients’ details. The drug department too is given a daily dispensing report of these medicines. The police are probing if any hospital helped the accused in procuring the drugs. An alert has also been sounded to check the sale of Covid drugs on the black market in Haryana. The involvement of foreign nationals is a matter of grave concern, for it may involve national security. That the cartel could think of pulling off the deal at a time when flights are restricted and frisking for security should have been tighter are all aspects that should be looked into.Unlike India, Iraq has been in turmoil, faced with war and sanctions. The violence has affected hospitals, doctors and other medical staff, besides the supply of medical essentials. The raging coronavirus in neighbouring Iran has also fuelled concerns. The chaos has meant laxity, leading to smuggling of drugs from various countries, including India, where the prices are much lower as compared to other countries, assuring lucrative returns for the smugglers. While efforts are being made to boost the manufacturing and supply of Covid drugs to meet the demand, the government should clamp down on their illegal trade while looking into the possibility of humanitarian assistance to other countries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-drug-cartel-119737
