30-06-2020||The priority of daily-wage workers||But for a smartphone||There cannot be a one-size-fits-all schooling remedy in such circumstances as our society spans a huge spectrum of haves and have-nots. Education has all along been the fundamental force in bridging the deep socio-economic divide. There is an urgent need to address the stark digital chasm highlighted by the necessity of transitioning teaching and a range of other services from the physical to the digital realm. The provision of equal opportunities for studies to all children is of critical import to prevent further marginalisation of the poor.The Right to Education Act, in force since 2010, makes it incumbent upon the government authorities to provide the appropriate conditions for all children in the six-to-14 age-group get free and compulsory education. They are obliged to ensure a level playing field. It would be unfortunate, indeed, if millions of pupils were to suffer academically for lack of access to digital devices and services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/but-for-a-smartphone-106338
30-06-2020||Unlike in the US||Institutionalised brutality||Apart from police brutality, what turns the Jayaraj-Fennix murder case into a cause for national outrage is the role of the judiciary in sending the battered men to jail and their subsequent death. It is the responsibility of the magistrate to ensure that no custodial torture happens and to censure the cops if there is an iota of doubt about misconduct. Here, both the accused could not stand and were profusely bleeding from their posterior, yet the magistrate remanded them in custody. The government has transferred the case to the CBI and suspended the two Sub-Inspectors, Balakrishnan and Raghuganesan, and Inspector Sridhar of Sathankulam police station. That is not enough. The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, which took suo motu notice of the case, should initiate proceedings against the magistrate.The state has a monopoly on violence and hence it is always important to examine the social dimensions of an ugly exhibition of state power such as this. Of the two Sub-Inspectors, one is a Dalit and the other is from a backward caste, whereas the victims belong to the economically and socially dominant (though OBC) Nadar Christian community. Unless there is an underlying religious subplot to this custodial murder, the act of injustice seems a reflection of institutionalised brutality of a police state, which got aggravated during the lockdown that made cops power-drunk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/institutionalised-brutality-106341
