30-12-2020||INDIA’S emphatic win over Australia in the second Test at Melbourne||Sweet Melbourne win||The quiet and soft-spoken Ajinkya Rahane — diametrically opposite in character to Kohli — showed that the strength of the mind is the greatest strength. He captained the team with imagination and verve, and his marshalling of his bowling resources drew praise from the experts. His 112 in the first innings, the first century of the series from either side, helped India get a big lead. The two debutants India fielded — Shubman Gill and Mohammed Siraj — rose to the challenge and made important contributions. Ravindra Jadeja, who replaced Kohli in the playing XI, chipped in with both bat and ball. Jasprit Bumrah is near the top of his game, and Ravichandran Ashwin’s continuing success on Australian tracks suggests that he is peaking as a spinner. A complete team effort helped wash off the stain of a historical low total of 36 at Adelaide.The series is poised for a thrilling finish, even as the race for the top two spots in the inaugural World Test Championship is hotting up. Australia is a team that must never be counted out — they are playing on their own wickets, their bowling is top-class, and their batting is packed with serious talent. The excellent Steve Smith and Marnus Labuschagne have had a quiet series, and that would make them doubly determined to make up in the remaining games. But now is the time to celebrate India’s win, which brings down the curtain on a year that was miserable for sport, as it was for almost every aspect of life. Three cheers for sport!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/sweet-melbourne-win-191158
30-12-2020||NOW that a vaccine is almost here||Vaccination dry run||The protocol involves sending an SMS to identified beneficiaries with the name of the vaccinator, and the time of the vaccination. Each candidate has to sit for 30 minutes after being administered the shot to check for any adverse reaction, to take note of which panels have been formed. The drill includes concurrent monitoring and collation of feedback. States are likely to come up with their own vaccination targets that can be met.Who gets vaccinated first has been made clear in the priority list, but funding the programme and pricing are unresolved issues. So is the cost to be borne by states, reeling under financial strain? Given the limited capability of the public health system and the sheer numbers involved, how and in what capacity the private sector is involved could be crucial. The Centre has resolved to be exclusively responsible for procuring vaccines, but overpricing and black marketing in the rush to jump the queue are distinct possibilities. There could, in the near future, emerge a scenario where open sale is allowed of expensive vaccines that have not been picked up for the national programme. More than keeping a check on the rate being charged, the real test would be keeping tabs and monitoring the beneficiaries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/vaccination-dry-run-191157
