30-11-2020||Nothing signifies more the patriarchal set-up and backwardness of the Mewat area of Haryana than this tragic and ghastly incident. Frustrated by not having given birth to a son||Daughters of Nuh||That a mother preferred to cut short the lives of her four little girls is emblematic of a terrible tale that has its roots in deeply embedded social mores and norms that condemn a woman to a lowly and wretched space. Perhaps, she wanted to free them from an existence of torture and abuse emanating from lack of facilities and opportunities that are the bane in the lives of a majority of women in the area. She must have suffered firsthand the gender prejudices prevalent in educational, financial, health and social fields. The huge disparities between men and women are among the significant indicators that have made Mewat the most backward area of the country.With education being the key to the uplift of women, Haryana has rightly sought to improve the grimly skewed situation with its Beti Padhao Beti Bachao campaign. But, apparently, a lot remains to be done. Redoubled efforts are needed to cover the ground and strive to transform the male-dominated set-up into an equitable one by changing the mindset of the people, including the influential khaps. Progressive reforms can only emanate from the bowels of society that has the backbone of strong governance. Empower the girls with good education and health so that they blossom into confident, independent young women. They are as able as boys, not a liability. The distinction between boys and girls will evaporate if the daughters are welcomed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/daughters-of-nuh-177717
30-11-2020||Despite Pakistani military-intelligence complex’s best efforts to push terrorists across the border and the Line of Control to disrupt the nascent political process||J&K political process||The participation of the seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) in these polls is a big sign of positive, democratic engagement by J&K’s mainstream parties, which needs to be understood, appreciated and reciprocated by the Centre. The Union government ought to stop looking at leaders of PAGD, particularly the former chief ministers of J&K, through a prism of suspicion and malice. Even when they seek to restore the status of their erstwhile state, they are responsibly channelling the free-floating anger, frustration and political energy of the masses into the electoral paradigm, making the DDC polls a success.Instead of valuing the contribution of these mainstream parties in stabilising society, for some time, there has been an attempt to demonise the leadership of the people of J&K, which would only help create a dangerous vacuum to be occupied by Islamist separatists. There was no need for stopping Farooq Abdullah from offering prayers at the Hazratbal shrine for Eid-Milad-un-Nabi on October 30. Now, Mehbooba Mufti claims that she and her daughter are under detention and not allowed to meet the parents of Waheed-ur-Rahman Para, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency on terror charges. It is difficult to disagree with Omar Abdullah when he says that personal liberty is being treated as a favour by the government, which offers and withdraws it at will.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/jk-political-process-177716
