31-12-2020||IN continuation of the series of significant regulations introduced over the past couple of years to improve safety features in vehicles||Adopt dual airbags||The Indian automobile industry has been steadily headed towards both a technical alignment with world-class norms as well as meeting environmental imperatives through stringent emission standards. The value provided by the compulsory compliance to recent measures like the antilock braking system (ABS), airbags, crash tests and BS6 norms more than offsets the price hike of cars that they trigger. More importantly, given the fact that India accounts for the highest number of road accident deaths in the world, the gains in terms of resultant reduced fatalities and injuries are immeasurable. Of course, provided the roads are shipshape, a condition rarely met.At same time, the gains accrued from advanced highways and automobile technologies can be largely negated if the humans handling the vehicles fail to adhere to traffic rules. Responsible driving holds the key to boosting passenger safety. Shamefully, despite strict rules and penalties, we have not applied the brakes on rash driving, overspeeding, drunk driving, using phones while steering the wheel, avoiding seat belt or helmet — the major factors leading to the average of 17 accidents an hour across the country, as reflected in the 2019 report of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/adopt-dual-airbags-191601
31-12-2020||Ravaged by the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown||Economic recovery||The good tidings, however, should not blind us to the ground reality. India’s unemployment rate has again started rising after staying under 7 per cent for three months in a row. Merely boosting production and consumption may not be enough to help the economy return to pre-Covid levels. Job creation has to be prioritised as millions of people lost their livelihoods during the lockdown. Under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana, the government is aiming to create at least 50-60 lakh jobs by June next year in the formal sector by incentivising establishments that do fresh hiring. This scheme is a step in the right direction, but much more needs to be done to restore and generate employment.The uptick in the agriculture and manufacturing sectors has been cited as a major driving force for economic revival. But the prolonged unrest over the new farm laws threatens to impede overall growth as agriculture has continued to be the backbone of the economy, even during the pandemic. The government should go all out to handhold the MSMEs (Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises), which not only need a financial stimulus but also high demand to get back on their feet. The key to sustaining recent gains is to ensure that consumer and investor confidence is not dented as India emerges from the Covid-induced slowdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/economic-recovery-191600
