31-10-2020||The study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) attributing lower Covid mortality among Indians to the anti-tuberculosis vaccine BCG||Vacillating over vaccine||The vaccine for Covid-19 is threatening to become a part of populist politics in the country, with the BJP promising free vaccination in Bihar. A National Covid Immunisation Plan was formulated under which the Centre planned to directly procure the vaccine for the states, with priority groups such as health workers and those with co-morbidity to get it for free. But the Centre will have to ensure that non-BJP-ruled states or groups opposed to it are not discriminated against. With the government mulling the Aadhaar system for the distribution of the vaccine, more specific instructions will be needed as government and private hospital rates vary for vaccination.With the warning of a second wave during the winter, precautionary measures are needed along with preparedness, which was found wanting when the outbreak was first reported. Also, the WHO needs to improve coordination with the health bodies of various countries to achieve the common goal of containing Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/vacillating-over-vaccine-163722
31-10-2020||Aseries of terror attacks have rocked France ever since satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo republished caricatures of Prophet Muhammad in September||France attacked||Though Charlie Hebdo — whose precursor was aptly called Hara-kiri Hebdo — is notorious for going too far at times, the use of violence and terror to stifle free speech is condemnable. The publication of anything outrageous, even if it’s considered blasphemous by a community, can’t justify bloodshed. Making things worse are rabble-rousers like Malaysia’s former PM Mahathir Mohamad, who has said that Muslims have the right to ‘kill millions of French people for the massacres of the past’. Ironically, such statements are fuelling Islamophobia. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and other leaders have also fanned the flames by launching personal attacks on Macron, drawing sharp criticism from France’s old ally India, which has objected to the ‘violation of the most basic standards of international discourse’.In this surcharged atmosphere fraught with dangerous implications for the whole world, it is imperative for the international community to speak in one voice against terrorism in any form. Being a sovereign, democratic republic, France — which has a Muslim population of about 9 per cent — is at liberty to take strict measures for the sake of its internal security. But it can also explore a middle path, taking a cue from Russia’s reaction that it is unacceptable to kill people, but also wrong to insult the feelings of religious believers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/france-attacked-163723
