11-08-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Gurugram health dept to test 3 lakh industrial workers for COVID-19||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, August 11Having managed to keep the COVID-19 numbers below 100 since the last twelve days, the district health department, which is leading the state in testing, has turned its attention to industrial workers now.The department has decided to go ahead with the decision to test three lakh industrial workers in Manesar and Udyog Vihar from August 15.The department had got in touch with the industries in both industrial zones and had planned to begin testing from today but the industries sought some time to coordinate and arrange things.According to the authorities, they believe workers to be the next suspected pool of COVID infection and will start with testing five per cent of all workers in the first phase of testing.“We will test five per cent of workers of each unit in the first phase ad then move on. We have curtailed the infectivity in the district through rigorous testing and containment. We are now turning our attention to communities who we feel can be at risk and industry workers are our top suspects. We will study their positivity rate,” said CMO Dr Virender Yadav.According to the authorities, as per the positivity trends of the past 15 days, 90 per cent of people testing positive source their infection to inter-state or city travelling. The industrialworkers travel regularly to Gurugram from Delhi, Nuh and Faridabad, and thus suspect that they could be COVID-19 carriers.The Health Department plans to make Gurugram the only district to have tested one lakh samples per 10-lakh population.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-health-dept-to-test-3-lakh-industrial-workers-for-covid-19-125145
11-08-2020||Deepender Deswal||Haryana temples to issue tokens to devotees for Janmashtami||Tribune News ServiceHisar, August 11The state government has decided to allow people to observe the festival of ‘Sri Krishna Janmasthami’ in the temples on Wednesday evening to till the night of August 12 across the state.The state government sent a communiqué in this regard to the deputy commissioners today to issue instructions to ensure precautions during the festivities while asking the temple managements to issue tokens to the devotees and ensure that more than five persons are not allowed inside the temple at one time to offer prayers.The deputy commissioner Hisar, Priyanka Soni said there will be no aarti, congregation or collective gathering in the temples for prayers and only individual prayers can be performed.The physical offerings like ‘Prasad’, distribution or sprinkling of holy water inside the religious place is also not allowed. However, the government allowed the community kitchens which are already running while issuing instructions to maintain physical distancing norms in preparing and distributing food.The DC said sanitation of the temple premises will be done at regular intervals by the temple management. She said the SOPs issued by the Centre shall be strictly followed at these places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-temples-to-issue-tokens-to-devotees-for-janmashtami-125123
11-08-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Another fake call centre busted in Gurugram; 2 nabbed||Gurugram, August 11Yet another fake call centre was busted in Gurugram on Tuesday. Twelve men were running the call centre from a house and duping US nationals on pretext of providing technical support.Call centre owner and operator were arrested while others had been detained for questioning. Three computers and around Rs 1.5 lakh cash has been recovered by police.The cyber police got a tip-off that a fake call centre was being run from a house in DLF Phase 2. A team conducted a raid at the house where more than 12 employees busy on computers. Majority were busy making calls in English using their headphones and working on their computer systems. They did not possess any valid OSP licences of Department of Telecommunications or any other agreement/MoU related to their work. Police detained 12 and later arrested call centre owner identified as Amit Dhanda, native of Narvana in Jind, and operator Saurabh Chaudhary, native of west Bengal. Dhanda is B-tech while Chaudhary is B Com, said police. The accused had duped around 800 foreigners in last three months, said police.“The accused posed as employees of US-based company ‘Best Boy’ and duped American citizens in the name of technical support. The owner and operator of the call centre were working in a private company for IT solutions and they started this fake call centre around 3 months ago to make money easily.“They asked US nationals to purchase i-tune gifts cards and then took their numbers. With this trick they duped many and we are interrogating the main accused,” said K K Rao, police commissioner, Gurugram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/another-fake-call-centre-busted-in-gurugram-2-nabbed-125115
11-08-2020||---||Faridabad records 121 new COVID-19 cases, two deaths||Chandigarh, August 11The total number of COVID-19 cases in Faridabad surged to 10,402 on Tuesday with the addition of 121 new cases.Meanwhile, two more deaths were also reported in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll in the district to 143.The tally of recovered patients has also moved to 9,332 with 73 patients being discharged today.The patients who died today include a 66-year-old woman from Shikha Colony and an 84-year-old man from Sector-15 A. Both patients were suffering from co-morbidities.The localities from where the fresh cases were reported are Old Faridabad, Ballabgarh, NIT, Dabua colony, Jawahar colony, Sanjay colony, SGM Nagar, Adarsh Nagar, Sector- 8, Sector- 16 and Sector-82.Of the total cases in the district, 927 are active cases, of which 656 are under home isolation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-records-121-new-covid-19-cases-two-deaths-125106
11-08-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||BJP IT cell alleges Gurugram Congress leader maligning party, booked||A local Congress leader in Gurugram has been booked by the cyber police on the complaint of the BJP IT cell for allegedly spreading rumours and posting instigating material on social media against the party.According to the complaint filed by Arun Yadav, IT Convener BJP Haryana, Tejbir Mayna, reportedly serving as the Vice Chairman at Haryana Kisaan Congress, was constantly defaming the party online."Over the past few days, some miscreants have been spreading false information and malicious rumours about BJP on Facebook and other social media platforms to create panic and fear in the mind of people of Haryana and wanting to disturb the peace and harmony among the different sections of the society. One such miscreant is Tejbir Mayna. The Facebook post, posted by him, attempt to portray the BJP top leadership in poor light and are intended to tarnish the image," read the complaint.साथियो 8 अगस्त को मैंने बीजेपी अध्यक्ष ओमप्रकाश धनखड़ द्वारा रोहतक में ली गई मीटिंग की गलत जानकारी के आधार पर एक फेक...According to Yadav, it was on August 8 that Mayna had allegedly posted there is a rift in between BJP top leadership."The intention of the accused is very clear from his Post, where he fails to understand the ramification of his false/ misleading post that will create a state of panic among the public at large”, added the complaint.Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered against Tejbir Mayna under sections 153A, 505 (2) of IPC at the cyber crime police station.In a post on Facebook, Mayna apologised for putting up the "fake" post.“We will serve notice to the leader to join the investigating soon. Further probe is on”, said inspector Mukesh Kumar, SHO of the cyber crime police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-it-cell-alleges-gurugram-congress-leader-maligning-party-booked-125082
11-08-2020||Gurugram||Retired couple robbed at gunpoint in Gurugram; security of senior citizens questioned||A retired couple was allegedly attacked, robbed and held at gunpoint by armed robbers on Monday evening. This incident has brought the issue of security of senior citizens in the city under the scanner once again. This episode was reported from the posh area DLF Phase 3. The accused fled away after robbing cash and jewellery in just 20 minutes.  An FIR has been registered, but police have no clue so far.  According to the police, the incident took place the previous evening with the 77-year-old retired teacher RK Mehta, a resident of S block of DLF Phase 3. "The maid was working when three armed robbers knocked on the door. Mehta opened the gate and robbers barged into the house forcibly, and held him on gunpoint. His wife and maid tried to raise and alarm, but one of them was held at gunpoint and locked them in a room. They threatened them, and took the keys of the jewellery fled away after robbing around Rs 25,000 cash and gold and silver jwellery on north over Rs 2 lakhs. The accused threatened to kill all if they created an issue," said a senior investigator.After receiving information, the police team rushed to the spot, and registered an FIR against three unknown robbers under the section 392 (robber) of the Indian Penal Code, and section  25-54-59 of Arms act at DLF phase 3 police station.“The house of the victim has no CCTV camera, but we are trying to identify the accused with the help of CCTV cameras installed nearby. FIR has been registered and we are conducting raids to nab the accused”, said sub-inspector Ram Niwas, the investigating officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/retired-couple-robbed-at-gunpoint-in-gurugram-security-of-senior-citizens-questioned-125077
11-08-2020||Karnal||Haryana reports 90 new coronavirus cases, tally rises to 42,519||Haryana on Tuesday reported 90 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state's case tally to 42,519.Karnal reported 30 new cases of coronavirus, taking the district’s case tally to 1,363.With these new cases, the number of active cases in the district rose to 292. As many as 1,058 patients have been cured and discharged in the district.Eight persons from RK Puram; three from Ashok Nagar; two each from Janakpuri, Sadar Bazar, and Phoosgarh; one each from Ambhli, CIA-3, Newal Commando Complex, Liberty complex Gharaunda, Mohri Jagir, Sidhpur, Krishna Colony, Shaktipuram Part-2, Sector-7, Moti Nagar, Sector-16, and Karan Lake, tested positive for the contagion.Sirsa reported 60 new cases of coronavirus, taking the district’s case tally to 670. The district had reported 35 cases on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-reports-90-new-coronavirus-cases-tally-rises-to-42-519-125047
11-08-2020||Ambala||1 caught with intoxicants||One held for scooter theftThe police have arrested Mohit alias Munnu of Baldev Nagar, near here, in a case of vehicle theft and claimed to have recovered a stolen scooter. A local court remanded the accused in 14-day judicial custody. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-caught-with-intoxicants-124915
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana second in recovery rate, Delhi on top||With a recovery rate of 83.3 per cent, Haryana stands second after Delhi (89.8 per cent) in terms of people recovering from Covid.As on August 9, 40,843 people in Haryana had tested positive for the virus. Of them, 34,031 had been cured and discharged, 6,338 were still active and 474 had succumbed to the virus.Gurugram leads among districtsGurugram district has the best recovery rate of 91.9% in the stateJhajjar is second with a recovery rate of 91.1%Bhiwani is third with a recovery rate of 90.9%Faridabad is fourth with 90.4% & Nuh fifth at 90%In Delhi, of the 1,44,127 people who had contracted the virus till August 9, 1,29,362 had recovered, with a recovery rate of 89.8 per cent.Jammu and Kashmir has a recovery rate of 68.3per cent, Punjab 64.9 per cent, Himachal Pradesh 63.8 per cent and Chandigarh 61.2 per cent.In terms of active cases per million population, Haryana (250) is placed second in the region after Himachal Pradesh (170). Delhi has 635 active cases per million, Punjab 270 and Chandigarh the maximum of 635.Among Haryana districts, Gurugram, which is one of the worst-affected along with Faridabad, has the best recovery rate of 91.9 per cent (8,941 of 9,728 confirmed cases).Jhajjar, where 819 of the 899 confirmed cases have been cured and discharged, is placed second with a recovery rate of 91.1 per cent.Bhiwani is placed third with a recovery rate of 90.9 per cent and Faridabad fourth with 90.4 per cent, while Nuh at 90 per cent is the fifth district where 90 or more out of 100 confirmed cases have been cured.Yamunanagar, with a recovery rate of 51.2 per cent, is placed at the bottom of the table with only 235 of 459 confirmed cases having recovered so far. Sirsa, with 553 confirmed cases and 304 recoveries, is second from the bottom with a recovery rate of 55 per cent. Panchkula, with 939 confirmed cases and 531 recoveries, is third from the bottom with a recovery rate of 56.5 per cent.Going by positive cases per lakh population, Gurugram has the maximum of 642, followed by Faridabad at 560, while Kaithal has the lowest figure of 26.Weekly cumulative cases remained almost constant during the past three weeks, with 5,116 cases having been reported from August 3 to 9, 5,187 cases from July 27 to August 2 and 5,168 cases from July 20 to 26.There was steep weekly rise in June and, to an extent, in July too. From 907 fresh cases from May 25 to 31, the number went up to 2,357 cases from June 1 to 7, 2,760 cases from June 8 to 14 and 3,427 cases from June 15 to 21.A total of 4,235 cases were reported from July 6 to 12, with the figure rising to 4,924 from July 13 to 19. The week from June 22 to 28 saw 3,194 cases and the week from June 29 to July 5 saw an almost equal figure of 3,176 cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-second-in-recovery-rate-delhi-on-top-124924
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||6 more die, 794 cases in Haryana||With 794 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state reached 42,429 today. Six deaths pushed the toll to 489. Three deaths were reported from Rewari, two from Panipat and one from Faridabad.Fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (154), Ambala (84), Panipat (72), Rewari (71), Panchkula (59), Gurugram (57), Yamunanagar (44), Kurukshetra (43), Rohtak (40), Karnal (32), Sonepat (31), Hisar (23), Sirsa (22), Fatehabad (15), Kaithal (14), Bhiwani (11), Jhajjar (10), Nuh (5), Charkhi Dadri (4) and Jind (3).In Ambala district, 55 cases were reported from Ambala City, 13 from Chaurmastpur, nine from Ambala Cantonment, four from Mullana, two from Barara and one from Naraingarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-more-die-794-cases-in-haryana-124925
11-08-2020||Gurugram||Two abduct Maruti staffer in Gurugram, loot Rs40,000||A senior engineer with Maruti, Anil Kumar, was allegedly kidnapped from the parking lot of a hotel here on Sunday night and later robbed of Rs 40,000, the police said.The accused — Sahil Kamboj and Aman — have been arrested and sent to judicial custody. Kamboj is an outsourced employee of the MC, while Aman is unemployed.The victim said he and his woman friend had gone to a hotel on Sunday night for some work. When they came out around 11 pm, Kamboj and Aman were already waiting outside. The woman introduced Kamboj as her friend and the two got into his car.“They dropped the woman at her home in Fazilpur village and then forcibly took me to some hotel near the bus stand. They beat me up, stripped me and made an objectionable video. They asked me to get Rs 2 lakh. I asked my brother to transfer the amount in my bank account. They even took my car parked outside the hotel. They wanted to kill me, but I managed to escape.”The Gurugram police are probing the role of the woman and suspect it to be a case of honeytrap. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-abduct-maruti-staffer-in-gurugram-loot-rs40-000-124926
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Sero survey begins in Panchkula, Ambala||Haryana started a sero survey today to monitor the penetration and transmission trends of Covid. Heath Minister Anil Vij reviewed a meeting on the survey through video-conferencing.He said 850 participants would be covered in each district and they aimed to complete the sero survey by the end of August.He said stratified multi-stage random sampling would be done, with 60 per cent of those selected from rural areas and 40 per cent from urban areas.He said the survey had already started in Panchkula and Ambala in association with the department of community medicine and school of public health at the PGI in Chandigarh and the Health Department.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Health, said the findings would be useful in designing and implementing appropriate containment measures.“A sero survey is testing of a group to monitor trends as it helps understand the number of people affected by the disease. The study will help us determine the burden at the community level and monitor trends of transmission of the infection,” he said.“It is an antibody test and will be conducted on 850 persons in every district. A nodal officer has been designated in every district to monitor and supervise the activity. The Health Department will be able to gauge the number of people affected through this survey,” he added.The team conducting the survey would consist of three members — a medical officer, an auxiliary nurse midwife and a laboratory technician. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sero-survey-begins-in-panchkula-ambala-124927
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Can’t just blame one person: Dushyant||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala has once again objected to the findings of the Special Enquiry Team (SET) probing the liquor scam.“In my last press meet, I had said the same thing and I will iterate it today as well. The state functions as per rules and regulations. One body recommends action and the government gives the nod to it as per law. It has never shirked from taking action. But to blame one person for it (the scam) is not correct. I have objection to it,” he told the media on Monday.CM Manohar Lal Khattar has dismissed Dushyant’s objections to the SET report.“As far as issuing passes (during the lockdown for the transportation of liquor) is concerned, the SET has made a recommendation. The government has initiated action.”On the SET passing strictures against Excise and Taxation Commissioner Shekhar Vidyarthi on not issuing instructions on the closure of liquor vends, he said when the authorities received the compliance report regarding the closure of vends, it was “objectionable”.Capt Yadav for judicial probeRewari: Accusing the state of shielding people involved in liquor and registry scams, senior Congress leader Capt Ajay Singh Yadav has demanded a probe by a sitting judge into the cases. He also sought the resignation of ministers of both the departments. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cant-just-blame-one-person-dushyant-124928
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Hafed to send food aid to Lebanon||The Ministry of External Affairs has procured 50 metric tonnes (MT) of food, comprising 30 MT wheat, 10 MT sugar and 10 MT pulses, from Hafed to be sent as emergency food aid to Lebanon.Hafed will deliver this consignment at the IGI Airport in Delhi on August 13, from where an IAF aircraft will carry the material to Lebanon, said DK Bahera, managing director of Hafed.The Ministry of External Affairs had written to Hafed on August 6 for procurement of 30 MT of wheat flour and 10 MT each of sugar and ‘chana dal’ for sending these to Lebanon as food aid.“The IAF aircraft carrying aid to Beirut will to take off from Delhi on August 14. We will deliver the consignment at the airport by August 13,” said Bahera. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hafed-to-send-food-aid-to-lebanon-124929
11-08-2020||Rohtak||2 weeks after showers, fields in Rohtak, Jhajjar still submerged||A couple of weeks after heavy rainfall lashed the region, hundreds of acres in Rohtak’s Karontha and Shimli villages and Jhajjar’s Dighal and Barhana villages are still submerged, damaging the paddy crop. Distressed farmers say the authorities have not made arrangements to drain out rainwater.Ankit, a farmer from Karontha village, said: “I planted paddy on 15 acres. A majority of the crop has been damaged because of stagnant rainwater. About 150 acres in my village are submerged. Farmers whose fields are in low-lying areas face this situation every year, but they take the risk of planting paddy hoping of getting a good produce.”Manjeet Dhankar, another farmer, said waterlogged fields affected the sowing of the next crop. “Farmers are unable to sow wheat as fields remain flooded for months. Consequently, many villagers have now left farming,” said Anand of Dighal village, who lost paddy sown over 4 acres.Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha vice-president Inderjit said waterlogging had rendered a large number of farmers landless as they were unable to cultivate any crop. “Since it is not their fault, the state should compensate them.”Shamsher, Kisan Nyay Yatra coordinator, said they had brought the matter to the knowledge of higher-ups several times, but to no avail.Puneet Rai, Executive Engineer (Irrigation), said water was stagnant only in low-lying areas of villages. “Pump sets have been installed to drain out water,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-weeks-after-showers-fields-in-rohtak-jhajjar-still-submerged-124930
11-08-2020||Karnal||Karnal MC to digitise property tax branch||Aiming to make it easier for the property owners and the Karnal Municipal Corporation (MC) to keep a tab on the property tax status, the civic body is set to digitise the property tax branch. With this system, the manual assessment of the properties will be a thing of the past. Besides, all the property tax bills will have quick response (QR) codes, which will help the property owners to pay tax easily sitting at home.As per officials, the receipts of the property bills whether paid at the office or the payment gateway will get directly uploaded to the property tax management system, which will further help the staff concerned to check the status of the bills.“We have allotted a tender to a firm and it has started the process to digitise the property tax branch. The step is being initiated to minimise the manual working,” said MC Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav.He maintained that a web-based mechanism would be started for generating real-time demand and collection of the property tax.Officials say the barcoding will help the property owners to even check the status of their previous bills, along with submitting any query related to their bills. “We will provide a payment window. With the help of QR codes, consumers can make their payments online. They can even file their query regarding their bills,” he said.The new system will make people aware of any rebate issued by the government and the waiver will automatically reflect in the generated bill, he said.The property tax management system will directly be connected with authorised banks of the MC. Besides, the agency will also create a mechanism for auditors to conduct audit of the receipts, the commissioner added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-mc-to-digitise-property-tax-branch-124884
11-08-2020||Jhajjar||Jhajjar chemist gets Rs20L extortion call||A local chemist, Mukesh Popli, got an extortion call of Rs 20 lakh and the caller threatened him of dire consequences on failing to fulfil his demand.Though the police booked a case in this regard on August 4 but they are yet to arrest the caller, who told his name as Aksay.Two aides nabbedThe police said two youths, Rajesh and Mukesh of Hisar’s Kharkari village, had been arrested for activating a SIM number used by the accused in demanding extortion from the chemist. The SIM was used while misusing someone else’s ID.In protest, chemists on Monday went on an indefinite strike by shutting their establishments and also took out a march against the police inaction into the matter. They also submitted a memorandum to the Chief Minister through the district administration, demanding the arrest of the accused.The chemists have also threatened to extend their agitation to the entire district if the police fail to arrest the accused by Tuesday evening.Earlier, the chemists gathered at a chaupal in Hariram Mohalla here and decried the police for its inaction in nabbing the extortion seeker. Thereafter, they took out a protest march till the Mini-Secretariat and submitted the memorandum to the tehsildar.“We are not satisfied by the police action into the matter as they have failed to arrest the accused even after being given sufficient time. The incident has caused a fear among all chemists who have decided to keep their shops shut until the accused is arrested. Chemists of Bahadurgarh town will also shut their establishments from Wednesday to mount pressure on the police,” said Sanjay Malik, president, Jhajjar Chemist Association. Rakesh Arora, district president, Haryana Beopar Mandal, criticised the incident and expressed his solidarity with the chemists into the matter. He demanded the police to take swift action to resolve the case. “A special investigation team led by DSP Rahul Dev has been constituted,” said Jhajjar SP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-chemist-gets-rs20l-extortion-call-124885
11-08-2020||Gurugram||Four Haryana power corporation staffers suspended||A junior engineer (JE) and three other employees were suspended today for leading to a loss of over Rs 3.6 lakh to the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN). They installed a meter at a house, but didn’t register it in the DHBVN records so the bill was not generated for months.According to information, a consumer applied for a power connection in 2018. He soon got the meter installed, but his account was not registered in the DHBVN records due to the staff members’ negligence. After the incident was highlighted, the issue was investigated by SE Pramod Singla who found all four “guilty”.Acting on his report, higher-ups suspended JE Vijender Singh, CA Jitender Singh, UDC Shamim Khan and lineman Pawan Kumar and attached them to the Narnaul office of the corporation. It is also reported that due to their negligence, the corporation has faced a loss of 52,566 power units which amount to Rs 3,67,000. The corporation has ordered recovery of the loss from the “errant” workers. When contacted, Sachin Yadav, XEN, Circle 2, said the four employees had been suspended.Sources said lineman Pawan Kumar is facing another case of cheating wherein he is said to have duped a Ghata village resident. An FIR has been registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-haryana-power-corporation-staffers-suspended-124886
11-08-2020||Panipat||Man stabs sister-in-law to death in public||A-32-year-old woman was stabbed to death by her brother-in-law near Fatehpuri Chowk on Sunday evening reportedly for refusing to get into flesh trade.Passersby gathered at the spot chased the assailant, Bharat Kumar Baveja, caught him and later handed him over to the police.The deceased has been identified as Kavita of Deshraj Colony, who was married to Shanky, alias Rohit, for 12 years but was living separately due to some dispute. She was running a beauty parlour.In her statement to the police, accused’s wife Priya, alias Rani, said she was living with her sister-in-law Kavita in a rented accommodation. She alleged that her husband Bharat wanted to push her into flesh trade but she left the home and started living with Kavita. He was also forcing Kavita for flesh trade, Priya alleged.Inspector Yogesh Kataria, SHO, City, said a case had been registered against Bharat under Section 302 of the IPC. The accused was produced in a court on Monday, which sent him to two-day police remand, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-stabs-sister-in-law-to-death-in-public-124887
11-08-2020||Karnal||Mudslinging ahead of Haryana Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee elections||Ahead of Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (HSGMC) elections, its member Harpeet Singh Narula has said that attempts are being made to tarnish his image by circulating objectionable and fake pictures with a woman.“My pictures have been edited to project me in poor light so that I can be debarred from voting. It is my right to cast vote in the elections,” he told the media here on Monday. Narula had filed nomination as a covering candidate for the HSGMC president’s post. He later withdrew the nomination. The elections are to be held on August 13 at Gurdwara Patshahi Chhevin and Nauvin in Guhla Cheeka.There are primarily two factions in the HSGMC — led by Jagdish Singh Jhinda and Didar Singh Nalvi. Narula belongs to the Jhinda group. “I am working with sincerity for a separate gurdwara committee. Some members are circulating fake and baseless allegations to defame me. They should give evidence in support of their allegations,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mudslinging-ahead-of-haryana-sikh-gurudwara-management-committee-elections-124888
11-08-2020||Faridabad||Manthan series concludes||CCS varsity launches agri startupsHisar: CCS Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, has successfully launched its one of a kind, one-stop incubation centre for agri startups named as the "Agri Business Incubation Centre (ABIC)" for supporting startups in agri-allied and agri-biotech sectors, supported by NABARD and the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY), Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare, (GoI) in 2019. Professor Samar Singh, Vice-Chancellor and president of ABIC says that it is a matter of great pride for all of us and specially for ABIC that the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmer's Welfare sanctioned Rs 102 lakh for 11 startups under the RKVY-RAFTAAR scheme for converting their ideas from mind to market and flourish their ventures with the guidance from ABIC. ABIC, CCSHAU intends to promote agripreneurial eco-system and nurture a system of agri-business incubation by providing incubation support and hand-holding innovative and highly potential agri-business ideas with the concept of growth through encouraging innovation, upgrading technology and developing skills.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/manthan-series-concludes-124889
11-08-2020||Ambala||Congress men meet Ambala DC over MC delimitation panel||Unhappy with the committee formed for the delimitation of the Ambala Municipal Corporation, the Congressmen led by Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) treasurer Rohit Jain met Deputy Commissioner Ashok Sharma and submitted a memorandum here on Monday.Rohit said: “A committee comprising the DC, MC Commissioner and five other members has been formed for the delimitation process. Surprisingly, all five members belong to the BJP and no one has been nominated from the Congress or any other party.”“Even the brother of local MLA has been made a committee member. However, no former Mayor, president or elected cooperator has been made a member. It seems that the said committee has been formed to give undue benefit to the ruling BJP and deprive others,” he added.Jain said: “For the purpose of delimitation, a process has to be followed as prescribed under the rules. In that process an ad hoc body consisting of Local Bodies Director or his representative, DC, Mayor or his representative, Commissioner or his representative and five persons belonging to various groups of the sitting MC members or those of the dissolved municipality, are to be associated.”“The committee now formed lacks the mandatory requirement and as such the same is not legally sustainable. We have requested the DC to stop the delimitation process with immediate effect and constitute another committee fulfiling the mandatory requirements and the cooperators from dissolved MC affiliated with the Congress and other opposition parties should be included in the fresh panel, which will be in the interest of the general public and a fair play. The DC has told us that we can raise objections when they will invite it. If our demand is not met, we will raise it on every platform ,” the Congress leader said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-men-meet-ambala-dc-over-mc-delimitation-panel-124890
11-08-2020||Faridabad||61 illegal structures razed in Faridabad||A team of the district town planner enforcement today demolished 61 structures that had come up illegally in Nekpur village. District Town Planner Naresh Kumar said 10 residential structures, a property dealer’s office and 50 boundary walls were razed as these were built illegally on around 12 acres of land in the village. He said the structures were part of two residential colonies that had come up in the past couple of months. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/61-illegal-structures-razed-in-faridabad-124891
11-08-2020||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has launched a drive to free India of garbage again and has asked the district authorities concerned to repair the community toilets in the area. A community toilet exists on the premises of the Sector-9 Ambala market close to the office of the SDE||Community toilet needs repairs||Road to Tohana in poor conditionIn August, 2019, the Old Court road to Tohana, via Subzi Mandi, grain market, Punjabi Dharamshala and covered godowns of CWC,FCI, was repaired by the Nagar Parishad with an investment of Rs 90 lakh. The people heaved a sigh of relief. But their joy was short-lived as within just six months, there were big potholes and the road simply vanished. Even trucks get stuck in the ditches and have to be taken out with the help of cranes. The authorities should come forward and act at once. — Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaGive benefits under PMFBY to farmersThe plight of farmers has not changed despite the present government introducing the scheme of Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana under the supervision of the Agriculture Department in collaboration with the banks of areas concerned. The enigmatic disease has caused heavy losses to rabi crops in Ambala district. The crop yield this season has reduced, putting farmers in the lurch. The farmers had paid the premium of insurance through related banks to insurance companies operating in the area specified by the government in December. Since then, considerable period has lapsed, but neither the banks nor companies are showing any amenability. The government has also not taken cognisance of the issue. The farmers are in a fix as they do not know what to do next. Now when the banks dues are increasing and crop loss has occurred, the government must come to the rescue of farmers. — Samsher Singh, GP Kansal, AmbalaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/community-toilet-needs-repairs-124892
11-08-2020||Satya Prakash||Supreme Court tells Punjab, Haryana to list steps taken to curb stubble burning||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 10The Supreme Court (SC) on Monday asked Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh to spell out steps taken to stop stubble burning. The practice virtually turns the entire NCR into a gas chamber during October-November.A Bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra asked the Punjab Chief Secretary, who attended the hearing through video-conferencing, about the steps taken to provide machines and equipment to small and marginal farmers, so as to dissuade them from burning stubble.The Punjab Chief Secretary told the Bench that subsidy was being provided to small and marginal farmers, but the state was facing financial constraints due to the pandemic.The court asked the Centre about the subsidy being given and the implementation of its orders in the case. It asked all stakeholders to give a detailed report on the issue of stubble burning.Maintaining that policies needed to be put in place to prevent stubble burning, the SC sought to know if panchayats had been roped in for spreading awareness about government projects aimed at stopping stubble burning.It asked all parties to file affidavits detailing the steps taken to deal with pollution hotspots in the region. The Punjab Government was also asked to apprise the court of the steps taken to deal with industries found non-compliant with pollution norms.“What steps have been taken? We want affidavit on all issues...not just stubble burning... We want involvement of the Centre on formulation of rules/laws to prevent and confiscate vehicles running on kerosene,” said the SC.The top court, which is seized of a PIL on air pollution in the NCR, directed the Delhi Chief Secretary to file an affidavit on the present status of 13 pollution hotspots in the national capital and steps taken to control air pollution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/supreme-court-tells-punjab-haryana-to-list-steps-taken-to-curb-stubble-burning-124902
11-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court stays Haryana notification modifying list of SCs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 10More than a year after Haryana modified the list of Scheduled Castes in the state, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today stayed the operation of a notification in this regard. A Division Bench of the High Court also stayed the operation of another notification, whereby the state and other respondents decided to issue Scheduled Caste certificates on the basis of earlier notification.The directions by the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli came on a petition filed by Ambedkar Mission Sanstha through senior counsel Vijay Kumar Jindal and Akshay Kumar Jindal. The matter was heard through video-conferencing.The Bench, during the course of hearing, was told the list of Scheduled Castes and Other Backward Classes in Haryana was issued by the Central government under Article 341 of the Constitution.While “Sansi” and some other castes were on the Scheduled Caste list, another caste “Gadaria” was mentioned under the OBC category. But the Haryana Government on July 5 last year issued the notification under challenge, whereby “Gadaria” was added as a synonym of “Sansi”. As such, “Gadaria” was included among the Scheduled Caste category.In furtherance to the notification dated July 5, 2019, Haryana came out with another notification on July 7, whereby directions were passed for issuance of Scheduled Caste certificate to members of "Gadaria" caste.Senior advocate Jindal contended the state of Haryana lacked legislative competence to amend, vary, modify or clarify the list issued by the Union of India under Article 341 of Constitution of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-stays-haryana-notification-modifying-list-of-scs-124919
11-08-2020||---||CBI raids 4 sites in Haryana mall case||New Delhi, August 10The CBI today carried out searches at four locations in Delhi and Haryana after filing a case of illegal conversion of residential land to raise the swanky Ambience Mall in Gurgaon, officials said.The CBI has registered an FIR on the orders of Punjab and Haryana High Court, which had termed the mall illegal. The HC had sought a separate investigation by the CBI to probe alleged illegal actions, if any, and possible collusion between the builder and state authorities.Located adjacent to the Delhi-Jaipur national highway, the mall had come up on land originally allotted for a housing project. Those raided included directors of real estate firm Ambience Group, said officials.The officials said the HC had asked the CBI to register the FIR within six weeks from July 10, submit status report in three months and complete probe in six months.The petitioners had alleged before the HC that 18.98 acres earmarked for AmbienceLagoon Island Residential Complex was reduced to 7.9 acres with a commercial complex erected on the remaining land. They had alleged that such violation of the builder-buyer agreement and provisions of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Area Act, 1975, could not have been possible without the collusion of officials and builders.The Ambience Group runs malls in NCR and luxury hotel The Leela Ambience Convention Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cbi-raids-4-sites-in-haryana-mall-case-124922
