14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Seven more COVID-19 deaths in Haryana, 797 fresh cases||Seven more people died due to COVID-19 in Haryana on Friday, while 797 fresh cases took the state’s caseload to 45,614, the health department said.Sonepat and Kurukshetra districts reported two deaths each, and Faridabad, Gurgaon and Jhajjar one death each, taking the COVID-19 toll in the state to 518.Among the districts which reported fresh cases are Faridabad (129), Rewari (100), Gurugram (92), Ambala (58), Karnal (53), Sonepat (50), Panipat (46), Rohtak (41), Mahendragarh (33), Sirsa (31), Panchkula (29), Hisar (29), and Kurukshetra (17), the state health department in a medical bulletin said.The number of active COVID-19 cases in the state is 6,748 and 38,348 people have been discharged after treatment.As of Friday, the state’s recovery rate was 84.07 per cent and the rate of doubling of infections 30 days. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/seven-more-covid-19-deaths-in-haryana-797-fresh-cases-126510
14-08-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Regularisation of single-house colony of Samalkha MLA: Lokayukta calls for inquiry by SIT for fixing responsibility||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 14Haryana Lokayukta Justice Nawal Kishore Agarwal (Retd) has called for an inquiry by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) for fixing responsibility of officials behind the regularisation of the bungalow of Samalkha Congress MLA Dharam Singh Chokker, as a single-house colony, against rules.RTI Activist PP Kapoor had filed the case against Chokker and officials of Samalkha local body in 2014.Chokkar’s house was constructed in the unauthorised New Durga Colony, against which notice was given to his son Vikas in 2013, but it was not dismantled. The same year, the then Congress government declined to regularise New Durga Colony.Then again, two proposals were sent for regularisation, one was of New Durga Colony of 22 acres and another of Sai Enclave Colony, which was having an area of four acres. Later, the proposal of New Durga was withdrawn.Chokker’s house was now shown in Sai Enclave.The area of Sai Enclave was later reduced to 1.32 acre, comprising four ‘khasra’ numbers. But it came out that one khasra number was falling outside the limit of local body of Samalkha and the other three were falling in the green belt, with one only partly.Finally, the area of Sai Enclave Colony was further reduced to 0.75 acres (six kanal) and it was regularised under the Haryana Civil Amenities and Infrastructure Deficient Municipal Areas (Special Provisions) Act, 2016.Justice Agarwal observed that how and in what manner the condition of 50 per cent developed area comprising of several plots was considered by the authorities, which was a prerequisite condition.He said Sai Enclave was comprising one khasra number, which was never part of any proposal submitted either by Samalkha’s local body or the office of Panipat Deputy Commissioner and also not by Director or Principal Secretary of Urban Local Bodies.He commented that for the first time, this Khasra number appeared in the inquiry report of SDM Gaurav Kumar dated July 14, 2017, and urban local bodies department abruptly considered it and got it approved from the state government and a notification was issued for regularisation.Interestingly, Chokker’s single-house colony got regularised during the BJP regime.“If the conduct of the department of urban local bodies, Deputy Commissioners posted in Panipat and the authorities of the Municipal Committee of Samalkha is considered in the light of the entire facts, then it would be crystal clear that the authorities were bent upon to approve the proposal of Sai Enclave by hook or crook, which was a single bungalow unit,” said the Lokayukta.Lokayukta questioned the urgency by urban local bodies department as they didn’t wait for the final report of SDM Gaurav Kumar, dated February 1, 2019, and also when the matter was pending before him.Kumar levelled allegations against the urban local bodies department in his reply. He was inquiring into the matter of Sai Enclave on the directions of then DC Panipat.Chokker, in his reply, had denied the allegations of any wrongdoing in the regularisation.Justice Agarwal said to fix the responsibility of officials, an SIT comprising a retired district judge and an IAS officer be formed, and based on the findings, steps should be taken to cure the illegalities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/regularisation-of-single-house-colony-of-samalkha-mla-lokayukta-calls-for-inquiry-by-sit-for-fixing-responsibility-126503
14-08-2020||Karnal||Karnal reports 52 new coronavirus cases, tally rises to 1,486||Haryana’s Karnal on Friday reported 52 new cases of coronavirus, taking the district’s case tally to 1,486.Four persons each from Mithan Mahola, Thari; three each from Sector-13, Mainmati, Nissing, and from a private hospital in Karnal city; two each from Shiv Colony, Sector-8, and CHD City; one each from Sector-6, Dera Karsewa, Nagla, Mukhala, Model Town, Char Chaman, Sector-13 extension, Karan Vihar, Kachwa Farm, Vajir Chand Colony, Sector-7, Vikas Colony, Sector-5, Ashok Nagar, Shekhpura, New Housing Board, Sonkra, Gandhi Nagar, Chirao village, KCGMC Campus, Sector-9, Gonder, Gharaunda, Ashoka Nursery and Mohdinpur, tested positive for the contagion.So far, 1,112 patients have been cured and discharged in the district and with the new cases, the number of active cases have risen to 361.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-reports-52-new-coronavirus-cases-tally-rises-to-1-486-126382
14-08-2020||AMBALA is in news these days for the administration’s failure in providing basic amenities such as clean drinking water and garbage-free environment. Adding to the residents’ woes is the turbid water supply that is now damaging water purifiers much before their expiry date. It is not only a health hazard but also causing financial loss. The administration must immediately look into the issue and do the needful. Gian P Kansal||Turbid water damages purifiers in ambala||No end to stray animal menace in PanchkulaTHE Panchkula administration is paying no heed to the stray animal menace irking Sector 21 residents. Despite repeated requests to act against stray dogs, no MC official came to Sector 21 for sterilisation or vaccination of stray dogs near Sky School. Stray dogs and cattle can be easily seen on roads posing a constant threat to commuters, especially children and elderly. The administration needs to look into the issue immediately before these lead to a mishap in the region. Atul, Vivek Jain, sector 21, PanchkulaNo parking space in KaithalTHERE is an acute shortage of parking spaces at Kaithal district headquarters. Despite repeated assurances by the previous and present government in the past eight years, no work has been started on the proposed multi-level parking site behind the local municipal council. Neither the elected public representatives nor the civil or civic body administration made any efforts to earmark the parking spaces in various parts of the town. People are forced to park their vehicles on roads leading to traffic chaos. Though, the town needs a number of parking places, yet not even a single authorised space is made available to the people. Satish Seth, KaithalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNE invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/turbid-water-damages-purifiers-in-ambala-126308
14-08-2020||Ambala||Three arrested in theft case||The police have arrested Rampal, Krishan and Ravinder of Saha, near here, for theft. A woman had reported theft of household articles like refrigerator, LPG cylinder and water booster pump. A local court remanded them in two-day police custody. TNSSnatching accused in netThe police have arrested Deepak alias Amit of Ambala Cantonment and claimed to have recovered a snatched mobile phone. Kapil Prashar of Ambala City had reported that some scooter-borne miscreants snatched his mobile phone. The accused was sent to 14-day judicial remand by a local court. TNSProclaimed offender heldThe police have arrested proclaimed offender Harmesh Kumar of Ambala City. He had been evading arrest since he was booked. TNS1 nabbed in assault caseThe police have arrested Nihal Singh of Saha, near here, for assault and extortion. Lalit of Saha had reported that a group damaged his car, attacked him and his family and demanded money. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-arrested-in-theft-case-126307
14-08-2020||Rohtak||International Youth Day observed||Launch of Krishi Megh hailedHisar: Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University (HAU) Vice-Chancellor Prof Samar Singh said Krishi Megh would be a useful tool for agricultural research. Union Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Rural Development and Panchayati Raj Minister Narendra Tomar had launched the Krishi Megh service and other three services recently. The data recovery centre of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), named Krishi Megh, has been prepared under the National Higher Agricultural Education Project. It is a digital platform on which agricultural data would be available and this would promote agricultural education and research work along with the new education policy. VC Prof Singh congratulated Union Minister Tomar on the implementation of these services. National Higher Agricultural Education Project national director Dr RC Agarwal was congratulated by the VC who said Krishi Megh was an innovation-based step which was a key link in the Digital India programme and would act as an active medium among farmers, agricultural students and experts. Such programmes for the welfare of farmers would lead to practical and positive results in the future. He said the digital cloud system would be useful in doing quality research work in the interests and welfare of farmers.Awareness session on edu policyFaridabad: In order to create awareness about the New Education Policy (NEP) among teachers and officials, JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, organised a presentation session to discuss various highlights and implications of the NEP. The session conducted on digital platform was delivered by Academic Affairs Dean Dr Vikas Turk and was chaired by Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar. Dr Turk explained the policy document of the NEP in detail and addressed various queries related to the policy provisions and its implications. Prof Dinesh Kumar asked the deans and chairpersons of various departments to prepare a five-year strategic road map for the implementation of the policy. He also directed to conduct awareness programmes on each aspect of the policy and to make better understanding on the policy document and its implementation in the university. It was apprised in the session that the university had started a one-year bridge course for awarding BTech degree to advance diploma holders of erstwhile YMCA institute which is at par with the new structure of the four-year under-graduate degree programme as mentioned in the policy with the provision of multiple entry and exit system. Similarly, the university had started various multidisciplinary courses at UG and PG level and set-up a separate interdisciplinary faculty to promote interdisciplinary research, which also supported the policy's vision.Online applications invitedChandigarh: The Haryana Directorate of School Education has invited online applications for ‘Super-100 Programme’. The registrations for the said programme are open from August 13 to August 20. The examination of the programme will be conducted online on August 23, and August 24. Sharing details in this regard, an official spokesperson said those students of government schools who scored 80 per cent marks or above in Class X, have opted for science stream in Class XI, and are interested in participating in the ‘Super-100 Programme’ can register themselves online from August 13.Training progamme begins at GJUSTHisar: Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST) in collaboration with the Training and Placement Cell started a five-day online short-term training programme on the topic “Hands on practice on simulation-X” presented by Trident Tech labs. The programme was inaugurated by Jagdip Chauhan, Assistant Professor, Mechanical Engg. The department said it would be very useful for students and researchers. They can learn this software under the programme and it help them fulfilling their career objectives. The programme would also help in making a bridge between the university and industry. Keynote speaker for the programme Pushkaraj Bhandari, is an associate technical manager, Trident Techlabs Pvt Ltd. He said the training programme was a great opportunity for the students. It would make them more industry ready.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/international-youth-day-observed-126306
14-08-2020||Gurugram||Congress leader booked on BJP complaint||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-leader-booked-on-bjp-complaint-126305
14-08-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad records 22% hike in GST collection this July||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, August 13The GST collection in the district, which took a severe beating in April this year due to the lockdown, has charted a recovery path. While it has grown by over five times in the past three months (since April), the tax collection has shown a sound increase of 21.92 per cent between June and July this year.The tax collection touched Rs 165.91 crore on July 31, against Rs 136.08 crore collected in June, according to data compiled by the Excise and Taxation department here.According to officials, the shortfall for the period between April and July this year remains at 61.50 per cent in comparison to the corresponding period last year (2019), the revenue collection has increased by 5.22 times in the past three months. While it was recorded at a mere Rs 31.78 crore in April 2020, when the state was under lockdown due to the pandemic, the collection shot up to Rs 165.91 crore by July-end this year.Considering the month-wise improvement, it is revealed that the collection, which was just Rs 31.78 crore in April (2020), went up to Rs 132.08 crore registering an increase of Rs 100.3 crore. However, the increase in June was just Rs 4 crore as the collection remained at Rs 136.08 crore in June. The monthly collection recorded a jump of Rs 29.83 crore, when it went upto Rs 165.91 crore in July this year. However, the total collection in the past four months (April to July) is Rs 465.99 crore against Rs 1,210.49 crore of the corresponding period of last year, is still deficient by 61.5 per cent.Describing the sharp downfall in the overall economic activity due to the pandemic and lockdown conditions as a major reason for the poor revenue collection, Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner Ravinder Singh claimed that the GST collection was on the rise and was expected to make up the losses to an extent, as the economic activities had resumed already. The total revenue collection for the financial year of 2019-20 is Rs 3,513.72 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-records-22-hike-in-gst-collection-this-july-126304
14-08-2020||Hisar||Cotton on 50K acres damaged in Haryana||Cotton crop on nearly 50,000 acres in the state has been damaged due to waterlogging after the recent rains. Reports from farmers and officials indicate that the crop on nearly 10,000 acres has completely perished.The crop is totally destroyed in the flooded areas of Hisar, Bhiwani and Jind districts, known as the cotton belt of Haryana. The rainwater has been standing in the fields for the last couple of weeks.Whitefly threat tooThere is more bad news for cotton farmers as a Haryana Agricultural University team observed aphid and whitefly infestation during first week of August in cotton and other crops in the region.Naresh Kumar, sarpanch of Bhatol Jatan village, said: “After the cotton crop perished, farmers sowed paddy but that too got damaged. Besides cotton, sugarcane, bajra, guar, and paddy have been destroyed on 2,400 acres under cultivation in the village. Though the district administration has been trying to drain out water by installing pumps, fields are still covered by 2 feet of water,” he said.Similarly, heavy rains and waterlogging have destroyed kharif crops in some other parts of the state.In Bhiwani, rainwater has affected crops in Mundhal and Bawani Khera villages. Villages in the Julana region of Jind district too are in trouble because of their waterlogged cotton fields.An official said cotton crop on 5,000 to 6,000 acres had got destroyed in Hisar district, but the damage too paddy crop was not severe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cotton-on-50k-acres-damaged-in-haryana-126198
14-08-2020||Ravinder Saini||Social outfit puts up hoardings to highlight plight of Mahendragarh roads||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, August 13All interior roads in Mahendragarh are in a pathetic condition with the situation getting worse in monsoon. Despite locals raising the issue several times, nothing has changed.However, a social outfit has now put up hoardings at various places in the city to draw the attention of the higher authorities towards the issue. The hoardings installed by the Shri Sundram Trust read: “Should the residents of Mahendragarh city stop paying the rent of Municipal Committee or taxes! Why rent and taxes when no basic facilities are available!” The hoardings have become a talk of the town.“People pay taxes to Local Bodies for basic amenities but no road has been constructed in Mahendragarh city since a long time. People are facing a lot of inconvenience even while walking on roads whereas the authorities are turning a blind eye towards this burning issue. Why should we pay taxes without getting basic facilities,” said Sandeep Malra, chief of the Trust.He said the move was not only aimed at drawing the attention of the higher authorities but also for motivating locals to take stringent decision to mount pressure on them for getting rid of this problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/social-outfit-puts-up-hoardings-to-highlight-plight-of-mahendragarh-roads-126112
14-08-2020||---||35 arrested with 16 stolen vehicles; 28 cases solved||Ambala, August 13The district police have cracked the whip on increasing number of vehicle thieves, home and shop burglars in Ambala.The special drive was launched last month to check the thefts and burglaries after number of such cases rose in the district.The crackdown, which was launched on July 1, yielded desired results with the arrest of 35 persons from whom 16 stolen vehicles and other valuables were recovered in the past almost one-and-a-half-months. In this way, at least 28 cases of vehicle thefts and burglaries were solved.Sharing details, Ambala Superintendent of Police (SP) Abhishek Jorwal said the district police had set up check-posts in different parts of the district to check the movement of suspected and anti-social elements. “The special focus was on the vehicle thefts and burglaries,” he said.The Superintendent of Police disclosed that with the arrest of 35 criminals involved in at least 28 theft cases, four stolen cars, eight motorcycles, four scooters, five batteries, four LEDs, several bicycles, mobile phones, gold and silver ornaments, cash and other valuables stolen by them had been recovered so far.The district police chief appealed to the residents to keep an eye on the movement of suspected and anti-social elements in their vicinity and report such cases to their nearest police station or post to keep the criminal at bay in the district.The Superintendent of Police also asked the residents to ensure proper police verification of their tenants and domestic helps, besides informing their immediate neighbours and the nearest police station or post whenever they were leaving their premises locked for more than 24 hours.Illegal ammunition, arms also on radar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/35-arrested-with-16-stolen-vehicles-28-cases-solved-126113
14-08-2020||---||Ambala to get PNG supply||Ambala, August 13Ambala has been selected for the piped natural gas (PNG) supply project, which will benefit over 3.3 lakh LPG (liquefied petroleum gas) consumers in the district.While Ambala City will be covered within six months, the entire district will get piped natural gas supply within eight years under the GAIL project, according to a senior official. Will benefit 3.3 lakh LPG consumers Work to lay the underground pipeline has already been completed in Sectors 8, 9 and 10 and is in progress in Model Town.The gas will be supplied from the GAIL gas plant in Jalbehra village and work to connect the plant with the city has begun.Under the project, the piped natural gas pipeline will be laid in all urban and rural areas of the district till 2028 and consumers given connections as per demand.“A service regulator and meter valve will be installed for every consumer, who will be charged as per consumption recorded in the meter,” said the official.She said one-time installation charges, security deposit and piped natural gas price would be declared at the time of launch of the scheme.She said the consumer would be allowed to switch over or continue to use liquefied petroleum gas cylinders. As per rough estimates, piped natural gas supply would be cheaper and more convenient than liquefied petroleum gas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-to-get-png-supply-126114
14-08-2020||Gurugram||2 labourers booked for contractor’s murder||The police have booked two labourers for allegedly murdering their contractor and dumping body in the forest area. The body was mutilated by wild animals.  The victim has been identified as Sunil, contractor, while the accused are Babu Lal and Om Prakash, both labourers. The incident came to the fore after their employer Gaurav Aggarwal, owner of a shuttering shop, complained to the police. He said Sunil, Babu Lal and Om Prakash were roommates. “It was on Thursday morning, when I reached at the workplace and found Sunil and Babu Lal missing. Om Prakash told me that they drank liquor together on Wednesday night with another friend Shyam. A brawl broke between them following which Babu Lal and Shyam strangled Sunil and dumped his body,” Aggarwal said in his complaint.  The police went searching for Sunil’s body and found it mutilated. They took the body into custody and registered a case under Section 302 of the IPC against the duo at Sector 9A police station.  “The accused are absconding and we are conducting raids to nab them,” said Inspector Ashok Dagar, SHO, Sector 9A police station. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-labourers-booked-for-contractors-murder-126115
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Gender studies must during pandemic: Expert||Prof Pradeep Krishnatray, Director, Research and Strategic Planning at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, said gender studies needed to be carried out during the Covid pandemic.  He was addressing participants at the two-week refresher course in mass communication and media technology at Kurukshetra University through Google meet.  He said the coverage of the issues particularly on women, during the Covid pandemic, could be well presented with a thorough research. He also said during the pandemic, children were facing difficulties in taking online classes.  In other session, Sumit Narula, director, Amity School of Communication, Amity University, Gwalior, said one should check once about the UGC-approved list of journals before sending research articles for publication. “For research scholars, it is a must to publish their two research articles regarding their PhD topic to get their doctoral degree,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gender-studies-must-during-pandemic-expert-126116
14-08-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Exams of exit classes will be conducted: Haryana Government||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 13Taking a U-turn, the Haryana Government has now decided to hold terminal examinations of final semesters for higher and technical education courses as per the July 6 UGC guidelines.Ankur Gupta, Principal Secretary (Higher Education), issued an order stating: “The terminal examinations will be conducted by the universities keeping in view the July 6 UGC guidelines when the commission had recommended many options, of which the authorities are free to choose any as per their convenience and local conditions.” It further stated that the standard protocols for the safety of all concerned should be strictly enforced.The UGC had recommended the holding of examinations for all terminal classes in physical, online and blended modes by September-end.On June 23, the Higher Education Department had issued order stating that “there will be no examination even for the final semester”. It had said the terminal examinations (final semester) and intermediate semester examinations would not be conducted and all students shall be promoted to the next semester with 50 per cent weightage of internal assessment, plus 50 per cent of the marks in previous examinations.However, the students were given a chance to improve their grades later.Meanwhile, Narender Siwach, president, Haryana Government College Teachers’ Association, said holding the examinations in either physical or online mode was not feasible in wake of Covid. “The state government should talk to stakeholders, including teachers and student representatives, to devise a mechanism for promoting students without examination,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/exams-of-exit-classes-will-be-conducted-haryana-government-126117
14-08-2020||---||7 deputed with Vij test positive||Chandigarh, August 13With 793 fresh cases, including four security personnel and three staff members of Health Minister Anil Vij, the Covid tally in the state reached 44,817 today. Eight deaths took the toll to 511.Three deaths were reported from Panipat, two from Faridabad and one each from Sonepat, Gurugram and Ambala.A 55-year-old man from SGM Nagar and a 71-year-old man from Ashoka Enclave in Faridabad were among the casualties.Fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (136), Panipat (119), Gurugram (78), Ambala (63), Karnal (62), Palwal (51), Sonepat (50), Hisar (43), Mahendragarh (37), Kurukshetra and Panchkula (36 each), Kaithal (27), Rewari (18), Fatehabad (12), Bhiwani (10), Nuh (7), Jhajjar (5) and Jind (3).In Ambala, four commandos deputed in Vij’s security, a media coordinator and two other staff members were among the positive cases.Covid-19 Cases DISTRICT-WISE COUNT             District             +ve||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-deputed-with-vij-test-positive-126118
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar takes feedback on pending projects||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has directed officers to immediately give their feedback on the feasibility of the announcements made by him between 2014 and 2020. He also asked them to provide details of the administrative approval required for implementing the announcements and to invite tenders for them.This was discussed during a review meeting regarding pending announcements here today.Additional Chief Secretary TC Gupta, who is looking after the tasks related to the implementation of CM’s announcements, apprised Khattar that of the 8,111 announcements made in the past six years, 4,398 had been completed and 2,388 had been pending.The Chief Minister said, “When schemes are formulated to implement the announcements, Administrative Secretaries should step out in the field to review the progress and inform local public representatives about it.”He further said the Centre had included projects related to Indian National Highways and Railways in infrastructural development plans, hence land could be acquired for these projects under the new Land Acquisition Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-takes-feedback-on-pending-projects-126119
14-08-2020||Kurukshetra||Youth shot at over ‘old enmity’||A youth (in 20s) suffered bullet injuries on his arm and chest after a man opened fire at him reportedly over an old enmity in Akash Nagar of Kurukshetra on Thursday. The injured has been identified as Shubham, who hails from Saharanpur. He lives in Akash Nagar in a rented accommodation. After getting information, CIA-2 incharge Malkit Singh visited the spot and said the suspects had opened four to five fires of which two hit Shubham.  Krishna Gate police station SHO SI Mange Ram said, “Shubham was riding a motorcycle along with his brother-in-law. Meanwhile, two youths, who were already waiting on a motorcycle, opened fire at him. He suffered injuries on his arm and chest and was taken to a private hospital where he is undergoing treatment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-shot-at-over-old-enmity-126120
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Assembly session from August 26||The monsoon session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha has been summoned from August 26, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said here today. The House had been summoned to meet at 2 pm on August 26, Khattar told mediapersons after chairing a meeting of the Haryana Cabinet. The duration of the session would be decided by the Business Advisory Committee of the House, which would meet here on August 26, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/assembly-session-from-august-26-126121
14-08-2020||rveen Arora||Daduwal elected HSGMC chief||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 13In a closely fought election, Baljeet Singh Daduwal has emerged as the winner for the post of president of the Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (HSGMC ad hoc). He defeated Jagbir Singh Khalsa by two votes.The election process went off peacefully at Gurdwara Chhevin-Nauvin Patshahi in Cheeka in Kaithal district on Thursday. Daduwal was supported by senior vice-president of HSGMC Didar Singh Nalvi’s group while Khalsa was supported by former president Jagdish Singh Jhinda’s group. Out of 36 eligible members, 19 voted in favour of Daduwal while 17 voted in favour of Khalsa.However, the election process was stopped for more than an hour when Daduwal approached the district authorities, raising a question over the validity of four votes.Besides, he alleged that the Election Officer is “biased”. Daduwal in his written complaint stated that three members had already joined the SGPC, while one member did not attend even a single meeting of the general house.He claimed only 32 members were eligible to vote, but later, the issue was resolved and all the 36 members were allowed to cast their vote.To avert any untoward incident, Kaithal SP Shashank Singh Sawan, along with a heavy police force, remained there. SDM Kaithal, SDM Cheeka got the election conducted peacefully.“Daduwal has been declared new president. He defeated Khalsa by two votes,” said Darshan Singh Barari, Election Officer.SDM Cheeka Shashi Vasundhara said that Daduwal alleged that ineligible members were being allowed to cast vote. “We got the matter checked and found that all the members were eligible,” she added.Nalvi congratulated the new president and said that they would strongly contest the case of a separate committee in the apex court.Ad hoc committee only for 18 monthsSources claimed that the constitution of the ad hoc committee was only for a period of 18 months. “Under Section 16(8) of the Act, an ad-hoc committee consisting of 41 members was constituted. The then government appointed DC, Kurukshetra, as election officer to conduct the election of office-bearers and election of president was held on July 26, 2014. Under Section 16(8) of the Act, the ad-hoc committee could be constituted only for 18 months. “In today’s election, no election officer was appointed by the government as the committee itself is defunct,” said sources. Sujan Singh, Deputy Commissioner, Kaithal, said, “The election was conducted on Thursday by the HSGMC. The election officer was not appointed by the district administration.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/daduwal-elected-hsgmc-chief-126122
14-08-2020||---||Nexus behind scams, claims Selja, leads stir||Chandigarh, August 13Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja alleged that despite the Covid pandemic, scams were taking place in the state with the connivance of the BJP-JJP government and officials.In the past six years, Haryana had been looted heavily in liquor and registry scams, she alleged, and called for an inquiry by a sitting High Court judge.She was addressing a protest meeting at Nuh on Thursday against the series of scams that have taken place in the Khattar regime.The protests were organised at the district level across the state. Memorandums were submitted to Deputy Commissioners in the name of the Governor and a demand was made to get these scams investigated by a sitting judge of the High Court.“The strings of the liquor mafia are directly linked to politicians and high officials. Efforts are being made by the government to suppress the scam,” she added. The CM had rejected the proposal of Special Investigation Team (SIT) and replaced it with the formation of Special Enquiry Team (SET) which did not have the powers to get to the bottom of this scam, she pointed out.“The Deputy Chief Minister of the state is rejecting the SET report and the Chief Minister has rejected his claim. Had this scam been investigated in a fair manner, the involvement of many people would have been revealed,” she said.On illegal registries, she said that no-objection certificates (NOCs) were not taken from District Town Planners (DTPs) and irregularities had been found in registries in the control area of more than 30 urban local bodies of Haryana.She also cited scams in paddy purchase, Aravalli land use, mining, roadways km scheme, HSSC recruitment, SC scholarships and electricity meters.Jhajjar/Rewari: The Congress protest at Jhajjar was led by MLA Geeta Bhukkal and at Rewari by former minister Capt Ajay Singh Yadav (retd).“Only show-off is being done in the name of investigation and main perpetrators are being shielded by the government,” alleged Bhukkal.Yadav said that the series of scams had exposed government’s tall claims of honesty, good governance and transparency.Karnal: At Karnal, Assandh MLA Shamsher Singh Gogi, district convener Trilochan Singh and other senior leaders led the protest and accused the government for shielding kingpins in the scams. “The BJP-JJP government has become a scam government,” said Gogi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nexus-behind-scams-claims-selja-leads-stir-126123
14-08-2020||---||Panchayat land encroachers to pay heavy penalty now||Chandigarh August 13The state Cabinet, at a meeting under Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar here on Thursday, decided to get tough with panchayat land encroachers by substantially increasing the penalty by according approval to amendment to the Punjab Village Common Lands (Regulation) Act, 1956.The existing penalty ranges between Rs 5,000 and Rs 10,000 per hectare and it will be increased to not less than the amount equal to 1 per cent of the collector rate of the land per year and not exceeding 10 per cent of the current rate keeping in view the lease value of the land. This will make the penalty a real deterrent against the encroachers upon shamlat lands.Nod to final report on MetroIn order to provide Metro connectivity to the residents of old Gurugram, the Cabinet on Thursday accorded approval to the final detailed project report of the Metro rail connection from HUDA City Centre to various important locations in Gurugram at a cost Rs 6,821.13 crore.The total length of the corridor shall be about 28.80 km, consisting of 27 elevated stations.Honorarium for retireesThe Haryana Government has decided to give honorarium to the retirees of the government-aided schools, who retired between July 28, 1988, and May 10, 1998, through Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya honorarium scheme.As per the decision, a retired principal will get an honorarium of Rs 20,000 per month, headmaster Rs 18,000 per month, lecturers Rs 16,000 per month, masters/Hindi/Punjabi/Sanskrit/Urdu teachers Rs 14,000 per month and JBTs/drawing teachers/ PTIs/ cutting and tailoring teachers, etc will get Rs 12,000 per month.Amendment introducedThe Cabinet also gave ex-post facto approval to the amendments in Haryana Civil Services Rules. It accorded approval to draft an ordinance or/and bill for amendment to Section 421 of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act-1994, regarding the conditions governing the appointment, removal or suspension of the Mayors elected prior to October 4, 2018.Transfer of controlThe government has decided to transfer the administrative control of the Haryana Space Application Centre from the Science and Technology Department to the Citizen Resources Information Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchayat-land-encroachers-to-pay-heavy-penalty-now-126124
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has asked Chief Secy to take action on SET report: Home Minister Anil Vij||Home Minister Anil Vij on Thursday said Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has asked Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora to take action on the report of the special enquiry team (SET), which probed the liquor scam in the state. “She will study and take action on the report,” he added.The SET report, dated July 30, has indicted Excise and Taxation Commissioner Shekhar Vidyarthi and former Sonepat SP Pratiksha Godara, besides excise officers.After examining the report, Vij had recommended a probe by the State Vigilance Bureau.Meanwhile, Vij also played down differences with Dushyant. He said: “I have no dispute with Dushyant. I have never commented about the functioning of departments under him. I have stated what is mentioned in the SET report. It reported about the Police Department, which comes under me, and I too have talked about it. The SET has indicted the Excise and Taxation Department as well, so I read about it from the report.”“I have a good friendship with Dushyant,” Vij claimed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chief-minister-manohar-lal-khattar-has-asked-chief-secy-to-take-action-on-set-report-home-minister-anil-vij-126125
14-08-2020||Tribune Reporters||Downpour leaves many areas in state inundated||Panipat, August 13With 174 mm rain, the highest in a day this monsoon, Sonepat was waterlogged today. The downpour started in the wee hours and continued throughout the day.Municipal Commissioner Jagdish Sharma said arrangements had been made to drain out water. Power supply was also disrupted, causing inconvenience to residents.The situation was similar in Panipat. Residential and commercial areas were submerged in knee-deep water, with blocked sewers aggravating the problem.Mayor Avneet Kaur said the sanitary wing of the municipal corporation had cleaned all drains before the monsoon. She accused residents and shopkeepers of throwing garbage, including polythene, in drains.Gurugram: Heavy rain left Gurugram waterlogged. Many parts of the Delhi-Gurugram expressway were submerged, throwing life out of gear.Many residential areas were waterlogged. The parking of a housing society caved in in New Gurugram, leaving cars damaged.“We have a monsoon operation plan. We manage traffic and aid in diverting movement, removing water and getting broken down vehicles removed and repaired. The situation was under control and we managed to avoid massive jams,” said Commissioner of Police KK Rao.Jhajjar: Heavy rain threw life out of gear in Bahadurgarh and Jhajjar. A majority of low-lying roads and residential areas were flooded.“There is no system to drain out rainwater from the campus. We have raised the issue with the authorities, but to no avail,” said an employee of the Civil Hospital in Jhajjar.Arun Nandal, secretary of the municipal council, claimed that the water was drained out immediately after the downpour.Yamunanagar: A portion of the roof of a house collapsed due to rain in Potli village under the Radaur subdivision.Members of the family, who were inside the room, had a narrow escape. Satish Kumar said household items were damaged.Karnal: Continuous rain left several areas waterlogged. Residents complained that cleaning of drains should have been done prior to the monsoon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/downpour-leaves-many-areas-in-state-inundated-126126
14-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Police inaction weakens rule of law: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 13Police inaction not only erodes people’s faith, but also weakens the rule of law, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted, while directing Sirsa Superintendent of Police to initiate appropriate disciplinary action against “defaulting cops” after looking into the delay in registration of an FIR in a robbery case.The direction by Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi of the High Court came in a case where the FIR was not registered even though it disclosed the commission of cognisable offence.A written complaint dated October 31, 2019, was initially submitted in a police station, but the FIR in the matter was registered only on February 11 after the complaint was furnished through the “Chief Minister Window”.Justice Tyagi asserted: “The police is expected to take prompt action for registration of FIR and investigation on the basis of complaint disclosing cognisable offence. Any inaction on the part of the police not only leads to erosion of faith of the people in the efficacy of the entire machinery devised for administration of criminal justice, but also weakens the rule of law which is the very foundation of democracy.”Justice Tyagi also made it clear that the report regarding action taken against the defaulting “officers/officials” was required to be furnished to the court within a month. The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after an accused filed a petition against the State of Haryana for grant of regular bail in the case registered on February 11 for robbery under Section 392 of the Indian Penal Code at Sadar police station in Sirsa.Justice Tyagi observed the FIR was registered on a complaint submitted by Surat Singh alleging that he along with conductor Dungar Singh loaded wheat on a truck from Sirsa before leaving for Rohtak. When they reached a bypass, four or five persons on two motorcycles stopped their truck. Two of them with muffled faces boarded the truck and told them to handover whatever they possessed.Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, the petitioner’s counsel argued that the incident took place on October 31, 2019. But the FIR was lodged with undue, unexplained and unreasonable delay of more than three months.Taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of the case, the nature of accusation and evidence against the petitioner, Justice Tyagi observed his co-accused had already been granted regular bail by the court. The trial was likely to take a long time. As such, without commenting on the merits of the case, the court was of the considered view that the petitioner may be extended the concession of regular bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-inaction-weakens-rule-of-law-high-court-126127
14-08-2020||---||Haryana State lists steps for road safety before SC panel||Chandigarh, August 13The Haryana Government has taken extensive steps towards road safety resulting in a drastic fall in road accidents.This was stated by Haryana Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora before the Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety which met through video conferencing. The committee is headed by Justice Abhay Manohar Sapre.Keshni said that with efforts to reduce road accidents, the state had witnessed a decrease of 17.64 per cent in road accidents compared to June last year. She said in the past six months between January and June 2020, the number of the injured in road accidents, deaths and accidents also decreased by 26.71 per cent, 26.77 per cent and 26.88 per cent respectively.She said the Haryana Government had prepared the ‘Haryana State Road Safety Policy’ with the aim to achieve target of 50 per cent reduction in road fatalities and injuries by 2025.The Chief Secretary said the ‘Haryana Vision Zero’ programme had been started by the police with an aim of reducing the death rate in road accidents in the state.She said commercial vehicle fitness was being checked on an yearly basis. As many as 2,33,980 vehicles were given fitness certificate in 2019.She apprised that Institutes of Driving and Traffic Research (IDTR) were being run in Rohtak, Bahadurgarh and Kaithal. The state government is setting up IDTRs in nine districts of Bhiwani, Nuh, Palwal, Rewari, Karnal, Jind, Faridabad, Sonepat and Yamunanagar.Besides, 22 driver training schools are being run by Haryana Roadways and about 32,000 heavy vehicles drivers are being trained every year. More than 50,000 drivers are being sensitised through refresher courses.She said that one Inspection and Certification Centre has been set up in Rohtak with a capacity to inspect 1.25 to 1.5 lakh vehicles annually and the state government is going to set up similar inspection centres in Ambala, Rewari, Faridabad, Hisar, Gurugram and Karnal.She said that the e-challaning system has been implemented in the state. e-challaning is being done in Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Ambala, Panipat, Rohtak, Panchkula, Gurugram and Sonepat through CCTV.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-state-lists-steps-for-road-safety-before-sc-panel-126128
14-08-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||1.5-km potholed road in Faridabad awaits funds for over two years||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, August 13The showers have again brought to attention the 1.5-km stretch connecting Hardware Chowk and Pyali Chowk in the NIT area of the city. Big potholes have been a cause for concern and protests for long, but the district administration has failed to sanction money for its repair.Sources in the MC say the civic body had planned to spend Rs 3 crore in 2018, but it could not take up repair because of the shortage funds.To put this situation in perspective, Rs 2,600 crore is being spent in Faridabad under the Smart City project. Where is the money being spent, angry residents ask.“The stretch is the lifeline of the city linking the most densely populated areas. Roads in some of the industrial sectors have developed cracks, which have never been repaired,” claimed Lokender Singh, a resident of Jawahar Colony here.Surender from Dabua Colony said it was one of the worst patches in the city. “The authorities have failed to repair one of the busiest roads.”In March 2018, residents had protested here demanding repair of the road. “Then, the authorities had assured residents of repairing the road. But to date, nothing has been done. Worse, the condition of the road has deteriorated,” said Varun Sheokand, who was among those who staged the sit-in.SK Sharma, District Coordinator, Road Safety Organisation (RSO), claimed Rs 10 lakh was spent in 2018 on road repair, but it again developed cracks. “Not only the stretch connecting Hardware Chowk and Pyali Chowk, at least 10 other main roads get damaged or waterlogged every monsoon, causing inconvenience to commuters.”Birender Kardam, Superintending Engineer of the MC, said the civic body had been awaiting funds from the higher authorities to repair the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-5-km-potholed-road-in-faridabad-awaits-funds-for-over-two-years-126129
14-08-2020||---||3 students among 4 held for extortion bid||Jhajjar, August 13  The district police on Thursday arrested four youths for trying to extort money from a chemist.  Three of the accused are first and second-year D-Pharmacy students being at a private school here, while the fourth one works at a placement office in Delhi. They sought an extortion of Rs 20 lakh from chemist Mukesh Popli on August 4 to pay off their loans and have some fun.  Talking to the media here on Thursday, Ashok Kumar, Jhajjar SP said the accused had been identified as Vikram of Kheri Jatt, Neeraj of Khungai, Chirag of Sitaram Gate in Jhajjar and Sanjay of Pega village in Jind. Vikram, Neeraj and Chirag study in the same college. Chirag does part-time work at a medical store. The accused were arrested from different places of the district, the SP added. “The plot of seeking extortion was hatched by Vikram and Neeraj. Later, Chirag joined them and shared all information about the chemist. The trio then contacted Sanjay to get a SIM card on a fake ID. Vikram made a call to Popli over his landline phone on August 4 and sought extortion of Rs 20 lakh while telling his name as Akshay. He also threatened him of dire consequences,” he added. The SP said a special investigation team led by DSP Rahul Dev was constituted. “Two other accused who got the SIM activated were also arrested earlier,” the SP added. With the arrest of the accused, the chemists who were on strike announced to end their stir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-students-among-4-held-for-extortion-bid-126130
