15-08-2020||Chandigarh||10 more COVID deaths in Haryana, 796 fresh cases||Ten more deaths due to COVID-19 were reported in Haryana on Saturday, while 796 fresh cases took the state's caseload to 46,410, the health department said.Faridabad, Sonipat, Panipat and Yamunanagar districts registered two deaths each and Gurgaon and Sirsa districts one death each.With this, the death toll due to COVID-19 in the state has mounted to 528.Among the districts which reported the fresh cases on Saturday are Faridabad (131), Gurgaon and Panipat (77 each), Yamunanagar (71), Ambala (55), Karnal (52), Rohtak (51), Mahendragarh and Hisar (43 each), Panchkula (42), Sirsa (27), Sonipat (24) and Bhiwani (23), the bulletin said.So far, 38,939 patients have been discharged from hospitals. The state now has 6,943 active COVID-19 cases.As of Saturday, the state's recovery rate was 83.90 per cent, while the rate of doubling of infections was 31 days. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-more-covid-deaths-in-haryana-796-fresh-cases-126977
15-08-2020||Deepender Deswal||CBI busts GST ‘corruption’ racket in Rohtak; 4 officials booked||Tribune News ServiceHisar, August 15The Central Bureau of Interrogation (CBI) has cracked down on a major racket of corruption in the Central Excise department and booked four officials of the Central GST wing in Rohtak on Saturday.The accused officials were allegedly taking bribe by pressuring the firm owner to impose penalty for evasion of GST by his firm.The firm owner, Manoj Kalra, complained to the CBI about the CGST officials allegedly demanding bribe from him. The CBI acting laid a trap and carried out a raid at the residence of one of the accused on Friday night that continued till today afternoon. One of the accused has been arrested, the sources said. The four accused been identified as Gurvinder Singh Sohal, Kuldeep Hooda, superintendent in the CGST, and two inspectors Rohit Malik and Pradeep. They were booked under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption and Section 120 B of the IPC.  The sources said the accused had demanded Rs 12 lakh as bribe, of which Rs 3 lakh was paid by the firm owner, who also lodged a complaint with the CBI.As the accused went to collect the remaining amount yesterday, the CBI officials accompanied the firm owner and laid a trap. The CBI later reached the residence of one of the accused, Kuldeep Hooda, in Sector 1, Rohtak, and carried out search. The sources said the CBI has seized gold, cash and crucial documents from his residence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cbi-busts-gst-corruption-racket-in-rohtak-4-officials-booked-126939
15-08-2020||Panchkula||On Independence Day, Haryana CM Khattar salutes Galwan Valley bravehearts||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar unfurled the National Flag on the occasion of 74th Independence Day at Sector 5, Parade Ground, here."This a day to remember our martyrs who sacrificed their lives to make India independent. I salute the bravehearts of Galwan Valley who lost their lives while safeguarding the Indian borders. I thank corona warriors for fighting against the pandemic," Khattar said at the event."The foundation stone laying of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has ended the 500-year-long wait and struggle," he added.He also spoke about the Article 370 issue.The Chief Minister honoured the COVID-19 warriors at the event—starting from doctors to sanitation workers and police for performing their duties with enthusiasm in this hour of crisis.Several policemen participating in the parade fainted while the Chief Minister was giving speech.They were immediately taken to hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/on-independence-day-haryana-cm-khattar-salutes-galwan-valley-bravehearts-126897
15-08-2020||Vijay C Roy||1 lakh farmers to get Pashu Kisan Credit Card in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 14To boost credit dispensation for rearing dairy animals in Haryana, banks have been asked to sanction 1 lakh applications for Pashu Kisan Credit Card (KCC) by the end of month. The banks have already sanctioned more than 26,000 cards. They have received over 2 lakh applications for the same.In order to achieve the target within the stipulated time, the banks have been asked to speed up the process and issue the card to the borrower within 14 days.During the State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC) meeting, which was held today, TVSN Prasad, Additional Chief Secretary, Haryana, stressed on achieving the target to sanction 1 lakh applications by the month-end.A senior banker said the bankers had prepared a schedule of block-wise camps for various blocks and 132 camps had been organised in July for the farmers. The banks received around 1.56 lakh applications in July only, which were sent to different bank branches for sanctioning purpose, he said.Further, the controlling heads of all banks were asked to pay special attention towards the scheme and sensitise field functionaries in this regard, he added.According to the bankers, each bank branch will have to give in-principle approval to every application received within 7 days after meeting compliance norms from the Department of Animal Husbandry. The final sanction for issuing the KCC should be done within another 7 days.For the current fiscal, the banks aim to cover 8 lakh dairy farmers under the scheme. The bank-wise target has already been allocated to each bank by the SLBC.It is estimated that there are around 63.09 lakh dairy animals (cows and buffaloes) in the state which are owned by about 16 lakh farmers.In December last year, the state government had launched Pashu KCC for farmers so that they can meet short-term credit requirements for the rearing of animals.Banks asked to achieve target by month-endAccording to bankers, each bank branch will have to give in-principle approval to every application received within 7 days after meeting compliance norms from the Department of Animal Husbandry. The final sanction for issuing the KCC should be done within another 7 days||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-lakh-farmers-to-get-pashu-kisan-credit-card-in-haryana-126562
15-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Larger Bench to decide on pre-arrest bail for juveniles||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 14Taking cognisance of difference in interpretations regarding maintainability of pre-arrest bail pleas filed by juveniles, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has referred the matter to the Chief Justice for the constitution of a larger Bench.“Impelled by the difference in interpretation with respect to maintainability of an application by a juvenile for grant of pre-arrest bail under the provisions of the CrPC vis-a-vis Section 12 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, between the Benches of the coordinate strength of this court, the present reference is being made,” asserted Justice Anil Kshetarpal.VARIANCE IN INTERPRETATIONImpelled by the difference in interpretation with respect to maintainability of an application by a juvenile for grant of pre-arrest bail under the provisions of the CrPC vis-à-vis Section 12 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, between the Benches of the coordinate strength of this court, the present reference is being made. —Justice Anil Kshetarpal, Punjab and Haryana High CourtTaking up a plea filed against Haryana by a juvenile, Justice Kshetarpal also directed the placing of the documents before the Chief Justice for constituting the Bench of “appropriate strength” for resolving the difference.Justice Kshetarpal noted that the question involving interpretation was whether a juvenile was entitled to maintain an application under provisions of the CrPC for grant of pre-arrest bail in view of Section 12 of the 2015 Act.Referring to no less than five judgments, Justice Kshetarpal asserted that on one hand, it had been interpreted that the an application for pre-arrest bail under the provisions of the CrPC was not maintainable in view of the non obstante clause in Section 12 of the Juvenile Justice Act and on the other, it had been held that provisions of the 2015 Act were in addition and not derogation of the rights of juveniles to seek pre-arrest bail.Justice Kshetarpal observed that it had been held that the right to maintain the application for pre-arrest bail could not be interpreted in a manner to impair the entitlement of a juvenile to file an application under the CrPC.Before parting with the order, Justice Kshetarpal added that the court found that there was apparent conflict in the interpretations given by the Benches of the coordinate strength, which in spite of the best efforts could not be reconciled, and the interpretation of law could not be left in a state of flux. “At this stage, it will be appropriate to note that different High Courts have also interpreted the provisions in a diametrically opposite manner,” Justice Kshetarpal asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/larger-bench-to-decide-on-pre-arrest-bail-for-juveniles-126594
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||ADGP Chawla to get Prez medal||Twelve police officials have been selected for President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service and Police Medal for Meritorious Service. A police spokesperson said Arshinder Singh Chawla, ADGP, Administration, Police Headquarters, was selected for President’s medal. Ram Lal, Inspector, Chandigarh; Rakesh Mani, Sub-Inspector (SI), Rohtak; Mohinder Singh, SI, Panchkula; Jagdish Parshad, SI, HAP, Madhuban; Ravinder Singh, SI, Rewari; Nihal Singh, SI, Faridabad; Maha Singh, SI, Panchkula; Ram Kumar, SI, Ambala; Karambir Singh, Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI), Karnal; Rajesh Kumar, ASI, Panchkula; and Shiv Kumar, ASI, Panchkula, were selected for police medal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/adgp-chawla-to-get-prez-medal-126595
15-08-2020||---||Settlement scheme for defaulting builders||Chandigarh, August 14In wake of the ongoing Covid pandemic, the state government has unveiled a one-time settlement scheme for builders who have defaulted on payment of external development charges (EDC).Under the ambitious scheme called “Samadhan se Vikas” (development through solution), defaulting colonisers, who pay 100 per cent outstanding principal EDC amount and 25 per cent of the accumulated interest and penal interest within six months, will get waiver on the rest of the 75 per interest and penal interest.Slabs for waiverSimilarly, the colonisers paying 50 per cent of the outstanding principal amount and 50 per cent interest and penal interest will get a waiver on 50 per cent interest and penal interest.However, they will have to deposit the rest of the outstanding principal amount through four six-monthly instalments with 8 per cent interest. AK Singh, Principal Secretary, Town and Country Planning, said the builders would be benefitted as they would not have to pay any penalty in case of default of instalments within the prescribed period of two years for deposit of instalments.However, if any amount of the balance 50 per cent principal amount and interest is not deposited within two years, the coloniser would lose all benefits under the policy and the original schedule of the EDC payment would be restored, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/settlement-scheme-for-defaulting-builders-126596
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||No property tax for charitable hospitals||CM Manohar Lal Khattar has approved 100 per cent exemption in property tax for charitable educational institutions, charitable hospitals and schools for children with special needs.He has also given nod to waiver of power bills, including surcharge, for April, May and June for all religious places and a one-time 50 per cent rebate in property tax for residential property in ‘lal dora’ of villages under municipal bodies, whose owners have to clear arrears by October 31. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-property-tax-for-charitable-hospitals-126597
15-08-2020||Nitish Sharma||A first: Animal hostel to come up in Ambala district||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, August 14Aiming better care for cattle owned by individuals and also to improve the hygiene in the village, a first of its kind ‘animal hostel’ in the region is going to come up at Ugara village in Ambala district.“A proposal for the animal hostel was sent last year and it has been sanctioned by the government. In this facility, the individuals, who don not have space at their house, but still want to rear cattle in the village, will be able to do so in the hostel. It will be constructed in three phases on nearly 20-acre gau-charan land, for which the government has sanctioned the release of Rs 43.67 lakh under the Haryana Gramin Vikas Yojana scheme for the construction of a hall and shed for the animal hostel. The total sanction amount for the hall and shed is Rs 87.35 lakh. A grant of Rs 50 lakh will be issued for the biogas plant,” said village sarpanch Harinder Kaur.To get GPS tagging, insurance coverIn the first phase, a shed with a capacity to keep 200 cattle, a biogas unit, milk-collection centre will be introduced and fencing done. A gas pipeline will be connected with households in Ugara, residents who will keep cattle at the hostel will get a rebate of 4 per cent on the bill and bio fertiliser will also be prepared. A solar rooftop panel, animal hospital, parking, milk-processing unit, nursery, seed treatment centre and space to keep other animals including goat, horse, and pig will also be setup in the remaining two phases,” she informed.Jaswinder Singh, sarpanch representative, said, “Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel had organised a trip to Gujarat in 2017, where such an animal hostel is being run. After seeing the project, we decided to setup one here. It will cost nearly Rs 16 crore. The owner of the cattle will be required to pay an annual registration fee of Rs 500, a charge of Rs 250 per month for the facilities of power, water, doctor and shed, and provide grass for their cattle. In the hostel, the animals will get insurance, GPS tagging, separate partitions, CCTV monitoring.”“After the completion of two years of the project, people belonging to the BPL category can get the cattle from the hostel by getting a registration done. Instead of paying money, they will be require to deposit 50 per cent milk and once the price of the cattle is recovered, the person will get the ownership of the cattle. A committee will be formed to run the hostel. Recently, we held a meeting with the Principal Secretary, Development and Panchayat Department, Sudhir Rajpal, and he said the project would be started within three months,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/a-first-animal-hostel-to-come-up-in-ambala-district-126598
15-08-2020||---||Teachers’ body opposes online transfer policy||Chandigarh, August 14The Haryana Government College Teachers Association has termed the Higher Education Department’s recent online transfer policy as unjust and discriminatory.In a representation to the Chief Minister, the association claimed that since the government was yet to resolve the issues of rural service policy and posts occupied by extension and guest lecturers, the new policy came with several flaws, which would lead to legal complications.It stated that the policy contained no information about Zone 1 and Zone 2 colleges. It added that the only intention seemed to be compulsorily transfer regular teachers after every five years. It rued not being involved in framing of the policy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/teachers-body-opposes-online-transfer-policy-126599
15-08-2020||---||Lobbying on for Sr, Deputy Mayor’s posts||Karnal, August 14Intense lobbying is underway after the Municipal Commissioner issued a message to all councillors of the municipal corporation (MC) for holding elections to posts of Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor.Aspirants for both posts have started approaching other councillors, some of them have reached out to senior BJP leaders for support. Aspirants are using various ways to garner support, including parties.“I have been approached by various aspirants for both posts, but will go with the decision of the party,” said a councillor. A BJP leader said some of the councillors were lobbying for the posts.Municipal Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav had issued a message to the councillors following a letter of the ACS, Urban Local Bodies, to Commissioners of Karnal, Rohtak, Yamunanagar, Hisar and Panipat MCs to conduct the elections for both posts on a priority basis.In the 20-member House, the BJP has the majority as it has 18 councillors and both posts are likely to go with the ruling party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lobbying-on-for-sr-deputy-mayors-posts-126600
15-08-2020||Deepender Deswal||Rainfall uneven in state so far: Study||Tribune News ServiceHisar, August 14The overall monsoon in the state is 2 per cent short of normal rainfall. The state has received 279.5 mm rainfall (till August 14) against the average of 285.4 mm (till August 14).The analysis by the Agro Meteorological Department of the Chaudhary Charan Singh HAU revealed that districts like Jhajjar, Sonepat, Gurugram, Faridabad, Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra and Sirsa have registered good or average rainfall. However, Bhiwani, Ambala, Mahendragarh, Panchkula, Rewari and Rohtak districts have received deficient rainfall.The data showed that Kaithal and Karnal districts have received 79 per cent and 70 per cent more rainfall than average, respectively. Mahendragarh has received 47 per cent less than average rainfall. Panchkula district, which has the highest normal rainfall of 615.1 mm, has so far received 213.4 mm rain.Dr ML Khichar, head of Agro Meteorological Department in the HAU, said that rainfall distribution has been uneven and scattered in the state this year.“Though the monsoon arrived well in time and many parts of the state received early rain, the monsoon seemed to have weakened in some districts including Hisar, Bhiwani and Mahendragarh. The monsoon moisture from the Arabian Sea has weakened which has resulted in a deficient rain in some districts in the state,” he said, adding that monsoon is likely to remain active till September 15 or even later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rainfall-uneven-in-state-so-far-study-126601
15-08-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Lokayukta calls for SIT probe into Samalkha MLA house case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 14Haryana Lokayukta Justice Nawal Kishore Agarwal (retd) has called for an inquiry by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) for fixing the responsibility of officials behind the regularisation of bungalow of Samalkha Congress MLA Dharam Singh Chokker, as single-house colony, against the rules.RTI Activist PP Kapoor had filed a case against Chokker and officials of the Samalkha local body in 2014.Chhokar built a house on 0.75 acres (6 kanal) in an unapproved project — 22-acre New Durga Colony — in 2013 when his party was in power in the state. The local authorities had forwarded the Durga Colony case to the urban local bodies for approval, but it was rejected in 2014 as the project didn’t fit the regularisation parameters. Following the rejection, the municipal authorities named Chhokar’s 6-kanal house as Sai Enclave Colony and re-sent the case to the urban local bodies, which approved it in 2018.Proposal approved by hook or crook If the conduct of department of the urban local bodies and the Deputy Commissioners posted in Panipat and the authorities of the Municipal Committee of Samalkha is considered in the light of the entire facts, the situation of the matter, then would be crystal clear that the authorities were bent upon to approve the proposal by hook or crook. —Justice Nawal Kishore Agarwal (retd), Haryana LokayuktaInterestingly, Chokker’s single-house colony got regularised during the BJP regime.Lokayukta questioned the urgency by the Urban Local Bodies Department as they didn’t wait for the final report of SDM Gaurav Kumar, dated February 1, 2019, when the matter was pending before him. Kumar levelled allegations against the urban local bodies department in his reply. He was inquiring into the matter of Sai Enclave on the directions of then DC Panipat.Chokker in his reply had denied the allegations of any wrongdoing in the regularisaiton. Justice Agarwal said to fix the responsibility of officials a SIT comprising a retired district judge and IAS officer be formed and said based on the findings, steps should be taken to cure the illegalities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lokayukta-calls-for-sit-probe-into-samalkha-mla-house-case-126602
15-08-2020||---||Dismissed PTIs stage protest, court arrest||Karnal, August 14Scores of dismissed physical training instructors (PTIs) staged a protest along with their family members on Friday and courted arrest in support of their reinstatement and demanded that fresh recruitment process for the posts of PTIs be stopped.The dismissed PTIs along with their family members and employees of various departments gathered at a park in Sector 12 here. They took out a protest march, raised slogans against the state government and created a ruckus on reaching the Mini-Secretariat.Sandeep Kumar, a protester, said the state government should have taken their issue seriously and the recruitment process for the PTIs should not have been initiated. “We will continue our protest till the fulfilment of our demand,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dismissed-ptis-stage-protest-court-arrest-126603
15-08-2020||---||4 held for Faridabad couple’s murder||Faridabad, August 14The police have claimed to have cracked the murder case of a couple with the arrest of four accused. The couple, identified as Sukhbir (28) and Monika (26), was shot dead in their house in Jasana on August 11.The main accused, identified as Vishnu (25) of Wazirabad in Delhi, is a relative of the couple. He was nabbed from a spot near the bypass in Sector 29 here, while other accused identified as Sonu, Yatin and Kuldeep were nabbed from Meerut (Uttar Pradesh).They were produced in court on Friday and sent to three-day police custody.Vishnu reportedly admitted to having murdered the couple as he alleged that they had been blackmailing his sister for the past four months on the basis of objectionable photographs.The police said Vishnu hatched the plot to murder the couple after his sister told him about the matter on August 3. “The accused, between 22 and 25 years, carried out a recce three days before the murder,” said ACP Dharna Yadav.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-held-for-faridabad-couples-murder-126604
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Covid tally crosses 45K mark in Haryana||With 797 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state crossed the 45,000 mark today. Seven deaths pushed the toll to 518.Two deaths each were reported from Sonepat and Kurukshetra and one each from Jhajjar, Gurugram and Faridabad. An 80-year-old woman of Karnal, suffering from Covid, died of heart attack. An 80-year-old man from Sainik Colony in Faridabad succumbed to the virus.Fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (129), Rewari (100), Gurugram (92), Ambala (58), Karnal (53), Sonepat (50), Panipat (46), Rohtak (41), Mahendragarh (33), Sirsa (31), Hisar and Panchkula (29 each), Palwal (22), Kurukshetra (17), Kaithal (16), Jhajjar and Charkhi Dadri (15 each), Bhiwani (10), Nuh (6) and Jind (5). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-tally-crosses-45k-mark-in-haryana-126605
15-08-2020||Ambala||Three nabbed for assault||Snatching accused in netThe police have arrested Vishal Verma alias Vishu of Ambala and recovered a snatched mobile phone. Shankar of Mahesh Nagar had reported that his mobile phone was snatched. The accused was remanded in 14-day judicial custody. TNSOne held for vehicle theftThe police have arrested Gulshan of Ambala in a case of vehicle theft. Naveen Kumar of Ambala had reported that his motorcycle had been stolen. The accused was sent to one-day police remand. TNSOne arrested with heroinThe police have arrested Harvinder Singh alias Shanty of Naraingarh and recovered 30-gram heroin from his possession. A local court remanded him in 14-day judicial custody. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-nabbed-for-assault-126618
15-08-2020||Kurukshetra||Impact of internet media discussed||Leadership training programmeKarnal: A two-day virtual leadership training programme ‘Learn to Lead’ for undergraduate and postgraduate students commenced online. The programme was organized by the Department of Economics, RKSD PG College, here in collaboration with the MR Pai Foundation, Mumbai. Principal Sanjay Goyal extended a vote of thanks to both the organisers and emphasised on various aspects of leadership. While explaining the theme of the event, Head of Economics Department, RKSD PG College, Virender Goyal introduced the speaker Prof Clarissa Jathanna who spoke on ‘Sharpening Vital Skills’ and ‘Understanding Self & Others’. Around 80 students got themselves registered and participated in the programme.Virtual speakathon by GJUSTHisar: The Training and Placement Cell, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST), here organised an online competition on the topic “Covid-19: Impact and measures taken by respective countries” under its fortnightly virtual speakathon (FVS) event. In all 12 students of various courses participated in the competition. Prof Vikram Kaushik from CMT Department and Dr Sheel Nidhi Tripathi, Communication Trainer and Public Relations Consultant, were the judges of the programme. Aditya Vir Singh, Assistant Director, Training and Placement Cell, welcomed the judges and the participants and said that was the tenth speakathon event in the series organised amid the pandemic to enhance communication skills. In group A, Devanshi from BTech CSE Department secured the first rank, Shalini from BTech EE Department bagged the second rank and Muskan Jain from MBA II year was the third rank holder. In Group B, Ashish from BTech ECE Department was the winner.Series of webinars onHisar: Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya Computer and Informatics Centre, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, here organised a webinar series on the topic “Matlab Software”. Three webinars are being organised under the series. The theme of the first webinar was ‘Matlab for New User’. The webinar series was inaugurated by Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor of the university. MM Zafar from Design Tech Systems Private Limited, was the keynote speaker of the webinar. The VC in his address said Matlab and other related softwares were very useful in present times. “These softwares are very essential for the quality of research and activities. The webinar will be highly beneficial for the participants,” he said. Zafar provided preliminary information about the Matlab software. Director Mukesh Arora said PDUCIC was having facility of Matlab software and said the students could avail this facility there. Kuldeep Singh and Naveen Sangwan of PDUCIC coordinated the webinar. The theme of the second webinar to be organised by the PDUCIC will be ‘Mathematical Modeling with Matlab’.Online admission dates extendedHisar: Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology here has extended the online applications dates for admission to the undergraduate (except BTech and BPharma) and postgraduate programmes for 2020-21. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar issued the orders in this regard. Prof Usha Arora, Dean Academic Affairs of the university, said the last date for payment of fee through net banking or debit/credit card for admission to undergraduate programmes had been extended up to August 24. The online application could be submitted up to August 26 and correction in category in online information of the candidate(s) on request could be made up to August 28. Prof Arora also said the last date for payment of fee through net banking or debit/credit card for admission to postgraduate programmes had been extended up to August 31. The online applications for admission to postgraduate programmes could be submitted till September 3 and correction in category in online information of the candidates on request could be made up to September 7. The university has taken this decision in view of the difficulties faced by the candidates in applying for admissions due to the Covid pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/impact-of-internet-media-discussed-126620
15-08-2020||THE road connecting Amravati Enclave to DLF valley in Panchkuka is in a pathetic condition. The residents are suffering a lot of problems like waterlogging||Road in pathetic condition||Appoint retd HC judges as Info CommissionerTHE Right to Information Act was enacted 15 years ago to bring transparency in governance. But it is a matter of concern that information officers of Haryana are not following the RTI Act. Most public information officers neither give the information sought under the RTI Act nor deposit the penalty amount imposed by the State Information Commission in the treasury. The Haryana Government should recover the fine imposed by the Information Commission on public information officers across the state from 2006 to 2019 and punish such officers. To make the RTI Act effective in the state, the government should do two things. First, instead of retired IAS officers, only retired judges of the High Court or experienced lawyers should be appointed to the post of Information Commissioner. Second, it should be reviewed every three months that applicants are getting the information sought on time. —Shakti Singh, KarnalShocking to see Decline in gender ratioIT is very shocking to observe that Haryana, which had witnessed manifold improvement in sex ratio for the past five years, has suffered a setback as the ratio has declined from 923 in 2019 to 914 till July this year. It is good to observe that Fatehabad has been on top in sex ratio at birth (SRB) at this stage. Efforts must be made to maintain it. —Subhash C Taneja, GurugramWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/road-in-pathetic-condition-126621
