30-08-2020||Gurgaon||'Valour wall' of gallantry-winning CRPF officers inaugurated||A "valour wall" depicting the names of gallantry award-winning CRPF officers has been inaugurated at the force's training academy here, officials said on Sunday.The bravery wall with the names of 138 officers, including five who got the awards posthumously, was inaugurated by Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) Director General A P Maheshwari on Saturday.The country's largest paramilitary force with about 3.25 lakh personnel in its ranks is among the top two police organisations in the country that have bagged the maximum gallantry medals over the last decade.The Jammu and Kashmir Police is the other organisation."The valour wall is a tribute to all the officers who graduated from the officers training academy in Kadarpur, Gurgaon," CRPF spokesperson Deputy Inspector General (DIG) Moses Dhinakaran said.The academy was established in October, 2005.Maheshwari also planted saplings in the campus in the memory of four CRPF personnel, who were killed in the line of duty and were awarded the police medals for gallantry on this Independence Day, August 15, he said.The force also marked the National Sports Day by holding volleyball matches at 1,600 locations with a reduced team strength in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.Olympic medal-winning wrestler Sushil Kumar was present to mark the event in the academy campus, during which he asked the force to nurture more sporting talent.A seed dispersal event through drones was also held as part of the environment protection initiative at a chosen patch in the Aravalli mountain ranges that flank the academy, the spokesperson said. PTIThe largest Armed Police Force with the highest Gallantry Medals inaugurates Valour Wall @crpfacademy where it grooms its Frontline Leaders as high achievers.@HMOIndia @PMOIndia @crpfindia pic.twitter.com/J7XrdbeZcg||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/valour-wall-of-gallantry-winning-crpf-officers-inaugurated-133751
30-08-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Haryana govt revokes order directing shops, malls to remain shut on Mondays, Tuesdays||Haryana government on Sunday revoked an earlier order directing all shops and shopping malls, except those dealing in essential good and services, to remain closed on Mondays and Tuesdays.केंद्र सरकार ने अनलॉक 4 में प्रदेश सरकारों को लॉक डाउन करने का अधिकार नही दिया है इसलिए हरियाणा सरकार का दिनांक 28 अगस्त का सोमवार और मंगलवार को बाज़ार बंद रखने का आदेश वापिस ले लिया है । इसलिए अब कोई लॉक डाउन नही होगा ।  In a tweet on Sunday, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said that the order had been revoked since the Unlock 4.0 guidelines released by the Centre on Saturday did not give states the right to impose a lockdown.Sporadic and weekend lockdowns have been implemented by various state governments across the country.Earlier on August 28, to contain the spread of COVID-19, the Haryana government had ordered that malls and shops in marketplaces of urban areas will remain closed on Mondays and Tuesdays instead of weekends as instructed earlier.This order, however, was not for shops dealing with essential goods and services.The revised instructions on August 28 had come a week after the government had ordered offices and shops to remain closed on weekends throughout the state."...to contain further spread of COVID-19 in Haryana, shopping malls and shops, except those dealing with essential goods and services shall remain closed on Monday and Tuesday in the market places of urban areas of the state."Accordingly, there is no bar on opening of shops and shopping malls on Saturday and Sunday in these areas. These orders will be applicable till further orders," a state government order issued on Friday, had said.Earlier, on August 21, the state government had said all offices and shops, except those dealing with essential services, will remain closed on weekends.Haryana has recorded over 62,000 COVID-19 cases and over 670 fatalities.--with PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-revokes-order-directing-shops-malls-to-remain-shut-on-mondays-tuesdays-133711
30-08-2020||Faridabad||Even after green nod, Haryana’s first waste-to-energy plant hangs fire||The fate of the first waste-to-energy power plant of Haryana, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for which was signed over three years ago, still hangs in balance, as not much progress has been made on the ground.TIMELINEA Municipal Corporation (MC) official said that the power plant was slated to produce 10 MW daily but the project execution had been marred with delays for various reasons, including no timely follow up. While it took 28 months to get clearance from the Union Ministry of Environment and Forest, the slow processing of garbage led to an acute shortage of space at the dumping site.The power plant was expected to be ready by June 2019, and a project management unit had been set up to monitor the progress and compliance with the penalty clause in case of delay or violation of the norms included in the MoU, according to sources.“The dumping site has damaged the ecology and polluted groundwater due to the constant leakage of waste residue,” said Jitender Bhadana of local NGO Save Aravallis.The MoU agreement has a lease period of 22 years, including 18 months for the installation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/even-after-green-nod-haryanas-first-waste-to-energy-plant-hangs-fire-133444
30-08-2020||Ambala||Now, Vigilance Bureau to probe SET findings||Accepting the recommendations made by Home Minister Anil Vij, Chief Minister Manohal Lal Khattar has handed over the probe into the liquor scam to the Vigilance Bureau.Talking to mediapersons on Saturday, Vij said a committee comprising three IPS officers had been formed to carry out further investigation into the references regarding the Home Department and irregularities indicated by the Special Enquiry Team (SET) in its report.The committee will also probe similar irregularities in the entire state along with the districts in which irregularities have been indicated. It comprises ADGP Kala Ramchandran, DIG Shashank Anand and SP Himanshu Garg.Vij said: “To know about illegal liquor-related activities in the state, a three-member SET under the chairmanship of senior IAS officer TC Gupta was constituted. After studying the entire state, the SET in about three months had submitted a report. On the basis of the SET report, I gave a recommendation to conduct a vigilance probe and call the explanation of some of the officers, whose names were involved in the report. There were serious comments regarding the Home and Excise and Taxation Departments. I had recommended that all departments about which the comments have been made, to form departmental enquiry teams to conduct a probe if any irregularities are happening in the state.”“The SET has also made some references about the Home Department in its report and signalled towards irregularities. ADGP Kala Ramachandran will lead the committee, while DIG Shashank Anand and SP Himanshu Garg are other members. Strict action will be taken against those found involved in illegal activities,” Vij added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-vigilance-bureau-to-probe-set-findings-133446
30-08-2020||Mahendragarh||Narnaul BJP leader’s son shot at||Amit Yadav (37), son of senior BJP leader Daya Ram Yadav, was shot at and injured by a masked assailant at his house in Sector 1 at Narnaul town here around 9 pm last evening. The bullet pierced through Amit’s leg. The assailant demanded Rs 50 lakh from him before fleeing on a motorcycle.The police have registered a case on the complaint of the victim and started investigation. No arrest was made till the filing of the report.Daya Ram Yadav had unsuccessfully contested the Assembly elections from Nangal Choudhary on the BJP ticket in 2009. He runs a school in Nangal Choudhary.The assailant first rang the bell of Amit’s house and then opened fire at him when he opened the door. He gave a letter of extortion to Amit and demanded Rs 50 lakh from him. Hearing the gunshot, Amit’s family members came out but the assailant fled. They took Amit to a private hospital.“In the letter, the assailant demanded Rs 50 lakh from me and also threatened to kill me if the demand is not fulfilled,” said Amit, who is a postgraduate teacher.On Saturday evening, Mahendragarh SP Sulochna Kumari along with eight other IPS officers was transferred and Chander Mohan was posted in her place. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/narnaul-bjp-leaders-son-shot-at-133447
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||15 members join JJP national executive||The Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) constituted its disciplinary committee and expanded the national executive today. The new list included the names of the chairman of the disciplinary committee and three other members, 15 members of the national executive and 13 special invitees.Jagdish Kadyan, former registrar of Kurukshetra University and Beri resident, has been appointed the chairman of the disciplinary committee. Earlier, Kadyan was the state chief of the party’s intellectual cell. Sonepat resident Babita Dahiya, Mehmood Khan, JJP’s MP candidate from Gurugram advocate Ranbir Dahiya will be the members of the disciplinary committee.Two-time MLA and Sonepat resident Dr Maha Singh, former Badra MLA Col Raghuvir Chillar, Kaithal resident Bacchan Singh Majri, former Nuh JJP district president Badruddin, Yamunanagar resident Gurvinder Singh Tejli, state chief of the Jannayak Sewa Dal and Kurukshetra resident Maya Ram Ror and national spokesperson for the Jannayak Sewa Dal Dinesh Dagar have been appointed as members of the national executive.Fatehabad resident Kuljeet Kularia, Mahendragarh resident Kashiram Rawat, member of the Shivalik Vikas Board and Yamunanagar resident Rajkumar Saini have also been appointed as members of the national executive. Former INLD office secretary Dharamvir Sihag, former Safidon JJP candidate in the Assembly elections Dayanand Kundu, Jind resident Balwan Danoda, Palwal resident Dharamvir Tewatia and Panipat resident Charan Singh Ahar have also been named as members of the national executive. Former MLA from Pundri Makhan Singh Ror, former member of the HERC and Panchkula resident Tej Singh Tewatia, Rohtak resident Ramdiya Rathi, Panipat resident Subedar Pratap Singh, Mahendragarh resident Amar Singh Brahmachari, Jind resident advocate Jile Singh, Hisar resident Dalbir Dhiranwas, Hisar resident Japan Singh Godara, Sirsa resident Hari Singh Bahri, Fatehabad resident Hoshiar Singh Nahla, president of the Kajla Khap and Hisar resident Rajmal Kajal and Kaithal resident Roshan Dhandha have been appointed special invitees to the national executive. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/15-members-join-jjp-national-executive-133448
30-08-2020||Gurugram||2 more held for triple murder||The police on Saturday arrested two more accused in the murder case of three persons of Basai village on August 21. The murders were a result of a gang rivalry.So far, the police have arrested four accused. The main accused, however, is at large.The accused, arrested on Saturday from Jhajjar’s Badli, were identified as Sunny of Bhiwani’s Mitathal village and Gaurav of Basai village. They were remanded to police custody. They belong to the Hari Om gang of Basai.“The accused said the murder was pre-planned. Raids are on to nab the main accused,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-more-held-for-triple-murder-133449
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||8 IPS officers shifted in Haryana||The Haryana Government today issued the posting and transfer orders of eight IPS officers and one HPS officer with immediate effect. Alok Kumar Roy, ADGP (Modernisation and Police Welfare) has been given the additional charge of ADGP (prisons).Kala Ramachandran, awaiting posting orders on return from Central deputation, has been posted as ADGP (Headquarters) with additional charge of Crime Against Women (CAW).Charu Bali, ADGP, CAW, has been posted as ADGP, IRB, Bhondsi with additional charge of the State Crime Branch, Gurugram.Shashank Anand, awaiting posting orders on return from deputation to the Chandigarh Administration, has been posted as DIG, CID. Naazneen Bhasin, SP, Rewari, has been posted as SP, RTC, Bhondsi.Sulochana Kumari, SP, Mahendragarh, has been posted as Commandant, IV Btn, IRB, Manesar.Abhishek Jorwal, SP, Ambala, has been posted as SP, Rewari. Chandramohan, DCP (East), Gurugram, having additional charge of DCP (Traffic) and CEO, Mobility, GMDA, has been posted as SP, Mahendragarh. HPS officer Rajesh Kalia, SP, CID, has been posted as SP, Ambala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/8-ips-officers-shifted-in-haryana-133450
30-08-2020||Kurukshetra||Congress extends support to farmers for Sept 10 rally||Senior Congress leader Ashok Arora has extended support to the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) for its upcoming rally on September 10 against the three farm ordinances introduced by the Central Government. He said that the state government should bring a resolution against the ordinances. He also criticised the government for imposing the weekdays lockdown.The rally is scheduled to be held at the Pipli grain market on September 10.Arora said, “The state government’s decision to close shops on Monday and Tuesday will badly affect their businesses. On the one hand, everything is being unlocked, on the other, shops are being closed. The government should withdraw the decision, as it will destroy the shopkeepers.”“The state should bring a resolution in the Assembly against the three ordinances, as these will help only the corporate sector. Farmers will be forced to sell their produce at cheaper rates. The Congress has extended its support to the farmers for their September 10 rally,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-extends-support-to-farmers-for-sept-10-rally-133451
30-08-2020||Palwal||Shelter home founder booked for naming rape victim||The police have booked the founder and operator of a children’s shelter home at Bahrola village here for allegedly naming a minor rape victim on social media. However, no arrest has been made so far.As per complaint, the name or the identity of the victim was revealed from the children’s home at Bahrola village after some dispute over lodging the girl there. The victim, who is a minor, had delivered a baby in the shelter home a few months ago, on the directions of a local court. She was denied admission to the shelter home earlier.It is alleged that the girl had been pressured on certain issues and her name was revealed on social media. “We’ve lodged a case and have launched a probe,” said Naresh Kumar, IO. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/shelter-home-founder-booked-for-naming-rape-victim-133452
30-08-2020||Rohtak||Haryana government cuts 30% commission of arhtiyas for ‘lustre loss’||State government agencies — Hafed and Haryana State Warehousing Corporation (HSWC) — have cut more than 30 per cent commission of arhtiyas for the loss of lustre of the wheat produce procured.In terms of rupees, it translates into a cut of Rs 14.43 per quintal against the commission of Rs 48. The arhtiyas termed the cut as “unjustified”.This year, more than 730 lakh quintals of wheat were procured at the rate of Rs 1,925 per quintal across the state. The arthiyas get 2.5 per cent of the minimum support price (MSP) per quintal as commission in lieu of the procurement.“Hafed, HSWC and the Department of Food and Civil Supplies had procured more than 18 lakh quintals of wheat in Rohtak district. Hafed and the HSWC recently paid the commission after imposing a cut of Rs 14.43 per quintal. We have learnt that the department, too, will deduct the same amount,” said Harsh Girdhar, vice-president, Haryana State Anaj Mandi Arhtiyas’ Association.He further said arhtiyas had raised the matter before Agriculture Minister JP Dalal during his recent visit to Rohtak and requested him to ensure payment of their full amount. “He assured us of considering our demand, but nothing has happened so far. We will launch an agitation if our demand is not met soon,” he added.Chand Singh, president, New Jhajjar Grain Market Arhtiyas’ Association, made another point. He said, “Wheat is procured only when the purchase agency approves it after the quality check. So, there is no logic behind the cut. It is for the first time that commission has been cut because of lustre loss.”Devender Singh, district manager, Hafed, said: “The department was the nodal agency for procuring wheat. On its directives, the deduction in the commission of arhtiyas has been made.”Pramod Gupta, district manager, HSWC, simply said it was a statewide matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-cuts-30-commission-of-arhtiyas-for-lustre-loss-133453
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Hooda seeks Rs30,000 per acre relief for cotton growers||Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has demanded a compensation of at least Rs 30,000 per acre for farmers, whose cotton produce has been affected by wilting and white fly disease.“The government should order a special girdawari without delay,” he said in a statement here on Saturday.The former Chief Minister said that last year, untimely hailstorm hit the rabi crop in several districts of the state, but farmers had not received compensation to date. “Farmers have been hit by a series of setbacks ranging from crop diseases to locust swarms, from unseasonal rain to hailstorm.”“The state government should take action against officials who failed in their duty to release compensation to farmers. As a responsible government, it should sanction the relief amount immediately,” the Congress leader said.He added the Congress would take to the streets if the government failed in its duty to compensate farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-seeks-rs30-000-per-acre-relief-for-cotton-growers-133472
30-08-2020||Ambala||Two killed in mishaps||Man held for abduction, rapeBaru Ram, alias Lucky, has been arrested in a case of abduction and rape, the police said here on Saturday. A local resident had complained to the police that the accused had kidnapped his daughter on the pretext of marrying her and raped her. The police have registered a case and started investigation. TNSUP man held with illegal gunThe district police have arrested Sachin, a resident of Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh, and seized an illegal pistol and two cartridges from his possession, officials said here. He was produced before a local court, which remanded him in two-day police custody. TNSFour persons go missingFour persons, including three women, had reportedly gone missing from their homes in the past 24 hours, the police said on Saturday. The police have lodged missing persons' reports and launched a manhunt for them. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-killed-in-mishaps-133498
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Power Minister also tests +ve;  nine more die||As many as 1,391 persons, including Power Minister Ranjit Singh, tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Saturday, taking the tally to 61,987. Also, nine persons died of the virus.Earlier, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Agriculture Minister JP Dalal and Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma had tested Covid-positive. Two deaths each were reported in Karnal, Panchkula, Bhiwani, and Yamunanagar and one in Gurugram.In Karnal, a 75-year-old woman of Mall Road and a 73-year-old man from Sadar Bazaar succumbed to coronavirus. In Panchkula district, an 82-year-old man from Sector 4 and a 71-year-old woman from Sector 12-A died. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-power-minister-also-tests-ve-nine-more-die-133502
30-08-2020||Ambala||Child Welfare Committee asks schools to continue online classes||As the impasse between private schools and parents over annual charges continue, the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) in Ambala has directed the institutions not to stop the studies of any child and instructed the Education Department to get the issue resolved.While the schools are claiming that they have been allowed to charge the annual charges by the High Court, parents are waiting for an official statement from the Education Department, and have launched the ‘No School No Annual Charges’ campaign. Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party has also come out in parents’ support and threatened to launch a statewide agitation.AAP leader Gagandeep Kapoor said: “As per the orders, the schools have to work out actual expenses but they are seeking full charges. There are no instructions regarding the annual charges from the Education Department so far. The party has extended its support to the parents in their campaign. We have submitted a memorandum in this regard and if no relief is given to parents, the party will launch a statewide agitation.”Meanwhile, Deputy District Education Officer Sudhir Kalra said: “As per the last direction from the department, schools can charge only tuition fee. We have instructed the schools not to pressurise the parents for annual charges and wait for the directions from the Education Department.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/child-welfare-committee-asks-schools-to-continue-online-classes-133504
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar not feverish: Hospital||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-not-feverish-hospital-133506
30-08-2020||Karnal||Block Education Officers asked to identify addicts; order withdrawn within 24 hours||Within 24 hours of issuing a controversial order directing every Block Education Officer (BEO) in the district to submit a list of 40 drug addicts or drunkards, the District Education Office (DEO) has withdrawn the order after teachers raised a hue and cry.The DEO had, on Friday, even issued a pro forma to the BEOs to fill the details. “All BEOs have been directed to submit within a week a list of 40 drug addicts or drunkards or students or staff members with the help of school principals and head masters,” the order stated.It caused outrage among teachers. Even the Opposition hit out at the district authorities. Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted, “Now the teachers will collect details of drunkards. When will they teach students?”When contacted, District Education Officer (DEO) Ravinder Kumar Chaudhary said he was home-quarantined and officiating DEO Sushil Kumar, who is the district science specialist, had issued the order.The officiating DEO said the order was issued during a meeting of the district task force under the “Drug-free India” campaign held on Friday and chaired by Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav.“The DEO’s order sent out a wrong message. The intention was to identify students addicted to drugs so that they could be counselled. There might be a communication gap. I read the DEO’s order and directed him to take it back,” the DC said.Subsequently, the higher authorities of the department warned all DEOs to take permission from the Director before issuing such an order in future.Additional Chief Secretary Dr Mahavir Singh said, “No work shall be allocated to teachers without the approval of the Director.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/block-education-officers-asked-to-identify-addicts-order-withdrawn-within-24-hours-133507
30-08-2020||Panipat||Panipat man rapes FB friend||A-26-year-old woman here alleged that two persons, including her Facebook friend, raped her in the city. The police have booked the accused under the IPC.The woman, who is a widow, in her complaint to the police said one of the accused was her Facebook friend and they had started chatting on the social media platform around six months ago.The accused, Sonu, on Tuesday allegedly called her to celebrate his birthday and took her to a dairy shop near Pehalwan Chowk. His friend Vikas was already there.She alleged that they gave her a cold drink laced with some sedative due to which she fell unconscious and both the accused raped her. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-man-rapes-fb-friend-133508
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Release GST dues: Dushyant||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala yesterday requested the GST Council to pay the compensation of Rs 5,840 crore to the state at the earliest, which was pending for the past four months.While participating in the 41st GST Council from Chandigarh through video-conferencing, Dushyant requested the Union Government to provide the maximum financial support to Haryana, as Covid-19 had adversely affected the economy. He demanded that the revenue loss of the states should be compensated even after five years of the GST implementation, which would culminate in 2022.Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur and other senior officials were also present during the video-conferencing.Dushyant said, “Haryana is a leading state in terms of manufacturing and export. Before the GST rollout, the state used to get the maximum revenue in the form of tax on products. The revenue collection across the state has been adversely affected after the implementation of the GST”.The Deputy CM drew the attention of the GST Council towards the provisions of the constitutional amendments, wherein Parliament is entrusted with the responsibility to ensure the payment of compensation to the states. He said that Parliament should come forward in this matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/release-gst-dues-dushyant-133509
30-08-2020||Panipat||Traders oppose move to shut shops on Mondays, Tuesdays||About 40 associations of various markets in the textile city under the banners of the Sanyukt Vyapar Mandal and Sanyukt Vyapar Manadal Samiti opposed the government decision to close markets on Mondays and Tuesdays.They decided to submit a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner on Sunday.‘Unfortunate decision’On August 21, the state government had ordered all public and private offices, shopping malls and markets, except those dealing in essential services, to remain close on Saturdays and Sundays. But on August 28, the government issued new orders stating that all shops and shopping malls, except those dealing in essential goods and services, to remain shut on Mondays and Tuesdays, while public and private offices will open on these days.Local traders have now opposed the government’s new decision and the presidents of around 40 markets and members of the Sanyukt Vyapar Mandal and Sanyukt Vyapar Mandal Samiti have held 4-5 rounds of meetings over the issue on Saturday here.Anil Madaan, patron and ex-president, Sanyukt Vyapar Mandal, said the decision to shut markets on Mondays and Tuesdays was against the traders.Meanwhile, Rajesh Suri, Sanyukt Vyapar Mandal Samiti president, said: “A meeting has been scheduled with the DC on Sunday afternoon after which we will be able to decide the next course of action.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/traders-oppose-move-to-shut-shops-on-mondays-tuesdays-133510
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana government harassing businessmen, says Congress||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja has termed the decision of the state government to close shops two days a week as a ‘Tughlaqi’ decree.She said the confused government, which has failed to contain the spread of Covid-19, was constantly working to harass traders by issuing new ‘Tughlaqi’ decrees amid the crisis. The anti-business face of the government had been revealed to the people once again, she added.Selja said the businessmen had already suffered huge losses due to the decisions of the Central Government such as demonetisation. Now, the entire economy had collapsed due to the unplanned lockdown imposed during the pandemic.“Will coronavirus not spread by allowing roadways buses to run at full capacity?” she said. The closure of shops should have been decided in consultation with traders’ bodies, she added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-harassing-businessmen-says-congress-133511
30-08-2020||Kurukshetra||Woman held in murder case||The police have arrested a woman in connection with the murder of Monu (22), a resident of Kakrali village in Pehowa, who was shot dead on August 23. The suspect has been identified as Pinki, a resident of Delhi. She was living in a rented accommodation at Cheeka.The assailants had engaged the woman and she had allegedly shared information about Monu with them. She had been in regular contact with them. She was produced before a court, which sent her to two-day police custody.Monu was shot dead over an old enmity on the Gurdwara road in Pehowa, Kurukshetra, last Sunday evening. Monu was facing cases under the Arms Act and was out on parole. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-held-in-murder-case-133513
30-08-2020||Ambala||Ambala police launch special drive, 2,439 vehicles challaned||The Ambala district police have launched a night dominance drive to check crime and movement of criminals and anti-social elements in the district.SP Abhishek Jorwal said 2,439 vehicles and 170 public places, 47 suspected elements were challaned under the drive. In all 49 vehicles were challaned for various offences, 10 gamblers were arrested with Rs 18,225 cash, a drug peddler was held with 1,100-gram ganja and 23 bottles of illicit liquor were also recovered.Under the drive, almost 90 per cent of the total police force ventured out from 10 pm to 4 am in order to keep the criminals at bay in the district.During this exercise carried out on Friday night, the police laid 47 check-posts across the district, including all entry and exit points, and checked all vehicles, pedestrians and cyclists found moving out in the night. Besides, public places, hotels, restaurants, dharamshalas, slum colonies and other suspected hideouts of the criminals were also screened.Hundreds of suspected elements were challaned besides, several vehicles were impounded and illicit arms, ammunition and liquor were seized.He appealed to the district residents to cooperate with the police and inform the police about the presence or movement of any criminal, suspected or anti-social element in their vicinity.2 phones recovered in jailAmbala: Two mobile phones were recovered from the Central Jail here, the police said on Saturday. Central Jail Deputy Superintendent Bhupinder Singh reported to the local police that two mobile phones with batteries were recovered on August 28. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-police-launch-special-drive-2-439-vehicles-challaned-133514
