10-05-2021||West||Mamata Banerjee inducts 43 ministers: Check full list of portfolios||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee expanded her cabinet by inducting 43 leaders of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) as ministers. They were given the oath of office by governor Jagdeep Dhankar. The TMC won the state assembly elections for a third consecutive time as it secured 213 of the total 294 assembly constituencies. Mamata Banerjee had taken oath as the chief minister of Bengal for a third time on May 5.Dhankar later released the portfolios allocated to the ministers by Banerjee.Sharing the list on Twitter, governor Dhankar said, “On the advice of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and in accordance with Article 164 of the constitution, I have made allocation of portfolios to all the ministers including the chief minister. Expect the team now to work in overdrive for public welfare and take steps for return to normalcy.”Also Read| Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee expands Cabinet, 43 TMC leaders sworn-in as ministersAccording to the list, CM Banerjee will be holding several important portfolios such as health and family welfare, home and hill affairs, personnel and administration, land and land reforms and refugee and rehabilitation, and information and cultural affairs and North Bengal development. Twenty-four leaders of the TMC have been made cabinet ministers, 10 have been made ministers of state (Independent charge) and the remaining nine are ministers of state.Here is the full list of the portfolios allotted to the 43 ministers in the West Bengal government:Cabinet ministers1. Subrata Mukherjee- Pachayat and rural development; public enterprises and industrial reconstruction2. Partha Chatterjee- Industry, commerce and enterprise, information technology and electronics and parliamentary affairs.3. Amit Mitra- Finance, planning and statistics, programme monitoring4. Sadhan Pande- Consumer affairs, self help group and self employment5. Jyoti Priya Mallick- Forest, non-conventional and renewable energy sources6. Bankim Chandra Hazra- Sundarbans affairs7. Manas Ranjan Bhunia- Water resources investigation and development8. Saumen Kumar Mahapatra- Irrigation and waterways9. Moloy Ghatak- Law, judicial and public works10. Aroop Biswas- Power, youth affairs and sports11. Ujjal Biswas- Correctional administration12. Arup Roy- Co-operation13. Rathin Ghosh- Food and supply14. Firhad Hakim- Transport, housing15. Chandranath Sinha- Micro, small and medium enterprises and textiles16. Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay- Agriculture17. Bratya Basu- School education, higher education18. Pulak Roy- Public health engineering19. Dr Shashi Panja- Women and child development and social welfare20. Md Ghulam Rabbani- Minority affairs and madrasah education21. Biplab Mitra- Agricultural marketing22. Javed Ahmed Khan- Disaster management and civil defence23. Swapan Debnath- Animal resources development24. Siddhiquallah Choudhary- Mass education extension and library servicesMinisters of state (Independent charge)1. Becharam Manna- Labour2. Subrata Saha- Food processing industries and horticulture3. Humayun Kabir- Technical education, training and skill development4. Akhil Giri- Fisheries5. Chandrima Bhattacharya- Urban development and municipal affairs, and MoS in health and family welfare and land and land reforms and refugee and rehabilitation6. Ratna De Nag- Environment, science and technology and bio-technology7. Sandhyarani Tudu- Pashimanchal unnayan affairs, MoS in parliamentary affairs8. Bulu Chik Baraik- Backward classes welfare, tribal development9. Sujit Bose- Fire and emergency services10. Indranil Sen- Tourism and MoS in information and cultural affairsOn the advice of Chief Minister ⁦@MamataOfficial⁩ and in accordance with Article 164 of the Constitution I have made allocation of portfolios to all the ministers including CM.Expect team now to work in overdrive for public welfare and take steps for return to normalcy. pic.twitter.com/SUjRrCS6e5Ministers of state1. Dilip Mondal- Transport2. Akhruzzaman- Power3. Seuli Saha- Panchayat and rural development4. Srikant Mahato- Micro, small and medium enterprises and textiles5. Yeasmin Sabina- Irrigation and waterways, North Bengal development6. Birbaha Hansda- Forests7. Jyotsna Mandi- Food and supplies8. Paresh Chandra Adhikary- School education9. Manoj Tiwari- Youth and sports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/west-bengal-assembly-election/mamata-banerjee-inducts-43-ministers-check-full-list-of-portfolios-101620652920205.html
