01-10-2021||Shimla||Shimla building collapse: Himachal government sets up probe panel||The Himachal Government on Friday constituted a fact-finding committee to look into the reasons for the collapse of a seven-storeyed building in Kachi Ghatti area of the town besides making recommendations to prevent recurrence of such mishaps.7-storey building collapses in ShimlaThe committee comprising Commissioner, Shimla Municipal Corporation (SMC), Deputy Commissioner (Shimla) and Director, Town and Country Planning (TCP) department has been asked to submit their report on the cause for the collapse by October 7.“The committee has also been asked to make recommendations to ensure that such incidents do not happen again. Besides, they can rope in any experts in case they feel their opinion is required,” said Rajneesh, Secretary, TCP, and Urban Development. He added that the Government has taken very serious note of the incident and all corrective measures would be taken to ensure that such mishaps are averted in the future.The seven-storeyed building had been granted approval by the Special Area Development Authority (SADA) in 2003 and this area of Kachi Ghattiu along with other parts was merged into Shimla MC in 2006. “On bare perusal of the record, permission was granted by SADA for a six storied structure. The three member committee will look into all other aspects which led to the collapse,” remarked Ashish Kohli, Commissioner, Shimla Municipal Corporation.A seven storied building collapsed in Kacha Ghatti area yesterday following the foundation being weakened due to seepage of water. Though, there was no loss of life as the building had been evacuated but the collapse has posed a threat to the adjoining buildings some of which have developed cracks.The incident comes within a week of the rap from NGT in its order on September 13, 2021, where it rejected the state government’s plea to allow construction of a lift, ramp for physically disabled, visitors room and parking at the secretariat, here, which are all in advanced stages of execution.In fact, out of the over 25,000 unauthorised constructions in the state, awaiting regularisation, most are located in Shimla (Urban), Shimla (Rural), and Kasumpti assembly segments which constitute the Shimla Planning Area. The fact that the state capital, the summer capital of  British India, is still expanding on the basis of the 1979 Interim Development Plan (IDP) speaks volumes of the scant regard being paid towards regulated and planned growth.Old-timers point out that Kachi Ghatti as the name suggests has come up on loose strata of debris dumped during construction activity in the main town. The area is right at the entrance to the town after Sankat Mochan temple and several high-rise buildings have come up here despite the area not being suitable for such heavy structures.The incident has exposed the haphazard construction activity, though majorly curbed by the National Green Tribunal order, banning all new construction in the Core and Green Zone and restricting new buildings in other parts to merely two-and-a half storeys. The Himachal government is desperate to provide relief to people by seeking relaxation from the NGT with regard to restricting constructions to two-and-a half storeys besides providing respite to owners of the unauthorised structures, built in violation of the TCP Act, 1977.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-building-collapse-himachal-government-sets-up-probe-panel-318780
01-10-2021||---||Congress must come out of Gandhi family shadow to be relevant: Former Himachal CM Shanta Kumar||Dharamshala, October 1Former Himachal Pradesh chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party leader Shanta Kumar on Friday said the Congress must come out of the Gandhi family’s shadows to become relevant again in national politics.If the Congress is eliminated from the political canvass, India’s democracy will be without a national opposition, he stressed.In a statement issued here, the veteran BJP leader highlighted the Congress’ importance by calling it the only national party in the country after the BJP.“The chariot of democracy moves on two wheels. One is the ruling party and the other is the opposition,” Kumar said.The oldest party in the country, once led by the likes of Nehru, Gandhi, and Patel, has become a “joke” of late, he said.Kumar praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for providing an able leadership, but also stressed the importance of a strong opposition in the country.“Atal ji (Atal Bihari Vajpayee) used to say that we should not always stay in the small walls of parties—that is why I am saying this while standing in the temple of the nation,” he added.The 87-year-old leader said the only treatment for the Congress is to come out of the “slavery” of the Gandhi family, adding that there is more than one national leader in the party.He also urged former chief minister of Punjab Amarinder Singh to not leave the Congress but sit together with G-23 leaders like Ghulam Navi Azad, Kapil Sibal and Shashi Tharoor to “fight for freedom” in the party and break out of the “bondage” of one family.The G-23 referred to by Kumar is a group of Congress leaders who had last year written to Sonia Gandhi, seeking an organisational overhaul of the party. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-must-come-out-of-gandhi-family-shadow-to-be-relevant-former-himachal-cm-shanta-kumar-318764
01-10-2021||---||Covid victims’ kin to get Rs 50,000 ex gratia||Shimla, September 30The state government today issued the notification for providing Rs 50,000 as ex gratia to the families of Covid victims; as many as 3,659 persons have died of the virus in the state so far.Considering the present 3,659 total deaths in Himachal, the government will have to bear a financial burden of about Rs 19 crore to provide the financial assistance to the bereaved families. However, the death tally is likely to go up as many casualties had gone unreported and many families, which had not disclosed the cause of death as Covid, would come forward to get the ex gratia. A Grievance Redressal Committee has also been constituted to resolve disputes arising out of the claims for the ex gratia.To cost govt Rs 19 crThe notification was issued after the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) issued the guidelines for providing ex gratia to the families of Covid victims. The families of those involved in relief operations or associated with preparedness activities, who also fell prey to the virus, shall also be entitled to the ex gratia of Rs 50,000 per person, subject to the verification of the cause of death as Covid.The State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) and the Revenue Department have directed the District Disaster Management Authorities (DDMA) to settle all claims within 30 days of the submission of the required documents and disburse the ex gratia through the Aadhaar-linked direct benefit transfer procedure.The DDMAs have also been directed that the procedure of claim, verification, sanction and the final disbursement of the ex-gratia amount should be done through a robust yet simple and people-friendly procedure. The bereaved families will have to submit their claims on a form issued by the SDMA along with specific documents, including the death certificate citing Covid as cause.The Grievance Redressal Committee will address grievances with regard to the certification of death, as prescribed by the Union Ministry of Health and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. The committee will also propose remedial measures, including the issuance of amended official documents for Covid, after verifying facts in accordance with the laid down guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-victims-kin-to-get-rs-50-000-ex-gratia-318396
01-10-2021||Shimla||163 new cases, one death in Himachal||As many as 163 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 219,061. Besides, one person died of the virus in Kangra.The highest number of 46 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 42 in Hamirpur, 18 in Mandi, 14 each in Shimla and Bilaspur, seven each in Chamba, Una and Solan, five in Kullu and one each in Sirmaur, Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/163-new-cases-one-death-in-himachal-318397
01-10-2021||Kullu||332 deities to be invited for 7-day Kullu Dasehra||Kullu DC and vice-chairman of Kullu Dasehra Festival Committee Ashutosh Garg said 332 deities of the district are registered with the administration and all these deities will be given invitation letters for the seven-day Dasehra festival. He said that apart from this, some other deities who participate in the festival would also be welcomed with reverence.While presiding over a meeting to review the preparations for the festival here today he said that the deities who come for the festival should inform Tehsildar Miter Dev on time.The DC said that discussions were held with members of Dev Samaj and Kardars to decide the format of the festival in the wake of Covid. Proper arrangements would be made for seating of the deities and all the people who accompany the deities would be looked after well.The officer said all the people coming from outside states for the festival should be having both the doses of vaccine or RT-PCR negative report. — OCNo ‘nazrana’ to be paidThe DC said this time there will be no business activities during the festival due to which there will be no income. Therefore, it will not be possible to offer ‘Nazrana’ (honorarium) to the deities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/332-deities-to-be-invited-for-7-day-kullu-dasehra-318399
01-10-2021||Mandi||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur launches poll campaign from Seraj||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur kicked off the election campaign for the Mandi Lok Sabha seat bypoll from the Seraj Assembly segment in Mandi district today. He addressed public meetings at Bagchanogi, Bhatkidhar, Shilbagi and Thunag.Targeting the Congress, the CM said that “no Congress leader is ready to contest the election from Mandi seat. They were forwarding the names of others because the party has already conceded its defeat.”He urged the public to support the BJP candidate to ensure progress of the area. The state and Central governments had taken several initiatives for the welfare of people in the state, he stated.“I am confident that the people of Mandi parliamentary constituency will ensure the victory of the BJP candidate with a huge margin of votes,” the CM added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-launches-poll-campaign-from-seraj-318400
01-10-2021||Our correspondent||Cloudburst spoils pea, maize crops in Kullu||Kullu, September 30A cloudburst in the higher reaches caused destruction in the Raghupur valley of Anni subdivision in Kullu district today. Cultivable land and standing crops were damaged in the Balagarh area and Raghupur Garh. There was chaos in the Raghupur valley following the ingress of flood water and slush into various areas.Maize, pea and pulse crops were damaged. In many places, apple plants in orchards were washed away by the heavy flow of debris. More than six pedestrian paths along the Rohachla-Fanauti-Juhad road were also damaged.Earlier, a cloudburst on September 22 had caused heavy damage in the region. Fanauti panchayat president Daulat Chauhan said that the valley had witnessed the second cloudburst in a short period. He added that no loss of life or livestock in the natural disaster had been reported.He said that link roads to many villages had been damaged. The local administration should carry out the restoration work at the earliest and compensate affected residents for their losses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cloudburst-spoils-pea-maize-crops-in-kullu-318401
01-10-2021||Lalit Mohan||Water shortage in Kangra panchayats||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, September 30The residents of Dhar and Dhangar panchayats in Dehra subdivision of Kangra district are reeling under acute water shortage.The said panchayats having a population of more than 2,000 are not getting drinking water despite the fact that the government had spent about Rs 3 crores on setting up a water supply scheme. The work of the water supply scheme was completed about two years ago and the contractors were made payments but the scheme has not been made functional as yet.Jagdish, a resident of the village, alleged that at times the residents get water after a period of 10 days. Due to shortage of water the residents have to go out to natural sources even to take bath. He lamented that even after 73 years of independence the residents are suffering for basic necessity of clean drinking water.Executive Engineer IPH Dehra Rajesh Kanugo was not available for comments despite repeated attempts to contact him on phone.Secretary, IPH, Vikas Labroo, when contacted, said that the scheme could not be made functional as the railways was not giving permission to the department to lay pipes through their property. The IPH department has also submitted Rs 35 lakh with the railways authorities for permission to lay pipes. The department officials are pursuing the matter with railway officials, he said.BJP Yuva Morcha leader Sukrit Sagar, however, said that the department should not have cleared all the payments of contractors till the scheme was made functional. In the present case, the department has cleared all payments of contractor but the scheme was still not functional.The scheme remained operationalized for two three days and then shut for lack of permission from the railways. Role of both the railways authorities and the IPH Department should be probed, he demanded.Sources here said that the scheme might be held up due to rift between the independent MLA from Dehra, Hoshiar Singh and BJP leaders from Dehra Assembly constituency over credit game. However, all this while the real sufferers are the residents of Dhar and Dhangar villages who are suffering for want of potable water.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-shortage-in-kangra-panchayats-318402
01-10-2021||Shimla||Judicial academy staff get houses||Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath inaugurated residences for the staff of the HP Judicial Academy through virtual mode on Tuesday. One Type-VI, one Type-V, six Type-III and 12 Type-I residences have been constructed on the academy campus.Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, Justice Sureshwar Thakur, Justice Vivek Singh Thakur, Justice Ajay Mohan Goel, Sandeep Sharma, Justice Chander Bhushan Barowalia, Justice Anoop Chitkara, Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua and Justice Satyen Vaidya were also present. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/judicial-academy-staff-get-houses-318403
01-10-2021||Ravi S Singh||Government promotes Himachal Pradesh as wedding spot||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 30The HP Government on Thursday made a push to promote the state as a premier wedding destination, which would further boost its tourism prospects.Adding new aspects to tourism would help the state boost its revenue, besides further etching it on the country’s and international tourist map.With signs of normalcy returning and recovery from Covid-19, the Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (HPTDC) has pulled all stops to promote the state as a wedding destination across the country.The state is already a beaut on account of its scenic attractions. The inviting climate adds to the package, making various spots and centres more favourite among tourists, including foreigners. The concept of wedding destination would be a feather in the cap of the state’s tourism inventory.HPTDC’s Managing Director Amit Kashyap held talks with local wedding planners here today and apprised them about the initiative to boost wedding business in the hill state.“The government has worked out a strategy to offer its hotel properties as wedding destinations where end-to-end services would be provided under one roof,” Kashyap said, and offered the wedding planners to visit the properties and help promote the state’s initiative.To start with, the state has identified six properties in this regard, namely Palace Hotel at Chail, Hotel Shivalik at Parwanoo, Hotel Pinewood at Baroj, Hotel Apple Blossom at Fagu, Hotel Hatu at Narkanda, and Hotel T-Bud at Palampur.Under this offer, all wedding-related services, such as accommodation, food, photography, pre-wedding shoot, decoration, entertainment, religious ceremonies, card printing and distribution and local sight-seeing of guests would be arranged by the HPTDC.“The Corporation has tied up with wedding planners for high-class and trouble-free wedding services to the guests,” Kashyap added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/government-promotes-himachal-pradesh-as-wedding-spot-318404
01-10-2021||---||Himachal: Monsoon to recede in 2nd week of October||Shimla, September 30Himachal received 10 per cent deficit rains during 2021, which is near normal but withdrawal of monsoon has been delayed. MeT office has predicted above normal rainfall and monsoon withdrawal from the second week of October against normal date of September 26.The state received 686.4 mm rain from June 1 to September 30 against normal rainfall of 763.5 mm with an overall deficit of 10 per cent. All districts of HP received near normal rainfall except Lahaul and Spiti and Chamba which recorded a large deficit.The deficit was 69 per cent in Lahaul and Spiti, 44 per cent in Chamba, 14 per cent in Una and Sirmaur, 11 per cent in Solan, eight per cent in Kangra, six per cent in Kinnaur and three per cent in Hamirpur.The local Met office has issued yellow warning of thunderstorm and lightning in seven districts, barring Chamba, Mandi, Kullu, Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti on October 1 and predicted a wet spell in the region till October 3.Nahan received 57 mm of rain followed by Nalagarh 50 mm, Paonta Sahib 44 mm, Pachhad 20 mm, Sujanpur Tira 17 mm, Jubbarhatti 14 mm, Bharari 13 mm, Dharamsala 12 mm, Jatton Barrage and Mehre 10 mm.There was no appreciable change in the minimum and maximum temperatures and Kalpa was coldest at night recording a low of 10.4 degree while Una was the hottest in day with a high of 34 degree C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-monsoon-to-recede-in-2nd-week-of-october-318405
01-10-2021||‘Poshan Maah’ was celebrated at DPS||‘Poshan Maah’ celebrated at DPS||‘Hindi fortnight’ at Rajiv Gandhi collegeRajiv Gandhi Government College, Chaura Maidan, Shimla, organised ‘Hindi fortnight’. Various competitions were held, wherein 52 students participated. Winners of speech, essay-writing and poetry recitation competitions were honoured. Pranshu Aditya, Nalin and Tabbu Thakur secured first, second and third positions in poetry writing, respectively. Amisha, Rohan and Gaurav secured the top three positions in essay-writing. Pallavi, Sulakshana Thakur and Neha were adjudged first, second and third, respectively, in speech completion. Principal Anupama Garg congratulated the winners.Talk on true purpose of religionShoolini University’s Yogananda Centre for Theology organised its seventh webinar on the topic ‘True purpose of religion’. The welcome note was given by Vice-Chancellor Professor Atul Khosla. Yogoda Satsanga Society of India vice-president Swami Samarananda Giri talked about different aspects of religion. “Our ultimate goal is to avoid pain and poverty, and attain permanent bliss,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/poshan-maah-celebrated-at-dps-318406
01-10-2021||Chamba||Una win hockey meet, beating Sirmaur 1-0||Una lifted the trophy by defeating Sirmaur 1-0 in the final match of the Hockey Himachal State Junior Championship (men’s category) that concluded at the Chaugan of Chamba on Wednesday.The first semi-final was played between Mandi and Una on the last day of the competition. Una better and won the match, while in the second match Sirmaur defeated host Chamba. In the afternoon, Una defeated Sirmaur in the title match to win the championship. Deputy Commissioner DC Rana was the chief guest. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-win-hockey-meet-beating-sirmaur-1-0-318407
01-10-2021||Kullu||Helpline for government works in Kullu||Kullu Zila Parishad chairman Pankaj Parmar has said a helpline number (9805115515) will be launched on October 2 so that people do not have to undertake multiple visits to government offices for work.Parmar said the trial of the helpline at Anni was successful. People could call on the number for any matter and could also get their complaints registered. Volunteers based at the Kullu office would register these. He said the works would be accomplished in collaboration with government officials.People would not have to visit government offices time and again and the Zila Parishad would assist them in resolving their issues. The main objective of the helpline was that the masses got all facilities on their doorsteps, the ZP chairman maintained.Parmar said seminars would also be organised for students and discussions would be held with academicians. Students would be prepared for competitive examinations and stress would be laid on their personality development. He said the health of people had been affected due to Covid. So, a 90-day fitness challenge on the theme ‘Fit me, fit you, fit Himachal’ would be launched on October 1. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/helpline-for-government-works-in-kullu-318408
01-10-2021||Legal Correspondent||High Court notice to Himachal Chief Secretary on leasing government land||Shimla, September 30The HP High Court today issued notices to the Chief Secretary and the Principal Secretary (Revenue) on a petition seeking the abolition of the system to lease government land.A Division Bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed the order on a petition taken up suo motu as a public interest litigation (PIL) on a letter written to the Chief Justice by Rakesh Kumar of Kangra district. The court directed the state officials to file their replies within two weeks.Suo Moto petitionThe petitioner alleged in the petition-letter that the state government was leasing its land for 99 years. In many cases, the practice was wrong and illegal, as the grant of a 99-year lease would mean the perpetual grant of ownership rights to the lessees for all intents and purposes.He alleged that it was also illegal that the legal heirs of the original lessees inherited the lease rights. If the system continues, the entire government land would be taken over by outsiders and the resources belonging to the state would be captured by those not entitled to enjoy these. This would eventually lead to the subjugation of the residents of the state.He alleged that many people had turned land leases into a source of income; for example a hospital at Palampur was gave around 60 kanals on perpetual lease for Re 1 per year. He stated that it should be ascertained that how much income the government was earning from such leases, how much income the beneficiaries were generating, how much taxes they were paying and how much of the leased land had been denuded of the forest cover by the lessees.Further, it should also be ascertained whether there had been an instance that the land was reverted to the government after the completion of 99 years lease.The petitioner has prayed that the practice and the system of granting the perpetual lease of government land be discontinued and abolished immediately, so that the pristine glory of ‘Land of Gods’, i.e. Himachal Pradesh could be preserved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/high-court-notice-to-himachal-chief-secretary-on-leasing-government-land-318409
01-10-2021||Solan||Baddi township residents on fast unto death from today||Residents of integrated township at Mandhala in Baddi said they would start a fast unto death from tomorrow, irked by the indifferent attitude of the Himachal Pradesh Housing and Urban Development Authority’s (HIMUDA) towards their grievances.A chain-hunger strike initiated by the Residents’ Welfare Association at the colony’s gate entered its 16th day today. Ajay Deep, a resident, said, “It is a sorry state of affairs, as no one has even bothered to call the residents and enquire about our hardships. This has compelled us to go on a fast unto death from tomorrow. Our association president Joginder Singh will initiate this fast tomorrow.”The officials had been informed about the chain hunger strike and the fast but residents claimed they had received no response from the administration. Ajay said the investors were promised world-class facilities but the plots allotted by HIMUDAdid not have even the basic amenties. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baddi-township-residents-on-fast-unto-death-from-today-318410
01-10-2021||Hamirpur||Graft, price rise to be issues in Himachal bypolls: Congress leader Kuldeep Rathore||The Congress will win the byelections to the Mandi Lok Sabha seat and three Assembly constituencies, as people are fed up with the state government, said HPCC president Kulddeep Rathore here today. He added that corruption, poor law and order and inflation would be major issues in the byelections.He said that the Congress would also raise the issues of unemployment and the appointment of people from other states in various government departments. He added that it was unfortunate that while the youth was struggling to get jobs, the government was hiring people from other states.Rathore said that the state was reeling under a heavy debt and the Congress would demand a White Paper on the poor financial conditions. He added that it was not wrong to take loan for development but the misuse of funds had led to the debt to mount to over Rs 85,000 crore.He said that the Congress had improved its position in the state as the BJP had failed to fulfil the expectations of the people, especially the poor, needy and farmers. He added that apple producers had been badly affected due to the wrong policies of the government. The party would win the byelections to the Mandi parliamentary seat and the Arki, Jubbal-Kotkhai and Fatehpur Assembly constituencies with a big margin.Rathore said that the applications of all ticket aspirants would be sent to the party top leadership for the finalisation of the candidates. Not only the byelections, the Congress was also fully prepared for the Assembly elections due next year, he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/graft-price-rise-to-be-issues-in-himachal-bypolls-congress-leader-kuldeep-rathore-318411
01-10-2021||Avehicle can be seen parked permanently near the turning of the link road connecting Nigam Vihar with Khalini. This is troubling the commuters. The road is narrow at the lower end||Remove vehicle parked near turning||Paughati-Mamlig road in bad shapeThe Paughati-Chenog-Mamlig road is in a bad shape. The traffic that used to ply on the Shimla-Syari-Nalagarh road, which caved in after a landslide recently, is now plying on this stretch. Loaded trucks have also started ply on this road, which is worsening its condition. The administration should take note of the situation, before this road caves in. — Amit, SyariWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/remove-vehicle-parked-near-turning-318412
01-10-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||7-storey building collapses in Shimla||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 30In a major mishap, a seven-storey building collapsed at Ghora Chowki near here while one building located adjacent to it was completely damaged and another building wasleft endangered.Cracks had appeared in the structure a few days ago and it crumbled like a house of cards this evening. However, no loss of life was reported as the building was vacated this afternoon.The district administration had issued a notice to evacuate the building two weeks ago but the efforts to salvage it failed as the foundation had reportedly weakened due to seepage of water from portions located above.The foundation of the building was weak and seven stories were constructed on it. Moreover, the sewerage of adjoining buildings was also seeping into the foundation of the collapsed building, neighbours said.“All families residing here were evacuated this afternoon and are being rehabilitated. They have been provided with an immediate relief of Rs 10,000 each,” said Shimla Deputy Commissioner Aditya Negi, who was on the spot.Panic gripped the residents in the vicinity as a large number of multi-storey buildings have come up in the fragile hill, popularly known as ‘Kachi Ghati’.“We were hearing crackling sounds since last night. The residents started moving out and the building was totally vacated by today afternoon,” said Abhishek, who lives in the adjoining building, adding that the building was tilting since afternoon.The police and administration officials and fire brigade was already on the spot when the mishap occurred. Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj, who is also the local MLA, visited the spot and ordered an enquiry into the building collapse. Shelter was being provided to the affected families at the Circuit House and Tara Devi Rest House, he added.While the occupants of the building maintained that it was legal, the administration is ascertaining weather the building plan had the necessary approval from the Municipal Corporation or not. Officials said the necessary action would be taken after the records are perused.Foundation ‘weakened’The district administration had issued a notice to evacuate the building two weeks ago, but the efforts to salvage it failed as the foundation had reportedly weakened due to seepage of water from portions above.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/7-storey-building-collapses-in-shimla-318416
01-10-2021||Dipender Manta||Five stuck at Spiti glacier rescued||Tribune News ServiceMandi, September 30The bodies of two trekkers of West Bengal, who had died near Khemenger glacier in tribal district Lahaul and Spiti on September 25 due to extreme weather conditions, were brought to Kaza hospital today and five people stuck at the glacier were rescued.A team comprising six trekkers from Arete Mountaineering Club, Kolkata, along with a guide and 11 porters, had crossed the Parahio valley to reach Khemenger glacier in the Spiti region. The group of 18 members had crossed towardsthe glacier from Batal on September 15.However, due to the extreme weather conditions at the glacier, two trekkers died while the rest of the 16 members got stuck in the region. On September 26, two members of the group reached Kaza to seek help from the district administration to evacuate the remaining 14 from the area and make arrangements to bring the bodies back.A rescue team, comprising Dogra scouts and ITBP personnel, was sent towards the spot by the Kaza administration on September 27, which rescued nine stranded people safely the next day. The remaining five persons were rescued today and the bodies of the dead trekkers were brought down the 32km trek on stretchers.Additional District Magistrate, Kaza, Mohan Dutt said the post-mortem examination of the bodies was conducted at the Kaza hospital. Arrangements have been made to transport the bodies to their native places.Dutt said two trekkers, who had suffered frostbites, were undergoing treatment at the hospital. He appreciated the efforts of the rescue team, who completed the operation within four days despite many challenges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/five-stuck-at-spiti-glacier-rescued-318423
01-10-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal assembly bypoll: Jubbal-Kotkhai may see battle between scions||Tribune News ServiceShimla, September 30The battle for supremacy in the Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly constituency, going to the bypoll on October 30, is likely to be fought to protect the legacy of two stalwarts, former Chief Minister Ram Lal Thakur and former BJP minister Narinder Bragta.Jubbal-Kotkhai has seen one of the most keenly and bitterly fought contests between two Chief Ministers —- Virbhadra Singh and Ram Lal Thakur —- in 1990. Six-time Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh had to bite the dust as he suffered defeat at the hands of Ram Lal Thakur who won as the Himachal Congress candidate after his exit from the Congress. The nine-time MLA later returned to the Congress.As such, the electorate of Jubbal-Kotkhai, considered a Congress bastion, chose a former Chief Minister as their MLA over the sitting CM Virbhadra Singh. This is the only Assembly election besides one Lok Sabha election that Virbhadra lost in his entire political career spanning six decades.Though both BJP and Congress are yet to finalise their candidates, as of now Jubbal-Kotkhai seems to be heading to be a fight for political supremacy between the families of Chief Minister Ram Lal Thakur and former BJP minister Narinder Bragta. The seat fell vacant due to the demise of Bragta. The BJP is hoping to cash in on the sympathy factor as the ruling party is likely to field Chetan Bragta, son of the former minister. In all probability, the Congress too is likely to field Rohit Thakur, grandson of Ram Lal Thakur. Rohit had lost the 2017 election to Bragta. Rohit has remained an MLA twice and was also Chief Parliamentary Secretary in the Congress regime headed by Virbhadra.Out of the 13 elections held here, the Congress has won 10 times while the BJP twice, with Bragta being victorious on both occasions. In the 1990 Assembly polls, the seat was won by Ram Lal Thakur as the Himachal Congress candidate.While the picture is fairly clear in the Congress as Rohit remains the frontrunner without any strong opposition, in the BJP there are murmurs of resentment at Bragta’s son Chetan being fielded.The threat of undercutting looms large with many local BJP leaders opposing dynastic rule.The fear of undercutting by the Virbhadra camp is also giving sleepless nights to Rohit’s supporters. With Virbhadra and Rohit’s father having remained archrivals, the antagonism between the two families still continues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-assembly-bypoll-jubbal-kotkhai-may-see-battle-between-scions-318447
