03-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Paralympic gold medallist felicitated in Una||UNA, OCTOBER 2Education Minister Gobind Thakur yesterday honoured Paralympic gold medalist Nishad Kumar at Devi Das Shastri Vidya Mandir in Katodah Khurd village, the school where the latter had studied. He congratulated the teachers for inspiring Nishad to overcome physical challenges and strive to make a name in the field of sports. Nishad, who belongs to a humble family from Amb in Una district, had won the gold medal in the high jump event at the recently concluded Tokyo Paralympics. The minister said Nishad was an inspiration to the youth like him and also for the generations to come. Panchayat pradhan Asha Devi and members of the school education society were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/paralympic-gold-medallist-felicitated-in-una-319524
03-10-2021||Una||Senior citizens honoured in Una||On the occasion of International Day for Senior Citizens, the District Social Welfare and Justice Department yesterday honoured some eminent senior citizens of Una district while DC Raghav Sharma honoured the veterans.Those honoured included Mukhtiar Singh Mankotia, Bakhtawar Singh, KL Sharma, Dilip Chand, Jagat Singh, Som Nath, Karmi Devi, Bishan Swarup, Mukhtiari Devi and Ram Lal, all of whom are active social workers.The DC said heard the grievances of the veterans and directed the officers concerned to sort these out at the earliest.Raghav Sharma said an old-age home was being constructed in Charatgarh village, which will be developed as a model for replication in other parts of the district.Chief Medical Officer Dr Raman Kumar Sharma spoke about the various health schemes for senior citizens. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/senior-citizens-honoured-in-una-319523
03-10-2021||Dharamsala||Sameer wins walkathon in Dharamsala||The Dharamsala Municipal Corporation organised a walkathon yesterday, from the mountaineering institute in McLeodganj to the trekking summit Triund, to mark the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ event being organised across the country under Smart City Mission.Municipal Commissioner Pradeep Thakur said 37 locals and tourists participated in the 15-km walkathon, which was won by Sameer, a resident of Tang Nirwana village, while Sher Singh, a resident of Shayam Nagar, and Nunal, a resident of Naddi village, stood second and third, respectively. The winners were given cash prizes of Rs 10,000, Rs 7,000 and Rs 5,000, respectively, he added.A marathon would be held on October 4. On the conclusion of the walkathon, artistes of the Tibetan Institute of Performing Arts (TIPA) presented a cultural show in Bhagsunag.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sameer-wins-walkathon-in-dharamsala-319522
03-10-2021||Shimla||Man, daughter die in Kinnaur car mishap||A man and his daughter were killed after their car fell into a gorge near the Bei nullah in Kinnaur district on Saturday, the police said.Shyam Singh and his daughter Kamini, residents of Shango village in the Bhabha valley, died on the spot. The police have sent the bodies to a nearby hospital for a postmortem. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-daughter-die-in-kinnaur-car-mishap-319521
03-10-2021||Shimla||89 new Covid cases in Himachal, two deaths||As many as 89 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 219,333. Besides, two persons died of the virus in Shimla and Una.The number of active cases declined to 1,559. The highest 29 cases were recorded in Hamirpur.—TNSCovid MeterSamples tested 34,81,976Recovered    214,093Active  1,559New cases 89Positive 219,333Deaths 3,665||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/89-new-covid-cases-in-himachal-two-deaths-319490
03-10-2021||---||Untimely rains IN Kangra damage crop on 1,000 hectares||Ravinder Sood Palampur, October 2Untimely rains in different parts of Kangra district  have damaged standing paddy crop on  1,000 hectares, leaving farmers distressed. This year, farmers were expecting a bumper paddy crop. Rains in the last week of September damaged the ready to harvest paddy crop in lower areas of Palampur such as Sulaha, Mehanja, Nagrota Bagwan, Malan, 53 Mile, and Samloti. The standing crop had turned black in  many areas because of  a humid climate. The state government has asked Agriculture Department officials  to carry out a detailed  survey  to ascertain the total damage caused. “Paddy is transplanted in  most parts of Kangra district between April and June and harvesting begins in the first week of October,”  a senior Agriculture Department officer said,||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/untimely-rains-in-kangra-damage-crop-on-1-000-hectares-319489
03-10-2021||Chamba||Chamba: Two Amritsar youths held with ‘chitta’||Two youths of Amritsar were arrested with 10.63 gram heroin (chitta) near the local bus stand today.SSP Arul Kumar said a team of the State Narcotic Crime Control intercepted them and on checking seized 10.63 grams of chitta.The accused have been identified as Mohan (25) and Shubham (27) of Amritsar (Punjab). They have been booked under the NDPS Act. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-two-amritsar-youths-held-with-chitta-319488
03-10-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal byelections: Congress panel leaves ticket allotment to Sonia Gandhi||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 2As expected, the Congress State Election Committee today passed a single-line resolution, authorising AICC working president Sonia Gandhi to take the final decision on ticket allotment for the byelections to the Mandi Lok Sabha and three Assembly seats scheduled for October 30.HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore, AICC secretary Sanjay Dutt and CLP leader Mukesh Agnihotri attended the meeting that deliberated on the probable candidates for the byelections.Rathore added that he would leave for Delhi to discuss the probable candidates with the central leadership.Pratibha Singh in race for Mandi seatAll eyes are set on the Mandi seat where Pratibha Singh, former MP and wife of Virbhadra Singh, has expressed her desire to contest the byelection. She has represented Mandi twice but Ashray Sharma, grandson of former Telecommunication Minister Sukh Ram, too, is keen to fight the byelection.The candidates for the Jubbal-Kotkhai and Fatehpur Assembly seats are almost clear. The candidature of Rohit Thakur, two-time former MLA and grandson of former Chief Minister Ram Lal Thakur, is considered strong. Similarly, Bhawani Singh Pathania, son of former minister Sujan Singh Pathania, is said to be certain to get the ticket.Sanjay Awasthy is the frontrunner in Arki though Baldev Thakur has also staked his claim for the Congress ticket. He is the strongest candidate; he had unsuccessfully contested the 2012 Assembly elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-byelections-congress-panel-leaves-ticket-allotment-to-sonia-gandhi-319484
03-10-2021||---||Solan: Liquor producers under CCTV watch||Solan, October 2Officials of the State Taxes and Excise (STE) Department have stepped up CCTV camera surveillance of the manufacturing units and bottling plants and and GPS tracking of their vehicles. The decision to regulate the production, distribution and consumption of liquor in the district was taken after the enforcement of the model code of conduct for the Arki Assembly byelection. The Solan Deputy Commissioner has directed officials to work out a strategy to check the illegal sale of liquor in the district.Stepping up vigilAssistant State Taxes and Excise Officers to report daily production and dispatch of liquor from manufacturing and bottling unitsOfficers must ensure proper functioning of cameras at the units and plants as well as GPS tracking of vehicles carrying liquorThe Deputy Commissioner (DC), STE, on Thursday issued detailed directions to the field staff in this regard. The Assistant State Taxes and Excise Officers have been directed to report the daily production and dispatch of liquor from the factories to the Deputy Commissioner, STE, to ensure there is no pilferage of liquor. The Assistant State Taxes and Excise Officers have also been directed to ensure proper functioning of the CCTV cameras at the manufacturing units and bottling plants as well as the GPS tracking of vehicles carrying liquor. Periodic inspection of the units will also be done to ensure that these devices are functioning properly and there is no other violation. Himanshu Pawar, Deputy Commissioner, STE, said, “Separate teams have been constituted to keep tabs on illegal sale of liquor at excise vends and other premises notorious for such sales. It is also being ensured that there is no pilferage of liquor from the manufacturing and bottling plants”.To check the illegal sale of liquor at retail vends, the field staff have been directed to furnish their liquor lifting and consumption statements before 10.30 am everyday, besides ensuring that the opening and closing times  of the shops are regulated and the stock register is maintained. The officials will also have to identify sensitive liquor shops and raid and seize illegal liquor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-liquor-producers-under-cctv-watch-319477
03-10-2021||Ambika Sharma||BJP’s former Arki  MLA lobbying for ticket||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 2Two-time former MLA Govind Ram Sharma is trying hard to make his presence felt in the Arki Assembly constituency ahead of the ticket allotment by the BJP for the byelection.The Arki seat fell vacant following the death of local MLA and six-time Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh.Govind Ram Sharma, a two-time MLA from Arki, was promised a significant post in the party after he was denied the ticket in the last Assembly elections. He, however, was not given any post. Sharma is now keen to contest the Arki byelection.He said, “I'm optimistic that the BJP will allot me the ticket and am all prepared to file my nomination papers on October 8”.Sharma had met party national president JP Nadda recently. Rattan Pal, chairman, State Cooperative Development Federation, who had unsuccessfully contested the last Assembly election against Virbahdra Singh, is considered the BJP’s choice. He had lost to Virbhadra in Arki by a narrow margin in 2017. Though he is facing opposition from a section of partymen in Arki, he is considered a strong candidate.As the Assembly elections are a year away, some party leaders, who also nursed the desire to contest the byelection, have adopted a wait and watch policy. They are persuading Sharma to contest either on the BJP ticket or as an Independent candidate, as this will help them stake their claims to the ticket in the next Assembly elections if the BJP fails to wrest back the Arki seat from the Congress.The BJP has already begun preparations for the Arki byelection. It has divided the constituency into seven zones-Dhundan, Domehar, Kunihar, Diggal, Jainagar, Arki and Darlaghat--and a slew of senior leaders have been entrusted the task of mustering support for the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjps-former-arki-mla-lobbying-for-ticket-319476
03-10-2021||Lalit Mohan||BJP to shortlist names for byelections today||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, October 2The state-level election committee of the BJP will meet here tomorrow to shortlist candidates for the coming byelections to three Assembly constituencies, including Fatehpur in Kangra district, Arki in Solan district and Jubbal Kotkhai in Shimla district, and Mandi, a parliamentary constituency.Sources said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur, former Chief Ministers PK Dhumal and Shanta Kumar, party in-charge for Himahcal Avinash Rai Khanna, co-incharge Sanjay Tandon and state president Suresh Kashyap would attend the meeting slated to start at 4 pm.The leaders would consider the names forwarded by the in-charges of the constituencies. The in-charges had meetings with the ground-level leaders.To be announced likely by Oct 7The election committee will forward the names of the candidates to the party high commandThe names are likely to be announced by October 7The election management committee of the BJP will also meetThe sources also told The Tribune that the committee would forward the names of the candidates to the party top leadership, which would finally decide the candidates. The names of the candidates were likely to be announced by October 7.Former CMs also to attend meetingCM Jai Ram Thakur, Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur, former CMs Prem Kumar Dhumal and Shanta Kumar, party in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna, co-incharge Sanjay Tandon and party president Suresh Kashyap will attend the meeting.A meeting of BJP leaders was held in Fatehpur. The names of former Rajya Sabha member Kirpal Parmar, BJP leader Baldev Thakur and BJP Mahila Morcha leader Rita Thakur were being considered for ticket from Fatehpur, the sources here said.They said Soudan Singh, national vice-president, would hold a meeting for the election management committee of the BJP tomorrow. He would also attend the meeting of the election committee.The election management committee would discuss the party strategy to counter the Congress over price rise, unemployment and resentment among farmers in the apple belt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-to-shortlist-names-for-byelections-today-319474
03-10-2021||---||Railway staff cleans Shimla station, tracks||Shimla: The railway staff cleaned the Shimla station and tracks till the railway extension near old bus stand. Gandhi Jayanti was chosen for the drive which is part of "Swachhta fortnight" launched by the Railways from September 15 to October 2. Senior officers, including Divisional Railway Manager GM Singh, participated in the drive. Satya Sai Sewa Sangathan and Sewa Dal volunteers also participated. TNSCentral Tibetan Admn pays homageDharamsala: The Central Tibetan Administration (CTA), led by Sikyong Penpa Tsering held an official ceremony on Gandhi Jayanti at the Kashag Secretariat, Gangkyi. Tsering said Gandhi was an epitome of the non-violent struggle. In the case of the Tibetan struggle, the strength of the issue was based on non-violence led by his holiness the Dalai Lama, who holds the Mahatma in high regards, he said. TNSValue integrity, Sanawar students toldShimla: The 174th Founder's Day at Lawrence School, Sanawar, began on Saturday with Gandhi Jayanti celebrations. Headmaster Himmat Singh Dhillon paid tributes to Gandhi and said, "Students should lead a life that values character and integrity." He reminded the students about the firm belief of Gandhi - "Be the change you wish to see”. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/railway-staff-cleans-shimla-station-tracks-319472
03-10-2021||---||SJVN posts Rs 1,633 crore net profit||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 2Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam (SJVN) Ltd recorded the highest-ever gross profit before tax of Rs 2,168.67 crore during 2020-21. The company’s net profit increased from Rs 1,557.43 crore in 2019-20 to Rs 1,633.04 crore in 2020-21, said Nand Lal Sharma, Chairman-cum-Managing Director of the Nigam.Addressing the 33rd Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the SJVN here, he said the earning per share had increased from Rs 3.96 in 2019-20 to Rs 4.16 in 2020-21 and a dividend of Rs 2.20 per share had been declared for 2020-21, including the interim dividend of Rs 1.80 per share that was paid in February 2021.In spite of Covid-19, the performance of the SJVN on the operational front was historic and 9,224 million units of electricity was generated from five power stations against the designated energy of 8,700 million units, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sjvn-posts-rs-1-633-crore-net-profit-319471
03-10-2021||---||Anurag Thakur inaugurates works in Sujanpur constituency||Our CorrespondentHamirpur, October 2Anurag Thakur, Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting,  today inaugurated a number of development works executed in the Sujanpur Assembly constituency.While addressing a public meeting at Sujanpur, near here, today, he said he would support the establishment of sports facilities in the state, particularly in Sujanpur, if the people of the area help in their development. He added that nothing could be possible without public participation.  He said plastic was  the major cause of environmental pollution and waste in the country. He said that people should become responsible citizens to keep Himachal clean. He added that everyone needs to inculcate the habit of cleanliness so as to keep “our surroundings, village streets, towns and cities clean”. Anurag said that the youth should come forward to keep the environment clean.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anurag-thakur-inaugurates-works-in-sujanpur-constituency-319469
03-10-2021||Hamirpur||Cong activists take out peace march in Himachal to mark birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, Lal Bahadur Shastri||The birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri was celebrated by the District Congress Committee.Rajender Zar, president of the DCC, said the country could not forget the contribution Lal Bahadur Shastri and Mahatma Gandhi.The DCC, Bilaspur, organised a ‘shanti’ march on the occasion that was attended by locals too.Chamba: A ‘prabhat pheri’ was organised in the town jointly by the district administration and the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA).Later, Deputy Commissioner DC Rana, DLSA secretary Pankaj Gupta paid homage to the Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi near the Deputy Commissioner’s office. During the Sarvadharma Sambhav Sabha, all religious leaders also threw light on the philosophy of Mahatma Gandhi. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-activists-take-out-peace-march-in-himachal-to-mark-birth-anniversary-of-mahatma-gandhi-lal-bahadur-shastri-319468
03-10-2021||Tribune Reporters||Himachal Governor, CM pay tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, Lal Bahadur Shastri||Shimla, October 2Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur paid floral tributes to the Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi, on his birth anniversary at his statue on The Ridge in Shimla on Sunday.The Governor said Mahatma Gandhi followed truth, non-violence, religion and traditions with integrity. Mahatma Gandhi was a great personality and dedicated his life to the cause of the nation.A photo exhibition on ‘Gandhi Darshan’ was also put up by the Information and Public Relations Department. The Governor and the Chief Minister visited the exhibition.Later, they also paid floral tributes to former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri at CTO Chowk on his birth anniversary.The Chief Minister also garlanded the statue of the Mahatma at Khadi Ashram in Shimla. He later visited the Shiv Mandir and participated in a cleanliness drive with others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-governor-cm-pay-tributes-to-mahatma-gandhi-lal-bahadur-shastri-319467
03-10-2021||---||Post-mining ban, greenery back along Neugal riverbank||Ravinder SoodPalampur, October 2With all types of mining activities being banned in the Neugal between Bundla and Alampur, greenery is again visible on the riverbank. The stretch has emerged as an example of environmental protection in the state. Over the past two decades, the riverbed was recklessly ravaged by the mining mafia and both its banks were left bald and scarred. But after the mining ban imposed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in 2016 and subsequent cognizance taken by the High Court on a report published in these columns, illegal mining has halted in the 10-km stretch between Bundla and Paror. With the efforts of then Kangra SP Sanjiv Gandhi and DSP Vikas Dhiman, who played a significant role in the implementation of the High Court orders, the earthmoving machines are no more in use.In the past five years, most parts of the riverbank have turned green and state agencies are slowly reclaiming the land. Also, wild animals, including barking deer, peacocks, jackals and leopards, can be seen in the forests adjoining the Neugal.Even as only 500 acres in the riverbed were allotted for mining, the mafia carried out its activities in the whole river. Though the area was being mined for more than 30 years, most damage to the environment was caused in the past 10 years when mining activity increased manifold that too with the help of heavy equipment such as JCB machines and earthmovers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/post-mining-ban-greenery-back-along-neugal-riverbank-319466
03-10-2021||---||Cinnamon cultivation launched in Himachal||Our Correspondent Palampur, October 2Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar recently launched a pilot project on cinnamon cultivation in the state by planting saplings in the field of a progressive farmer at Kholin village in Una in the presence of Sanjay Kumar, Director, CSIR-IHBT. Other scientists and staff of the CSIR-IHBT and the Department of Agriculture, besides progressive farmers of the region were present at the time of plantation. A CSIR-IHBT team trained farmers on cinnamon cultivation and established a cinnamon demonstration plot. This project has been conceived by the CSIR-IHBT and is being implemented in association with the ICAR-Indian Institute of Spice Research, Calicut, Kerala, and the Department of Agriculture, Himachal Pradesh.Cinnamon, popularly known as “dalchini”, is an evergreen bushy plant whose bark and leaves have a sweet-spicy aroma. Besides its culinary usage, it has important medicinal applications.    Data suggested that the districts of Una, Bilaspur, Kangra, Hamirpur and Sirmaur have potential areas for its cultivation. Notably, there is no organised cultivation and processing of cinnamon in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cinnamon-cultivation-launched-in-himachal-319465
03-10-2021||Solan||Nepalese gets life term for wife’s murder||Vivek Sharma, Additional Sessions Judge, Solan, sentenced Prem Singh, a Nepalese, to life imprisonment on Thursday evening for murdering his wife and also imposed a penalty of Rs 20,000 on him.Prem Singh, a labourer, along with his wife Sonia and children, was residing at Bania Devi village in Kunihar. On March 31, 2015, he fled the village after hitting his wife on her head with an axe in an inebriated condition.Sonia was taken to the local hospital by other labourers and later referred to the IGMC, Shimla, where she diedon April 20.The prosecution had examined 18 witnesses to prove the case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nepalese-gets-life-term-for-wifes-murder-319464
03-10-2021||---||HC dismisses Himachal Pradesh University appeal against Rs 40K relief order||Legal CorrespondentShimla, October 2The HP High Court recently dismissed an  appeal filed by Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) challenging a single Judge Bench order to  pay a compensation of Rs 40,000  to a student,   who had  alleged irreparable damage caused to his career due to the delay in the issuance of the consolidated mark sheet of MA (Economics) to him by the university.The Division Bench upheld the decision of the single Judge Bench and observed that a larger amount of compensation was liable to be imposed in this matter. The single Judge Bench had been very magnanimous in ordering such a meagre amount against the appellant-university.Writ petitioner Naveen Kumar had filed a petition alleging that the HPU was not issuing him the consolidated mark sheet of MA (Economics) though he had passed all papers in 2005.    He alleged that the university showed him as absent in one of the courses while he had appeared in that course. He made a representation to the university stating that he was not absent in any paper and also visited the authorities concerned several times  to get his result settled. Later on, the university verified his  attendance sheet and concluded that he was present in all courses.  The petitioner alleged that in the whole process he had spent thousands of rupees and the university officials had ill-behaved with him.    The single Judge Bench, while allowing the petition, had directed the HPU to pay a compensation of Rs 40,000 to the petitioner. Aggrieved by the order, the HPU had filed the appeal before the Division Bench.The Division Bench observed that “it finds no ground to interfere with the order passed by the single Judge Bench and dismissed the appeal”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hc-dismisses-himachal-pradesh-university-appeal-against-rs-40k-relief-order-319463
03-10-2021||Lalit Mohan||18 months on, Kangra consumer forum without judge, members||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, October 2The consumer forum of Kangra district, which has the jurisdiction over Kangra, Chamba and Solan districts, has been without a judge and members for the past more than 18 months. The judge of the consumer forum of Kangra presides over the hearings in consumer cases of Kangra, Chamba and Solan districts. Each district has two members in the consumer forum who preside along with the judge to hear the cases from their respective jurisdiction.Cases pile upAbout 220 cases are pending in Kangra district and 60 cases filed in the past 18 months are yet to be taken upIn Solan district, 2,015 cases are pending while in Chamba district, 60 cases are pending.As per the data collected by The Tribune, there are two posts of member and one consumer forum judge in Kangra district and all of them are vacant. In Chamba and Solan districts, the post of member of the consumer forum is vacant.Sources said the term of the previous judge and two members of the Kangra consumer forum had ended on March last year but the government did not fill the posts. Consumers from Kangra, Chamba and Solan districts, who have filed cases in the consumer forum, are a harassed lot.The judge of the consumer forum is generally a retired District and Sessions Judge and is selected by the government. The members are appointed by the government from among prominent residents of the district.Sanjay Kumar, a resident of Dharamsala, says that he had filed a complaint in the Kangra consumer forum about a year ago. As per the Consumer Act, the district consumer court has to give a decision on the complaint within 90 days. However, it has been more than 18 months but the case has not come up yet for hearing in the consumer forum. The government should fill the posts so that consumers can get justice, he adds.Naresh Sharma, a consumer rights activist, says that it is unfortunate that the government has not filled the post of judge and members of the districtlevel consumer forums due to which the consumers are being denied justice under the Consumer Act.In Kangra district, about 220 cases are pending and 60 fresh cases have been filed in the past 18 months which are yet to be taken up. In Solan district, 2,015 cases are pending while in Chamba district, 60 cases are pending.Officials of the district consumer forum here say that the government has advertised the posts of judge and members of the consumer forum of Kangra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/18-months-on-kangra-consumer-forum-without-judge-members-319462
