06-10-2021||Shimla||Mandi bypoll: Pratibha Singh seeks votes in late husband Virbhadra Singh’s name||Pratibha Singh, the Congress candidate in the bypoll to the Mandi Lok Sabha constituency in Himachal Pradesh, on Wednesday sought votes from people in the name of her late husband and six-time chief minister Virbhadra Singh.The Congress on Tuesday announced the candidature of Pratibha Singh, a former member of Parliament, for the bypoll to the Mandi parliamentary seat, which fell vacant after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Ram Swaroop Sharma’s death in March.Talking to reporters at her residence here, Pratibha Singh said her husband was responsible for the overall development of the state during his long political career.“Now it is time for the voters of Mandi to pay homage to Virbhadra Singh, who passed away in July, by casting their votes in my favour,” she added.Voting for the Mandi parliamentary seat, along with the three Assembly seats of Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai, will be held on October 30.Pratibha Singh, a two-time former MP from Mandi, said she would file the nomination papers on October 8.Even though Mandi is the home district of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, the Congress candidate said she does not see any challenge from him as he has done no development there. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-bypoll-pratibha-singh-seeks-votes-in-late-husband-virbhadra-singhs-name-321036
06-10-2021||---||BJP begins campaign in Arki, dissent to the fore in Congress||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 5The BJP today convened a special meeting at Arki to devise its poll strategy for the forthcoming Assemby byelection and entrusted various responsibilities to the poll in-charges.The BJP is yet to declare its candidate, but Rattan Pal, vice-president of the HP State Cooperative Development Federation, has emerged as the front runner for the ticket. He had unsuccessfully contested the last Assembly elections.Poll in-charge and Nahan MLA Rajeev Bindal and co-incharge and Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajiv Saizal entrusted various responsibilities to the booth-level workers. They urged the party workers to ensure that their booths were the strongest and the party secures a lead in each booth. They were also asked to propagate the development policies of the state and Central governments to the masses.Senior leaders such as state general secretary Trilok Jamwal, vice-president Purshottam Guleria and chairperson of the State Women Commission Daisy Thakur were given various poll responsibilities. The presence of senior leaders points to the significance the BJP is giving to the byelection.The BJP had lost the Assembly seat in 2017 to six-time Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh though it had bagged it in 2012 and 2007. The party leaders are keen to wrest the seat from the Congress, as the Assembly elections were merely a year away.The Congress, on the other hand, is yet to put its house in order. It has taken a lead in announcing Sanjay Awasthy, state general secretary, as the candidate. Awasthy had lost the 2012 Assembly elections to the BJP by a narrow margin. He is the strongest bet against the BJP, as he has been assiduously working for people for the past several years.A section of the block Congress committee (BCC) leaders, however, has raised a banner of protest against Awasthy after the party announced him as the candiate. They also tendered their resignations in protest. They said that they would convene a meeting on October 7 to work out their future strategy.The disgruntled leaders, including BCC president Roop Singh, alleged that Awasthy had worked against the Congress in the last elections. However, Awasthy said, “These allegations are baseless as 2012 election in-charge Harsh Mahajan had commended his hard work”.The Congress is yet to entrust duties to its workers in Arki. Tackling factionalism appears to be the first challenge for the party, which is keen to retain the seat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-begins-campaign-in-arki-dissent-to-the-fore-in-congress-320718
06-10-2021||---||Himachal Congress workers protest Priyanka Gandhi’s arrest in UP||Tribune ReportersDharamsala, October 5The Congress today organised protests at Shahpur and Dharamsala in Kangra district against the arrest of party national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Uttar Pradesh. The party leaders and workers raised slogans against the Central and Uttar Pradesh governments and later submitted a memorandum to the Shahpur SDM and the Kangra Deputy Commissioner.Kewal Singh Pathania, HPCC general secretary, alleged that the Uttar Pradesh Government was not allowing even MPs to travel to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the victims of the recent violent incident there. He said that the Congress workers stand by Priyanka Gandhi, who had been illegally detained in Uttar Pradesh.In Chamba district, the Congress staged a protest outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office against the death of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. Former MLA Surinder Bhardwaj, Block Congress Committee president Kartar Singh Thakur, and District Congress Committee vice-president Jagdish Handa led the protest. The protesters demanded a probe into the incident by a sitting judge of the Supreme Court.The Kullu District Congress Committee (DCC) held a protest march, condemning the Lakhimpur incident, at Dhalpur here. The march started from the Congress office and culminated outside the DC office. Members raised slogans against the BJP government and demanded justice for the victims.Kullu Sadar MLA Sunder Singh Thakur said peacefully protesting farmers were mowed down. He said the BJP would face the consequencies of the farmers’ deaths in the coming byelections.DCC president Budhi Singh Thakur said that no action had been taken against the culprits of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.He added a high-level inquiry should be ordered to find out the facts of the incident and punish the accused. The MLA added the government had arrested AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, who had gone to visit the families of the victims. He demanded that Priyanka be released immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-congress-workers-protest-priyanka-gandhis-arrest-in-up-320719
06-10-2021||Mandi||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur meets party workers in Mandi||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur held a closed-door meeting with the party office-bearers here yesterday. He arrived here in the evening to prepare party workers for the Mandi byelection.Thakur directed the office-bearers to work hard to ensure the victory of the BJP candidate in the constituency. He said that the name of the candidate would be declared soon.He reiterated “Mandi seat Hamari hai or Hamari hi rahegi” (Mandi seat is of the BJP and will remain with the BJP).“The political equation in the Mandi parliamentary constituency has changed for the Congress. It has made miscalculations and declared Pratibha Singh, wife of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh, as the candidate from Mandi,” he said.Mandi Sadar MLA Anil Sharma also met the Chief Minister. He said he would decide whether to support the BJP in the byelection or not after a discussion with voters of his constituency.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-meets-party-workers-in-mandi-320720
06-10-2021||Shimla||155 new Covid cases, three deaths in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 155 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 219,746. Besides, three persons died—two in Kangra and one in Una. The highest 44 cases were recorded in Hamirpur, followed by 41 in Kangra, 31 in Mandi, and 19 in Shimla.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/155-new-covid-cases-three-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-320721
06-10-2021||---||Water crisis grips Solan again||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 5Water crisis has again gripped the Solan city, with temporary repair at Giri potable water scheme putting the supply to the town on hold.Supply every 3rd dayTall claims fall flatTall claims of the Congress-led MC have proven hollow as the water crisis plaguing the city has only deepened. — Rita, a Solan residentThe city is supplied water by two schemes — Giri and Ashwani. Residents are mainly fed by the Giri scheme, which supplies about 60 to 65 lakh litres per day, while the Ashwani scheme supplies 25 to 30 lakh litres water to the town.Ravikant Sharma, executive engineer, Jal Shakti Vibhag, said, “Some repair work at the Giri scheme will impair water supply to the town tomorrow. Efforts are afoot to provide adequate water to the town, at least on alternate days, as against the present supply every third day. A new treatment plant is being set up at the Giri scheme and it will be operational by March. The plant is expected to augment the existing water supply and sufficient water would be available to cater to the city’s needs. As much as 135 lakh litres would be available on a daily basis after setting up of the new treatment plant,” he added.Residents are getting water every third day and it has become a cause for concern as people are forced to shell out additional money to get supply from water tankers.The water woes of the city have not been addressed, even as the municipal council was upgraded to a municipal corporation a year ago. “Tall claims of the Congress-led MC have proven hollow as the water crisis plaguing the city has only deepened. The state government, which had promised better civic facilities after upgrade of this civic body, has also failed to fulfill the very basic requirement of water and the situation is only going from bad to worse,” Rita, a resident, rued.Soon after assuming power in the MC, the Congress had chalked out a water policy, whereby it had announced Rs 100 fee for using 12,500 litres of water per month from domestic users. Additional water usage would attract higher rates. However, the policy has failed to benefit the residents in the face of irregular supply.Water distribution in the city is looked after by the MC staff, while its supply has been entrusted with the Jal Shakti Vibhag, which is paid Rs 4 crore annually. With limited sources of revenue, the MC has failed to pay these charges regularly and a liability of Rs 78 crore is already due towards the Jal Shakti Vibhag.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-crisis-grips-solan-again-320723
06-10-2021||Dipender Manta||People hit by road project may spoil BJP’s chances in Mandi||Tribune News ServiceMandi, October 5Resentment among the people affected by the widening of the Kiratpur-Manali road in Mandi and Kullu districts against the state government may prove to be a spoilsport for the BJP in the Mandi Lok Sabha byelection. The election is due on October 30.They are looking upon the byelection as an opportunity to teach the government a lesson, which has not addressed their issues inthe past four years.The affected Kisan Sangh has given indications to this effect. Office-bearers of the Kisan Sangh held a meeting at Takoli and decided to stage a protest against the government in Mandi on October 22.Over 10,000 families have been affected by the Kiratpur-Manali road fourlane project in Mandi and Kullu. The agricultural land, commercial and residential properties of people had been acquired by the NHAI. They also are demanding adequate compensation.The Kisan Sangh is demanding the implementation of the Land Acquisition Act 2013 for compensation but the government has done nothing. In the last Assembly elections, the BJP had promised that if it forms the government it would address their issues.Now, the Kisan Sangh is planning to mobilise the affected people against the BJP in the byelection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/people-hit-by-road-project-may-spoil-bjps-chances-in-mandi-320724
06-10-2021||Shimla||CPM not to fight Himachal bypolls||The CPM will not contest the forthcoming byelections in the state and instead will work to defeat the BJP candidates, said CPM state secretary Onkar Shad after a meeting of the state Secretariat here today.The CPM chalked out a strategy aimed at defeating the BJP candidates. “We will highlight the plight of farmers and labourers and issues like inflation and unemployment in all poll-bound constituencies. We are sure people will understand that the strife in the country is happening because of the BJP’s policies and will reject its candidates,” said Shad.“We will ask our party members and sympathisers to vote against the BJP, and also seek votes for the individuals fighting the BJP candidates,” said Shad.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cpm-not-to-fight-himachal-bypolls-320725
06-10-2021||Solan||Jubbal man dies by suicide at Parwanoo||Jitender Kumar (53), a resident of Jubbal tehsil in Shimla district, today died after consuming a pesticide and at a hotel in Parwanoo.Police officials said he checked in at the hotel yesterday. He did not open the door for the hotel staff today afternoon following which the police was informed.The police reached the hotel and found Jitender’s body lying on the bed. A liquor bottle and a pesticide were also found in the room. He reportedly consumed the pesticide. Additional SP, Solan, Ashok Verma said Jitender left behind a suicide note and a probe was underway. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jubbal-man-dies-by-suicide-at-parwanoo-320726
06-10-2021||---||4 Haryana youths die in mishap in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 5Four Haryana youth were killed when the car (HR 32K 1761) in which they were travelling to Manali plunged into a 300-feet gorge on the Swarghat-Ghamberpul road. DSP, Baddi, Navdeep Singh said that the accident came to their notice today.A police team led by Additional SP rushed to the spot this afternoon soon after receiving the information. The victims have been identified as Abhishek (20) and Rahul (22), two brothers, Robin (22) and Mohit (22). They hail from Kaithal in Haryana. Their families have been informed about the mishap and a probe was underway.The DSP added that the deceased were in touch with their families on October 3 but there was no communication after that. The bodies have been shifted to Nalagarh hospital for a post mortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-haryana-youths-die-in-mishap-in-himachal-320727
06-10-2021||Shimla||Book on Himachal history released||Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar today released a book titled "Devdhara: Himachal Pradesh" written by Dr Rachna Gupta, a member of the Public Service Commission, and published by the National Book Trust.He said that the book would act as a ready reckoner not only for the people of Himachal but also for tourists, as it narrates the history of all 12 districts and informs about all sectors since the inception of the state in 1971.The Governor said that the book would pave the way for the readers to learn, research, and explore information about Himachal. He emphasised on the need to developing the habit of reading books and making it a campaign, as books build character.Chief Secretary Ram Subag Singh said that the details of development of Himachal in the past 50 years in various sectors had been incorporated in the book. It also mentions the Simla Agreement, visits of Mahatma Gandhi, right to vote for women, and the struggle for becoming an independent state that make it interesting to read, said author Rachna Gupta, a former journalist.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/book-on-himachal-history-released-320728
06-10-2021||---||Two killed in Rohru accident||Shimla, October 5Two persons were killed while two others sustained injuries in a car accident that took place in the Samog patwar circle of Kuddu in Rohru subdivision of Shimla district late Monday night.The deceased have been identified as Hira Lal, a resident of Nepal, and Vijay Kumar, a resident of Chambaghat in Solan district, while the injured are Kamal and Suraj, both hailing from Nepal.A case has been registered and investigation has been started, police sources said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-killed-in-rohru-accident-320729
06-10-2021||---||Washed away in flash flood, footbridge in Manikaran valley still not rebuilt||Abhinav VashishtKullu, October 5A temporary footbridge that was washed away by a flash flood in the Brahma Ganga rivulet in the Manikaran valley of the district on July 28 has not been rebuilt even after two months of the incident. Residents of Brahma Ganga and Shangana villages in Ward No. 5 of Manikaran panchayat have to cross the rivulet, it being the easiest path, to reach the Manikaran market.Four persons were washed away by the flash flood and water and slush had damaged a temporary footbridge, camping site, power project and houses. The villagers said that Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur, who belongs to the district, local MLA Sunder Singh Thakur and administration officials had visited the disaster-hit area and promised to make up for the damage caused by the flood. They added that many villagers were risking their lives by crossing the Brahma Ganga rivulet, but the footbridge had not been rebuilt.The villagers said that the water level in the rivulet increases during rains and they faced a lot of problems. They added that as schools had reopened, students were crossing the rivulet to attend classes. They urged the state government and the district administration to reconstruct the footbridge at the earliest.Ward member Oma Devi said that the panchayat president had been apprised about the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/washed-away-in-flash-flood-footbridge-in-manikaran-valley-still-not-rebuilt-320730
06-10-2021||---||Two Rajasthan youth riding across country for a cause||Dharamsala, October 5Under the Ride for Youth Awareness campaign run by Nayara NGO from Udaipur in Rajasthan, two youth — Neetu Chopra and Mukul Sharma— reached Dharamsala after riding a distance of 1,042 km. They are on a 20,000-km ride to inspire youth of the country.Neetu said today they interacted with the youth of Dharamsala on the role of youth in nation building under the Youth Interaction Programme and water conservation. Mukul (20), programme manager of Nayara, said they would ride across 28 states, seven union territories and cover all four corners of India, namely Khardung la, Tezu, Koteshwar and Kanyakumari. During the journey they will interact with one lakh youth of India with the message ‘Jal hai toh kal hai, prakriti hai toh hum hai’.Neetu and Mukul reached Dharamsala today via Khardungla, Leh, Kargil, Srinagar, Jammu and Chamba. From here, they will proceed to Amritsar. This is a mass movement and it is gaining momentum only with the cooperation of the people. The unique thing about the ride is that these riders get food, drink, stay, petrol and other necessities with the help of local people. In this way, the challenging yet adventurous mission is appealing to the people from all over country the riders said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-rajasthan-youth-riding-across-country-for-a-cause-320731
06-10-2021||---||2 sites checked for Atal Vidyalaya in Mandi||Tribune News ServiceMandi, October 5Two sites were inspected by a joint team of the local administration, comprising of SDM Sadar, and officials of the Revenue, Education, Forest and Public Works Departments, to identify land to set up an Atal Adarsh Vidyalaya under the Sadar Assembly segment in Mandi district.A Model school in each assembly segmentThe government had proposed to set up one Atal Adarsh Vidyalaya in each Assembly segment of Mandi district, to provide better education facilities to students in rural areas.Amar Nath Rana, Deputy Director, Elementary Education Department, Mandi, said, “Recently, a joint team inspected the two sites — one at Havana village and another at Dhanyara under Kotli tehsil in Mandi. At Havana, a 25 bigha tract of forest land is available for the purpose but there is need to transfer its ownership in the name of the Education Department. At Dhanyara, only 17 bigha land is available with the panchayat authorities, while additional 8 bighas would be needed to meet the requirement of 25 bigha land for the purpose,” Rana stated.He said the process to finalise land for the school was underway in the rural areas of Sadar Assembly segment. The government had proposed to set up one Atal Adarsh Vidyalaya in each assembly segment of Mandi district, to provide better education facilities to students in rural areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-sites-checked-for-atal-vidyalaya-in-mandi-320732
06-10-2021||---||Shimla: Hotel declared unsafe, owner asks for risk reassessment||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 5The order of the Shimla Municipal Corporation (MC) to demolish unsafe buildings at Kachi Ghati has left their owners shattered. They are demanding a reassessment of the safety aspect of their buildings and an opportunity to put forth their views. “We have got our building examined by an engineer and his assessment is that it is safe. He found no cracks in the building, and its foundation, too, is intact,” said Rohan Kukreja, co-owner of hotel Hari Palace, which has been declared unsafe, besides three other buildings.An inter-departmental technical committee visited the Kachi Ghati site on Monday and indentified four buildings as unsafe. On the basis of the committee report, the municipal corporation ordered the immediate demolition of two buildings, including Hari Palace, located along the highway.Kukreja said that the government had approved their hotel and there were no violations. The authorities concerned should get the soil and strata checked by professionals and not take any decision in a hurry. “We have invested all our earnings and savings in building this hotel. All we are asking for is the reassessment of the risk to the building. I think we deserve at least one chance to save our building, especially when there is no fault on our part in perpetuating the crisis that has hit us,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-hotel-declared-unsafe-owner-asks-for-risk-reassessment-320733
06-10-2021||Mandi||Temple panel  for new canteen  at Prashar lake||The committee of the Prashar Rishi temple has urged the Mandi administration to allow the construction of a canteen in the vicinity of the temple to serve food to devotees visiting here.According to the committee, the canteen and kitchen are on the upper side of the Prashar lake. Residents of nearby panchayats are apprehensive that the dirty water of the canteen and kitchen flows down the lake, posing threat to its ecology.Balbir Thakur, pradhan of the committee, said the lake is a famous tourist destination, which attracts people round the year. The committee is planning to construct a new canteen.“We requested the Deputy Commissioner Mandi Arindam Chaudhari to look into the matter and allow us to construct the canteen in the area for the purpose. It will be constructed on the downside of Lake. It will help us to keep the lake water free from contamination,” he added. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/temple-panel-for-new-canteen-at-prashar-lake-320734
06-10-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Chapter on drugs included in Class X Hindi syllabus in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 5The Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education has introduced a chapter on narcotic substances and their ill-effects in the Hindi subject of Class X.The chapter, ‘Madak Padharth: Chunotiyan aur Hum (Narcotic substances: Challenges and We), outlining narcotics, their ill-effects, reasons, awareness and students’ role, NDPS Act and punishment under law and efforts made by the state government to curb the drug menace was introduced in Class X this year, said Akshey Sood, secretary of the board.About 38.3 per cent people in the world are using drugs one way or the other and 3.30 crore persons die every year due to drug consumption. The growing number of addicts has become a cause for concern in Himachal, too. The lesson also incorporates the data of the National Crime Records Bureau, which states that seven crore people in India are under the influence of drugs.“A negative atmosphere, a bad friend circle, promotion of narcotics consumption in films and advertisements, bad results of students, ignorance and fights in the family are some of the reasons for drug abuse. The idea behind introducing the chapter is to create awareness among students about the negative effects of drugs that affect health, family and finances of the user and their social and physiological impacts,” he said.Last year also, a chapter, ‘Khuli Chithi (Open letter), was added to the syllabus of Class VIII in which an elder brother talks about changes experienced in the adolescent age, negative influence, and probability of being attracted to narcotic substances and makes an emotion appeal to his younger brother staying in a hostel to keep away from drugs.“Awareness among students about drug abuse is very important to fight this growing menace, which has become a nationwide problem,” said board Chairman Suresh Kumar Soni.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chapter-on-drugs-included-in-class-x-hindi-syllabus-in-himachal-320735
06-10-2021||---||23 teams converge at Nadaun for national rafting marathon||Our CorrespondentHamirpur, October 5A national rafting marathon started at Nadaun on Monday. The event was flagged off by Rakesh Pathania, Minister for Youth Sports and Forests. As many as 23 teams from across the country are participating in the event.Speaking on the occasion, Pathania said the event would prove a milestone in developing sports, adventure and tourism activities in the region. He said not only men teams, but women and mixed double teams were also participating in the event. The minister said participation at the national level inculcates confidence and spirit of competition among sportspersons.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur was to inaugurate the event but due to announcement of byelections, he could not come but conveyed his best wishes to all participants, he stated.The state government was committed to encouraging sports activities and was planning to establish new sports centres. Nadaun was strategically located and sportspersons of Hamirpur, Kangra and Una districts could make the best use of sports facilities here, Pathania added.Deputy Commissioner Devashveta Banik and vice-chairman of HRTC Vijay Agnihotri were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/23-teams-converge-at-nadaun-for-national-rafting-marathon-320736
06-10-2021||The principal of Sacred Soul Cambridge School||School Principal gets award||Faculty programme on photonicsThe University Institute of Technology (UIT), Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla, is virtually conducting a five-day faculty development programme on "Recent trends and advances in photonic integrated circuits and its applications." The programme is sponsored by All-India Technical Education (AICTE) and is being organised by Dr Tarun Sharma, assistant professor of Electronics and Communication Department, UIT. Prof PL Sharma, Director of UIT, said about 100 faculty members from all over the country were participating in the programme. There would be 14 sessions and the resourcepersons were drawn from various prestigious institutes of the country as well as abroad, he added.Student-parent forum protestsThe student-parent forum staged a protest against the arbitrary fee hike by private schools, outside the Higher Education Department on Monday. The representatives of the forum submitted a seven-point memorandum to the director of Higher Education, demanding a check on hike in fee and other charges. The forum said the schools had converted more than 80 per cent of the fee into tuition fee to fleece the parents, many of whom were struggling to pay.Rusheel elected SFI presidentRusheel and Tannu Atri have been elected as president and secretary, respectively, of the nine-member SFI secretariat of Government College, Theog. Besides, a 21-member committee was also chosen during the conclave. SFI district president Anil Thakur said the current state and central governments were working towards handing over the education system into private hands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/school-principal-gets-award-320737
06-10-2021||The traffic on the New Shimla-Vikas Nagar road is maddening||Traffic snarls on Vikas Nagar road||Muck Dumping damaging roadReckless dumping of muck along the roadside by under-construction hotels near Sanawar village on the Dharampur-Kasauli stretch is damaging the road. The PWD staff has become a mute spectator to the damage being caused to the roads, even as its width has shrunk and commuters are facing problems. — Vinay, KasauliWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traffic-snarls-on-vikas-nagar-road-320741
06-10-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal bypoll: Congress list out, Pratibha to fight from Mandi Lok Sabha seat||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 5The Congress today formally announced its candidates for the Mandi Lok Sabha and the three Assembly seats where bypolls are to be conducted on October 30.Also read: BJP begins campaign in Arki, dissent to the fore in CongressPeople hit by road project may spoil BJP’s chances in MandiPratibha Singh (65), wife of former CM Virbhadra Singh, will contest from Mandi. A two-time MP from the segment in 2004 and 2013, she is expected to give a tough fight to the BJP as she could bag sympathy votes on account of her husband’s death in July. The Congress has fielded Rohit Thakur from Jubbal-Kotkhai (Shimla), Sanjay Awasthy from Arki (Solan) and Bhawani Singh Pathania from Fatehpur (Kangra).In Arki, a seat that fell vacant after the demise of Virbhadra, the party has shown faith in Awasthy, who had unsuccessfully contested the 2012 Assembly poll.Bhawani is the son of former Congress minister Sujan Singh Pathania, on whose demise the seat fell vacant. Here too, the party is hoping to cash in on the sympathy factor.The Congress candidates are likely to file their nominations on October 8, which is the last date to file papers.Assembly candidates||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-bypoll-congress-list-out-pratibha-to-fight-from-mandi-lok-sabha-seat-320714
06-10-2021||Shimla||Himachal bypoll: Pratibha Singh is Congress pick for Mandi LS seat||The Congress on Monday formally announced its candidate for the Mandi Lok Sabha seat and the three assembly segments.As expected, Pratibha Singh, a former MP and the wife of former chief minister Virbhadra Singh, has been declared as the candidate for the Mandi Lok Sabha by-poll. The Congress candidates are likely to file their nominations on October 8—the last date for nominations.The Congress also declared its candidates for the three assembly segments of Arki (Solan), Jubbal-Kotkhai (Shimla), and Fatehpur (Kangra). For Jubbal Kotkhai, Congress picked Rohit Thakur, grandson of former chief minister Ram Lal Thakur and a two-time MLA.Sanjay Awasthy is Congress party’s choice for Arki segment, which fell vacant due to Virbhadra Singh’s death. Awasthy had unsuccessfully contested the 2012 assembly polls from the seat and it went to Virbhadra Singh in 2017.Bhawani Singh Pathania, the son of former minister Sujan Singh Pathania, will be fielded from Fatehpur, a seat that fell vacant after his father's death. Pathania hopes to cash in on voter sympathy.Ram Swaroop of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party had won the Mandi Lok Sabha seat in the 2019 elections with a record margin.Of the assembly seats, BJP had won Jubbal Kotkhai in 2017, and the Congress took both Fatehpur and Arki.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-bypoll-pratibha-singh-is-congress-pick-for-mandi-ls-seat-320519
