07-10-2021||---||IGMC, Shimla, reports 298 scrub typhus cases||Shimla, October 6The Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC) reported 298 cases deaths so far, this year. While the number of cases this year appears more than that recorded in the past few years, deaths have dropped significantly. “The mortality rate was as high as 30 per cent, three years back. We have managed to bring down the mortality rate below 2 per cent,” said IGMC Deputy MS Dr Rahul Gupta.Dr Gupta said the mortality rate had been high, as some patients, if not treated for six-seven days, developed septicemia, followed by organ failure in some cases.“In the last couple of years, we have started treating patients with injectable antibiotics such as doxycycline and azithromycine. Earlier, the patients were given oral medicines, which were not as effective,” said Dr Gupta.Dr Gupta said people generally contracted this disease while working in fields, mainly while cutting grass, where the mite that spreads the disease is present. “If people develop fever while working in the fields or cutting grass, they should immediately go to the nearby health facility and take medicine,” said Dr Gupta.He advised people to wear gumboots, gloves and full-sleeved clothes while cutting grass. “People should take bath and change clothes after returning home,” said Dr Gupta.IGMC usually treats around 300 scrub typhus cases every year, with majority of these reported between June and October. “This time, the number of cases seems to be slightly higher. The good thing is we have managed to reduce the mortality rate significantly,” said Dr Gupta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/igmc-shimla-reports-298-scrub-typhus-cases-321325
07-10-2021||Heaps of garbage can be seen lying around on the roads in Panchrukhi town. Garbage in the town is increasing every day. Shopkeepers and residents dump waste along the roadside. The government should make local authorities responsible for not being able to manage solid waste in their respective areas. Many people visit the Sobha Singh Art Gallery||Remove waste from Panchrukhi roads||— Satish Sharma, PanchrukhiCheck multi-storey buildings in Shimla The collapse of a building at Kachi Ghati should be an eye-opener for residents, administration and the government. One can see seven-eight storeyed buildings at many places in the city. It is surprising how these buildings have been given permission by the authorities concerned.— Pawan Sharma, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/remove-waste-from-panchrukhi-roads-321324
07-10-2021||Students of Government Senior Secondary School||Students visit Chamera-II power station in Chamba district||ABVP-Koti gets prez, secyDeepak and Sonam were elected the president and the secretary, respectively, of the ABVP unit in Koti. On the occasion, chief guest Anil Sharma spoke about the history of the ABVP and how it had been participating in nation-building and social welfare since its inception.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/students-visit-chamera-ii-power-station-in-chamba-district-321323
07-10-2021||Chamba||Fair held at ITI in Chamba||An apprenticeship fair was held at the ITI for spreading awareness among stakeholders about implementation of the Apprenticeship Act, 1961. ASP Vinod Dhiman was the chief guest. Prizes were given to the winners of various ITI activities. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fair-held-at-iti-in-chamba-321321
07-10-2021||Kullu||1 dead, 4 hurt in mishap on Luhri-Aut NH in Anni||A man was killed, while four girls were injured, as the car, in which they were travelling, fell into a gorge, in Tangonala, near Khanag, on the Luhri-Aut NH in Anni, today.Kullu SP Gurdev Sharma said they were going to the Jalori Pass, when the driver lost control and the car fell 200 feet down the gorge. Sahil (23) of Brandi village died on the spot. Muskan, Himani, Shalu and Ankita were shifted to the Anni hospital. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-dead-4-hurt-in-mishap-on-luhri-aut-nh-in-anni-321320
07-10-2021||Chamba||Boat race, paragliding meet put off in Chamba||In the wake of the byelection to the Mandi constituency, the dragon boat race and the paragliding championships to be held in the district this month, under the ‘Chalo Chamba’ campaign, have been postponed.In an official communiqué issued here today, Assistant Commissioner Ram Prasad Sharma said the championships had to be put off due to the imposition of the model code of conduct for the election. The next dates for holding the championships would be decided after the byelection, he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/boat-race-paragliding-meet-put-off-in-chamba-321319
07-10-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||FCI to procure paddy from October 15 in Himachal Pradesh||NURPUR, OCTOBER 6Following persistent demands of the farmers in the lower Kangra district, the state government has notified three procurement centres in lower Kangra and the FCI will start procuring paddy from October 15. The Department of Food, Civil Supplies and Consumers Affairs has notified these centres at Tyora of Mand area in Indora sub division, Riyali, and grain mandi in Fatehpur sub division of Kangra district.As per official information the Himachal Pradesh State Marketing Board (HPSAMB) will hand over these centres to the FCI by October 10 after ensuring all basic facilities like drinking water, toilets and fans for cleaning food grains. The FCI will have to arrange technical manpower at these centres. The district administration will ensure setting up of all requisite infrastructure in these centres for smooth procurement of paddy.The farmers will have to register themselves on the procurement portal of the FCI from October 7. Dry run of the procurement process for the selected farmers will be undertaken from October 11, whereas the actual procurement will begin on October 15.The Tribune had highlighted the plight of the farmers of the Mand area in Indora sub division of Kangra district in these columns on September 30 after they were declined procurement of paddy crop at FCI centres in Mukerian of Hoshiarpur district in the neighbouring Punjab.Meanwhile, progressive farmers Suresh Singh of Malkana, Anoop Singh and Sat Pal of Thakurdwara and Ranbir Singh and Ajay Singh of Chatta village said that the procurement of cereals at the MSP was a long-standing demand of the farmers of the Mand area and the FCI should set up a permanent procurement centre in the area so that food grain growers do not fall prey to the private players to sell their yield at throwaway price.Raj Kumar Bhadwaj, secretary Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), Kangra told The Tribune that the APMC had identified locations for all three procurement centres notified by the state government in Indora and Fatehpur sub divisions. He said the FCI would procure paddy from October 15 at the Maximum Support Price (MSP) of Rs 1,940 per quintal as announced by the Government of India for ‘A’ grade paddy. He reiterated that the state government had also laid the foundation stone of Rs 2.50 crore fruit and grain market at Riyali in lower mand area in June and its tender was expected to be floated next month.Registration begins today The farmers will have to register themselves on the procurement portal of the FCI from October 7. Dry run of the procurement process for the selected farmers will be undertaken from October 11, whereas the actual procurement will begin on October 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fci-to-procure-paddy-from-october-15-in-himachal-pradesh-321318
07-10-2021||Shimla||173 test positive, two die of Covid in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 173 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the past 24 hours, besides two deaths (one each in Kangra and Hamirpur districts). The number of total confirmed cases now stands at 2,19,919, while active cases are 1,477. The maximum cases were reported from Kangra (55). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/173-test-positive-two-die-of-covid-in-himachal-pradesh-321316
07-10-2021||Lalit Mohan||Navratris begin, vax certificate must for pilgrims in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, October 6Thousands of devotees from the adjoining states of Punjab, Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir are expected to visit Jwalamukhi, Chamunda Devi and Bajjreshwari temples during the Navratris, beginning from October 7.However, they are likely to face problems. Kangra DC Nipun Jindal said Covid protocols were still in place. Only those who had the final vaccination certificate or RT-PCR negative report, not older that 72 hours, would be allowed to enter the temples.He said the rules were applicable for devotees coming from Himachal as well as other states. The certificates would be checked at the entrance of the temples.The DC said the restrictions on the inter-state borders would continue. He said ‘Havan’ would not be allowed in the temples. Priests had placed requests for allowing them to hold ‘Havans’ but the decision was not yet taken.Thousands of pilgrims come in trucks and tractor trailers from adjoining states. Police officials have a tough time checking their antecedents. During the last Navratris, law and order problem was created at some entry points when the police officials stopped pilgrims as many of them did not have the vaccination certificates or RT-PCR reports. Many had to return.Sources said many BJP leaders were against stopping the pilgrims on the state borders and they had also taken up the matter with the government. However, due to the unprecedented second wave of coronavirus, the government was not in a mood to relax the conditions for pilgrims.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/navratris-begin-vax-certificate-must-for-pilgrims-in-himachal-321315
07-10-2021||---||Arki block Cong unit dissolved||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 6HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore dissolved the Arki unit of Block Congress Committee (BCC) last evening following protest and resignation by its president.Rathore appointed Satish Kashyap as the working BCC president. He had earlier too shouldered this responsibility. The party now had no office-bearers in its block committee.“Kashyap has been appointed as the working president of the BCC and the body has been dissolved,” Rathore said.The step was taken after the BCC president Roop Singh tendered his resignation in protest against party ticket to Sanjay Awasthy.Taking a stern view of a section of the party leaders who had resented ticket to Sanjay Awasthy and had resigned, Rathore said, “All grievances should be addressed before the party’s disciplinary committee headed by senior leader Viplove Thakur.The party leaders should endeavour to defeat the BJP and not indulge in such protests at this juncture when by-elections were being held.”He said no one has been ousted from the party and an opportunity has been given to the disgruntled leaders to mend their ways.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/arki-block-cong-unit-dissolved-321314
07-10-2021||Mandi||CM Jai Ram Thakur, Anil Sharma go into a huddle||Political heat is rising in the Mandi constituency in the wake of the byelection.In a latest development, disgruntled BJP MLA from Mandi Sadar Anil Sharma and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur held a secret meeting to work together for ensuring BJP candidate win.Sources told The Tribune that Anil Sharma was ready to support the BJP candidate, if the Chief Minister assured him a ministry. Anil Sharma was Power Minister in the Jai Ram government from 2017 to 2019.Anil Sharma had refused to campaign in favour of BJP candidate Ram Swaroop Sharma in 2019, when Ashray Sharma, his son, was the Congress candidate from the Mandi Lok Sabha seat. This angered the BJP high command, which expelled him from the ministry.Since then, Anil was targeted by BJP leaders. Now, he is looking at this election as an opportunity to settle scores. He wants the CM to make a commitment to restore his respect. However, the CM has not given him any assurance. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-jai-ram-thakur-anil-sharma-go-into-a-huddle-321313
07-10-2021||---||Will seek vote in the name of Virbhadra Singh, says Pratibha Singh||Shimla, October 6Congress candidate and former MP Pratibha Singh today said she would seek votes in the name of development works undertaken by her husband and former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh.Addressing a press conference here today, she said Virbhadra had dedicated his life to Himachal and its people. “He is physically not with us but his blessings and guidance will always remain with us,” she said. The election would be “shraddhanjali” by the people of Mandi to her late husband.“Though the election would be fought on issues like price rise and employment, I feel there is nothing wrong if we as a family and the Congress seek votes in the name of Virbhadra Singh, who ensured overall development of the state,” she said.Pratibha said she was hopeful that the people of Mandi will again give her a chance to represent them in the Lok Sabha. “I am sure Sukh Ram, who has been in the Congress, and the people of Mandi Sadar will support me,” she said in response to a query if she was hoping to get support from Ashray Sharma, grandson of Sukh Ram who was in the race for the ticket.When asked if it was a challenge for her to make a dent into Mandi, home turf of Chief Minister, she said Jai Ram Thakur had failed to ensure development, be it in Mandi or the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/will-seek-vote-in-the-name-of-virbhadra-singh-says-pratibha-singh-321312
07-10-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Sentiments of people in Mandi with BJP: Jai Ram Thakur||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 6Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said today that the Congress would seek sympathy votes in the name of Virbhadra Singh but the fact that the sentiments of the people of Mandi are with the BJP could not be overlooked.“It is for the first time that she has affixed “Virbhadra” to her name, which is merely to get the political mileage, but people do not appreciate such things,” said Thakur, while talking to The Tribune.Pratibha has, for the first time, added the name of her late husband to her name, which now reads as Pratibha Virbhadra Singh. The BJP terms it an election gimmick.Situation now differentThe Congress can get sympathy votes in the name of the former CM in some Assembly segments, but the situation in Mandi is far different than earlier times, when there was no formidable challenge to the BJP. — Jai Ram Thakur, CMHe added that the Congress could get sympathy votes in the name of the former CM in some Assembly segments, but the situation in Mandi was far different than earlier times, when there was no formidable challenge to the BJP.Admitting that the Congress had thrown up a challenge by trying to play up the sympathy factor, his party would seek votes in the name of development undertaken over the past four years. “Though I will be in a position to make any clear-cut statement only once candidates are finalised, I am confident that the BJP will do well,” he said.He also disclosed that the BJP legislators had been told that the party’s performance in the parliamentary bypoll would be an indicator of their performance and the ticket allotment for the 2022 Assembly poll would depend on this to a great extent.Thakur said the Congress had failed to emerge from the shadow of one family at the Centre and they promoted dynastic politics. “As far as Chetan Bragta, a contender for the BJP ticket from Jubbal-Kotkhai is concerned, he has been active in politics for the past 10 years even though he happens to be the son of former MLA Narinder Bragta,” said the CM.He added that on the contrary, Bhawani Singh Pathania is a perfect example of dynastic politics as he was working in Mumbai and returned to Fatehpur only after the death of his father Sujan Singh Pathania.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sentiments-of-people-in-mandi-with-bjp-jai-ram-thakur-321311
07-10-2021||Lalit Mohan||Infighting plagues Cong, BJP in Fatehpur||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, October 6With the Congress declaring Bhawani Pathania as party candidate for the coming Fatehpur Assembly bypoll, the stage is set for the litmus test for the ruling party in Kangra, politically the most significant district in the state having 15 Assembly segments.Bhawani Pathania will be too keen to retain the seat that was earlier represented by his father, a prominent Rajput leader in Kangra district and former minister Sujan Singh Pathania. Fatehpur is going to the bypoll due to death of Sujjan Singh Pathania.The Congress has fielded Bhawani Pathania presuming that he will get sympathy vote due to demise of his father and be able to lure Rajput votes.The BJP, on the other hand, is yet to declare its candidate from the constituency.The state level election committee that held a meeting at Dharamsala on October 3 had sent a panel of three names to the party high command from the constituency. Sources said that former MP Kirpal Parmar was among the frontrunners.Both BJP and Congress candidates are likely to face challenge from within their own parties in the byelections. Bhawani was facing challenge from various local Congress leaders. Many party leaders held protests demanding that ticket should be given from among common workers. Former Congress minister Vijai Singh Mankotia, in a press conference held last week, claimed that many Congress leaders from Fatehpur had written to him.The Congress leaders are against ticket being passed on to the next generation in the same family.The leaders had claimed that if the party ticket was to be passed from father to son where the local leaders, who have been working for party for year, would go, Mankotia had alleged.The BJP is also a divided house in Fatehpur. In the 2017 Assembly elections Baldev Thakur, who claimed himself to be local BJP leader from Fatehpur, had contested as an independent that led to division of party votes and defeat of official candidate of party Kirpal Parmar. Sources said that a prominent BJP leader from Nurpur had proposed to give party ticket from Fatehpur to a woman leader to avoid infighting.However, his suggestion was turned down by the senior party leaders. Now it remains to be seen if the BJP can bring all BJP leaders on one platform during the byelections.Rajan Sushant, former BJP MP who has left the party, has already announced that he will contest the Fatehpur byelection. Sushant has been holding a dharna in Fetehpur for the past many months to support the demand of employees to implement the old pension scheme.Sushant has been aggressively campaigning in Fatehpur assembly constituency and has potential of damaging the prospects of the ruling party. Sushant has earlier represented Fatehpur Assembly constituency as a BJP MLA and a minister in BJP government from 1998 to 2003.Challenge from within||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/infighting-plagues-cong-bjp-in-fatehpur-321310
07-10-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education decision to hold term exams for Class IX-XII opposed||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 6The decision of the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education to hold first and second-term examinations for students of Class IX to XII in November 2021 and March 2022 under the new education policy has not gone down well with a teachers’ union and managements of some private schools.The initiative, on the pattern of CBSE, is welcome but the timing is wrong as the decision should have come at the start of the academic session and the first term should have been held in August. However, the notification in this regard has been issued September 29, towards the end of the session, Virender Chauhan, president of the Himachal Government Teachers Union (HGTU), said.The harsh topography of the state does not allow offline classes in winter closing schools, which constitute about 35 per cent of the total government schools in the state, Chauhan stated.“We have submitted a memorandum urging the state government to start term examinations from the next session, as preparing 50 per cent syllabus in four months would put pressure on students,” he said, adding that if the Board and the government was adamant on bringing about the change in the current session itself, the examination held in September should be considered as the first term.Meanwhile, managements of some private school affiliated with the Board rue that the syllabus has been selected randomly and not by sequence and now there is no time to teach the units selected for first-term examinations. The government schools were following “Har Ghar Pathshala” programme but the private schools were teaching in sequence and random selection of units had become a problem for them, they stated.However, Suresh Kumar Soni, chairman of the Board, said the decision had been taken after consultation with the stakeholders and a majority of the teacher unions had backed the decision, except Virender Chauhan’s HGTU.A virtual meeting would be held tomorrow with all associations and their queries would be addressed by experts and their valuable suggestions would be incorporated, he said. The syllabus had been selected by the teachers and a tentative date-sheet has also been released, Soni added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-board-of-school-education-decision-to-hold-term-exams-for-class-ix-xii-opposed-321309
07-10-2021||Solan||Marketing platform to come up for apple growers in Himachal Pradesh soon||The government is working towards creating a marketing platform for apple growers, said Virender Kanwar, Agriculture Minister, at the CII Northern Region Agri Inputs Summit organised through a virtual platform today.The theme, ‘Transforming Agriculture for Global Challenges’, was discussed by over 300 delegates from the agri inputs industry.Kanwar emphasised that the state was encouraging apple growers to adopt natural farming as this would put an end to the malicious campaign against apples grown in Himachal being poisonous.Kanwar said, “The government is committed to rapid economic uplift of the farming community through planned agriculture development. We endeavour to achieve sustainable agriculture through improvement in productivity and quality.”He requested the industry to organise awareness campaigns among farmers about the judicious use of quality fertilisers and pesticides.Dr SK Malhotra, Agriculture Commissioner, said, “An efficient input delivery system is the base for success in agriculture. “The Centre is open to providing support on the regulatory front to the industry to ensure the PM’s vision of Atamnirbhar Bharat and doubling farmers’ income.”While stressing farmer education, Mayank Singhal, Chairman, CII NR Committee on Agriculture, Food Processing and Dairy, said, “It is imperative to educate farmers about the justified use of plant protection chemicals, how to increase crop yield and spread awareness of the difference between genuine and spurious pesticides.”Singhal emphasised that the new Pesticide Management Bill should incentivise new products by research and development based agro chemical companies as against fly-by-night operators.Ramit Bharti Mittal, Co-Chairman, CII Regional Committee on Agriculture, Food Processing and Dairy, emphasised that the time had come for agri inputs companies to reinvent their perspectives by understanding farmers better. Srinivasa Kumar Karavadi, head of market development — Crop Science Division — India, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka, Bayer Crop Science Ltd, highlighted the need to adopt a holistic view on sustainable agriculture, focusing on environmental, social and economic progress. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/marketing-platform-to-come-up-for-apple-growers-in-himachal-pradesh-soon-321308
07-10-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Shimla building collapse: No steps taken to enforce guidelines||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 6The collapse of a seven-storey building in Kachi Ghati here has failed to push law-enforcing agencies to enforce building norms to avoid such a disaster in future.There are widespread violations in most multi-storey buildings in the Kachi Ghati-Ghora Chowki area at the entrance to the capital from the Tara Devi side. Most buildings, precariously located on steep slopes, have illegally raised additional floors and their owners are using the basements for residential or commercial purposes, which are meant to be non-habitable.Once the building is completed, there is no checking by the municipal authorities.The fact that the Kachi Ghati was a Nagar Panchayat till 2003 before being made a Special Area Development Authority (SADA) the same year has only added to the confusion as far as building norms are concerned. In 2006, the area was merged with the Shimla Municipal Corporation (SMC), leading to a spurt in haphazard construction and modification of the residential structures into hotels and guest houses.Constructions continue even as landslides are taking place in some portions. The constructions on nullahs or “bawris” to pave the way for multi-storey structures result in seepage which can make the foundation weak.Overlooking these factors, various agencies are engaged in passing the buck. It is due to multiplicity of such agencies that house owners take advantage to circumvent the law.Locals residing in the area revealed that most residential buildings had been converted into hotels. “To meet the enhanced space requirement, most hotel owners have dug up basements while others have put the closed basement to use,” said a house owner. Others have started bread and breakfast and homestay units as hospitality was emerging as a profitable venture.What is most surprising is that even after the collapse of a building here last week, neither the Shimla MC nor the Town and Country Planning (TCP) has bothered to check the use of basements by most building owners. The Tourism Department too seems to have turned a blind eye and failed to check whether hotels, guest houses and bed and breakfast units have obtained permissions.The NGT’s suggestion of restricting the construction on slopes in soft and rocky areas to 35 degrees and45 degrees for areas with hard sub surface too is not being enforced.Many commercial ventures are operating on domestic water and electricity connections that points to the lackadaisical approach of the government in dealing with violations.Though over 10,000 unauthorised constructions within the Shimla Planning Area are yet to be regularised, this has failed to deter house owners from raising floors illegally. The government has brought about six retention policies but these have only emboldened people to commit more violations in the hope of regularisation.What is even more dismal is that the authorities have allowed this mess despite strict observations by the NGT and High Court in its order on November 16, 2017.  Misuse of basementsMost buildings, precariously located on steep slopes, have illegally raised additional floors and their owners are using the basements for residential or commercial purposes, which are meant to be non-habitableHotels coming upMost of the residential buildings have been converted into hotels. — Residents||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-building-collapse-no-steps-taken-to-enforce-guidelines-321307
07-10-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||All Shimla buildings to be surveyed post Kachi Ghati||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 6All buildings in Shimla will be surveyed with the help of a technical committee to assess if any structure is unsafe and needs to be demolished.Talking to The Tribune, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said, “The collapse of a building in Kachi Ghati is an eye-opener. We can’t rule out the possibility of recurrence of such mishaps if timely steps are not taken.” He said while a three-member committee will ascertain the reasons behind the collapse, there was a need to rope in technical experts to examine the whole issue minutely. He admitted that the situation with regard to unauthorised constructions was serious, but said a mechanism was in place to check violations of building bylaws.Sources said the panel looking into the building collapse would recommend holding of an audit of all buildings in Kachi Ghati area to check violations. Shimla, once the summer capital of the British, is now a pale shadow of its glorious past. It has virtually been reduced to a concrete jungle with traffic congestion, denudation of the green cover and haphazard urban sprawl marring its beauty. Building norms are not being adhered to in the absence of checking by the authorities, which is largely responsible for the mess.An MC official said, “Till 2003, when Shimla was a semi-urban area falling under the Nagar Panchayat, the permissible limit of floors was four. Besides, two more storeys are allowed under the Retention Policy, 2002.” But many buildings had been raised to 8-10 floors, including the basement and attic, he said.The Kachi Ghati and Ghora Chowki localities at the entrance of the town have become a hub of hotels. Many old buildings have been altered and additions made to meet the enhanced requirement for space. What has made the situation precarious is the fact that construction has been done on nullahs and water springs, blocking the flow of water and causing grave damage to the buildings. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/all-shimla-buildings-to-be-surveyed-post-kachi-ghati-321072
