08-10-2021||Hamirpur||35 school students found Covid-positive in Himachal’s Hamirpur||Sixty-seven persons, including 35 students at a school, were tested positive for Covid-19 here on Friday, an official said.This took the number of active cases to 317 in the district, he said.According to the official, 35 students of the Navodaya Vidyalaya at Doongri in Hamirpur were found to be Covid positive on Friday, while 11 were earlier tested positive for the virus, he added.The district has recorded 281 Covid-related deaths since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/35-school-students-found-covid-positive-in-himachals-hamirpur-321947
08-10-2021||Mandi||Mandi bypolls: Pratibha Singh files her nomination||Congress candidate Pratibha Singh filed her nomination for Mandi by-elections on Friday.Singh, a former MP and the wife of former chief minister Virbhadra Singh, was accompanied by the senior Congress leader Kaul Singh Thakur.A public meeting was held later in the day at Seri Manch that saw Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee leaders such as Kuldeep Singh Rathore, leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, Senior leaders Kaul Singh Thakur, Asha Kumari, and MLA Vikramaditya Singh address it.The Congress leadership in Himachal has decided to focus on inflation, unemployment, and lack of development to target Bharatiya Janata Patry’s government in the state and the Centre.By-elections for Mandi and three assembly seats Arki (Solan), Jubbal-Kotkhai (Shimla), and Fatehpur (Kangra) are scheduled for October 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-bypolls-pratibha-singh-files-her-nomination-321902
08-10-2021||Shimla||142 new Covid cases, four deaths in Himachal||As many as 142 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 220,061. Besides, four persons (three in Kangra and one in Hamirpur) died of the virus.The highest 35 cases each were reported in Kangra and Hamirpur, followed by 27 in Mandi, 17 in Bilaspur, eight in Shimla, seven in Una, four each in Solan and Kinnaur, three in Kullu, and two in Sirmaur. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/142-new-covid-cases-four-deaths-in-himachal-321671
08-10-2021||Ambika Sharma||Denied ticket, former BJP MLA Govind Ram Sharma jumps into poll fray||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 7Trouble is mounting for the ruling BJP in Arki with a two-time former MLA Govind Ram Sharma declaring to file his nomination as an independent tomorrow after the party allotted the ticket to Rattan Pal.Also read: Himachal CM seeks votes for Brig Thakur, says he is true soldierKargil War hero files papers from Mandi as BJP candidateKirpal Parmar denied ticket, revolt in Fatehpur BJPRattan Pal, party’s vice-president, had unsuccessfully contested the last Assembly poll in 2017. He lost to the Congress stalwart and six-time Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh.Govind Ram had been promised a suitable post in the party by then in-charge Mangal Pandey but he had been ignored. He was peeved at this shabby treatment.Sharma, who had lobbied hard for the ticket and met senior leaders including party’s national president JP Nadda as well as state in-charges, said, “Rattan Pal has failed to emerge as a leader in the last about four years as he has annoyed party workers right from the grassroot level.”“I had brought these facts to the knowledge of the party leaders as there was resentment against Pal in the constituency. It is, however, lamentable that these facts have been ignored and Pal has again been given ticket,” he rued.He said that he will file his nomination as an independent tomorrow. Zila Parishad member Asha Parihar also pledged her support to Sharma.Rattan Pal was elevated as chairman of State Cooperative Development Federation Limited in October last year while Govind Ram Sharma was made to eat a humble pie. This further infuriated Sharma and his supporters.Sharma’s entry into the poll fray could queer the pitch for the BJP votes as he does enjoy support among a section of the party workers.This development has also become a challenge for the BJP which professes to be a disciplined party and poll in-charge Dr Rajiv Bindal will face an added challenge of countering his presence in the poll.The BJP is keen to wrest this seat from the Congress. BJP’s Govind Ram Sharma had won this seat in 2007 and 2012 polls consecutively on two occasions while it was wrested by the Congress’ Virbahdra Singh in 2017 after Sharma was refused ticket.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/denied-ticket-former-bjp-mla-govind-ram-sharma-jumps-into-poll-fray-321673
08-10-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Miffed BJP leader Chetan Bragta to fight as Independent||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 7Crestfallen, Chetan Bragta, son of former BJP minister Narinder Bragta, today questioned the party leadership over the denial of ticket to him to contest the Jubbal-Kotkhai byelection. He said that in deference to the desire of his supporters, he would file nomination for the byelection as an Independent candidate tomorrow.He said, “I have been serving the BJP for the past 15 years. I have been touring my constituency for the past few weeks and have the right to question the party leadership why I have been denied the ticket”.An emotionally-charged Chetan told his supporters, “Mera ticket cut gaya (I have been denied ticket) because I am a product of dynasty politics”. However, he resolved to continue to work hard and keep up the struggle started by his late father.“If the party had set some parameters for the selection of candidates, why I was not informed earlier and the decision was kept on hold till the last. I had visited all 62 panchayats after a signal from top leaders and was sure to get the ticket”. At present, Chetan is the head of the BJP IT cell in the state.“My father penetrated into the Congress stronghold in Jubbal-Kotkhai and demolished the citadel of former Chief Minister Ram Lal Thakur, a nine-time MLA, by winning the seat for the BJP in 2007 and 2017,” he said. Congress workers were jubilant after they heard “I have been denied the BJP ticket”.“Giving the ticket to someone just because he or she is close to some minister does not augur well for the party. Years of hard work and struggle of workers must be recognised,” he said. Chetan virtually broke down when he mentioned that he was working for the party even when his father was hospitalised for about two months before his death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/miffed-bjp-leader-chetan-bragta-to-fight-as-independent-321674
08-10-2021||ibune News Service
||Inflation to be bypoll issue: Kaul Singh Thakur||Mandi, October 7 Senior Congress leader Kaul Singh Thakur said today that the party would fight the Mandi byelection on the issues of inflation, unemployment and lack of development. Congress candidate Pratibha Singh would file the nomination papers in Mandi tomorrow.   He said, “During the BJP government in the state and at the Centre, inflation has increased, affecting the lives of common people. The BJP had promised to provide employment to the youths but it did nothing. As a result, the number of unemployed youths has increased in the state”. “Farmers are opposing three farm laws but the Central Government is not paying heed to their demands. There is strong resentment among farmers in Himachal against the BJP,” he added. “Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has been biased over development and has ignored eight of 10 Assembly segments in Mandi district. Development is taking place only in his Seraj constituency and in Dharampur, the constituency of Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur,” alleged Kaul Singh.    “During the BJP regime, corruption has grown as the Chief Minister has been keeping silent on the issue. Crime against women is also on the rise in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/inflation-to-be-bypoll-issue-kaul-singh-thakur-321675
08-10-2021||---||Commotion over BJP fake list of candidates for Himachal bypolls on social media||Shimla, October 7The circulation of a fake list of BJP candidates for the bypoll in social media yesterday caused a commotion.A list was shared on WhatsApp by someone personating as BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, mentioning Kangna Ranaut as BJP candidate for the Mandi Lok Sabha seat and Pankaj Happy, Govind Ram and Chetan Bragata as candidates from Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly segments.As per the actual list issued by the BJP, Brigadier Khushal Thakur (retd) will contest from Mandi, Neelam Saraik from Jubbal-Kotkhai, Ratan Singh Pal from Arki and Baldev Thakur from Fatehpur.In a complaint to the SP, cyber crime police station (CID), office secretary of the BJP, Shimla, Pyar Singh Kanwar alleged that before the release of the list of the BJP candidates, a fake list was released in the social media and urged the police to register an FIR against the person.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/commotion-over-bjp-fake-list-of-candidates-for-himachal-bypolls-on-social-media-321676
08-10-2021||Our Correspondent||19 jail inmates test positive in Una||Una, October 7As many as 19 inmates at the Una district jail, located in Bangarh village, besides 14 residents of Matoh village in Bangana subdivision, tested positive for Covid-19 in the past three days. The Health Department has launched a drive to contain the spread of the virus in the community.Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Dr Raman Kumar Sharma said there were about 300 inmates in the jail and the authorities had isolated the infected patients.Dr Sharma said as of now, no jail staff member had tested positive, adding that directions were issued by the District Covid Officer to screen all inmates and the jail staff.Meanwhile, 14 persons, all of whom are close relatives residing in Matoh village, tested positive as per the report received from the Tanda Medical College, late last night.The CMO said Covid tests were done on these people on the basis of contact tracing. He said a person from Hamirpur had died due to Covid about two weeks ago and the deceased’s relatives from Matoh village had gone to Hamirpur recently to attend the condolence meeting. They contracted the virus from there.The CMO said further contact tracing had generated a list of about 300 more persons, all of whom were being tested.He said he had requested the District Magistrate to declare Matoh as a containment zone. With the sudden spurt in the number of Covid cases in the district jail and Matoh village, the number of active cases has risen to 112 in Una district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/19-jail-inmates-test-positive-in-una-321677
08-10-2021||Shimla||Cap on star campaigners due to Covid||The maximum limit on the number of star campaigners for recognised national and state political parties will be 20 and 10, respectively, during pandemic, said Chief Electoral Officer C Paulrasu while presiding over a meeting with political parties on election expenditure monitoring for the bypolls here today. The period of submission of the list of star campaigners has been extended from 7 days to 10 days from the date of notification, he said and added that the candidates, who have either pending criminal cases or have been convicted, are required to publish a declaration within 48 hours of their selection.  It is mandatory for political parties to upload on their website the detailed information regarding individuals with pending criminal cases, along with the reason for such selection. This information should be published in one local newspaper, one national newspaper and official social media platform of political party, including Facebook and Twitter, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cap-on-star-campaigners-due-to-covid-321679
08-10-2021||ibune News Service
||Kargil War hero files papers from Mandi as BJP candidate||Mandi, October 7 BJP candidate Brig Khushal Thakur (retd) filed his nomination papers for the Mandi Lok Sabha byelection in the presence of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here today.  The seat had fallen vacant following the death of BJP MP Ramswaroop Sharma this year. A large number of BJP workers turned up during nomination filing and they were dancing to the tunes of dhol and drums. Brig Thakur, a Kargil War hero, was born on September 9, 1954. He graduated from HP University in 1975 and did postgraduate diploma in computer education from AM informatics Institute, Delhi, and another postgraduate diploma in human rights from the Indian Institute of Human Rights, Delhi. He had also served as Patwari in the Revenue Department from 1972 to 1975. He was selected in the Indian Army in 1975 and retired in 2010. After retirement from the Army, he served as the Managing Director of company SAJV that constructed the Rohtang Tunnel. Later, he led the movement of the Fourlane Sangharsh Samiti in Mandi and Kullu districts during the Congress government to fight for the rights of people affected by the road widening project. In 2019, the BJP appointed him as the Chairman-cum-Managing Director of the Himachal Pradesh Ex-Servicemen Corporation. Brig Thakur was the Commander of 18 Grenadiers during the Kargil War, which played a crucial role in capturing Tiger Hill and Tololing. For his bravery, he was awarded the Yudh Seva medal and his unit was awarded 52 gallantry awards. Besides, Munshi Ram Thakur also filed his nomination papers as the candidate of the Himachal Jankranti Party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kargil-war-hero-files-papers-from-mandi-as-bjp-candidate-321680
08-10-2021||---||Himachal CM seeks votes for Brig Khushal Thakur, says he is true soldier||Mandi, October 7Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur urged the voters of the Mandi parliamentary constituency to support BJP candidate Brig Khushal Thakur (retd) in the byelection and ensure his victory by a huge margin of votes.Also read: Denied ticket, former BJP MLA Govind Ram Sharma jumps into poll frayKargil War hero files papers from Mandi as BJP candidateKirpal Parmar denied ticket, revolt in Fatehpur BJP“It is a test for us but I am hopeful that with the support of public we will overcome this challenge,” he said while addressing a public meeting at Seri Manch. “Despite the Covid-19 outbreak, development took place in each Assembly segment of the state,” he added.“The party has given the ticket to Brig Khushal (retd), who had served the nation as a true solider for 35 years. He was instrumental in winning the Kargil War and he would also win the byelection,” he said.Thakur said that the Congress was responsible for rising unemployment in the state and the country.While addressing the rally, Brig Khushal (retd) said, “I will make every effort for the progress of the Mandi constituency”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-seeks-votes-for-brig-khushal-thakur-says-he-is-true-soldier-321681
08-10-2021||---||Cong nominee Sanjay Awasthy files papers from Arki||Solan, October 7Sanjay Awasthy, Congress nominee for the Arki byelection, today filed his nomination in the presence of HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore. The byelection is being held following the death of six-time Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh.Also read: Inflation to be bypoll issue: Kaul Singh ThakurRathore, while addressing party workers, said, “The Congress will win all four byelections. The party has taken a lead by announcing its candidates. Our Arki nominee Sanjay Awasthy has risen from the grass-roots politics. He was an NSUI activist and later a Youth Congress activist. He has been given the ticket on merit and those opposing him will also campaign for him”.Rathore said, “The BJP is marred by factionalism and its established leaders are shying away from contesting the byelections. Hence, the party has fielded new faces”.He added that issues like unemployment, deteriorating law and order situation in the state and rising debt trap on which a White Paper had been demanded would dominate the byelection campaign.Observers appointed by the HPCC for Arki, including Harsh Mahajan and Inderdutt Lakhanpal, were present on the occasion.Meanwhile, the disgruntled leaders of the outgoing Block Congress Committee (BCC) led by Roop Singh met at Arki. They decided to work for the 2022 Assembly elections but oppose the party’s official nominee.Only a handful of party workers attended the meeting as the party leaderhip had warned them to either toe the party line or face action. BJP’s official nominee Rattan Singh Pal will file his nomination tomorrow, the last day for filing papers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-nominee-sanjay-awasthy-files-papers-from-arki-321682
08-10-2021||---||Cong’s Bhawani Singh Pathania files papers from Fatehpur||Dharamsala, October 7Congress nominee Bhawani Singh Pathania today filed his nomination papers for the Fatehpur byelection. Jeet Kumar is his covering candidate. Besides, former BJP MP Rajan Sushant, who is now contesting as an Independent candidate, Ashok Kumar Somal, another Independent candidate, and Pankaj Kumar of the Himachal Jan Kranti party also filed their papers.Also read: Inflation to be bypoll issue: Kaul Singh ThakurPathania was accompanied by Congress Legislature Party leader Mukesh Agnihotri, senior Congress leader Asha Kumari, and district president Ajay Mahajan.Agnihotri said that the Congress would win the Fatehpur byelection, as the BJP was marred by factionalism. He added that there was a rebellion in the BJP after the announcement of the ticket and many office-bearers had resigned.The Congress was going to the polls in a scenario when the people were reeling under price rise and unemployment. The BJP government had failed to perform.Pathania said he would carry on the good work done by his father Sujan Singh Pathania. Alarge number of Congress workers accompanied Pathania while he was going to file nomination papers.Rajan Sushant, former BJP MP, filed his nomination as an Independent candidate and started campaigning. He is a five-time BJP legislator and was also elected MP in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congs-bhawani-singh-pathania-files-papers-from-fatehpur-321683
08-10-2021||NURPUR||Kirpal Parmar denied ticket, revolt in Fatehpur BJP||The BJP cadre in Fatehpur today revolted after the party denied ticket to state BJP vice-president Kirpal Parmar, who was the frontrunner. The Fatehpur BJP mandal president, BJP-supported chairman and vice-chairman, besides 40 pradhans, up-pradhans and members of the panchayat samiti of Fatehpur resigned in protest.Parmar, who unsuccessfully contested the last Assembly election from Fatehpur, had been active in his constituency for the past about four years. He has a grip on the BJP mandal and has a good support among the elected representatives of the panchayati raj institutions.Meanwhile, Parmar held a closed-door meeting with his supporters. Talking to mediapersons, Parmar said he had full faith in the party leadership and was expecting a change in the candidate. “I will wait for the party’s decision till Friday and take next action after consulting party workers,” he said.—OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kirpal-parmar-denied-ticket-revolt-in-fatehpur-bjp-321684
08-10-2021||Kullu||Three remote areas in Himalayan national park region to get power||The district administration has geared up efforts to provide electricity to the remote Shaakti, Maror and Shugad villages in the Great Himalayan National Park region.  Kullu Deputy Commissioner Ashutosh Garg visited the villages, along with a team of officials from the Himurja, the Electricity Board, the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) and the Public Works Department.  The team reached on Tuesday, after traversing a trek of 21 km on foot, for their two-day sojourn, to understand the problems faced by the residents. The DC took a stock of the situation in these three villages. The villages fall in Sainj valley, which is the largest power producing area with many mega hydel projects, but there had been technical glitches for connecting these villages with electricity and road because they fall in the eco fragile Great Himalayan National Park region, which is also a UNESCO World Heritage Site.  There are about 54 houses having a population of around 220 persons in the three villages. The DC said action would be taken to resolve the problems of the people. He said discussions were held with the officers concerned about raising facilities in as per the guidelines of the Great Himalayan National Park and the Forest Department.  He said the Forest Department and the BDO had been directed to repair the pedestrian path for these villages. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-remote-areas-in-himalayan-national-park-region-to-get-power-321686
08-10-2021||Shimla||Himachal Police to launch ‘register-29’ to monitor drug smugglers||The Himachal Police will introduce register number 29 for drug traffickers in all police stations from November 1. The register containing the details and particulars of persons involved in criminal cases regarding drugs and psychotropics will act as a database for analysis to ensure better prevention of crimes.“HP is dealing with problems related to illicit cultivation and trafficking of poppy and hashish along with heroin (chitta) and synthetic drugs. Therefore, need was felt to monitor the drug peddlers more closely and comprehensively,” said DGP Sanjay Kundu here today. He added that the register 29 would also be included in the curriculum for new police recruits.The register would have columns for details such as the name of the offender, age, physical disruption, address, mobile phone number, Aadhaar card number, social media accounts with quantity of contrabands seized, besides the details of family members, political involvement and bank accounts.The register would allow police officers to monitor drug trafficking and trade more effectively and also help in bringing down the incidence of drug-related cases. The SHOs would monitor the release of offenders from jails irrespective of the fact that the accused were suspects, under trial or convicts. This register is in continuation of the registers started to monitor sex offenders, unidentified bodies, suicide and missing women and children, — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-police-to-launch-register-29-to-monitor-drug-smugglers-321687
08-10-2021||Our Correspondent
||Navratra fair begins at Chintpurni temple||Una, October 7 Thousands of devotees todayvisited the Chintpurni temple and paid obeisance to the shrine on the first Navratra to seek the blessings of the deity. The nine-day Asooz Navratra fair began at the shrine today and the temple premises were decorated with flowers and lights. Deputy Commissioner-cum-Chairman of the Chintpurni Temple Trust, Raghav Sharma said special arrangements had been made to manage the rush of devotees. He said barriers manned by the police personnel had been set up at various road intersections to divert the traffic and avoid crowding. Sharma said computerised slips for ‘darshan’ were being given to the devotees at the Shambhu barrier, the vehicle parking lot and the tourist facilitation centre near the shrine. Persons without the slips are not being allowed to visit the temple. The Deputy Commissionersaid Covid-negative RTPCR report or complete vaccination certificates were being checked at the inter-state barriers for the devotees coming from other states.  People without the required documents would not be allowed entry into Himachal Pradesh, said the Deputy Commissione, adding that the devotees would have to abide by the Covid protocol.  The Deputy Commissioner also cautioned the devotees against travelling in double-decked trucks and tractor-trailers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/navratra-fair-begins-at-chintpurni-temple-321688
08-10-2021||Shimla||Hero MTB Shimla race starts today||As many as 40 of 100 riders participating in the 9th Hero MTB Shimla 2021 to be held from October 8 to 10 have been selected on the basis of the Road to Himalaya Races organised in 12 cities, which saw participation of 650 cyclists.The contestants from 22 cities and defence forces would compete in the race, said Mohit Sood, president of the Himalayan Adventure Sports and Tourism Promotion Association (HASTPA). He added that the idea behind the race was to identify and nurture the young talent. The total distance of the race is 130 km and around 100 km of it is competitive. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hero-mtb-shimla-race-starts-today-321689
08-10-2021||Hamirpur||ITBP team beat BSF in rafting championship||The team of the Indo-Tibet Border Police beat the Border Security Force team to win a gold in the All-India River Rafting Championship being held at Nadaun.  The Charlie team of the ITBP completed 10-km marathon in 57:44:77 seconds while the BSF team completed it in 58:08:43 seconds and grabbed the silver medal in the series.  The Ultimate Survival Camp Rafters team made it to top 10 in the 16 teams that participated in the mixed team event. Meanwhile, many teams had raised objection on fielding defence and civil teams in one category. A team captain said there should be separate competition for both categories. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/itbp-team-beat-bsf-in-rafting-championship-321690
08-10-2021||UNA||Six Una drug rehab centres closed||The HP State Mental Authority today ordered the closure of six Treatment and Rehabilitation Centres for persons with substance use disorders in Una district.Deputy Commissioner Raghav Sharma said there were 30 such centres, providing treatment and rehabilitation to persons with drugs and alcohol abuse, of which six were ordered to be closed.Chief Medical Officer Raman Kumar Sharma, who is the Chairman of the District Monitoring Committee which had recommended the closure of the centres, said the permission to run such centres was given by the State Mental Health Authority about three years ago.The CMO said during Covid, the centres were closed by the government and orders to re-open these were issued recently. He added that one-and-a-half years ago, the management of all 30 rehabilitation centres were asked to follow the norms and an inspection by the committee was done.Dr Sharma said six centres failed to meet the norms and consequently the committee had recommended their closure.The centres are New Hope Care Social Welfare Society in Tetehra village, Nav Jeevan Foundation in Gagret, Jeevan Jot Drug Counselling and Rehabilitation Centre in Bhanjal village and Freedom Home Welfare Society in Kinnu village, besides Umeed Foundation and Kirpa Foundation, both in Santoshgarh, — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/six-una-drug-rehab-centres-closed-321692
08-10-2021||Subhash Rajta||Haphazard construction dots Sanjauli-Dhalli stretch||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 7The collapse of a building at Kachi Ghati and the subsequent demolition of four nearby buildings, rendered unsafe by the collapsed structure, must have set alarm bells ringing in several other localities here.Also read: All Shimla buildings to be surveyed post Kachi Ghati10,000 buildings awaiting approvalWith the haphazard construction the city is witnessing and around 10,000 buildings awaiting approval in the Shimla Planning Area, the recurrence of a Kachi Ghati-like disaster is only a matter of time.Among the most notorious zones for haphazard construction is the Sanjauli-Dhalli stretch. The steep slopes on either side of the ridge running from Sanjauli to Dhalli are dotted with buildings with most having four to five floors and a few breaching the five-floor ceiling too. Almost every inch above and below the stretch has been used for construction, leaving hardly any space in between for a reasonable path, stairs, etc.Cemetery appears to be the worst hit area because of random construction on the stretch. “In many areas of the locality, there’s hardly any path to walk,” said a resident.Another resident rues the decision to have bought a plot in this locality. “When we bought a plot here many decades back, we went down the hill as slope above was very steep. To our surprise, people have built houses on the steep slope over the years. Now, there’s a fear if any of the buildings collapses, it will harm our building too,” said another resident.Even as the construction woes on the stretch are well known, the haphazard construction on the Sanjauli-Dhalli bypass shows that no lessons have been learnt. A cluster of houses has mushroomed on the slopes, which appears vulnerable.“We have a problem at our hands. Many localities will be vulnerable in the times of some natural calamities,” said Sanjay Chauhan, a former Mayor. He, however, passed the blame on the government. “The haphazard construction is happening because there’s no regular development plan for the city,” chauhan said. “The partial and lackadaisical approach sends out the message that government is not serious, and thus people carry on with construction as per their whims and fancies,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/haphazard-construction-dots-sanjauli-dhalli-stretch-321713
08-10-2021||Professor Atul Khosla took over as the Vice-Chancellor (VC) of Shoolini University||Atul Khosla made Shoolini varsity VC||SFI protests ‘arbitrary’ pricesThe Students’ Federation of India (SFI) gheraoed the dean, studies, HPU, to register their protest against the ‘arbitrary’ prices charged by eateries on the premises of the university. The SFI reminded the DSW that they had submitted the memorandum a month back to display the rate list at these eateries, so that owners did not charge arbitrary prices. The SFI also demanded that the university café should be opened soon, so that students got the eatables at reasonable prices. The SFI said if their demands were not met within a week, they would intensify the protest.event for faculty at St Bede’s CollegeThe placement cell, under the aegis of IQAC, St Bede’s College, Shimla, organised a faculty awareness programme on ‘Benefits of financial labs-cum-incubation on campus’ and ‘Sustainability and Ethics: How academic curriculum has been aligned to meet skills of the 21st century’ on October 7. The resource persons were Padamakumar Nair, dean, Thapar School of Management, and Himesh Sharma, CEO, Skill Labs. Sharma emphasised the role of experiential learning in enhancing employability and self-employment among young graduates, women entrepreneurship and shared value creation model. He talked about the need to set up a centre to nurture practical knowledge and skills, start-ups and self- employment. Nair emphasised on ‘Success 3M model: Money, Match and Meaning’, ‘Industry 4.0’, changing nature of jobs, shaping career, sustainable words and human behaviour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/atul-khosla-made-shoolini-varsity-vc-321714
08-10-2021||The HRTC buses and taxis running from Sanjauli to the IGMC and the Lakkar Bazaar are overcrowded most of the time. Even the young individuals wait for these vehicles||HRTC buses overcrowded||— Digvijay Chauhan, SanjauliBeef up fire facilities in chambaTo avoid any untoward fire incident in Chamba town, the local authorities should make all fire hydrants functional. More hydrants should be added, wherever necessary. There were 102 fire hydrants in the town, but some of them went out of order. Moreover, keeping in view the congested alleys in the town, the local fire brigade should be equipped with light vehicles to help firemen reach the spot quickly in emergency. — Suresh, Ram Dhiman, SK Bedi, ChambaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hrtc-buses-overcrowded-321715
08-10-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Himachal bypoll: BJP fields Kargil war veteran against Pratibha Singh; Bragta’s son loses ticket race||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 7The BJP on Thursday released the list of candidates for the October 30 Lok Sabha and Assembly bypolls. The party has fielded Kargil war hero Brig Khushal Thakur (retd) from the Mandi Lok Sabha seat to take on Congress’ Pratibha Singh, a two-time MP and wife of former CM Virbhadra Singh.Brig Thakur was the Commanding Officer of 18 Grenadiers that captured the Tiger Hill and Tololing during the Kargil war. He served the Army for 34 years and is a recipient of Yudh Seva Medal. He was a strong contender for the ticket in 2019, but was ignored. The ticket was given to Ram Swaroop Sharma, whose demise caused the byelection.Former zila parishad member Neelam Saraik, who had been at the forefront of several agitations, including the one against delay in the Theog-Hatkoti road project, will contest the Jubbal-Kotkhai (Shimla) Assembly byelection. The seat fell vacant after the demise of former BJP minister Narinder Bragta. His son Chetan Bragta had started canvassing in the area, but was denied the ticket as the party decided “not to promote dynasty politics”.Also read: Miffed BJP leader Chetan Bragta to fight as IndependentThe BJP list also named Ratan Singh Pal from the Arki Assembly seat in Solan. Pal had lost the 2017 polls against former CM Virbhadra Singh, who died in July this year. In Fatehpur (Kangra), the BJP has fielded Baldev Thakur, who contested the 2017 election as an Independent and was instrumental in the defeat of the then BJP candidate Kirpal Parmar.Brig Thakur filed his nomination today, while the other three candidates would be filling their papers tomorrow, the last day of nominations.Other candidates||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-bypoll-bjp-fields-kargil-war-veteran-against-pratibha-singh-bragtas-son-loses-ticket-race-321631
08-10-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Himachal bypoll: BJP list out, Kargil war veteran Khushal Thakur is new face from Mandi LS seat||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 7The BJP has decided to field Kargil war veteran Brigadier Khushal Thakur (retd), a new face from Mandi Lok Sabha seat.Brig Thakur was in 18th battalion of the Grenadiers Regiment of the Indian Army. His was one of the battalions that was part of the capture of Tiger Hill and Tololing during Kargil conflict with Pakistan. He was a strong contender for the ticket in 2019 General Election, but was denied the ticket.The seat fell vacant after the demise of sitting BJP MP Ram Swaroop Sharma.Mandi Parliament constituency is the second largest constituency of the country area wise and includes 17 Assembly constituencies in the districts of Mandi, Kullu, Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti, Chamba and Shimla.Former Zila Parishad member Neelam Saraik would contest the elections from Jubbal-Kotkhai in Shimla district.The seat fell vacated following the demise of former BJP minister Narendra Bragta. His son Chetan Bragta had started canvassing in the area, but was denied ticket as the BJP took decision not to promote dynasty politics.The BJP list for byelection announced today also named Ratan Singh Pal from Arki Assembly seat in Solan who unsuccessfully contested the 2017 polls against former chief minister Virbhadra Singh. Virbhadra Singh passed away in July this year.In Fatehpur (Kangra), the BJP has fielded Baldev Thakur, who contested the 2017 election as an Independent and was instrumental in the defeat of the then BJP candidate former MP Kirpal Parmar. Death of Congress MLA and former minister Sujan Singh Pathania led to byelection in this Assembly constituency.Last date of filing of nominations is October 8 and the polling will be held on October 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-bypoll-bjp-list-out-kargil-war-veteran-khushal-thakur-is-new-face-from-mandi-ls-seat-321384
08-10-2021||---||Trekking banned in Himachal's Lahaul-Spiti||Mandi, October 6Keeping in view the geographical conditions of tribal district of Lahaul and Spiti and the coming winter season, Deputy Commissioner Lahaul and Spiti Neeraj Kumar today issued an order banning trekking and mountaineering activities in the entire district.The Deputy Commissioner stated that trekking and mountaineering enthusiasts often visit the district even in winter season. During winter season, the weather can turn unfavourable within no time, which can pose a threat to the life of the trekker.“In such a situation, there are many difficulties in carrying out search and rescue operations if any person is trapped in the high attitude areas. In view of these circumstances, I have issued an order under Section 34 of the Disaster Management Act 2005, which will continue till further orders,” he remarked.“For disobeying the order, action can be taken against the offenders as per rules. A copy of the order has also been sent to the Superintendent of Police so that trekkers entering the district can be monitored,” he added.The DC has urged the representatives of panchayati raj institutions, mahila mandals and yuvak mandals to inform the local administration if such activities are noticed in their areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/trekking-banned-in-himachals-lahaul-spiti-321317
