09-10-2021||---||Class VIII students in Himachal to attend school from Oct 11||Shimla, October 8Seeing the improved Covid situation, the state government today issued an order for allowing students of Class VIII to attend regular classes in school from October 11. An order was issued by Chief Secretary Ram Subhag Singh, here today, in this regard.The decision has been taken in view of the improvement in the number of daily Covid cases and the positivity rate. Classes IX to XII students are already attending schools physically. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/class-viii-students-in-himachal-to-attend-school-from-oct-11-322192
09-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Experts hold review meet on agriculture at CSK HP Agri varsity, Palampur||Palampur, October 8A review meeting of the expert group for agriculture was held under the chairmanship of Ramesh Chand, Member, NITI Aayog, Government of India, at the CSK HP Agriculture University here today. The group has been constituted by the state government to prepare new strategies for the development of agricultural sector.Ramesh Chand said the group should work hard to support the suffering farming community.He said farm institutions were fascinating but these were yet to reach the farmers because marketing skills were missing so, scientists needed to focus on the transfer of relevant technology. He said scientists should give priority to environment issues.He said agriculture experts should work for both the masses and the elite class. Stress should be laid on increasing the income of farmers, he said.SK Malhotra, Commissioner, Agriculture and Horticulture, Government of India, said it was a matter of grave concern that fallow land was increasing. He said high cost of production of agriculture produce had forced farmers to abandon their fields. He said there should be a concrete plan to motivate such farmers.HK Chaudhary, Vice-Chancellor, said the university had worked on current approaches and future strategies for doubling the income of farmers. He said that availability of quality seed, feed and breed at the doorstep of farmers could help them in a big way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/experts-hold-review-meet-on-agriculture-at-csk-hp-agri-varsity-palampur-322199
09-10-2021||Abhinav Vashisht
||Kullu residents, NGO fear adverse impact of ropeways||Kullu, October 8 The district administration and the state government are expediting construction work of ropeways for the Rohtang Pass and Bijli Mahadev but residents and environmentalists here are apprehensive of adverse impacts of the ropeway projects without development of the required infrastructure to improve the carrying capacities of these areas. Gaurav Bhardwaj, president, Youth Association for Transforming Nation (YATN), an NGO involved in environment protection, health and general awareness in this district, says that they have submitted a memorandum to the district administration regarding various suggestions for the Bijli Mahadev ropeway. He adds that the association carries out cleanliness drives and collects and disposes of tonnes of waste every year, which is left behind by visitors at Bijli Mahadev. He says that the volume of visitors to the area will increase manifold once the ropeways become operational. The volume of garbage in area will also go up then. He adds that the company operating the ropeway should be made liable to clear and dispose of garbage in a scientific manner to maintain the sanctity of the entire region.  The responsibility of the company should be fixed for cleanliness in such a manner that it is liable for action upon violation. He says that suggestions have been given to the district administration to prioritise public utilities such as toilets and bathrooms and have proper garbage and sewage management systems. Abhishek Rai, president, Himalayan Environment Conservation Organisation (HECO), a local NGO, says that a lot of trees will have to be axed for the Rohtang Pass ropeway, which will cause an irreparable loss to the ecology of the region. He adds that multiple surveys of different alignments should be carried out minimise tree felling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-residents-ngo-fear-adverse-impact-of-ropeways-322200
09-10-2021||A tap at the Daulat Singh Park on The Ridge has been leaking non-stop for the past few days. Something has gone wrong with the tap||Fix leaking tap on The Ridge||Resume train on the Pathankot-JoginderNagar track The train service on the Pathankot-Jogindernagar track has been curtailed by the Railways Department. Earlier, seven trains used to ply on the track. Residents of rural areas use trains daily in Kangra district. There are many rural areas of Kangra, where there is no bus service and people are dependent on the Railways to travel within the district. The train service was stopped during the Covid-induced lockdown, and now just two trains are plying on the track. The government should immediately resume the train service on the track. — Kamal, KangraWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback  @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fix-leaking-tap-on-the-ridge-322201
09-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Experts hold review meet on agriculture||Chamba, October 8To mark 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav' on 75th anniversary of Independence, the Postal Department of Chamba today released “My Stamp” with a photo of a local freedom fighter, Saudagar Mal.In a felicitation ceremony, Superintendent of Post Offices (SPO) Tilak Raj said Saudagar Mal's contribution and sacrifice in the freedom struggle would always be remembered. The Postal Department has started this initiative to recognise freedom fighters of the district.On the occasion, SPO Tilak Raj honoured Virender Mahajan, son of Saudagar Mal, by wearing ‘my stamp’, shawl and cap.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/experts-hold-review-meet-on-agriculture-322202
09-10-2021||Government Girls College||Awareness spread on mental health||HIMCOSTE holds drive against plasticThe HP ENVIS Hub, at the Himachal Pradesh Council for Science, Technology and Environment (HIMCOSTE) celebrated ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ by organising an awareness campaign to educate people to avoid single use plastic, at Government Senior Secondary School, Durgapur, Naldehra, Shimla. Sat Pal Dhiman, joint member secretary, HIMCOSTE, was the chief guest. He said the government had launched a 75-week-long campaign 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav' to celebrate the achievements of the country and its people, and the week from October 4 to 10 was declared as the 'iconic week' by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change for organising paradigmatic and impactful events.Event on photonics tech concludesThe five-day online Faculty Development Programme (FDP) on ‘photonics technology’, approved by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), concluded. The event was held from October 4-8 at the University Institute of Technology (UIT), HPU, Shimla. Speakers from renowned universities and institutes from all over the country as well as abroad shared their research work in photonics during the programme. Around 100 faculty members from various states of India confirmed their participation. As many as 14 sessions were held, and three lectures were delivered by the speakers every day on the technological development in photonics. The focus of these session was on the paradigm shift to silicon photonics from electronics circuit and the role of photonics in 5G communication and the Internet of Things (IoT).DAV-Manali girls win accoladesSlogan writing, painting, quiz and essay-writing competitions were organised by the Forest Department for students in Manali under the ‘Wildlife Week’. The theme of 'Exploring the relationship between humans and animals' was chosen for all competitions. As many as 28 students from four schools of Manali participated in the event and the students of DAV, Manali, performed well. Laila clinched the first place in essay-writing, while Shanvi stood first in painting competition. Ridhima got the third place in slogan-writing competition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/awareness-spread-on-mental-health-322203
09-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Fixed parking rates sought||Hamirpur, October 8The All India River Rafting Marathon concluded at Nadaun, near here, today. Deputy Commissioner (DC) Debasweta Banik gave prizes to the winners at the valedictory function organised on the banks of the Beas. As many as 44 teams, including 16 teams of women, 10 mixed and 18 of men, from across the country and defence services participated in the marathon.The DC said the first attempt to organise a rafting event was successful. The administration would conduct more rafting and other adventure competitions in near future, she said. She said local participation in the event would encourage the youth towards rafting. The event would also mark Nadaun on the national rafting map and encourage tourism in the region, she added.In the men's category, the Indian Army won the gold medal, while the ITBP Bravo won silver. The ITBP Alfa team won bronze. In the women's category, the BSF won the gold medal, while the ITBP women teams Bravo and Alfa won silver and bronze, respectively. In the mixed category, the ITBP Charlie, Bravo and Alfa teams bagged the gold, silver and bronze medals, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fixed-parking-rates-sought-322204
09-10-2021||Lalit Mohan||Use lime, baked earth to preserve forts, say experts||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, October 8Experts from Rajasthan are busy these days trying to preserve the Nandpur fort located on the banks of the Pong lake in Kangra district. The fort that was part of the heritage of the Guler state of Kangra is being restored using the old Indian art of construction method of lime and baked earth.Raghav Guleria, who now owns the fort, says, “The old building of the fort was constructed using lime and baked earth. The walls of the fort have withstood the test of time and are over a century old now. However, natural elements are now taking toll on the building. I want to restore it to its old glory”. He adds that he met a group of artisans from Rajasthan who were trying to revive the old art of construction using ‘chuna’ (lime) and ‘surkhi’ (baked) earth.These artisans organised a workshop in the fort and restored the old walls of the Nandpur fort. They are also training local masons. Kangra district has a large number of old buildings, forts and temples. These buildings can be restored to their ancient glory using this art of construction, he says.Kimberley Moyle, a consultant at Indi Architecture, is also here to learn the technique. She says, “I am inspired by India, where I see many traditional old houses built in lime and ‘surkhi’. It is sad to see that this precious knowledge is getting lost as people are now opting for RCC (reinforced concrete) structures that has much shorter life”.She says that the old Indian way of construction is more viable than the new method of RCC constructions. The building constructed using the RCC method has a life span, whereas the buildings constructed using limestone can last for centuries. The lime construction method is also environment-friendly and healthier for people living in them, she adds.Rafiq Muwal, a master artisan from Churu in Rajasthan, is teaching local artisans this technique. He says, “We make mortars by mixing lime, baked earth, jaggery and fenugreek water solutions. The mortars are applied on the walls with gentle stokes called ‘Thappi’. Then plaster is applied over the walls using the same material to give it a smooth finish. The buildings built using this technique can last for centuries. We can also restore old buildings using this technique”.Guleria says, “The state government has been talking about preserving the heritage of Himachal. If the government wants to move in this direction and adopts this old technique, the preservation and renovation of old forts and temples can be the first step in this direction”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/use-lime-baked-earth-to-preserve-forts-say-experts-322187
09-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Home guards return after scaling Moon Peak||Hamirpur, October 8Mountaineers of 10 Battalion of Home Guards, who scaled the Moon Peak, situated on the Dhauladhar ranges of Himalayas, returned here today. The peak is 15,250 feet high and is one of the toughest peaks in Dhauladhar ranges due to its difficult terrain and harsh weather conditions.SK Kaundal, commandant of the battalion who was also the team leader for the expedition, said the 11-member team of Home Guards started its climb on October 2 and reached the top of the peak on October 5. He said persistent rain and snow storms were major challenges on the track.Besides him, the team included company commanders Ashok Rangra and Parveen Kumar, platoon commander Raj Kumar, havildar Ranbir Singh and Pawan Kumar, home guard Sanjit Kumar, Surender Kumar, Kashmir Singh and two women, Shobha Devi and Parveen Kaushal.The expedition to scale the mountain was flagged off by Devashweta Banik, Deputy Commissioner, on October 2. The Deputy Commissioner said the expedition instilled confidence among team members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/home-guards-return-after-scaling-moon-peak-322188
09-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Manikaran to host women boxing meet||Kullu, October 8Kullu District Boxing Association president Kishan Thakur said the state-level women championship would be held in Manikaran of Kullu district on October 15 and 16.Addressing mediapersons here today he said teams from Shimla, Una, Hamirpur, Bilaspur, Solan, Mandi, Kinnaur, Lahaul & Spiti and Kullu will participate in the tourney. The Himachal team will be selected to participate in the national tournament to be held at Hisar in Haryana from October 21.Thakur said many girls of Kullu had participated in national events earlier also. He said the association provided a platform for the sportspersons to excel in boxing.A grant of Rs 75,000 was given by the government to the association earlier, but it was not given this time due to Covid crisis, said Thakur. The association had contributed through voluntary donations to organise the tournament, so that the women boxers were not deprived of participation in the tournament, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manikaran-to-host-women-boxing-meet-322189
09-10-2021||---||Over 86K avail  tele-consultation service through e-sanjeevani in Himachal||Shimla, October 8As many as 86,607 patients have been provided 1,10,000 tele-consultations through e-sanjeevani portal till date over the last on year.Informing this here today, a government official said the government had started this tele-consultation service under the Ayushman Bharat-HWC programme during the pandemic to help people consult doctors from the safety of their homes. “This service was hosted on e-Sanjeevani and e-Sanjeevani-OPD Portal of the government of India,” the spokesperson said.The spokesperson further said that people can now consult doctors in government hospitals using their mobile phones or by visiting their nearest PHC on all working days from 9:30 am to 4:00 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/over-86k-avail-tele-consultation-service-through-e-sanjeevani-in-himachal-322190
09-10-2021||Ambika Sharma||Solan Planning Area to be extended||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 8To ensure planned development of the Solan Planning Area, a proposal to enhance its limits and include villages lying in its precincts is being prepared by the Town and Country Planning (TCP) Department.“In view of the potential rise in the population and unregulated expansion of rural areas of the Solan Planning Area, the need to include villages lying in its precincts is being felt. This will ensure planned development and proper sewage and garbage disposal as well as drainage facilities. It has been observed that the rural areas, where fast urbanisation is under way, are facing these problems owing to unregulated construction,” said town planner Leela Shyam.These exhibited a growth rate of 57.23 per cent during 1991-2000 which was the highest in Himachal Pradesh. Owing to its location, which is close to Shimla and Chandigarh, Solan is the preferred destination of a large number of people.The move will also help regulate constructions as multi-storey buildings have come up on the periphery which are not only unsafe, but also considered a hazard in this high seismic zone. With cases of unsafe building collapse causing losses, the need to regulate constructions in the bordering areas of Solan is being felt.“Solan is the fastest growing town after Shimla and since it is saturated, the focus has now shifted to the rural areas,” said Leela Shyam.As many as 14 persons had lost their lives when an eatery had collapsed in July last year on the Kumarhatti-Nahan road. Though in the urban areas, the number of storeys is regulated, in the rural areas there are no such regulations.The Solan Planning Area was constituted in 1997. It includes 67 villages as well as the municipal council area. The council was upgraded to municipal corporation in 2020. A population of 8,162 was added to the Solan civic body from the nearby panchayats to upgrade it to a municipal corporation. As per the 2011 census, the town had a population of 39,256 and it has increased to 47,418 after its notification as a municipal corporation. The actual population is supposed to be much higher as the town has a large number of floating population.As per new proposal of the TCP Department, 21 villages lying on its periphery have now been partially or completely included in the new planning area. “Keeping in view the need for future expansion in the rural areas, the move to include the peripheral rural areas has been mooted,” said Town Planner Leela Shyam. The proposal would be sent to the state for final approval.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-planning-area-to-be-extended-322191
09-10-2021||---||Pratibha Singh files papers from Mandi as Cong targets BJP govt over inflation||Mandi, October 8Congress candidate Pratibha Singh, two-time MP and wife of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh, filed her nomination papers for the Mandi Lok Sabha byelection here today. She was accompanied by senior Congress leader Kaul Singh Thakur.Upbeat Congress workers raised slogans in the favour of Pratibha and were seen dancing to the tunes of dhols and drums.The Congress organised a public meeting at Seri Manch to woo voters. The Congress leadership targeted the BJP over inflation, unemployment and a lack of development issues.Shimla (Rural) MLA Vikramaditya Singh said, “The rising prices of essential commodities is a major poll issue. During the BJP regime in the state and at the Centre, the prices of mustard oil have crossed Rs 200 per litre, while the cost a domestic LPG cylinder has gone up dramatically, creating difficulties for women in managing their kitchen budget”.He said, “Development is taking place only in Seraj and Dharampur, the Assembly segments of the Chief Minister and Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur, respectively. It was the Congress government led by former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh, which took several decisions for the welfare of employees”.Kaul Singh said that during the BJP regime, corruption had increased manifold.Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said the government had failed to ensure development in the past four years. The Chief Minister had failed to execute even his dream airport project in Mandi.HPCC president Kuldeep Singh Rathore said that the Congress would fight this election on public issues like inflation, unemployment and a lack of development. The BJP was a divided house, while the Congress was united and would win all four byelections.Pratibha Singh urged the voters to support her. She said, “I am missing my husband today, who had always supported me”.Besides Pratibha, Ambika Shyam of the Rashtriya Lokneeti Party filed nomination. Subhash Mohan Snehi, and Jogindernagar resident Anil Kumar filed papers as Independent candidates.Details of AffidavitPratibha SinghAge: 65 yrsEducation Qualification: BAMoveable assets: self: Rs 7.54 croreSpouse: Rs2.11 croreImmovable assets: self: Rs 14.98 croreSpouse: NILn Liabilities:self: Rs10,29,992||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pratibha-singh-files-papers-from-mandi-as-cong-targets-bjp-govt-over-inflation-322181
09-10-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Jubbal-Kotkhai byelection: Jai Ram Thakur tries to placate Chetan Bragta, urges him to support Neelam Saraik||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 8Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today tried to bring Chetan Bragta around and urged him and his supporters to reconcile to the party decision of fielding Neelam Saraik for the Jubbal-Kotkhai byelection. A piquant situation had arisen after Chetan was denied the BJP ticket at the last minute.Rohit expects to gain from split in BJP votesThakur, who was present with Saraik when she filed her nomination papers at Jubbal, urged local leaders to work for the party like disciplined soldiers. He said that the former minister raised issues of apple growers and ensured the development of the area. He urged all to join hands and work unitedly for Saraik’s victory. The family of Narinder Bragta, on whose demise the Jubbal-Kotkhai seat fell vacant, exercise considerable influence in the constituency.Meanwhile, the change of the candidate at the last minute has baffled the Chief Minister and the state leadership. Chetan had been campaigning in the constituency immediately after his father’s death in August.“I do not want to say anything specific but I urge those, who have chosen a different path, to reconsider their decision and join hands in ensuring the BJP’s victory,” said the Chief Minister in an oblique reference to Chetan, who has filed nomination papers as a rebel candidate.“Notwithstanding the circumstances, we must abide by the decision of the party. Nadda ji gave up ministry in the state, then at the Centre to serve the party organisation. I have done the same thing right from my journey as the Seraj block BJP president to the Chief Minister’s chair,” he said.Thakur said that Saraik had been the state general secretary of the Mahila Morcha and had won the Zila Parishad elections thrice. Her performance convinced the central leadership to give her a chance in the byelection, he added.Saraik thanked the party leadership for giving the ticket to a woman candidate from Jubbal-Kotkhai for the first time. “Narinder Bragta was a messiah who had done a lot for apple growers,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jubbal-kotkhai-byelection-jai-ram-thakur-tries-to-placate-chetan-bragta-urges-him-to-support-neelam-saraik-322182
09-10-2021||---||Dissidence quelled at Arki, BJP’s Rattan Pal breathes easy||Solan, October 8Rattan Pal, BJP’s nominee for the Arki seat, today filed his nomination before the sub divisional magistrate of Arki.He was accompanied by Anurag Thakur, Union Minister for Sports, Youth Affairs, Information and Broadcasting, Trilok Jamwal BJP’s general secretary, Shimla Lok Sabha in-charge Purshottam Guleria and other leaders of the district.Addressing the party workers who had gathered on the occasion, the Union Minister said, “The BJP is a workers’ party and tickets have been allotted on merit keeping the winning ability in mind among other key factors.”“The BJP has replaced several chief ministers, including the CM of Gujarat along with the entire Cabinet. When new party workers replace the old ones there is no resentment in the party,” the minister said.He added that Rattan Pal has the support of all senior leaders, including the party’s national president JP Nadda, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and CM Jai Ram Thakur as he is a consensus candidature. He urged the party workers to ensure his victory and propagate the development works of the state and the Central government among the masses.Taking a dig at the Congress, he said “Internal squabbles have become routine in the Congress which has been reduced to a one-family party and questions are being raised over its working.”Elaborating on the initiatives of the Modi-led government, he said, “Modi ended the middlemen culture and the common man was now directly receiving the subsidy in his account.”Thakur said, “The Congress had left the country in dire straits during its more than 65 years of rule and PM Modi has toiled hard during its seven years at the helm for the development of the country.”Thakur urged the workers to seek votes for Rattan Pal for this by-election. Thakur managed to placate the disgruntled leaders like Zila Parishad member Amar Singh, Asha Parihar and former MLA Govind Ram Sharma who had resented the candidature of Rattan Pal.Amar Singh was given a seat on the dais.Details of AffidavitRattan PalAge: 53 yrsEducation Qualification: Class XMoveable assets: Self: Rs80,11,769Spouse: Rs21,51,990Immovable assets: Self: Rs70 lakhSpouse: Rs40 lakhLiabilities:Self: Rs49,87,314Spouse: Rs2,66,094||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dissidence-quelled-at-arki-bjps-rattan-pal-breathes-easy-322183
09-10-2021||Legal Correspondent||Justice Sabina sworn in as Himachal HC judge, Governor administers oath||Shimla, October 8Justice Sabina was sworn in as a judge of the High Court of Himachal Pradesh here today. She was administered the oath of office by Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar in a simple but impressive ceremony held at Raj Bhawan.She was transferred from the Rajasthan High Court to the High Court of Himachal. Besides Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath, Chairperson the Human Right Commission Justice PS Rana, Advocate General Ashok Sharma, DGP Sanjay Kundu, and Shimla Mayor Satya Kaundal were also present.Meanwhile, Justice Anoop Chitkara, who has been transferred to the High Court of Punjab and Haryana at Chandigarh, was given a warm send-off. A full court address was held in his honour at the High Court.Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath said that Justice Chitkara hails from a traditional family of lawyers. In spite of his busy schedule, he had delivered many lectures and contributed a lot to the growth of law. Justice Anoop Chitkara, while remembering his journey as the HC judge, said, “Every day, the new generation lawyers light up my court with their youthful exuberance and eagerness to learn. This new generation is socially engaged and hungry for change. They have the power of technology at their side, which they creatively wield to advance the justice delivery system.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/justice-sabina-sworn-in-as-himachal-hc-judge-governor-administers-oath-322185
09-10-2021||Vijay Arora||Shimla: Demolition of Kachi Ghati building stayed||Shimla, October 8The HP High Court today stayed the order to demolish the adjacent building that has been found “unsafe” following the collapse of a seven-storey building a few days back in the Kachi Ghati (Shimla) locality.While passing this interim order a division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Sabina clarified that the order of demolition is stayed for a period of eight weeks. The bench also issued notices to the state government and Municipal Corporation (MC), Shimla and granted time to the state authorities to file their response.IIT, NIT to reassess ‘unsafe’ buildingsThe court passed this order on a petition filed by one Mohinder Singh, who is the owner of the building which was declared unsafe by the MC authorities located at Kachi Ghatti (Shimla) seeking stay on the demolishing order issued by the MC on October, 4, 2021, whereby the MC had given three days to the owner of the building to demolish it.During the course of hearing, the counsel appearing for the petitioner’s contended that the petitioner has vacated the building in question and there is nobody in the building now. It was further contended that he will not occupy the premises until further orders. He further undertakes that the interim order may be granted to stay the demolition.An inter-departmental committee comprising members from Architect Planner branch, an Executive Engineer from the SJPNL and a geologist visited the site and found the adjacent buildings unsafe and on the basis of the committee’s report, the MC had issued the demolition order of four buildings.The demolition orders have been issued under the provisions of Section 258 of the Municipal Corporation Act. Aggrieved from this notice one of the building owner filed the petition before the court seeking stay on demolition order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-demolition-of-kachi-ghati-building-stayed-322186
09-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Rebel in 2017, Baldev Thakur files papers as BJP nominee||Nurpur, October 8BJP candidate Baldev Thakur today filed his nomination papers for the Fatehpur Assembly byelection in the presence of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. State BJP president Suresh Kashyap and ministers Vikram Thakur and Rakesh Pathania were also present.Baldev had unsuccessfully contested the 2017 Assembly election from Fatehpur in Kangra district as a BJP rebel. The seat had fallen vacant following the death of Congress MLA Sujan Singh Pathania in February this year.CM takes upset Parmar in helicopter to KotkhaiBJP vice-president Kirpal Parmar was conspicuous by his absence. He had lost the last Assembly election from Fatehpur as the BJP candidate and was keen to fight the byelection. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur later took an upset Parmar in his helicopter to Kotkhai where they accompanied BJP candidate Neelam Saraik to file her nomination papers.After Baldev filed his nomination, the Chief Minister addressed a gathering at Fatehpur. He said that during the past three and a half years, his government had accepted all demands of the people of the Fatehpur Assembly constituency. It would continue to accelerate development in the area after the byelection.Thakur urged the electorate of Fatehpur to support Baldev in the byelection; no BJP candidate had been elected from the constituency in the past 13 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rebel-in-2017-baldev-thakur-files-papers-as-bjp-nominee-322193
09-10-2021||---||Vimal Kumar Meena expenditure observer for Mandi||Mandi, October 8The Election Commission today appointed Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer Vimal Kumar Meena as the expenditure observer for the Mandi Lok Sabha byelection.Meena will keep a close vigil on the expenditures or the money spent by the candidates during the election period to lead their election campaigns. The maximum limit for spending money by a candidate during the election period is Rs 77 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vimal-kumar-meena-expenditure-observer-for-mandi-322194
09-10-2021||Shimla||24 nominees in fray for Oct 30 Himachal bypolls||A total of 24 candidates are in the fray for the byelections for the Mandi Lok Sabha and Arki, Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly constituencies to be held on October 30.Today was the last date for filing nominations. A total of eight candidates are in the fray for the Mandi byelection. They are Khushal Chand and Priyanta Sharma (BJP), Munshi Ram Thakur (Himachal Jankranti Party), Pratibha Singh and Sunder Singh Thakur (Congress), Ambika Shyam (Rashtriya Lokneeti Party), Subhash Mohan Snehi and Anil Kumar (Independent candidates).There are seven candidates in the fray from Fatehpur Assembly segment in Kangra. They are Dr Ashok Kumar, Prem Chand Somal and Rajan Sushant (Independent), Bhawani Singh Pathania and Jeet Kumar (Congress), Pankaj Kumar (Himachal Jankranti Party) and Baldev Thakur (BJP).In Arki, the fight is mainly between Sanjay and Satish Kumar Kashyap (Congress), Rattan Singh Pal (BJP) and Jeet Ram (Independent).Five candidates are in the fray in the Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly constituency in Shimla district. They are Rohit Thakur (Congress), Neelam Seraik (BJP), and Suman Kadam, Chetan Singh Bragta and Kewal Ram Negi (Independents).—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/24-nominees-in-fray-for-oct-30-himachal-bypolls-322195
09-10-2021||---||Opt for NOTA in Himachal byelections, AAP to tell workers||Shimla, October 8The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will ask it workers and sympathisers to reject both BJP and Congress candidates and press the NOTA button in the upcoming byelections in the state. “Both parties take turns every five years to deceive the people of the state. So, we will ask our workers and sympathisers to opt for NOTA and reject their candidates,” said Ratnesh Gupta, AAP state in-charge.‘Cong, BJP deceive voters every 5 yrs’Both Congress and BJP take turns every five years to deceive the people of the state. So, we will ask our workers and sympathisers to opt for NOTA and reject their candidates. —Ratnesh Gupta, AAP state in-chargeEven as AAP has come to the state with a grand ambition of providing a third alternative to the people, it has decided to skip these elections. “Our focus is Assembly elections next year. We are building our organisational strength to put a big challenge next year. So, we did not want to distract ourselves by fighting the byelections,” said Gupta.Gupta said that the top AAP leaders were focusing on the upcoming elections in Punjab, Uttarakhand, UP and Goa at the moment. “We have high hopes in these states. Our leaders would not have been able to spare time for byelections as they all are busy preparing for elections in these four states. Once these elections are done, our entire focus will be on Himachal for 2022,” said Gupta.Meanwhile, some AAP workers in the state feel the party should have fought the byelections. “By the time the AAP leadership focuses properly on the state, it will be too late to win over the voters,” said an AAP worker.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/opt-for-nota-in-himachal-byelections-aap-to-tell-workers-322196
09-10-2021||NURPUR||Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu persuades rebel Nishwar Singh not to file nomination||Former HPCC president and Nadaun MLA Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu today persuaded the Congress ticket claimant and PCC delegate Nishwar Singh not to file nomination papers as an Independent candidate for the Fatehpur Assembly byelection.Three Congress ticket contenders Chetan Chambiyal, Raghav Pathania and Nishwar Singh had unanimously decided two days ago to field Nishwar Singh as an Independent candidate after the party announced Bhawani Singh, son of late MLA Sujan Singh Pathania, as the candidate. Nishwar was to file nomination today.While talking to The Tribune, Nishwar Singh said he had a long personal association with Sukhu. “He called me several times today before I was to file nomination papers. Following his persuasion, I have decided not to contest the byelection against party’s official candidate Bhawani Singh,” he said.—OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sukhwinder-singh-sukhu-persuades-rebel-nishwar-singh-not-to-file-nomination-322197
09-10-2021||Ambika Sharma||Anurag placates two-time MLA Govind Ram, others||Tribune News ServiceSolan,October 8Anurag Thakur, Union Minister for Sports, Youth Affairs, Information and Broadcasting, today managed to placate disgruntled BJP leaders of Arki, including two-time MLA Govind Ram Sharma.Anurag was specially assigned the task to bring around Sharma. He met Sharma at Shalaghat immediately after he arrived in Arki and managed to convince the latter not to file papers for the byelection.Sharma had decided to file his nomination today after he was denied the BJP ticket. He was unhappy with the BJP for fielding Rattan Pal from Arki, who had lost the Assembly election in 2017.Sharma had met Chief Minister in Shimla last night where efforts were made to placate him. He, however, asked his supporters through his social media account to meet him in front of a park facing the hospital around 9 am, purportedly to file his nomination papers.“Union minister Anurag Thakur urged Govind Ram Sharma not to file his nomination and the latter relented,” said a party leader. The disgruntled leader wanted senior party leaders to know about his sacrifices and contributions to the party, he added.The dramatic turn of events has exposed two senior BJP leaders, who were pressuring Sharma to contest the byelection as an Independent candidate. These leaders wanted both official nominee Rattan Pal and Sharma to lose the byelection due to a division of party votes. This would have helped them stake their claims to the ticket for the Assembly elections next year. While one of the two leaders was seen with Sharma all the times, another was pressuring him to contest the byelection.Zila Parishad members Asha Parihar and Amar Singh, who had opposed Rattan Pal’s candidature, also fell in line with the party decision after a meeting with Anurag. Govind Ram’s entry into the poll fray would have adversely affected the BJP’s poll prospects in Arki, as the party had lost the 2017 Assembly election from the seat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anurag-placates-two-time-mla-govind-ram-others-322198
09-10-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal bypoll: Ex-minister Narinder Bragta’s son jumps into fray as Ind, BJP worried||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 8The BJP seems to have landed itself in deep trouble by denying ticket to former minister Narinder Bragta’s son Chetan Bragta as he today chose to jump into the election arena as an Independent from the Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly segment, the apple heartland in Shimla district.Chetan miffed with partyThe fear of losing the seat, which has traditionally been a Congress citadel with two Chief Ministers (Ram Lal Thakur and Virbhadra Singh) winning from there, has gripped the BJP as all efforts to placate Chetan have proved futile so far. However, all possible channels are still being tapped to ensure his withdrawal.The BJP has given the ticket to Neelam Saraik, who had contested as an Independent against Narinder Bragta in the last Assembly elections.The Jubbal-Kotkhai seat will witness a keen triangular contest among the BJP, Congress and Chetan Bragta in case he does not succumb to party pressure to withdraw. Narinder Bragta had won from Jubbal-Kotkhai twice and vociferously raised issues concerning apple growers.Chetan (44), head of the state BJP IT Cell, could ride high on the sympathy factor, not so much because of his father’s demise but more so for being denied the ticket at the last minute.“Is there no recognition for my 15 years of work for the party? I did not ask for the ticket, it is state leadership which asked me to step out within a fortnight of my father’s death, so tell me what is my fault,” Bragta said in a voice choked with emotion after filing his nomination today. Narinder Bragta, who died in June this year, was considered a staunch Dhumal loyalist and was a minister in the former CM’s Cabinet twice. Chetan did not mince words in stating that injustice had been meted out to his family.“A person who plotted against the party and tried to weaken the BJP has been rewarded. I would have had no problem if any party worker had been given the ticket,” he said while indirectly hitting out at BJP candidate Neelam Saraik.In case, the party fails to placate Chetan, the split in party vote bank could prove to be advantageous for Congress candidate Rohit Thakur, grandson of former chief minister Ram Lal Thakur. He has won twice in the past.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-bypoll-ex-minister-narinder-bragtas-son-jumps-into-fray-as-ind-bjp-worried-321974
