12-10-2021||---||Himachal Pradesh schools open for Class VIII, 49 per cent attendance on Day 1||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 11About 49 per cent Class VIII students of government schools across Himachal Pradesh attended physical classes today. The overall attendance for Classes VIII to XII was 59.33 per cent as 2,21,747 students out of total 3,73,761 attended the classes.“I’m back to school after almost a year and a half and feel so happy to meet friends and attend regular classes,” said Class VIII student Neha. “It’s nice to be back in school with friends after a long time,” said another student Suchit.In all, 28,536 out of total 62,175 (48.95 per cent) Class VIII students of government schools attended classes.The highest turnout was 76.64 per cent in Kinnaur district, followed by Lahaul and Spiti (64.29%), Hamirpur (63.37%), Mandi (57.43%), Kangra (53.5%), Shimla (46.46%), Bilaspur (46.29%), Una (41.04%), Sirmaur (39.91%), Chamba (35.87%), Solan (32.13%) and Kullu (30.44%).The attendance was 60.81% in Class IX, 67.24% in Class X, 55.48% in Class XI and 65.72% in Class XII, said Director (Higher Education) Amarjeet Sharma.Adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour was ensured at all schools, Sharma claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-schools-open-for-class-viii-49-per-cent-attendance-on-day-1-323285
12-10-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Insanitary conditions around Chamba temple||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com Insanitary conditions around Chamba templeLeakage of sewerage water through the premises of an ancient temple at Jansali mohalla in Chamba town is hurting the people’s religious sentiments. The debris of an old building of the local Sanatan Dharam Sabha alongside the temple, which was recently demolished, are still lying on the temple campus. As a result, there is an outrage among the devotees. The administration and the municipal council must take immediate measures to fix the problems. — Chamba residentsNo crowd this year, pleaseThe Lower Bazaar saw massive crowds last year ahead of the Karvachauth festival, and soon the region was gripped by the first wave of the pandemic. Covid-19 is still lurking around and residents and shopkeepers must take appropriate precautions and adhere to guidelines to ensure that the pandemic does not get a chance to return during the festive season this year. — Nitin Sood, Shimla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/insanitary-conditions-around-chamba-temple-323234
12-10-2021||The Centre for Child and Women Studies and the legal aid clinic of Himachal Pradesh National Law University||Exhibition, play mark girl child day||Shoolini varsity, ICFF ink pactShoolini University and the International Coaching Federation Foundation (ICFF) signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to formalise the V-Empower Coaching Programme. It focuses on engaging coaching by delivering pro-bono training in local communities. Senior coach Payal Jindal Khanna said the collaboration was a step forward for augmented coaching. Both organisations will, as a strategic goal, be aligned with the 2030 sustainable development goals set forth by the United Nations. Vice-Chancellor Prof Atul Khosla said the impact of the coaching intervention must be demonstrated through data that shows progression not only in terms of individual impact but a larger economic impact.World Mental Health Day observedAn event was organised jointly by the Health and Family Welfare Department and District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) in Chamba on Sunday to mark the World Mental Health Day. Dr Neeraj Sharma, Head of Department (Psychiatry) of Medical College, Chamba, gave detailed information about mental disorders to the audience, which comprised of students of the local Shakuntala Memorial Nursing College and ASHA workers. On behalf of the DLSA, advocate Arun Sharma gave information about the Mental Health Act and Human Rights. Nursing students Supriya, Avantika, Shivani, Kiran, Harshita and Megha staged a short play on mental wellbeing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/exhibition-play-mark-girl-child-day-323235
12-10-2021||---||2 killed as vehicle skids into gorge||Solan, October 11Two persons were killed and one was injured when the pick-up utility vehicle (HP-16-4084) they were travelling in plunged into a gorge at Jagher village on the Chaila-Solan road in Rajgarh late last night.The deceased have been identified as Anil (25) and Rishu (32), both residents of Rajgarh in Sirmaur district. Sunil (20) was injured in the accident.SHO, Rajgarh, Baldev said the accident occurred last night and its cause was yet to be ascertained. The occupants were returning from Theog in Shimla district when the mishap occurred.Rescue operations were initiated this morning by the police.“The absence of crash barriers on this road was a major cause of frequent accidents in which several young lives have been lost. Road is in a deplorable condition,” said Baldev.It was yet to be ascertained as to who was driving the vehicle as the injured youth was admitted to Solan hospital.Further probe was underway. A case for rash and negligent driving causing death would be registered, said the SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-killed-as-vehicle-skids-into-gorge-323236
12-10-2021||KULLU||204 panchayats selected for development work||As many as 204 of the 236 panchayats here have been selected for the ‘Ek Saal Paanch Kaam’ campaign to accomplish five major development works above Rs 5 lakh in each panchayat in one year.The campaign has been launched for the development of rural areas. Works on irrigation system, solid waste disposal plant, panchvati park, rural haat, self-help group building, model anganwadi centre, sports ground, moksha dham, rejuvenation of natural sources and water storage tanks would be carried out.Villagers would have better facilities on their doorsteps. Various development works would be implemented with the co-ordination of the panchayat presidents by convergence of government schemes. The provision of funds would be made from MGNREGA, Swachh Bharat Mission (Rural), National Rural Livelihood Mission, Finance Commission, the MP and MLA funds.About 1,020 major works are to be done in the gram panchayats. The District Rural Development Authority (DRDA) has made preparations to implement the scheme. Work would be started as soon as the code of conduct for the Lok Sabha byelection is over.Surjeet Thakur, Project Officer, DRDA, said works would be expedited in 204 gram panchayats of Kullu, Naggar, Banjar, Anni and Nirmand development blocks. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/204-panchayats-selected-for-development-work-323237
12-10-2021||Ambika Sharma||Coal crisis: Cement price set to go up||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 11The cement price is set to go up with the price of coal, which is a key raw material, registering an exponential rise in the last about four months.While shortage of coal is plaguing the markets, the price of imported coal too has risen given its overwhelming demand.Harish Aggarwal, founder and promoter of Asian Cements and Concretes, said, “We are facing energy crisis following hike in the prices of diesel, oil and coal.”“The price of imported coal has risen from about $485 per tonne to about $1100 per tonne in the last few months. The price of diesel has also increased substantially. This has enhanced the cost of cement production which will jack up the cost of cement by at least Rs 25 per bag soon,” he said.He added that in South India, the cost of one bag of cement had risen by almost Rs 50 as its demand had increased with the realty sector picking up but in the North, the demand was yet to pick up due to the prolonged monsoon.The rise in cement price will adversely hit the realty sector which is beginning to pick up with Covid showing signs of receding. Cement prices had risen by Rs 12 to Rs 15 about four months ago in the state.Rajiv Chopra, a realtor from Solan, said, “As the cement prices set to rise again, buyers will rethink about investing in property.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/coal-crisis-cement-price-set-to-go-up-323238
12-10-2021||Our Correspondent||No development visible on ground: Vikramaditya Singh||KULLU, OCTOBER 11HPCC general secretary and Shimla (Rural) MLA Vikramaditya Singh has said if the BJP can seek vote in Modi’s name, why not Congress in the name of Virbhadra Singh.Addressing a gathering at Seobagh near Kullu today, he said Virbhadra had ensured development of every nook and corner of Himachal and the Congress would ask for support from the masses on his achievements. He said Pratibha Singh had also done a lot for the Mandi constituency during her tenure as an MP. In future as well, she would ensure development of the region.The Congress general secretary said no development was visible on the ground as claimed by the double engine government. He said the condition of the roads was pitiable and the people were fed up with the inflation. He said there were 14 lakh unemployed youth in the state and the government was giving jobs to the youth of UP and Bihar.The MLA said the history and figures were proof that all major decisions of benefits to employees, including reducing the period to regularise contract employees, policies for outsourced employees, para-teachers, PET teachers and computer teachers, were taken by the Congress governments.He said the allowance for Class IV employees was raised by the Congress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-development-visible-on-ground-vikramaditya-singh-323239
12-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Private schools to move High Court against dues on buses||Nurpur, October 11The Kangra district private schools’ association (affiliated with the HP Board of School Education) has taken strong exception to the government authorities’ pressure on them to clear outstanding dues related to private buses stranded on the school premises in the wake of the pandemic since March 2020.Jaswant Dhadwal, president of the association, who convened a meeting of the private school owners at Fatehpur in Kangra district today, said it was irrational to ask owners to clear dues like road, token and passenger taxes and insurance of idle school buses. He said the association would move the High Court against the move. He lamented that private school owners had met the Chief Minister and Transport Minister several times to request waiver of these taxes, but had got only hollow assurances time and again.He underlined the need to grant permission of teaching CBSE or ICSE level syllabus from Class I to VII to strengthen the competitive spirit among pupils.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/private-schools-to-move-high-court-against-dues-on-buses-323240
12-10-2021||---||HRTC owes us Rs 250 cr in arrears, claim pensioners||Shimla, October 11The HRTC Pensioners Samasya Samadhan Manch has claimed that the corporation owes its pensioners around Rs 250 crore in arrears. Accusing the government of being insensitive to their plight, the Manch said its activists would hold a protest on October 18 in support of their demands. “We are facing multiple problems. The pension starts very late, sometimes after over a year of the retirement. And when it starts, it’s not given on time, sometimes the delay is of two months,” Manch convener Gopal Purohit said. “How would a pensioner pay his bills if the amount is not released on time?” he asked.Govt indifferentAbout 8,000 pensioners are suffering because of the callous and indifferent attitude of the government. We are running out of patience. Gopal Purohit, Manch ConvenerHe further alleged that the pensioners were getting 36 per cent less pension than their due. “The government says the HRTC is in loss, so they can’t pay the due amount. We want to know if the pension of the employees retiring from the secretariat or that of MLAs is also linked to profit,” Purohit questioned.Besides, he said arrears worth crores had piled up with the HRTC as the pensioners were not even paid their statutory dues, like gratuity, leave encashment and medical reimbursement. “We have arrears amounting to Rs 225-250 crore with the HRTC. A retiring person should get his dues on the day of the retirement but many of us have not received these benefits since 2017,” Purohit claimed.He said about 8,000 pensioners were suffering because of the “callous and indifferent attitude” of the government. “We are running out of patience now. If the government doesn’t address our problems, it will have to pay dearly,” Purohit added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hrtc-owes-us-rs-250-cr-in-arrears-claim-pensioners-323241
12-10-2021||Hamirpur||Dr Lalit Awasthi is NIT head||Dr Lalit Awasthi assumed the charge as director of the National Institute of Technology (NIT) here today. Prior to this, he was the director of NIT Jalandhar in Punjab and was holding additional charge of the local NIT from the past few months. He was given additional charge of the institute after various anomalies surfaced pertaining to selection of staff.Dr Awasthi had served at the NIT here earlier as head of Computer Science and Engineering Department and was entrusted with the responsibility of establishing the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Government Institute of Engineering and Technology at Pragatinagar in Shimla district. While at Pragatinagar, he was also the director of the JN Government Engineering College, Sundernagar. He also served as the founder director of Mahatma Gandhi Government Engineering College, Jeori, at Rampur.The director said the experience he had gained while serving at various institutions would help him improve the quality and standard of education at the NIT. He would focus on more research and development projects and improve the ranking of the institute in the national and international arena, he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dr-lalit-awasthi-is-nit-head-323242
12-10-2021||---||Girl Child Day: Introspect why we still need to observe this day: Himachal Governor||Shimla, October 11Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar visited Government Senior Secondary School, Portmore, on the occasion of International Day of the Girl Child today.Calling the girl students ‘Shakti Swaroop’, Arlekar said there was a need to contemplate on why the world still needed to celebrate the day. He said equal rights were given to women in India’s tradition. Rather, women taught at the universities of Nalanda and Taxila. However, the discrimination against women started increasing during the medieval period, the Governor stated.Earlier, Ashit Kumar, Joint Director, Higher Education, welcomed the Governor and said 78,480 girl students were getting education at the senior secondary level in the state. More than 60 per cent students in the higher educational institutions were girls, which reflected the attention being given to the education of girls in the state, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/girl-child-day-introspect-why-we-still-need-to-observe-this-day-himachal-governor-323243
12-10-2021||Legal Correspondent||Acting chief justice of Himachal Pradesh High Court Ravi Malimath given farewell||Shimla, October 11The HP High Court today gave a warm send-off to the acting Chief Justice, Ravi Malimath, who has been elevated as the Chief Justice of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh. A full court address was held in his honour.Speaking on the occasion, Justice Malimath said the only thing that ought to be of paramount importance for a judge was the quality and pace of justice. During his 105-day stay in this court, his Bench had disposed of 1,511 cases. He had also envisioned many plans for the courts in Himachal Pradesh and a number of progressive steps had been taken. Himachal was a beautiful state, not only because of its scenic beauty but also because of its people, he said.Justice Malimath expressed gratitude to the judges, members of the Bar, judicial officers, and officials of the registry for their cooperation. Justice Sabina said Justice Malimath had delivered many landmark judgments.Advocate General Ashok Sharma, chairman of HP Bar Council Ajay Kochhar, president of HP High Court Bar Association Lovneesh Kanwar, and Assistant Solicitor General of India Balram Sharma also spoke on the occasion.Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, Justice Sureshwar Thakur, Justice Vivek Singh Thakur, Justice Anoop Chitkara and Justice Satyen Vaidya were also present. Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua attended the full court address through the virtual mode.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/acting-chief-justice-of-himachal-pradesh-high-court-ravi-malimath-given-farewell-323244
12-10-2021||---||Natural farming techniques fetch good price for Himachal apple orchardists||Shimla, October 11Natural farming is helping growers fetch good prices for apples.Shakuntala Sharma, an apple grower from Theog in Shimla, said apples produced in her orchards with natural farming technique fetched over Rs 100 per kg. “The moment a buyer in the local market at Dhamandri sees the label of ‘natural apples’ on my boxes, the produce is purchased immediately. Besides, I saved Rs 50,000-60,000 on the cost of cultivation with Subhash Palekar Natural Farming (SPNF) technique,” she said.Shakuntala is practising natural farming on 10 bighas, including an apple orchard on five bighas. The SPNF method is based on inputs made from desi cow dung and urine and some locally available resources. The farm inputs for the SPNF can be prepared at home.Ravinder Chauhan from Samoli panchayat in Rohroo, who grows apples on eight bighas of land with natural farming technique, sold apple boxes (25 kg each) for Rs 4,200-4,500 each in states like Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Karnataka. “I fix the rate in advance,” he said.Scientific studies in the state have shown that this farming technology has reduced the cost of apple cultivation by 56.5 per cent, while the net returns in the crop have increased by 27.4 per cent and even reduced the incidence of scab and marssonina blotch in apples.According to data shared by the State Project Implementing Unit (SPIU), as many as 1,33,056 farmers are practising natural farming in Himachal Pradesh (partially or fully), covering an area of 7,609 hectares. This includes 12,000 apple orchardists.The farmers are able to take multiple crops on the same farm, said Executive Director, Rajeshwar Singh Chandel, adding thatthe State Project Implementing Unit (SPIU) is looking for farmers for local marketing models, which they have developed on their own.Efforts to build their own linkages for marketing of natural produce had started yielding results and Surender Mehta, a fruit grower from Lalpani Dochi village in Chopal block of Shimla district, found buyers in Jaipur and Delhi in 2019 and 2020 for naturally produced apples. This year, the buyer lifted apple boxes from my village and paid 10-15 per cent more for natural products. “I felt so good when I was offered Rs 150 more for a box of pears (10-12 kg each) even in a local mandi of Parala after I revealed that my produce is chemical-free and natural,” he added.27.4% more returns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/natural-farming-techniques-fetch-good-price-for-himachal-apple-orchardists-323245
12-10-2021||---||Soon, Shimla to have smart power meters||Shimla, October 11Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited (HPSEBL) would install 1.26 lakh smart meters in Shimla and 28,000 in Dharamsala under the Shimla Smart City project. “We have already replaced around 1,000 meters in Shimla and the work in Dharamsala is also expected to start soon,” said HPSEBL joint director Anurag Parashar.Accurate billsThe smart meters are very sensitive and will address the complaints of overbilling for once and all. A consumer will know the exact details of his power consumption, and he will get accurate bills. Anurag Parashar, HPSEBL Joint Director“Also, the construction of a smart control room from where all these meters and its data will be monitored is under construction. It will become functional once around 20,000 smart meters are installed in the city. A person sitting in the control room would be able to see the statistical data of each and every smart meter,” Parashar said.Once the smart meters are installed, these would help check transmission and distribution losses and pilferage too. “Also, there would be no need for anyone to visit any premises to gather data to generate bills. It will be available on the click of a button, sitting in the control room,” he maintained.The meters would be of equal benefit to the consumers too. “The smart meters are very sensitive and will address the complaints of overbilling for once and all. A consumer will know the exact details of his consumption, and he will get accurate bills,” the HPSEBL official stated.Another advantage was that the meters would have a pre-paid facility, much like the one offered by telecom service providers. “One could pay up in advance and need not bother until the amount is exhausted. The consumer will start getting messages when the amount is about to be exhausted, and he can recharge his account,” he said.Parashar said the data provided by the meters would help in future planning and power forecasting. “We can track every unit of power distributed through these meters, know the exact load and consumption. The data would help in better planning, even for the long term,” he added. Shimla Smart City has approved Rs 10 crore for the project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/soon-shimla-to-have-smart-power-meters-323246
12-10-2021||Shimla||Covid-19: 139 new cases, two deaths in Himachal||As many as 139 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 220,618. Besides, two persons died of the virus in Kangra. The number of active cases declined to 1,237.The highest number of 42 cases was reported in Kangra, followed by 31 in Mandi, 26 in Hamirpur, 15 in Bilaspur, 11 in Shimla, eight in Una, and three each on Kullu and Solan. However, no cases were reported in Chamba, Kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti and Sirmaur districts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-139-new-cases-two-deaths-in-himachal-323247
12-10-2021||---||Congress doesn’t trust state leaders: Himachal CM||Solan, October 11Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said the Congress had imported its star campaigners as it did not trust its leaders in Himachal.Mocking at their campaigners, Thakur said the party had roped in campaigners like Kanhaiya Kumar who had made questionable statement in the past, while Navjot Sidhu had popularised Rahul Gandhi as ‘Pappu’.While addressing a poll rally at Darlaghat in favour of BJP nominee Rattan Pal, Thakur said both Sidhu and Kanhaiya Kumar had joined the Congress keeping in view their future but the party was in dire straits. These leaders were roped in to improve the poll prospects of the Congress though their own credibility was questionable.He said the Congress was bereft of leadership in the state and its leaders were seen pushing each other during the nomination of their official nominee at Mandi.The Chief Minister, however, desisted from criticising former Arki MLA and said, “Many works were yet to be completed in Arki as former MLA Virbhadra Singh could not spare enough time for the constituency due to his ill-health. People had voted for Virbhadra last time and now they should vote for their nominee Rattan Pal”.Thakur recalled how Virbhadra Singh had won by a narrow margin of less than 6,000 votes from Arki, which perhaps was his lowest victory margin.He said despite Covid, development of the area did not suffer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-doesnt-trust-state-leaders-himachal-cm-323248
12-10-2021||Shimla||Himachal bypolls: Nominations of six candidates rejected||The nominations of six candidates, including four covering candidates, filed for the four byelections in the state have been rejected, a spokesman for the State Election Department said here today.He said that six candidates for the Mandi byelection, whose nominations were found to be valid, are BJP candidate Brig Khushal Chand Thakur (retd), Congress candidate Pratibha Singh, Rashtriya Lokneeti Party candidate Ambika Shyam, Himachal Jan Kranti Party’s Munshi Ram Thakur and Independent candidates Anil Kumar and Subhash Mohan Snehi. However, the nominations of covering candidates of the Congress Sunder Singh Thakur and of the BJP Priyanta Sharma were rejected.The nominations of BJP candidate Rattan Singh Pal, Sanjay of the Congress and Independent candidate Jeet Ram for the Arki byelection were found to be valid. However, the nomination of Congress covering candidate Satish Kumar Kashyap was rejected.He said in Fatehpur, the nominations of Baldev Thakur (BJP), Bhawani Singh Pathania (Congress), Pankaj Kumar Darshi (Himachal Jan Kranti Party) and Independent candidates Ashok Kumar and Rajan Sushant were found to be valid. The nomination of Congress covering candidate Jeet Kumar and Independent candidate Prem Chand were rejected.In Jubbal-Kotkhai, the nominations of Neelam Saraik (BJP), Rohit Thakur (Congress) and Independent candidates Chetan Singh Bragta and Suman Kadam were found to be valid. However, the nomination of Independent candidate Kewal Ram Negi was rejected. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-bypolls-nominations-of-six-candidates-rejected-323249
12-10-2021||---||Pratibha Singh tried to undermine Kargil War’s importance: BJP||Mandi, October 11BJP spokesperson Randhir Sharma said today that the statement of Pratibha Singh, Congress candidate from Mandi, amounted to undermining the importance of the Kargil War.He alleged, “Pratibha Singh has forgotten the importance of the Kargil War, in which 527 Indian Army soldiers had laid down their lives for the sake of the country. Her statement is against the Indian Army”.“The Congress has conceded defeat in advance, so its leaders and the candidate are giving such statements against the BJP candidate, Kargil War hero Brig Khushal Thakur (retd). He had played a crucial role in the Kargil War, as the Commander of 18 Grenadiers. For his bravery, he was awarded the Yudh Seva medal and his unit was given 52 gallantry awards,” he said.“The Congress is like a sinking ship, which has lost the faith of people. Now, the party is projecting Kanhaiya Kumar, who has been accused of anti-national activities, as a star campaigner in the byelections,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pratibha-singh-tried-to-undermine-kargil-wars-importance-bjp-323250
12-10-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Pratibha Singh banks on Virbhadra’s charisma to connect with voters||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 11Congress candidate from Mandi Pratibha Singh is seeking votes as a “shradhanjali” to “Raja sahib.”No novice to politics, not just in her capacity as the wife of a six-time Chief Minister but a former MP from Mandi, Pratibha (65) is whipping up the emotional quotient by focusing her entire speech on the persona of her husband. Pratibha has represented Mandi twice in 2004 and 2013, when she defeated Maheshwar Singh, former MP, and later Jai Ram Thakur, now Chief Minister.Vote a tribute to late Chief MinisterI hope you all will pay your shradhanjali to Raja sahib by casting vote in favour of the Congress as this will be the real tribute to a man who dedicated his life to serving people.Rs Pratibha Singh, Congress candidateAt Jogindernagar in Mandi, she said she had decided to stay away from public life and devote time to “puja-path” but on the insistence of people she changed her mind. “Raja sahib is not with us physically, but his presence can be felt by everyone. People say they feel they have lost a family member in his death,” she said.The Mandi seat fell vacant following the death of BJP MP Ram Swaroop who had defeated Pratibha Singh in the 2014 poll. Interestingly, it is for the first time that her name appeared as Pratibha Virbhadra Singh in the Congress’ list of candidates last week, evoking sharp criticism from the BJP.“I hope you all will pay your last shradhanjali to Raja Sahib by casting your vote in favour of the Congress as this will be the real tribute to a man who dedicated his life to serving people,” she said in her appeal. It was Virbhadra’s name that gave her prominence, she added.“I feel I was blessed to have got a husband like Virbhadra. Must have been the reward of my good deeds in my previous birth,” she said in a choked voice.She said her husband in his political career never took a day-off, be it Sunday or any other holiday. “He worked tirelessly to ensure that the needy and downtrodden get justice and the state progresses,” she added.She is also giving credit to the Congress for conceptualising and starting work on the Atal Tunnel by claiming that it was former PM Manmohan Singh who gave liberal funds for the project which has transformed the lives of people of Lahaul-Spiti. She assured people that she would fulfil all their demands, if she is given a chance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pratibha-singh-banks-on-virbhadras-charisma-to-connect-with-voters-323251
12-10-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Dynasty vs non-dynasty debate in Himachal byelections||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 11It is dynasty coupled with sympathy versus non-dynasty in the byelections to the Mandi Lok Sabha constituency and Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly seats that are going to the polls on October 30.The four seats fell vacant after the demise of two Congress and two BJP leaders – Ram Swaroop Sharma (BJP MP from Mandi) and Narender Bragta (BJP MLA from Jubbal-Kotkhai) and former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh and Congress leader Sujan Singh Pathania, both MLAs from the Arki and Fatehpur Assembly constituencies.The focus has shifted to a “principled” stand taken by the BJP not to promote dynasty while the Congress is making all out efforts to cash in on voters’ sympathy by fielding the wife and the son of the Congress leaders.The BJP has not fielded any candidate from the families of its deceased leaders. The decision of the party is aimed at cornering the Congress for encouraging dynasty as the party has fielded Bhawani Singh Pathania from Fatehpur, a seat vacated due to the death of his father Sujan Singh Pathania.Hoping to cash in on the sympathy wave, the Congress has given the ticket for Mandi bypoll to Pratibha Singh, wife of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh, who died recently.Meanwhile, the denial of ticket on the pretext of not promoting dynasty has not gone well with supporters of Chetan Bragta, son of former MLA Narender Bragta. He is now contesting as an Independent candidate. He is hoping to win on the crest of double sympathy wave as the party’s decision has generated sympathy for him. Bragta had already started campaigning, and covered all 62 panchayats.Bragta is also striking an emotional chord in his constituency and his supporters are questioning the denial of ticket to him. The electoral battle in Jubbal-Kotkhai is getting interesting with Rohit Thakur, a two-time MLA and grandson of former Chief Minister Ram Lal Thakur, BJP candidate Neelam Saraik, who had been at the forefront of several agitations, and BJP rebel Chetan Bragta, being the main rivals.The BJP has launched an offensive on dynasty politics while the Congress has queered the pitch by trying to stir the emotions of the voters. Whether the dynasty and emotional appeals will prevail on voters or the non-dynasty plank of the BJP will work in the byelections will be interesting to be seen.BJP on the offensive||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dynasty-vs-non-dynasty-debate-in-himachal-byelections-323252
