14-10-2021||---||One dead, 15 injured in bus-truck collision in Mandi||Mandi, October 14One person was killed, while 15 passengers have been injured in a bus-truck collision inside Aut tunnel on Chandigarh-Manali highway in Mandi district on Thursday evening.According to police, a Punjab Roadways bus collided with a truck coming from opposite site inside tunnel.Mandi SP Shalini Agnihotri said one passenger died and 15 persons have been reportedly injured. Police teams and ambulance have been mobilised.The SP added that detailed information is awaited. The injured are being transported to a nearby hospital.Due to this incident, a traffic jam was reported in the area. The police are trying to regulate the traffic in the area to clear the traffic jam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/one-dead-15-injured-in-bus-truck-collision-in-mandi-324566
14-10-2021||Shimla||139 new cases, one death in Himachal||As many as 139 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 2,20,931. Besides, one person died in Una district.The highest number of 42 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 34 in Hamirpur, 26 in Mandi, 12 in Shimla, six in Una and five in Solan.Meanwhile, six more inmates of the Una district jail located at Bangarh village have tested positive for Covid-19, according to the test reports received from Tanda medical college on Wednesday. The number of infected people in the jail has risen to 52.On October 4, five inmates were found to be Covid positive following contact tracing for an infected inmate. The jail has about 300 inmates and on the advice of the Health Department, the authorities concerned have isolated the infected inmates.— TNS & OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/139-new-cases-one-death-in-himachal-324252
14-10-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Kinnaur first district in country to administer both doses of Covid vaccine to 100% population||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 13Kinnaur district has earned the distinction of becoming the first district in the country to administer both doses of Covid-19 vaccine to all eligible persons. It surmounted the challenges of a tough topography and inclement weather conditions to achieve the feat even though people were busy in apple marketing and harvesting of kharif crops.Kinnaur Deputy Commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq said all 60,305 eligible persons above the age of 18 years had been fully vaccinated. Besides a well-crafted micro plan, 200 health workers, including doctors and paramedical staff, worked hard to achieve the target, he added.Feat Achieved 50 days earlyThe tribals had scattered landholdings and they move to higher hills locally called ‘kadas’. Panchayat pradhans were roped in to keep a track on tribals in the higher hills. The villagers were intimated two days in advance that mobile teams would reach their areas for vaccination.He said that two or three mobile vans were provided in each block. The strategy worked and all eligible persons were contacted and vaccinated,he added. The district administration and representatives of the panchayati raj institutions also played a key role in creating awareness and motivating people to get vaccinated, said Chief Medical Officer Dr Sonam Negi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kinnaur-first-district-in-country-to-administer-both-doses-of-covid-vaccine-to-100-population-324253
14-10-2021||Dharamsala||UP pilgrim jumps into ‘havan kund’ at Kangra's Bajjreshwari Devi Temple||Manphool, a pilgrim from UP, jumped into ‘havan kund’ in the Bajjreshwari Devi temple in Kangra this evening. He sustained 40 per cent burns and was admitted to Tanda medical college where his condition is stated to be stable.Reports said the pilgrim suddenly jumped into ‘havan kund’ where yajna was being performed on Durga Ashtami yelling ‘Jai Ma Jawala’. The pilgrims and other persons present on the spot immediately pulled him out and he was shifted to Tanda Medical college. A case has been registered against him.There was a huge rush of pilgrims at the temple and the conditions laid down for controlling Covid were thrown to the winds. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/up-pilgrim-jumps-into-havan-kund-at-kangras-bajjreshwari-devi-temple-324254
14-10-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Chetan Bragta digs in heels, expelled from BJP||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 13Rebel BJP leader Chetan Bragta, contesting the byelection from Jubbal-Kotkhai as Independent against the party’s Neelam Saraik, has been expelled for six years. He has also been removed from the post of convener, IT cell, by party president Suresh Kashyap.Despite the best efforts of the BJP to convince rebel candidate to withdraw from the contest, the son of former minister Narinder Bragta has stood his ground.His grouseChetan’s refusal to withdraw from the contest is bound to make the going tough for BJP candidate Neelam Saraik, who the party chose maintaining its stand against dynastic politics. There will be a triangular contest among the BJP, the Congress and Chetan, with the fear of the ruling party candidate being placed third.The bypoll is being held following the death of Narinder Bragta (69). The BJP leadership had made up its mind on fielding Chetan and he was asked to start campaigning. It has been Chetan’s biggest grouse that the party should have thought all these factors before asking him to start campaign immediately after his father’s death.Sources in the saffron party revealed that pressure was mounted by all, including national BJP chief Jagat Prakash Nadda and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Chetan to withdraw from the contest. He was reportedly assured that his interest would be protected, besides promising him chairmanship of a board or corporation after the bypoll.Chetan’s family has a considerable political clout in the area as his father won twice from Jubbal-Kotkhai. His father was considered a staunch Dhumal loyalist and was a minister in the former CM’s Cabinet. Chetan (44), an MBA from Pune, could ride high on the sympathy factor.Sources close to Chetan point out that though supporters and loyalists of his late father maintained pressure on him not to withdraw, he knows that the stand of the BJP on dynastic politics will remain the same even in the next Assembly poll. As such, he chose to remain in the fray and prove his mettle so that the party would consider him for the ticket in the next time.With Chetan refusing to oblige the BJP, the split in the party vote bank could prove to be advantageous for Congress candidate Rohit Thakur, grandson of former CM Ram Lal Thakur. He had won twice in the past and the division in the BJP could prove to be a blessing in disguise for Rohit. In the 2017 elections, Bragta defeated Rohit by 1,062 votes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chetan-bragta-digs-in-heels-expelled-from-bjp-324255
14-10-2021||Shimla||18 candidates left in fray for four Himachal byelections||A total of 18 candidates are in the fray for the byelections to Mandi Lok Sabha and Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly constituencies scheduled for October 30.Today was the last day withdrawing nominations. No candidate withdrew papers. Chief Electoral Officer C Palrasu said symbols had been allotted to all candidates.He said in Mandi, Brig Khushal Thakur (BJP), Pratibha Singh (Congress), Ambika Shyam (Rashtriya Lokniti Party), Munshi Ram Thakur (Himachal Jankranti Party) and Independents Anil Kumar and Subhash Mohan Snehi are contesting.In Arki, Ratan Singh Pal (BJP), Sanjay Awasthy (Congress) and Independent Jeet Ram are in the fray.In Fatehpur, Baldev Thakur (BJP), Bhawani Pathania (Congress), Pankaj Kumar Darshi (Himachal Jankranti Party) and Independentes Ashok Kumar Somal and Rajan Sushant are in the fray.In Jubbal-Kotkhai, Neelam Saraik (BJP), Rohit Thakur (Congress) and independent candidates Chetan Singh Bragta and Suman Kadam are in the contest.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/18-candidates-left-in-fray-for-four-himachal-byelections-324256
14-10-2021||---||Dues not cleared, HRTC to halt service on October 18||Shimla, October 13The Himachal Road Transport Corporation’s (HRTC) 3000-plus bus fleet can come to a screeching halt on October 18 due to a standoff between the HRTC management and employees over the non-payment of allowances for the past four years.“If the HRTC management doesn’t call us for talks until October 17, we will go for a day’s strike on October 18. Depending on the management and the government’s response, we can take even harsher steps post the one-day strike,” said Mann Singh Thakur, president of the Joint Coordination Committee (JCC) of the HRTC employees.The HRTC employees have been demanding release of their pending allowances for the last two months. “The pending emoluments of the current employees and retirees have risen to Rs 582 crore over the last four years. While the government owes Rs 382 crore in the form of DA, IR, and night allowance to current employees, the pending allowances of the retirees are also over Rs 200 crore,” said Khemender Gupta, JCC secretary.Govt indifferent: staffThe government and the management have become indifferent to our plight and are pushing us into launching an agitation. —Khemender Gupta, JCC secretary“We have been waiting patiently all these years for the management and government to start releasing our dues. Unfortunately, the government and the management have become totally indifferent to our plight and are pushing us into launching an agitation,” said Gupta.The JCC office-bearers further alleged that the management and the government were citing the model code of conduct as an excuse to not call them for talks or release their dues. “As we are not demanding anything new, it does not fall under the purview of model code of conduct. We have waited enough, we will not relent until the management talks to us and addresses our issues,” said Gupta.The other demands of the JCC include giving HRTC the status of roadways, action against officials indulging in corruption, bringing piecemeal workers on contract, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dues-not-cleared-hrtc-to-halt-service-on-october-18-324257
14-10-2021||Dharamsala||New education policy focuses on Indian culture: Himachal Governor Arlekar||Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar said the National Education Policy (NEP) focused on Indian thoughts, culture, history and values, that will help the nation reestablish itself as the leader of the world.The Governor was the chief guest at a seminar held on ‘Shiksha Ka Bhartiya Swaroop’ organised by the Central University at Dharamsala today. He said today’s education was not able to connect us with culture and traditions. “The new education policy can help us to solve the problem. The policy cares about the development of educational institutions.”He said we got political freedom in 1947, but the British ideology still prevailed. He appreciated the efforts of the Himachal Central University in taking forward the NEP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/new-education-policy-focuses-on-indian-culture-himachal-governor-arlekar-324258
14-10-2021||Solan||Freedom fighter’s kin honoured in Kasauli||The postal department today honoured lesser-known freedom fighters as part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’.The contribution of Arjun Singh, a freedom fighter from Kasauli, who was part of the Azad Hind Fauj, was remembered. His son Satish Kumar, who works in Kasauli, was honoured with a stamp bearing the picture of his father, at sub post office, Kasauli, today. Arjun Singh had joined the ‘fauj’ from the undivided Punjab area. He spent several days in a forest without food. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/freedom-fighters-kin-honoured-in-kasauli-324259
14-10-2021||UNA||Una to host nat’l kho-kho meet||A meeting of the general house of the HP Kho-Kho Association was held today in Una, which was presided over by president Abhishek Thakur. It was decided that the HP Kho-Kho Association would organise the 31st national sub junior (under-14) boys’ and girls’ tournament in Una district. General Secretary Devi Datt Tanwar said the event would be held in the last week of November. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-to-host-natl-kho-kho-meet-324260
14-10-2021||---||BJP seeking votes on achievements: Randhir Sharma||Mandi, October 13BJP spokesperson Randhir Sharma today said that Congress leaders were making baseless allegations to divert the attention of people from the key issues in the Mandi byelection.“The Congress is trying to divert the attention of people from the main issues in the byelection. A few days ago, Congress candidate Pratibha Singh gave a controversial statement on the Kargil War, which was tantamount to undermining its importance. She should apologise for her statement,” he said.“Congress leaders are seeking sympathy votes in the name of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh. Pratibha Singh should tell people what she had done for the development of the Mandi parliamentary constituency during her two tenures as MP,” said Sharma.He said, “The BJP is seeking votes on its achievements. The Central Government has launched several public welfare schemes such as the Ayushman Bharat Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana and the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. The state government has also launched the HIM CARE health scheme and the Grihini Suvidha Yojana to cover those families, which were not covered under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana and the Ujjwala Yojana”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-seeking-votes-on-achievements-randhir-sharma-324261
14-10-2021||Tribune Reporters||Less emotions, more politics in Cong rallies: Himachal CM||Bharmour/kullu, October 13“There is more politics than sympathy in rallies of Congress leaders,” Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said sarcastically while addressing an election rally for BJP Mandi candidate Brig Khushal Thakur (retd) at Bharmour today.He said, “Virbhadra Singh is no more with us, we miss him. My condolences are with the family. May God give strength to his family to bear the sorrow?” He then took a dig at the Congress rally held recently at Bharmour, stating that there was less sympathy but more politics.Kargil War hero Brig Khushal son of the soil, says ThakurThakur said, “We have also lost Ram Swaroop Sharma. We are saddened by the death of Virbhadra Singh, Narendra Bragta, Sujan Singh Pathania. Do we have to act on emotions?” he asked. Bharmour needed development, he said; adding that it could be done only when the BJP government was strengthened at the Centre and in Himachal.“The maximum amount is being spent in the development of Bharmour,” said Jai Ram. He added that, “Bharmour has tough geography. The area is as tough as my Seraj segment”.In the last tour of Bharmour, many projects were inaugurated and foundation stones of development works were laid despite the Covid crisis. No government had spent so much funds on BharmourHe also remembered the late MP and said Ram Swaroop Sharma had got a lead of 20,000 votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in Bharmour. Perhaps this was the biggest lead in Bharmour in all Lok Sabha elections.Earlier, Brig Khushal addressed a public meeting. He first paid tribute to Sharma and former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh.In Kullu, Thakur appealed to people to support the son of the soil, Brig Khushal (retd), and help him win the Mandi Lok Sabha byelection by a huge margin.The Chief Minister, while addressing a public gathering at Rambagh in Manali, said, “We will not indulge in mudslinging but Congress leaders are making derogatory remarks against BJP leaders”.He said that there was international pressure during the Kargil War but the then Prime Minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, did not give in. He added that 527 soldiers were martyred, including 52 from Himachal, in the Kargil War but the Congress candidate had termed it as a mere conflict. Brig Khushal Thakur (retd) and his unit played a valiant role in the Kargil War’s victory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/less-emotions-more-politics-in-cong-rallies-himachal-cm-324262
14-10-2021||Lalit Mohan||Triangular contest expected in Fatehpur||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, October 13Five candidates were left in the fray for the Fatehpur byelection after the last day to withdraw nomination papers today. The candidates left in the fray are Baldev Thakur (BJP), Bhawani Singh Pathania (Congress), Pankaj Kumar Darshi (Himachal Jan Kranti Party) and Rajan Sushant and Ashok Kumar Somal, both Independents.Main contendersPolitical observers are expecting a triangular contest between BJP, the Congress and former BJP MP, Rajan Sushant.In the initial days of campaigning, candidates are going door to door and organizing small street meetings in villages to seek support. The BJP nominee was projecting himself as a local candidate and a ground level worker who has got a chance to represent the area. He is going door to door and working on his personal contacts in the area to garner votes.The other BJP leaders, including ministers Rakesh Pathania and Bikram Thakur, have also organized street meetings in a few areas of Fatehpur. These leaders are relying on the charisma of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to garner votes for the BJP.Congress candidate Bhawani Singh Pathania is also going door to door and organizing street meetings. He is relying on the legacy of his father and former Congress minister Sujan Singh Pathania and raking up the issue of price rise. He is promising to work for the development of the area owing to his experience in corporate world.Rajan Sushant, former BJP MP who is now contesting as Independent, has been most aggressive in his campaigning. He and his son Dhariya Sushant are targeting the BJP candidate Baldev Thakur over his educational qualification. Sushant has made implementation of old pension scheme as his election issue. He has been claiming that he had given up his pension as an MLA of Himachal Vidhan Sabha and MP. He has been demanding that all MPs and MLAs should give up their pensions and employees recruited after 2004 under the new pension scheme should be given the benefit of the old pension scheme. Sushant has been sitting on a dharna over the issue for the past six months.Sources said that the star campaigners of both the Congress and the BJP are likely to hit campaign on after Dasehra from October 16. For the BJP, union sports and youth affairs minister Anurag Thakur and the Chief Minister would be campaigning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/triangular-contest-expected-in-fatehpur-324263
14-10-2021||---||671 firearms deposited in Arki||Solan, October 13Merely 33 per cent licenced weapons have been deposited in the Arki assembly segment ahead of the October 30 byelection after enforcement of the model code of conduct on October 1.The data secured from the police department revealed that as many as 671 firearms have been deposited by the residents in Arki and Ramshehar belt.A headache for policeThe firearms are supposed to be deposited by all licensees in the nearest police station as per the directions of the district magistrate issued under section 144 of the CrPC which prohibits the use of firearms. These directions are issued soon after enforcement of the model code of conduct.Since certain areas of Ramshehar in Nalagarh subdivision also fall under the Arki Assembly segment, 93 firearms have been deposited in Ramshehar police station as well.Securing firearms is a major headache for the police as adequate space is supposed to be created in the police stations to house the collected arms. These are returned a week after the declaration of the election results.Additional Superintendent of Police, Solan, Ashok Verma said, “A special campaign has been initiated whereby police vehicles visit villages and collect firearms from the owners in all four police stations area of Arki, Kunihar, Bagha and Darlaghat.”He added that the villagers were made aware of this norm and collection would increase in the coming days.A large number of weapons in this rural Assembly segment have been availed for crop protection and comprise large weapons like guns while there was a small share of weapons licensed for personal safety.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/671-firearms-deposited-in-arki-324264
14-10-2021||Dipender Manta||Proposed tunnel under Jalori Pass a poll issue in Mandi||Tribune News ServiceMandi, October 13The project for the construction of a 4.2 km tunnel under the Jalori Pass on the Aut-Luhri highway is hanging fire for the past several years. This has now emerged as an election issue in Mandi.The residents of Anni and Nirmand are desperately waiting for the tunnel beneath the 10,800-ft high Jalori Pass, which will provide them all-weather connectivity to Kullu round the year.Residents of 58 panchayats remain cut offDue to its high altitude, the Jalori Pass receives considerable snowfall during the winter every year, the residents of 58 gram panchayats of Anni and Nirmand remain cut off from the district headquarters of Kullu for months. This forces the residents to travel 220 km to 270 km extra to visit Kullu via Shimla or Karsog, making the journey tiring and expensive.The residents say that the project was announced during the Congress regime in 2014 but no progress had been made on it till date. During the last Lok Sabha elections, both BJP and Congress candidates had promised to construct the tunnel, but the project is still hanging fire.“With snow blocking the Kullu-Jalori-Anni road, people either risk their lives by crossing the pass on foot during emergency or travel via Shimla or Karsog, which takes more than eight hours. The road that has sharp turns, steep climbs and is prone to landslides becomes dangerous during the winter,” says Lal Singh, a resident of Anni.“The tunnel project being raised during the byelection is merely a gimmick to hoodwink voters. During elections both BJP and Congress promise to execute the project on priority but forget it on coming to power,” says another resident Chander Kumar.The locals say that even the condition of the Aut-Luhri highway is pathetic at several locations and needs urgent maintenance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/proposed-tunnel-under-jalori-pass-a-poll-issue-in-mandi-324265
14-10-2021||Solan||Delay in procurement of paddy at Nalagarh resented||Farmers of the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh industrial (BBN) belt yesterday resented the delay in the procurement of paddy by the FCI at the Nalagarh Anaj Mandi.Sanyukt Kisan Morcha activists led by Surmukh Singh held a rally at Nalagarh and met the SDM. The farmers rued that their crop had started blackening due to the delay in procurement, which should begin immediately.The protesters alleged that no one was ready to procure their crop at the Nalagarh Anaj Mandi though they were earlier assured of procurement from October 1.Narendra Dhiman, District Controller, Food Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department, said, “The FCI will begin paddy procurement from October 15 and registration on the e-portal has already started. The issue was taken up with the FCI to ensure paddy procurement from October 15 and avert unrest among farmers”.It is for the first time that the FCI has set up a centre at Nalagarh to procure 10,000 metric tonnes of paddy. The FCI is also making necessary arrangements like issuing tenders for labour and requisite material to facilitate procurement.Agriculture Department officials said that as the monsoon season had prolonged, the paddy contained moisture, resulting in delay in procurement by two weeks.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/delay-in-procurement-of-paddy-at-nalagarh-resented-324266
14-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Three vax centres to be set up at Kullu Dasehra venue||Kullu October 13The Kullu Dasehra Festival Committee has invited 332 deities for the seven-day Dasehra festival to commence from October 15. However, 250 deities are expected to participate even while the Nazrana (honorarium) will not be paid and they will have to bear their own expenses.Governor RV Arlekar will participate in the opening ceremony and witness the Rath Yatra. Due to the model code of conduct for the Mandi parliamentary byelection, some higher official will be the chief guest at the closing ceremony on October 21.The district administration has advised priests, kardars (caretakers) and devalus (volunteers) to get both doses of Covid vaccine to be able to come with the deities for the festival. The persons who have received one dose will not be able to come to Dhalpur ground with the deity.The devotees will be screened at the entry points to the Dhalpur ground. Around 600 police personnel will take care of law and order situation. In view of the epidemic, people last year had to stay away during the Rath Yatra.Flying squads will check RT-PCR tests or vaccination report of tourists coming from other states at entry points of the town at Bajaura and Babeli. The Health Department will set up three special counters at Dhalpur ground to vaccinate the tourists and local people.Kullu DC and vice-chairman of the committee Ashutosh Garg said it was necessary to take precautionary measures to contain the spread of the pandemic. He said so far only 50 per cent of the eligible people of the district have received the second dose.The officer said that those having symptoms like cough or cold should not come to the Dhalpur ground. He said that it was mandatory for persons coming from out of the state to either carry a fully vaccinated certificate or RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours to visit the festival.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-vax-centres-to-be-set-up-at-kullu-dasehra-venue-324267
14-10-2021||Una||Procurement centre opens in Amb||The Una Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) said the Food Corporation of India had made a procurement centre for kharif crops, including paddy and maize, functional at the vegetable and grain marketing complex in Takarla village of Amb.Balbir Bagga, chairman, APMC, said another procurement centre would be opened at the agriculture market complex in Tahliwal village of Haroli.The procurement centres would be functional till October 30.He said the procurement rate would depend on the quality of grains. The farmers would have to get themselves registered to book their procurement days and timings on the website http://hpappp.nic.in. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/procurement-centre-opens-in-amb-324268
14-10-2021||Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry||Apply for UG, PG programmes by Oct 18||Students get Lessons on TB, HIVInformation regarding HIV and TB was shared with the students of Government College, Sanjauli, through a virtual mode, under the awareness campaign launched by Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Tuesday. As many as 50 students joined the programme, which would continue till October 31. The programme has been organnised under ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahostav’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/apply-for-ug-pg-programmes-by-oct-18-324269
14-10-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi
||Fake companies created to supply opioids||Tribune News Service  Shimla, October 14 Fake marketing companies are being used to supply the banned opioids, mainly tramadol tablets, in the grey market by some pharmaceutical firms units in Sirmaur district. The fact came to light during the backward linkage investigations after a huge stock of tramadol tablets were recovered in Punjab and the roots were found in Paonta Sahib and Kala Amb. FIRs were registered against two pharma companies which were suspected of supplying drugs through fake marketing companies and 745 kg and 226 kg of tramadol raw material and 30 lakh tramadol tablets worth Rs 6 crore were seized from the companies.  Cases of illegally manufactured pharma opioids have come to the fore in the state. Himachal is grappling with twin problems of chitta and opioids. Chitta is being smuggled to the state from Delhi while opioids are going out of the state illegally, said IG, Cyber Crime (CID), Atul Fulzele. As per the data procured from the police department, 797 kg of heroine and 30 lakh opioid tablets have been seized till August 31 as compared to 0.634 kg of heroine and 56,110 tablets in 2016.  The number of NDPS cases and persons arrested has been on the rise since 2016 and 7,737 persons, including 97 women and 39 foreigners, have been arrested in 6,257 cases in the past five years while 1,519 persons (13 women and 4 foreigners) were arrested till August 31 this year. The knockout punch to drug trafficking is the approach adopted by the police which are now focusing on catching big fish, said DGP Sanjay Kundu.  A register for drug traffic operators (DTO) will be introduced from November 1. It will contain the details, including name, age, physical description, mobile number, Aadhaar number, social media accounts, assets, quantity of contrabands seized, details of family members and political involvement. It will allow the police to monitor drug trafficking and trade more effectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fake-companies-created-to-supply-opioids-324270
14-10-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||NGT dismisses Himachal HC’s plea for reconstructing building||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 13Maintaining a strict stand on not allowing any new construction in the congested core area of Shimla, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has turned down the Himachal High Court’s request to allow reconstruction of its old building.The HC had sought approval for the project in modification of NGT’s order dated November 16, 2017, where it had prohibited all such constructions in view of potential threat to public safety and environment.“Constructions in core areas of Shimla being serious hazard to public safety and environment, any modification, as suggested in the application, will not be viable. Undoubtedly, the requirement of the HC is the highest priority, but in view of the danger to public safety, we do not find it possible to modify the earlier order,” the NGT order read.The latest NGT order is likely to prove a major stumbling block for the state government’s plan to seek relaxation for the people. Besides imposing a blanket ban on construction in the core and green areas, the NGT order restricting new constructions in rest of the Shimla planning area to only two and a half stories, has caused much discomfiture to realtors and private individuals.Option for state govt||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ngt-dismisses-himachal-hcs-plea-for-reconstructing-building-324238
