15-10-2021||Mandi (HP)||Two dead as car falls into gorge in HP||Two men died on the spot and two others were seriously injured on Friday as their car fell into a gorge in Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi district, police said.The car fell into a deep gorge near Dhali turn at Chet village in Thunag sub-division, Mandi Superintendent of Police Shalini Agnihotri said.Residents of Shadman Thunag area of Mandi, the victims were returning in a car after attending a marriage, the SP said.The deceased were identified as Kamal Kishore and Hem Raj.The injured, Laxman and Lilamani, have been shifted to  Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Medical College, Ner Chowk, she added.Police said the accident took place when Hem Raj, who was driving the car, lost control of the vehicle. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-dead-as-car-falls-into-gorge-in-hp-325029
15-10-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal assembly by-polls: Denied ticket, disgruntled leaders may spoil BJP chances||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 14Chetan Bragta contesting the Jubbal-Kotkhai byelection as an Independent candidate and other leaders, who had staked their claims to the ticket for the Fatehpur and Arki Assembly byelections, refusing to campaign for the BJP candidates are giving anxious moments to the party.Kripal Parmar, a former Rajya Sabha MP, who was the front-runner for the BJP ticket for the Fatehpur byelection in Kangra, has stayed away from campaigning. Having spent four years extensively in the constituency, he has a considerable following and can damage the prospects of BJP candidate Baldev Thakur.Parmar, who is close to national BJP president JP Nadda, was denied the ticket on the ground that he does not belong to the constituency. In the 2017 Assembly elections, Congress candidate Sujan Singh Pathania had defeated him by a margin of mere 1,284 votes in Fatehpur.The Fatehpur seat fell vacant following Sujan Singh Pathania’s death and his son and Congress candidate Bhawani Singh Pathania is bound to get sympathy votes and also benefit from dissension in the BJP. What is even more worrisome for the BJP is that its block unit in Fatehpur, which was supporting Parmar, has so far not campaigned for Baldev Thakur.The situation in the Arki segment of Solan district is no better, as two-time BJP legislator Govind Ram, who was denied the ticket, has refused to campaign for party candidate Rattan Pal Singh. He even did not oblige Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, who visited his house to placate him.The BJP had denied ticket to Govind even in the 2017 Assembly elections though he was then the sitting MLA. Party candidate Rattan Pal lost to Virbhadra Singh, who had shifted to Arki, by a margin of 6,051 votes.Another contender for the ticket in Arki, Asha Parihar, a Zila Parishad member, has also refused to campaign for Rattan Pal. “There is possibility that both Govind and Asha may ask their supporters not to support Rattan Pal,” says a party MLA.Though both Govind and Asha are not contesting the Arki byelection as Independent candidates, it is clear that they and their supporters will not work wholeheartedly for Rattan Pal, giving an advantage to Congress candidate Sanjay Awasthy.Chetan Bragta’s presence in the fray in Jubbal-Kotkhai is giving trouble to the BJP and a clear edge to Congress candidate Rohit Thakur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-assembly-by-polls-denied-ticket-disgruntled-leaders-may-spoil-bjp-chances-324793
15-10-2021||---||CM flies in helicopter, not aware of poor condition of roads: Pratibha Singh||Tribune News ServiceMandi, October 14Congress candidate Pratibha Singh for the Mandi Lok Sabha byelection today targeted Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur in his home Seraj Assembly segment. “For the past four years, the Chief Minister has been flying in helicopter. So, he is unaware of the poor condition of roads, which are in a deplorable condition even in Seraj. The condition of the Kiratpur-Manali highway is worse,” she said.“It was former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh, who had ensured tremendous development in Seraj. Now, time has come to support the Congress and ensure my victory with a huge margin of votes, which will be a real tribute to the Virbhadra,” she added.Pratibha alleged that to divert the attention of people from inflation and unemployment, the BJP was trying to play politics on the valour of the Indian Army to woo the voters. “BJP leaders are not talking about inflation, unemployment and the poor condition of roads. They are misleading public to take credit for the Atal Tunnel,” she added“It was during the Congress regime at the Centre, that on June 28, 2010, the stone of the project was laid by Sonia Gandhi in her capacity as the chairperson of the National Advisory Council of the UPA government,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-flies-in-helicopter-not-aware-of-poor-condition-of-roads-pratibha-singh-324794
15-10-2021||Mandi||Pratibha Singh is ‘majboor’ candidate: Jai Ram Thakur||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today attacked Congress candidate Pratibha Singh, saying that “People want a ‘majboot’ (strong) candidate as their MP, not a a ‘majboor’ (unwilling to contest) candidate.”Thakur, while addressing public meetings at Seraj, said: “The Congress candidate says that she did not want to contest the election. If she was not keen, she should not contest it”.He said the Congress had become leaderless and urged the voters to support BJP candidate Brig Khushal Thakur (retd), a Kargil War hero.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pratibha-singh-is-majboor-candidate-jai-ram-thakur-324795
15-10-2021||Ambika Sharma||Hotels mushroom on Kasauli road, cause traffic snarls||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 14Lacking parking facilities, a number of tourism projects that have come up in the Kasauli area, especially along the Dharampur-Kasauli road, have become traffic bottlenecks as vehicles are parked on both sides of the narrow single-lane roads.Authorities laxThe PWD field staff has been reduced to a mute spectator. They have failed to ensure that no construction is carried out within the acquired width of the road. The lax attitude of the PWD staff has emboldened the investors who have conveniently encroached upon even parapets by raising boundary walls. This has further shrunk the width of the Dharampur-Kasauli and Dharampur-Sanawar roads.Several hotels have come up but failed to create parking spaces on their premises and their guests, perforce, have to use the road for parking. The situation is particularly critical at weekends when tourists from the tricity and Punjab and Haryana reach there causing traffic snarls on all roads leading to Kasauli from Dharampur.The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had restricted the height of buildings to two-plus-one storey in the Kasauli Planning Area where the additional storey is supposed to be the attic. “The investors should create parking spaces besides the two-plus-one storey stipulation of the NGT,” says Town Planner Leela Shyam. With no check on parking along the roads, the movement of vehicular traffic is often obstructed at such places.Besides, several new tourist projects, which are coming up on both sides of the road near Sanawar village, have caused extensive damage to the existing road. Muck excavated from hills has been callously dumped along the valleys while the movement of heavy machinery has damaged culverts as well as potable drinking water pipes. Even signage erected by panchayats informing local residents about government schemes have been damaged by reckless muck dumping along the roads.The field staff of the Public Works Department (PWD), supposed to check the violations, has been reduced to a mute spectator and failed to ensure that no construction is carried out within the acquired width of the road. The lax attitude of the PWD staff has emboldened the investors who have conveniently encroached upon parapets by raising boundary walls. This has further shrunk the width of the Dharampur-Kasauli and Dharampur-Sanawar roads.Executive Engineer, PWD, Kasauli Division, ML Sharma said that notices have been served on such hoteliers though he did not divulge how many notices and for what duration have been issued. He added that they have been given time to rectify the wrongs.A hotelier has dug up the Sanawar-Dharampur road along the valley side to create parking for his seven-storey hotel. “The state government has failed to expand civic amenities in decades even as a phenomenal growth of tourist resorts has been registered,” says Anil, a local realtor.“What is surprising is that how no road has been widened nor any new potable water scheme added in the last several decades in this division,” he adds.The memorandums of understanding for 15 new tourism projects were signed with the state government in its the 2019 Global Investors’ Meet for the Kasauli area.With successive governments failing to give attention to shrinking roads, traffic snarls have become an everyday affair, rues Manish Kumar, a local.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hotels-mushroom-on-kasauli-road-cause-traffic-snarls-324796
15-10-2021||---||Himachal by-poll: At 15,226 ft, Tashigong highest polling station||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 14The highest polling station will be set up at 15,226 feet in Tashigong village, falling in the tribal district of Lahaul Spiti, which forms part of Mandi Lok Sabha seat, going to by-poll on October 30. Polling centres 2,484First time voters (18-19 age group) 38,305 Model polling stations 36 Polling stations handled by women 40 Number of polling centres mannedby differently abled staff 3Persons with disability to cast vote 18,054Details of poll arrangements for Mandi and three Assembly segments of Arki, Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai were shared by C Palrasu, Chief Electoral Officer at a press conference here today. He said all arrangements had been made to ensure free, fair and peaceful polling. A total of 2,484 polling centres will be set up for the four by-polls, including 2,113 in Mandi. He said voters in the Shakti polling centre in Banjar segment of Kullu district will be able to cast their vote after traversing a distance of 24 kms in the by-polls for the Mandi Lok Sabha segment where polling will be held on October 30. The Adhal polling station will be located at a height of 8,500 feet in Jubbal-Kotkhia segment for the October 30 by-poll. The polling station at the lowest height of 600 feet will be at Bari in Sarkaghat assembly segment, which is part of Mandi parliamentary seat. A total of 38,305 first time voters in the 18-19 age group will cast their vote which includes 32,077 in Mandi Lok Sabha seat. Voters in Kutheda polling centre in Fathepur will have to cover 6 kms to reach the polling centre. There are a total of 12,99,756 voters in Mandi, 87,222 in Fatehpur, 92,609 in Solan and 70,965 in Jubbal-Kotkhai. Electronic voting machines (EVM) will be used for the polling on October 30 at all the four places. There will be a total of 2,365 polling centres and 3,120 VVPAT machines for the Mandi by-poll and a total of 431 polling centres and 647 VVPAT machines for the three Assembly elections. There will be a total of 36 model polling stations besides 40 polling stations to be handled exclusively by women polling staff in Mandi Lok Sabha and three Assembly segments. There will be three polling centres at Rampur, Saraswatinagar and Barot which will be manned by differently abled polling staff. A total of 18,054 persons with disability will cast their vote in these by-polls. The Election Committee has kept 11 identification modes which includes PAN card, Adhaar, driving license, passport, MNREGA job card, bank pass book and pension documents with photograph. There will be use of photo electoral rolls and teams have been constituted to monitor the election expenditure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-by-poll-at-15-226-ft-tashigong-highest-polling-station-324797
15-10-2021||---||Mohammad Rafiq sworn in as Chief Justice of Himachal Pradesh High Court||Legal CorrespondentShimla, October 14Justice Mohammad Rafiq was sworn in as the Chief Justice of the Himachal Pradesh High Court in Shimla today.  He was administered the oath of office by Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar in a ceremony held at Raj Bhawan.Chief Secretary Ram Subhag Singh conducted the proceedings of oath ceremony. Justice Rafiq was appointed as Judge of the Rajasthan High Court on May 15, 2006. He also worked as Acting Chief Justice of the Rajasthan High Court twice. He was elevated as Chief Justice of the High Court of Meghalaya on November 13, 2019, and remained there till April 26, 2020. He was transferred to the Orissa High Court on April 27, 2020, and then to the High Court of Madhya Pradesh on January 3, 2021.  Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj, Judges of the High Court, Justice Vijay Kumar Shukla from the Madhya Pradesh High Court, GoC-in-C, ARTRAC Lt Gen Raj Shukla, Advocate General Ashok Sharma, chairmen of various commissions, DGP Sanjay Kundu, chairmen and vice-chairmen of various boards and corporations, V-Cs, senior officers and other prominent people were also present.A Guard of Honour was also presented to the newly appointed Chief Justice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mohammad-rafiq-sworn-in-as-chief-justice-of-himachal-pradesh-high-court-324798
15-10-2021||---||Himachal CM: Didn’t let development suffer during Covid crisis||Our CorrespondentKULLU, OCTober 14Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said that with the support of the masses of Himachal, the government was able to tackle the Covid crisis with efficient management. Addressing a public meeting in Thrass village of Garsa valley of this district today, he said, “We ensured that development projects did not suffer and the government inaugurated and laid foundation stones of projects worth Rs 4,000 crore through virtual medium and video conferences during the corona period. There were many challenges before us and we gave priority to saving lives. Along with that the pace of development works was not disturbed.” The CM appealed to the masses to vote and support the BJP candidate for Mandi Lok Sabha byelections Brig Khushal Thakur (retd). He said by making the BJP victorious will strengthen the Modi government and give a clear message that masses of Himachal were with the PM. He said that Brigadier Thakur (retd) had won many wars, including Kargil, and he will win this battle as well with the support of the masses. The Chief Minister said that Congress candidate Pratibha Singh should have refrained from making comments against the Army just because her competitor was from military background. He also targeted Congress key campaigners like Kanhaiya Kumar and Navjot Sidhu. He said that in the last Lok Sabha elections, the BJP had registered a lead in all 68 Assembly constituencies for the first time in the history of Himachal. He added that the BJP candidate had got a lead of 22,000 votes from the Banjar Assembly constituency and this time it should increase beyond 25,000.Brig Thakur said that he had served 35 years in the Army with a lot of hard work and honesty. He was given the responsibility of chairman-cum-managing Director of the HP Ex-servicemen Corporation and he gave his best for the welfare of his colleagues. He said now he had been given political responsibility and he appealed for support from the masses. He promised to serve the masses with zeal and assured to raise their issues in Parliament.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-didnt-let-development-suffer-during-covid-crisis-324799
15-10-2021||---||Congress blames BJP for price rise||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 14The Congress  today blamed the BJP for price rise of essential commodities like fuel and  LPG and said this had unnerved the common man, who will give a befitting  reply to the  BJP in the elections.Addressing  a meeting at Piplughat in Arki Assembly segment in favour of  Congress candidate Sanjay Awasthy, Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu said, “Prices of essential  commodities were under control during the Congress regime but these have  increased two or three times under the Modi government. People are suffering due  to shrinking job opportunities and the Union Government has failed to provide  any succour.”He alleged  there were about 14 lakh unemployed youth in the state but the availability  of jobs was nil. The Congress had introduced Mahatma Gandhi Rural  Guarantee Scheme to provide employment while the BJP has failed to provide  adequate employment to the youth, he alleged.Sukhu alleged that the state government was mired in corruption cases  which came to the fore during the pandemic in the Health Department and appeared to be the aftermath of internal bickering in the BJP. “Rajiv Bindal was made to resign as state BJP president  for no fault of  his   it appears. He should emulate   the Congress ideology,” he said.He  urged the people to  vote for Sanjay Awasthy, whom he said would be  given some key responsibility if the Congress comes to power next year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-blames-bjp-for-price-rise-324800
15-10-2021||---||Villagers protest illegal mining on farmland||Our CorrespondentPalampur October 14Hundreds of villagers protested against illegal mining being carried out on their private land by the mining mafia in six villages of Jaisinghpur subdivision. They said that despite their repeated efforts to stop the illegal activity, the mining mafia was continuing to mine their private land. Addressing mediapersons at Jaisinghpur, Savitri Devi, pradhan of Mahila Mandal,  Anil  Kumar, ward member, Parkash Chand Rana, Jai Devi,  Bandana, Guler Chand and Romesh Chand said that hundreds of acres of private land had gone barren in the area because of illegal mining being carried out at night. They added that the mafia had not even spared agricultural land and damaged their standing crops.  A number of complaints had been made to the local authorities, police and the Mining Department but no one had come to their rescue, the villagers alleged.They said that illegal mining was also posing a threat to the existence of a bridge over the Mand Khud and the IPH Water  Works that caters to about 100 villagers. They added that  the PWD,  IPH, revenue authorities, Forest and Mining departments were well aware about the situation but no steps had been initiated to save their property. They had also met the SDM several times, but to no avail.      The agitated villagers also called Jaisinghpur MLA Ravinder Ravi Dhiman and demanded immediate action against the mining mafia, which had trespassed into their lands. They said that the mafia had dug deep trenches on their land, where a  child recently lost his life after falling in it. Besides, several animals have also died.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/villagers-protest-illegal-mining-on-farmland-324801
15-10-2021||---||One dead in bus-truck collision in Aut tunnel||Tribune News ServiceMandi, October 14One  passenger died while 13 were injured when a Punjab Roadways bus collided with a truck inside the Aut tunnel on the Chandigarh-Manali highway in Mandi district this evening.SP Shalini Agnihotri said police teams and ambulances rushed to the spot to start the rescue operation.She said the detailed information was awaited. The injured victims were being transported to a nearby hospital. The accident caused a long traffic jam. The police were trying to regulate the traffic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/one-dead-in-bus-truck-collision-in-aut-tunnel-324802
15-10-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Fake companies created to supply opioids||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 14Fake marketing companies are being used to supply the banned opioids, mainly tramadol tablets, in the grey market by some pharmaceutical firms units in Sirmaur district. The fact came to light during the backward linkage investigations after a huge stock of tramadol tablets were recovered in Punjab and the roots were found in Paonta Sahib and Kala Amb.FIRs were registered against two pharma companies which were suspected of supplying drugs through fake marketing companies and 745 kg and 226 kg of tramadol raw material and 30 lakh tramadol tablets worth Rs 6 crore were seized from the companies.Cases of illegally manufactured pharma opioids have come to the fore in the state. Himachal is grappling with twin problems of chitta and opioids. Chitta is being smuggled to the state from Delhi while opioids are going out of the state illegally, said IG, Cyber Crime (CID), Atul Fulzele.As per the data procured from the police department, 797 kg of heroine and 30 lakh opioid tablets have been seized till August 31 as compared to 0.634 kg of heroine and 56,110 tablets in 2016.The number of NDPS cases and persons arrested has been on the rise since 2016 and 7,737 persons, including 97 women and 39 foreigners, have been arrested in 6,257 cases in the past five years while 1,519 persons (13 women and 4 foreigners) were arrested till August 31 this year.The knockout punch to drug trafficking is the approach adopted by the police which are now focusing on catching big fish, said DGP Sanjay Kundu.A register for drug traffic operators (DTO) will be introduced from November 1. It will contain the details, including name, age, physical description, mobile number, Aadhaar number, social media accounts, assets, quantity of contrabands seized, details of family members and political involvement. It will allow the police to monitor drug trafficking and trade more effectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fake-companies-created-to-supply-opioids-324803
15-10-2021||---||Farmers suffering in Himachal Pradesh: Kuldeep Rathore||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, October 14HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore today alleged that the BJP was trying to divert the attention of people from price rise, unemployment and lack of development by invoking regionalism.While addressing mediapersons here, Rathore alleged that in Mandi, the Chief Minister was seeking votes on the plea that he belongs to the district. If the CM belongs to Mandi what should other areas as Kangra or Shimla do, he asked.“Farmers of Fatehpur  are suffering as the FCI has not opened procurement centres there. While the procurement of paddy was started on October 2 in Punjab and Haryana, it is yet to start in Himachal,” he said. Earlier, the farmers of the area used to sell their paddy in the mandis of Punjab, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/farmers-suffering-in-himachal-pradesh-kuldeep-rathore-324804
15-10-2021||---||Firm dupes investors of crores||Our CorrespondentHamirpur, October 14A finance company has duped hundreds of people of crores of rupees in the district. It was learnt that a company, based near Dosarka, had reportedly offered to double the deposits in two years. The company had issued fixed deposit certificates and the copies of recurring deposit books too. The company had been in business for over five years. Trilok Dadwal, a former Municipal Committee councillor said the company used to renew the FDs at its own and hardly made any payments to investors. Many investors had deposited over Rs 10 lakh each and the total investment could be in crores. Another investor Capt Chandu Ram said he had made a huge investment in the company and now the premises of the company was locked. He was assured to get double the amount in one year. But now fear of losing even the principal amount loomed among investors. Some investors had lodged a complaint to the police and also met the Superintendent of Police. Akriti Sharma, SP, said the police had received the complaint and more evidences were demanded from them so that stringent action could be initiated against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/firm-dupes-investors-of-crores-324805
15-10-2021||Shimla||Chetan Bragta’s supporters may be expelled from BJP: Suresh Kashyap||Chetan Bragta was expelled from the BJP as he had decided to contest as an Independent candidate against the party’s official nominee, Neelam Saraik, in Jubbal-Kotkhai. Bragta’s supporters could also be expelled, said state BJP president Suresh Kashyap while addressing mediapersons here today.He said that the Congress was leaderless and hence was promoting anti-national elements such as Kanhaiya Kumar. He added that Virbhadra Singh was a true patriot and would have never allowed Kanahiya Kumar to campaign in Himachal.Kashyap said that Pratibha Singh should apologise for her statement “belittling’ the Kargil War, as the soldiers in the state were feeling let down. He added that India lost more than 500 soldiers in the Kargil War, including 52 belonging to Himachal.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chetan-bragtas-supporters-may-be-expelled-from-bjp-suresh-kashyap-324806
15-10-2021||---||Enforce Covid norms during canvassing: CEO||Tribune News Service Shimla, October 14 Adherence of Covid-19 guidelines during canvassing for the byelections should be ensured, said Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) C Paulrasu at a meeting with police officers here today. Discussions on various issues with regard to maintening law and order during the four byelections were held. DGP Sanjay Kundu was also attended the meeting. Paulrasu asked the officers to take strict action against violators of Covid norms.  The CEO urged the police officials on election duty to cast their vote. He asked them to take effective steps to ensure the security of electronic voting machines. He directed deployment of CAPF in vulnerable areas and to monitor illegal liquor and other such issues.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/enforce-covid-norms-during-canvassing-ceo-324807
15-10-2021||Shimla||182 new cases, four deaths in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 182 new cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 221,113. Besides, four persons died of the virus (two each in Mandi and Kangra).The highest number of 62 Covid cases was reported in Kangra, followed by 43 in Hamirpur, 28 in Bilaspur, 21 in Mandi, 13 in Una, eight in Shimla, three in Kullu and two each in Solan and Chamba. The number of active cases rose to 1,387.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/182-new-cases-four-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-324808
15-10-2021||Una||Satti lays stone for sewerage system||Chairman of the State Finance Commission Satpal Singh Satti yesterday laid the foundation stone of a sewerage for Santoshgarh.He said Rs 22 crore would be spent on the facility and the first installment of Rs 7 crore had been released to the Jal Shakti Department.Satti said that in 1996, the government had approved a budget of Rs 2.5 crore for laying the system at Santoshgarh, but the work failed to take off due to some conflicts. He added that now, with the cooperation of local residents and the allocation of land, the work had been initiated. Tenders for laying pipelines had been floated.Satti elaborated on various welfare schemes initiated by the government. He claimed that despite the pandemic, the pace of developmental had not slowed down and the benefits of the welfare schemes were reaching at the grassroots level.Santoshgarh MC president Nirmala Devi, vice-president Rajnish Chabba and Executive Engineer of the Una Jal Shakti Department Naresh Dhiman were also present. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/satti-lays-stone-for-sewerage-system-324809
15-10-2021||Solan||Villagers threaten to block Shillai highway||Villagers of Haivana in Shillai of Sirmaur district today threatened to block the Paonta Sahib-Shillai highway. They were angry over the lack of compensation given to them by a private company, hired by the NHAI, which had dumped muck in the village during the widening of the highway. They had asked the firm to pay by Saturday.The villagers took out a protest march in the village where they burnt the effigy of NHAI officials and said if they were not given compensation, they would adopt a more aggressive posture.They said the administration had promised adequate compensation for the loss of their crops which had been destroyed about three months back. Despite tall promises, nothing substantial had been given to them.The crops had dried up as water pipelines had been damaged due to the dumping of muck. NHAI officials had promised to give compensation within seven days but despite the lapse of two months, they had not been given the sufficient compensation, rued the villagers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/villagers-threaten-to-block-shillai-highway-324810
15-10-2021||---||Bike falls into gorge, two killed||Our CorrespondentBharmour, October 14Two persons were killed when they lost control over their motorcycle and it fell into a gorge near Mandha on the Dakog-Banni Mata link road last evening, a report said here today. They were returning home after paying obeisance at the Banni Mata temple. The deceased have been identified as Narinder Kumar and Dibar, both natives of Banad Mughal village in Bharmour subdivision.Bharmour SDM Manish Soni said that a police team brought the bodies to the civil hospital for a postmortem. An interim relief of Rs 10,000 each had been given to the next of kin of the deceased, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bike-falls-into-gorge-two-killed-324811
15-10-2021||---||Tie up with CSIR-IMTech for natural farming soon||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 14A collaboration between the state project implementing unit of Prakritik Kheti Khushhal Kisan Yojana and the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)-Institute of Microbial Technology in Chandigarh is on the cards for microbial study of dung and urine of indigenous cows being used for the Subhash Palekar Natural Farming (SPNF) in Himachal Pradesh.The SPNF is a non-chemical, low-cost, climate-resilient agriculture technique, which is being promoted under the Prakritik Kheti Khushhal Kisan Yojana since its launch in 2018.It recommends the use of dung and urine of indigenous cow breeds as the key components for soil fertility enhancement and plant protection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tie-up-with-csir-imtech-for-natural-farming-soon-324812
15-10-2021||Shimla||Rohru-Chidgaon road blocked||The Rohru-Chidgaon road was blocked following a massive landslide at Rohru this morning. The road is closed for traffic, machinery has been deployed and the restoration work is underway.Meanwhile, 442 goats died yesterday after falling from a high hill near Badot in Sadak Mandal of Rohru. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rohru-chidgaon-road-blocked-324813
15-10-2021||Shimla||Himachal Governor, CM wish people on Dasehra||Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur have extended greetings to people on the auspicious occasion of Dasehra.The Governor said the festival of Dasehra symbolises the victory of good over evil.Thakur wished that the festival brings happiness, peace and prosperity in the lives of the people. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-governor-cm-wish-people-on-dasehra-324814
15-10-2021||The counselling of candidates||Counselling on October 21||Raise no. of PHD seats: ABVPThe ABVP has demanded that the holders of the National Fellowship for Higher Education be given priority in PhD admissions. The ABVP also demanded that PhD seats should be increased, considering many appointments have been made of teachers of late. The student body also demanded that the state roaster should be implemented so that Himachal students get priority in PhD admissions.Mental Health Day observedThe World Mental Health Day was organised jointly by the Health and Family Welfare Department and District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) in Chamba on Sunday. Dr Neeraj Sharma, Head of Department (Psychiatry), Medical College, Chamba, gave detailed information about mental illness and mental health-related disorders to students of the local Shakuntala Memorial Nursing College and ASHA workers. On behalf of the District Legal Services Authority, Advocate Arun Sharma gave information about the Mental Health Act and Human Rights as per the programme list of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/counselling-on-october-21-324815
15-10-2021||The garbage disposal in the open has become a cause for concern in Tungal Colony under the Mandi MC. Garbage is being dumped in a stream. The MC should keep a vigil on people who are dumping garbage here — Rakesh Kumar||Garbage being dumped in stream||Students face transport issuesMost schools are running minimal school buses at the moment in Shimla. This forces many students to travel in HRTC or private buses, which are packed to capacity. Despite the obvious inconvenience of travelling with heavy bags in these crowded buses, there's a risk of catching Covid infection too. The authorities should take steps to ensure that students do not face problems.— Himani Thakur, SanjauliWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/garbage-being-dumped-in-stream-324816
15-10-2021||Subhash Rajta||65% Shimla buildings ‘vulnerable’; experts say demolition no answer||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 14If the hazard, vulnerability and risk assessment (HVRA) carried out by the Shimla Municipal Corporation is to be believed, the city is staring at a repeat of disasters like Kachhi Ghati.The assessment, funded by the United Nation Development Programme and executed by TARU in 2016, found that as many as 65 per cent of the buildings it surveyed were “in class of high vulnerability”. “About 65 per cent of the 2,795 buildings surveyed are vulnerable owing to their age, type of construction and structural details across all wards,” said the comprehensive report.Disaster in making“The building vulnerability is too high that natural calamities like earthquakes and landslides can cause a catastrophic damage,” it said.The report put the city in seismic zone IV (high damage risk zone), and as far as landslide hazard is concerned, 51 per cent area is in moderate and 33 per cent is in high hazard zone. Given the risk, the report said 5,000 to over 20,000 people might die in the city in the event of a significant earthquake.Tikender Panwar, former Deputy Mayor and an urban planning expert, said, “It was essential to measure the vulnerability quotient. As per the findings, Shimla is on the brink of a disaster. If the survey is not integrated in the development plan, it will end up as an exercise in futility.”Given the high vulnerability of 65 per cent buildings, experts said the way forward was to retrofit these buildings in phases to strengthen them. “Retrofitting is key to reducing the vulnerabilities of these buildings. Demolition is not the solution. The government needs to make a budget for this massive exercise,” he said.Meanwhile, the assessment also threw ample light on how difficult it would be for emergency services like ambulances and fire tenders to access certain areas in case of emergencies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/65-shimla-buildings-vulnerable-experts-say-demolition-no-answer-324620
