16-10-2021||Mandi||8 injured as tourist vehicle overturns at Khanag on Aut-Luhri highway in Kullu||As many as eight people were injured, while seven escaped unhurt, when the Tempo traveller they were travelling in overturned at Khang near Jalori pass on Aut-Luhri highway on Saturday in Kullu district.According to police, the vehicle was on its way, when the driver of the vehicle lost control. As a result, it overturned on the highway.SP, Kullu, Gurdev Chand Sharma said at the time of the incident 15 people were in this vehicle.Eight people sustained injuries, while others escaped unhurt. The injured victims were rushed to the nearby community health centre at Ani for treatment.The SP stated that all victims are natives of Kolkata. A case has been registered and investigation is underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/8-injured-as-tourist-vehicle-overturns-at-khanag-on-aut-luhri-highway-in-kullu-325475
16-10-2021||It is a nightmare to travel to Delhi from Shimla these days. One has to take a diversion from a point on the national highway where farmers are protesting. The road that passes through villages is full of potholes||Travel to Delhi a nightmare||Follow covid-19 protocolThe festive season will see tourists from the plains rushing to Shimla. In their excitement to enjoy their holidays to the fullest, travellers are likely to throw all caution related to Covid out of the window. The police and administration should make adequate arrangements to ensure the visitors follow all Covid-19 guidelines and protocol. — Pawan Sharma, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/travel-to-delhi-a-nightmare-325229
16-10-2021||Rajan Sharma has been appointed the organising secretary of the Himachal Pradesh School Lecturer Association (HPSLA). He said his aim would be to make the government aware of the problems of the lecturers. He would work hard to restore Old Pension Scheme||Rajan is organising secy, HPSLA||Govt teacher to get achievers awardSatish Kumar, a teacher at the Government Senior Secondary School, Cheog, near Shimla, would be conferred the Global Achievers Award by Rohtak-based Guru Foundation on October 31 in Haridwar. The foundation gives the award to achievers in the field of education. Kumar is a Sanskrit teacher and his research papers have been published in several reputed magazines.Webinar on RTI actRTI expert Gopal Krishan Sanghiak would talk about various aspects of the Right to Information Act in a webinar organised by the Umang Foundation on October 17. Foundation's trustee Sanjeev Sharma said the webinar would be the fifth in a series of programmes to mark the 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav'. Sanghaik is a course coordinator of HIPA and an associate professor of public administration at Kotshera College.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rajan-is-organising-secy-hpsla-325228
16-10-2021||Solan||Woman crushed under tractor||A 24-year-old woman was overrun by a tractor while walking near the Yamuna riverbed at Manpura Devra in Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district this morning.The woman was hit by the speeding tractor from behind, following which she fell down and was overrun. She died on the spot. The tractor driver fled the spot but was identified by an onlooker as Rajkumar, a resident of Manpura Devra village, Paonta Sahib DSP Bir Bahadur said.The deceased was identified as Sohandi Devi, a resident of Manpura Devra. The driver has been booked at the Singhpura police station and further probe was underway.Cases of reckless driving causing mishaps are becoming routine in this subdivision. One person was killed and another grievously injured when a vehicle (HP-17F-0152) hit a motorcycle at Behrewala on the Nahan-Paonta Sahib highway last evening. The motorcycle rider Harun (24) died in the hospital while undergoing treatment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/woman-crushed-under-tractor-325227
16-10-2021||Mandi||2 die in Mandi mishap||Two persons were killed and two others injured when the car they were travelling in fell into a gorge at Chet village in the Janjehli area of Mandi today.The police said four persons, namely Hem Raj, Kamal Kishore, Leelmani and Laxman, all natives of Shadan village, were going to a wedding at Chet village when the driver lost control over the car.Mandi SP Shalini Agnihotri said, “While driver Hem Raj and Kamal Kishore died on the spot, Leelmani and Laxman sustained serious injuries. Both injured were rushed to the Medical College in Nerchowk. The post-mortem of the deceased will be conducted tomorrow at the Community Health Centre in Janjehli”.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-die-in-mandi-mishap-325226
16-10-2021||Solan||Clerk booked for outraging modesty||A clerk employed in the office of the licensing authority, Kasauli, was booked for outraging the modesty of a 23-year old girl, who visited his office to get a learner’s licence yesterday.The girl alleged that when she visited the office of clerk Anil Kumar, he asked her to sit next to him as her application for a learner’s licence was being transferred from the Regional Transport Office (RTO) Solan to Kasauli. He made her sit there for 45 minutes and asked her personal questions and indulged in inappropriate behaviour, the girl alleged.Parwanoo DSP Yogesh Rolta said a case under Sections 354 and 354 (A) of the IPC had been registered against Anil Kumar and further probe was underway.Kasauli SDM Sanjiv Dhiman said the case had been brought to the notice of the Deputy Commissioner and further action, such as removing him from the public dealing post, would be taken following her directions.Solan Deputy Commissioner Kritika Kulhari said an enquiry would be initiated on receipt of the police complaint or a complaint from the victim. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/clerk-booked-for-outraging-modesty-325225
16-10-2021||Palampur||Palampur residents flay littering in forests||Residents of the upper areas of Palampur such as Bundla, Kandi, Thala and Surad areas have lodged a protest over littering of plastic junk, including wrappers, mineral water and liquor bottles, on forestland by tourists.The protesting residents say plastic junk littered in forests in the upper areas of Palampur and near the Jakhni Mata Mandir can destroy the ecology of the hill state, and result in the death of wild animals. The authorities concerned should act now, they add.Heaps of plastic covers, mineral water bottles, chips packets and foils have become a common sight in these villages, despite a ban on the sale and use of plastic imposed by the state. Most of the forest land and picnic spots are littered with plastic items.The government agencies responsible for managing the affairs have become a mute spectator, allowing dumping of plastic in local rivulets. The green forests in Palampur have virtually turned into a dumping ground.Agitated residents urged the state to charge green tax from the tourists and locals visiting the areas and use the money to keep the environment clean.Thousands of tourists visit Palampur and its adjoining areas, but there is no provision for scientific treatment of garbage, despite the NGT orders issued in 2018.Environmentalists attribute the dumping of plastic to lethargic monitoring by officials involved in the conservation of the area. “Sustaining the biodiversity is not possible without the cooperation of tourists, who, by and large, lack civic sense,” says Palampur SDM Amit Guleria. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-residents-flay-littering-in-forests-325224
16-10-2021||Shimla||71 new cases, two deaths in Himachal Pradesh||There were 71 new Covid cases in the state today. Besides, two deaths — one each in Kangra and Mandi — were reported.Sixteen cases were reported in Kangra, 11 each in Una and Shimla, eight each in Hamirpur and Solan, six in Bilaspur, five each in Mandi and Chamba and one in Kullu. The total positive cases rose to 2,21,203. There were 1,361 active cases.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/71-new-cases-two-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-325223
16-10-2021||---||Fair compensation sought for land acquired for NH 4-laning||Our CorrespondentPalampur, October 15Residents of 61 Mile, Dhoran, Darang and Paror areas — who are affected by the Pathankot-Mandi four-laning project — today called on Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar of the state Assembly and demanded fair compensation for their lands and buildings being acquired by the NHAI.They lodged a protest against the recent compensation announced by the Competent Authority Land Acquisition (CALA) for the first package of the four-lane project between Pathankot and 32 Miles. They urged the Speaker to persuade the NHAI to pay compensation as per market rates.Parmar assured the affected residents that he would take up the matter with the NHAI as well as the state government. He said justice would be done with the affected people. Parmar also spoke to the Project Director of NHAI Anil Sen and SDM Dheera to initiate necessary steps for granting fair compensation so that legal disputes are avoided and the project is not delayed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fair-compensation-sought-for-land-acquired-for-nh-4-laning-325222
16-10-2021||---||Now, products made by Una SHGs to be sold online||Our CorrespondentUNA, OCTOBER 15Anurag Thakur, Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting, Youth Affairs and Sports, today launched the online sale of products made by women Self Help Groups (SHGs) of Una district through e-commerce platform Amazon.Thakur was the chief guest at a function organised by the Rural Development and Panchayati Raj Department at Thanakalan village of Kutlehar Assembly segment on the occasion of International Day for Rural Women. Himachal Rural Development Minister and Kutlehar MLA Virender Kanwar was also present.The Union Minister also launched a brochure listing all 51 products of SHGs launched for online sale by the District Rural Development Agency. Speaking on the occasion, he called upon the members of these groups to ensure good quality of their products for sustainability and better returns. He expressed the need to improve skills of the rural women artisans.Thakur also laid the foundation stones and inaugurated public works worth about Rs 36 crore in the Kutlehar Assembly segment. He also flagged off an awareness rally on sanitation from Androuli village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/now-products-made-by-una-shgs-to-be-sold-online-325221
16-10-2021||---||Soaked in tradition, Kullu Dasehra festivities begin||Abhinav VashishtKULLU, OCTOBER 15Himachal Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar witnessed the Rath Yatra as the seven-day-long Dasehra festival commenced at Dhalpur here today. Justice Sandeep Sharma, Judge of Himachal Pradesh High Court, was also present on the occasion.The idols of chief deity Lord Raghunath, Sita, Hanuman and other deities were brought to Dhalpur in a palanquin from their sanctum sanctorum in Sultanpur. These were then placed in a beautifully decorated wooden chariot called Rath. The descendants of erstwhile ruler of Rupi (Kullu) valley along with the head of family Maheshwar Singh led the Rath Yatra.The Rath was pulled by devotees from the northern end of the Dhalpur ground to the camp temple of Lord Raghunath in the middle of the ground. Palanquins of Gods and Goddesses with their bands participated in the Rath Yatra. Thousands of men, women and children in their traditional folk dresses, besides hundreds of tourists, gathered to watch the spectacular event. Traditional rituals will be carried out at the camp temple during the festivities.The administration and the health department had said that people coming for the festival should ensure that they have got both the shots of vaccination. Last year, only limited persons were allowed during the Rath Yatra and only seven deities were invited for the festival which had a major role in traditional rituals. However, 14 deities had participated in the festivities.200 deities take part||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/soaked-in-tradition-kullu-dasehra-festivities-begin-325220
16-10-2021||Subhash Rajta||Many Shimla areas difficult to access during emergency||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 15Emergency services like ambulance and fire tender will struggle to reach several households spread across different wards in the city in the event of a natural disaster. As per the Municipal Corporation’s Hazard Vulnerability Risk Analysis, conducted by TARU and funded by United Nation Development Programme in 2016, “many parts of the city are very difficult to be serviced” by ambulance and fire services.Pointing out that many households in wards like Kanlog, Maliyana, Annadale, Kaithu and Boileauganj do not have access to their house from motorable roads, the report said, “It enhances people’s inability to escape in case of any eventuality. These households need to be considered while making any preparedness plans of emergency management plans.” As per the report, over 80 per cent of the houses in wards like Lower Bazar, Ruldhu Bhatta, Kaithu, Chamiyana, Phagli are away from the motorable road and residents have to use intricate network of staircases and narrow walkways to reach their houses.“In many places in many of these wards, the situation is quite bad. It’s difficult to get someone seriously ill to a motorable point. Also, in case of a fire, several areas are almost inaccessible,” said Inderjeet Singh, Lower Bazar councillor. “The situation has come to such a pass because of encroachment. The MC needs to be extremely vigilant to check this malpractice,” he said.The survey also identified wards like Pateog, Maliyana, parts of Bharari and Dhalli areas as “not well-served” by fire stations. As per the survey, 55 per cent of the houses are at a distance of 5 km from the nearest fire station. “Considering the traffic conditions of the city, travelling 5 km can take more than 20 minutes, which is crucial for any building,” the report said. For areas that are 10-12 km away from fire stations, it will be “very difficult to for the fire administration to serve effectively on time”.Much like the fire services, several areas will take more time to access health facilities and vice versa. “People of about eight per cent households have to travel more than 25 minutes to reach a hospital,” the report said.The report further mentions that about six per cent households are located at a distance of 500 m from the main access road. “Special provisions need to be made for evacuation of residents in case of a disaster,” the report said.Away from motorable road||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/many-shimla-areas-difficult-to-access-during-emergency-325219
16-10-2021||Subhash Rajta||Kisan manch may hurt BJP in Mandi, Jubbal-Kotkhai||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 15The Sanyukt Kisan Manch, a group of apple growers, can hurt the BJP’s chances in the Mandi and Jubbal-Kotkhai byelections if the government does not address its issues immediately.The manch is miffed with the government for not addressing its concerns. “The government has not even called us for talks on our issues. We will not forget to bring this up when BJP candidates come to seek our votes,” said a manch leader.To exert pressure on the government, the manch has called a meeting on October 19. “Among other issues, we will talk about the elections and the role we can play,” said manch convener Harish Chauhan, who has been with the BJP for decades now.Interestingly, manch members come from different political affiliations. Some are from the Congress, some from the Left, and some owe allegiance to the BJP. In fact, BJP’s Jubbal-Kotkhai candidate Neelam Sariak was part of the gathering when the manch was formed in Shimla.“The government is trying to dismiss the manch as a Left-Congress front. It’s not the case as many common and neutral apple growers are part of it. They are here to ensure that they are not victimised by market forces. If the government refuses to address our genuine concerns, the election prospects of the BJP will be hurt,” said Shiv Pratap Bhimta, an apple grower of Kotkhai.A manch office-bearer claimed that the BJP’s chances would not only be hurt in Jubbal-Kotkhai but also in the Mandi Lok Sabha byelection. “We have a good presence in several apple-producing pockets of the Mandi constituency. Also, many vegetable growers in the Arki constituency are also members of the manch. The BJP may end up regretting not taking us seriously and addressing the concerns of the apple growers,” he said.Issues not addressed, farmers unhappyWe have a good presence in several apple-producing pockets of the Mandi constituency. Also, many vegetable growers in Arki are members of the manch. The BJP may end up regretting not taking us seriously and addressing the concerns of the apple growers. — Office-bearer of Sanyukt Kisan Manch||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kisan-manch-may-hurt-bjp-in-mandi-jubbal-kotkhai-325218
16-10-2021||---||Farmers oppose BJP workers in Kangra||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, October 15BJP workers campaigning for the Fatehpur Assembly byelection once again faced farmers’ ire in a border area of Kangra district.When they reached Tatiali village for campaigning, they were opposed by a group of farmers. The farmers alleged that their paddy crop was rotting in the fields and they were not being able to sell it. In videos that went viral on social media, the BJP workers were seen making a hasty exit from the area due to the opposition by farmers.Earlier, the farmers had opposed BJP candidate Baldev Thakur’s visit to Raili village in the area.Farmers of the border area of Kangra district used to sell their paddy crop in the adjoining state of Punjab. This year, the Punjab Government has barred the entry of outside paddy into its mandis. Since there is no rice sheller in Kangra district, there is no private buyer of paddy here.Kangra Deputy Commissioner Nipun Jindal had stated that the FCI would start the procurement of paddy at three centres in Fetehpur, Raili and Indora areas of Kangra district from tomorrow. However, farmers are restive as they fear their crop might get damaged in fields due to delayed procurement.Meanwhile, a senior party leader, who has been denied party ticket, took to Twitter to flay a senior RSS leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/farmers-oppose-bjp-workers-in-kangra-325217
16-10-2021||Ambika Sharma||Direct contest between BJP, Cong in Arki||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 15A direct contest is on the cards between the BJP and the Congress in the Arki Assembly byelection though both parties are facing undercurrents of rebellion from a section of disgruntled party leaders.The seat had fallen vacant following the death of six-time Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh in July this year. Owing to his failing health, Virbhadra Singh had given little time to the segment in his last tenure. People have not only become used to the absence of the legislator but also there is little enthusiasm for the byelection even though the Assembly elections are a year away.The BJP and the Congress have had a mixed luck in Arki. Virbhadra Singh had contested the seat in 2017; it was the first occasion when a sitting Chief Minister contested from Arki. BJP’s Govind Ram Sharma represented the constituency in 2007 and 2012. He is the only Brahmin to have won the seat as Rajput candidates had a stronghold here in the past. Congress’ Dharam Pal Thakur was elected from here consecutively in 1993, 1998, and 2003, He, however, contested the 2007 elections as an Independent candidate against the official Congress nominee.Earlier, a family had represented the seat in the Vidhan Sabha from 1972 to 1990, though from different parties. BJP’s Nagin Chander Pal had won the seat in 1990 and Congress’ Hira Singh Pal in 1985. Nagin Chander Pal had also represented the constituency in 1977 as a JNP candidate and in 1982 as a BJP candidate. Hira Singh Pal was elected from Arki in 1972 on the LRP ticket.The BJP has once again reposed faith in Rattan Pal Singh, who had lost the last election to Virbhadra Singh by 6,051 votes. The BJP later appointed him state vice-president and also the Chairman of the HP State Cooperative Development Federation in October 2020. This, however, alienated a section of local BJP leaders, who felt Rattan Pal had not been connected with the grass-roots workers. Senior leaders such as two-term MLA Govind Ram Sharma, whom the BJP denied the ticket in the 2017 elections despite he being the sitting MLA and fielded Rattan Pal, Zila Parishad members Asha Parihar and Amar Singh have already opposed his candidature. Govind Ram and Asha Parihar have conveniently excused themselves from campaigning in Arki and have taken up poll duties in other constituencies.The Congress, on the other hand, has fielded its state general secretary Sanjay Awasthy, who had lost the 2012 election by mere 2,075 votes to Govind Ram Sharma. He, too, is facing opposition from Block Congress Committee leaders.The Congress did not field Awasthy in the 2017 elections though he had lost the 2012 elections from Arki by a slender margin and instead gave the ticket to Virbhadra Singh. However, Awasthy has been assiduously maintaining contact with the voters.Both Sanjay Awasthy and Rattan Pal have lost the Assembly election once though they are in a direct contest this time and dissension in both parties can undercut their prospects in the byelection. The caste factor is also at play, as there is a direct fight between a Brahmin and a Rajput. Independent candidate Jagat Ram is also in the fray.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/direct-contest-between-bjp-cong-in-arki-325216
16-10-2021||---||CEO: Printing of ballot papers for Himachal bypolls complete||Shimla, October 15Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) C Paulrasu today said the printing of ballot papers for EVMs and tendered votes had been completed by the Himachal Pradesh Government Printing Press, as per the norms set by the Election Commission.He said that 56,500 ballot papers had been printed for the Mandi parliamentary constituency byelection, 4,000 each for Fatehpur and Arki and 3,500 for Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly byelctions scheduled for October 30.Besides, the printing work of the lists of contesting candidates has also been completed. As many as 5,100 lists have been printed for Mandi parliamentary constituency and 300 for Fatehpur, 400 for Arki and 300 for the Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly constituency.Additional Chief Electoral Officer Dalip Negi took stock of the printing work today. The ballot papers and the lists of contesting candidates will be distributed to the District Election Officers on October 16 for further action, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ceo-printing-of-ballot-papers-for-himachal-bypolls-complete-325215
16-10-2021||---||Himachal Bypoll: CM seeks votes for development||Mandi, October 15Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today addressed public meetings in the Darang, Balh and Jogindernagar Assembly constituencies in Mandi district to seek votes for BJP candidate Brig Khushal Thakur (retd).At Jhatingri, he urged voters to support Brig Khushal in the Mandi byelection to ensure development of the constituency. He said, “For the past four years, the government has ensured equitable development in the state with the support of the Central Government. It is time to strengthen the hands of Prime Minister Narendra Modi by electing the BJP candidate in the byelection”. He added that the Congress had no issues and hence was targeting the BJP.Meanwhile, Congress candidate Pratibha Singh also addressed public meetings at Chhatri in the Seraj Assembly segment and at Pangana in the Karsog Assembly constituency.She said, “Common people have suffered a lot due to inflation and poor governance. Time has come to teach the BJP a lesson in the byelection”. Pratibha urged the voters to support the Congress and ensure her victory with a huge margin of votes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-bypoll-cm-seeks-votes-for-development-325214
16-10-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal Bypoll: Discontent among growers in apple belt may cost BJP dear||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 15The BJP government ignoring the issues of apple growers and Chetan Bragta being denied the ticket can result in division of votes in the Jubbal-Kotkhai byelection.There is discontent among the people of apple heartland Jubbal-Kotkhai against the government for ignoring the issues of apple growers. The apple economy, estimated to be about Rs 4,500 crore, spans across 15 Assembly segments and the growers can prove to be the deciding factor in the Jubbal-Kotkhai byelection.Himachal page: Farmers oppose BJP workers in KangraKisan manch may hurt BJP in Mandi, Jubbal-KotkhaiThe denial of ticket to Chetan Bragta, son of Narinder Bragta, who was considered a strong voice of apple growers, can cost the BJP dear.Congress candidate Rohit Thakur is a two-time MLA. He has also remained Chief Parliamentary Secretary in the Virbhadra Singh government and has been raising issues of the apple growers. However, he has not held any senior position to be able to influence decision making in the government.The constituency is witnessing a keen triangular contest between Rohit Thakur (Congress), Chetan Bragta (Independent) and Neelam Saraik (BJP). The Congress is likely to benefit from the split in the BJP votes, as BJP rebel and Indpendent candidate Chetan Bragta will undercut Neelam’s prospects. The feeling that the BJP has ignored the apple growers and adverse remarks made by Horticulture Minister Mahender Singh can also hit the BJP’s chances .The apple growers have been demanding a higher rate than the present Rs 9.50 per kg being given the under market intervention scheme (MIS). Another major issue concerning them is the high input cost, especially of cartons and other packaging material. “The closure of the Gumma carton factory has been a major loss for the apple belt as it ensured the supply of quality cartons and also helped in regulating their prices in the open market,” laments an apple grower.During his tenure as Horticulture Minister, Narinder Bragta was credited with introducing the anti-hail gun, though doubts persist over its efficacy. Besides, he helped in setting up a marketing yard at Prala and mandis at Rohru, Narkanda and Matiana which facilitated farmers to sell their produce closer to their farmlands. Earlier, they would send their produce to the Azadpur Mandi in Delhi, and Parwanoo or Dhalli in Shimla.Another demand of the growers is the enhancement in the import duty on apple to ensure that they do not have to compete with cheaper apple from other countries. Huge quantities of apple is imported from Iran, Turkey, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan every year which is far cheaper than apple from Himachal or Kashmir. Jubbal-KotkhaiCongress candidate Rohit Thakur is likely to benefit from the split in the BJP votes, as BJP rebel and Indpendent candidate Chetan Bragta will undercut Neelam Saraik’s prospects.The feeling that the BJP has ignored apple growers and adverse remarks by Horticulture Minister Mahender Singh can also hit the BJP’s chances.Rs 4,500 cr economy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-bypoll-discontent-among-growers-in-apple-belt-may-cost-bjp-dear-325213
16-10-2021||---||Himachal byelections:  Won’t readmit the expelled, BJP tells rebels||Shimla, October 15The BJP will win all four byelections in Himachal Pradesh on the plank of development and the rebels expelled for anti-party activities will not be taken back, state party in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna today said.Office-bearers quit in Bragta’s support?Expelled BJP leader Chetan Bragta on Friday claimed office-bearers of the Jubbal mandal had resigned to protest the denial of ticket to him“Whenever a leader leaves the party, it is certainly a loss, but this time the party is determined not to readmit the expelled leaders,” Khanna told mediapersons here.However for the Fatehpur bypoll, the BJP has given ticket this time to Baldev Thakur, who rebelled against the party to contest as an Independent against the official BJP candidate during the 2017 Assembly poll.Khanna also said expelled BJP leader Chetan Bragta, who is fighting elections from Jubbal-Kotkhai as an Independent, was denied ticket as the party had taken a stand not to promote dynastic politics.The performance of the government will ensure the party’s victory in all four byelections, Khanna said, adding that the BJP had worked for every section of society and its management of Covid-19 pandemic and the implementation of welfare schemes for poor were excellent.Meanwhile, Chetan Bragta today claimed that the president and office-bearers of the Jubbal mandal of the BJP had resigned from the party to protest against the denial of party ticket to him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-byelections-wont-readmit-the-expelled-bjp-tells-rebels-325176
