18-10-2021||Dipender Manta||Three labourers killed, three injured in Lahaul and Spiti’s Shichling village||Tribune News ServiceMandi, October 18Three labourers were killed and three others were injured when a vehicle they were travelling in fell down from a road near Shichling under Kaza-sub division in tribal district Lahaul and Spiti on Sunday night.According to police, the driver lost control over the vehicle. It is expected that due to snowfall, the road had because slippery in the area, which caused the accident. The deceased were identified as Sarpu Malha, Tek Bahadur and Vardi Malha all natives of Nepal.The injured victims are as Kesang a local resident, Kalpana and Parvati both natives of Nepal.SDM Kaza Mahender Pratap said that the injured victims have been taken to Kaza hospital for treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-labourers-killed-three-injured-in-lahaul-and-spitis-shichling-village-326202
18-10-2021||Tribune Web Desk||In pictures, Himachal Pradesh's Lahaul-Spiti receives fresh snow||Chandigarh, October 18Himachal Pradesh's Lahaul-Spiti Dhankhar village received fresh snowfall on Monday. The village was seen covered with a thick blanket of snow.Authorities on Sunday closed the highway for two days that connects to Leh in Ladakh owing to snowfall. They also advised motorists to avoid travelling on high mountain passes till October 18.Weather Alert for Lahaul & Spiti district for 18.10.21मनाली-लेह राजमार्ग (NH003) और मनाली-ग्रांफु-काजा मार्ग (NH505) में बारालाचा दर्रे और कुमजुम दर्रे पर ताजा बर्फबारी के कारण अवरुद्ध हो गए हैं। सभी को सलाह दी जाती है कि वे जिले में अनावश्यक रूप से यात्रा करने से बचें। pic.twitter.com/kOnSiw43TL  View at #lossar village in #Spiti. #HimachalPradesh pic.twitter.com/KnJvZldxag  The weather at the passes is harsh. A sudden drop in the temperature, even in summer, can trigger winter-like conditions. The General Reserve Engineering Force, a wing of the Border Roads Organisation, maintains the Manali-Leh highway that passes through rugged Himalayan ranges, including the Baralacha Pass (16,020 ft), Lachlungla Pass (16,620 ft) and Tanglangla Pass (17,480 ft).  It has been raining in Shimla and Manali since Sunday.Several parts of Delhi and its adjoining areas witnessed waterlogging on Monday morning after overnight rainfall.Fruit and vegetable wholesale markets in Ghazipur, Delhi and parts of Gautam Buddh Nagar were seen waterlogged this morning.On Sunday too, roads were inundated in water, causing vehicular traffic to move at snail's pace. Punjab Chandigarh and Haryana also received scattered rainfall.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-pictures-himachal-pradeshs-lahaul-spiti-receives-fresh-snow-326182
18-10-2021||Shimla||131 new Covid cases, one death in Himachal||As many as 131 fresh Covid cases were reported in the past 24 hours. One person succumbed to the virus in Shimla district. The total confirmed cases till day are 2,21,437 while the number of active cases is 1,303. The maximum cases were reported from Hamirpur (45), followed by Una (34), Kangra (26), Mandi (15), Shimla (5), Bilaspur (4), Kullu and Solan (one each). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/131-new-covid-cases-one-death-in-himachal-325999
18-10-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Setback to drug mafia, Rs 6-cr properties frozen in Himachal||NURPUR, OCTOBER 17The drug mafia flourishing in the inter-state border areas of Indora and Nurpur subdivisions of Kangra district suffered a major setback when the designated NDPS court-cum-competent authority, Delhi, confirmed the freezing order of properties worth Rs 5.97 crore prepared by the Damtal police. The frozen properties will be seized by the police after completion of the requisite formalities.The Damtal police detected commercial quantities of synthetic drugs from Dharminder, alias Govinda of Chhanni-Beli, one of the kingpins of drug trafficking. The police conducted in-depth investigations into his movable and immovable properties, along with those of his family members and relatives, and prepared a property freezing order under Section 68 of the NDPS Act.The order, comprising details of luxury vehicles, bank accounts, palatial houses, buildings and lands of the accused, had been submitted to the designated court a few months ago. As per information, the order had been prepared against the accused Govinda, his mother Raj Kumari and his relatives Sheranand and Mangat Ram and their families.Kangra SP Khushal Sharma told The Tribune today that the NDPS court-cum-competent authority, Delhi, had given adequate opportunities to the alleged drug peddlers to disclose (prove) their source of income as they had accumulated property worth crores of rupees but they failed to do so.“The court has confirmed the property freezing order prepared by the Kangra police after eight hearings. The police would now seize the frozen property accumulated by the accused through drug trafficking,” he said.He said the state police had formulated a strategy to intensify financial investigations against drug peddlers and attach their properties so that their financial backbone could be broken and the inter-state drug supply chain snapped.Significantly, this is the second such property freezing order confirmed by the designated NDPS court. Earlier, a few months ago the freezing order for accumulating property worth Rs 1 crore had been prepared against Lavjeet Singh and his mother Bachni Devi of Bhadroya by Damtal police station which was confirmed by the court.Failed to reveal sourceKangra SP Khushal Sharma said the NDPS court-cum-competent authority, Delhi, had given adequate opportunities to the alleged drug peddlers to disclose (prove) their source of income but they failed to do so.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/setback-to-drug-mafia-rs-6-cr-properties-frozen-in-himachal-326000
18-10-2021||Solan||Rape accused arrested||The Paonta Sahib police arrested a man, identified as Yash Thakur, accused of raping a minor girl. He was held from the Batta Chowk at Paonta Sahib, today, while he was waiting for a private vehicle to flee towards Uttarakhand.Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Paonta Sahib, Bir Bahadur said a case of rape was registered against Yash Thakur at the Shillai police station last week. He had fled from the area after committing the crime. He was accused of blackmailing the minor girl belonging to the Schedule Caste with a video clip made by him in his mobile phone.Yash Thakur (36) had worked as a cook in some hotels, and he had befriended the girl through social media.The DSP said three teams had been constituted to nab the accused. He will be produced before a local court tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rape-accused-arrested-326001
18-10-2021||---||Himachal CM: Never said Pratibha Singh a ‘majboor’ candidate||Mandi, October 17Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today addressed public meetings at Baryara and Baggi, under Sadar Assembly constituency in Mandi district, to seek votes for BJP candidate Brig (retd) Khushal Thakur in Mandi Lok Sabha byelections, due on October 30.Reacting to Congress leader Asha Kumari’s allegations, the CM said, “I never said Pratibha Singh is a ‘majboor’ candidate. However, she has said in her political meetings that she did not want to contest the election. She was compelled to do it.”Making a veiled attack on the Congress, Thakur said, “In the past four years, I have tried my best to end the politics on Himachali caps, regionalism and political vendetta, which was prevalent during the regimes of the previous governments.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-never-said-pratibha-singh-a-majboor-candidate-326002
18-10-2021||---||Congress invoking regionalism in Fatehpur byelections: Bikram Thakur||Dharamsala, October 17Minister for Industries and Transport Bikram Thakur, who is in-charge of Fatehpur byelections for the ruling party, said that the Congress was bereft of real issues concerning people. The Congress was invoking regionalism and family to demand votes in Fatehpur byelections.While addressing public rallies in the area today, he flayed the Congress for terming the BJP candidate Baldev Thakur as an outsider. The Congress has brought up such posters across the constituency and some party leaders have said it openly in rallies. This illustrates that the Congress did not have any issues and the party was just trying to divide people on the basis of region or seeking votes in the name of family.The minister said the Congress had become a leaderless party. The party lacked the courage to appoint a permanent president at the national level. In Fatehpur the party has put photos of local candidate Bhawani Pathania and former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh on posters whereas the photos of Gandhi family are missing.The minister said the BJP was seeking votes on the basis of development carried by the Narendra Modi government at the national level and the Jai Ram Thakur government in the state. The Fetehpur Assembly constituency lagged in development during the last four years as it was represented by a Congress MLA. The people should elect BJP MLA from the area as he would be able to work in close coordination with the state government for the development of the area.Flays Cong for dubbing Baldev outsiderMinister Bikram Thakur flayed the Congress for terming BJP nominee Baldev Thakur as an outsider. The Congress has brought up such posters across the constituency and some party leaders have said it openly in rallies. This shows that the Congress does not have any real issues to raise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-invoking-regionalism-in-fatehpur-byelections-bikram-thakur-326004
18-10-2021||Kullu||BJP raising non-issues: HPCC||HPCC state media department chairman Harshwardhan Chauhan said BJP leaders were raising non-issues, which were not directly relevant to voters.Addressing a press conference here today, he alleged that BJP leaders were raising questions on star campaigners of the Congress and political happenings in Punjab, while seeking votes in the name of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh — things which were least important for voters. He said major public issues were inflation and unemployment but BJP leaders were silent on these during rallies.He said the inflation rate had reached 8.5 per cent, which was the highest since Independence. He said during the last fiscal, the state GDP was minus seven per cent. This was the first time in the past 74 years that it was negative. He said Niti Aayog had stated that three lakh LPG users in Himachal had not refilled their cylinders for the past one year. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-raising-non-issues-hpcc-326005
18-10-2021||Dharamsala||Price rise, unemployment real issues in Himachal bypolls: Rajinder Rana||Rajinder Rana, the Congress in charge for Fatehpur byelections, campaigned in the constituency today and said price rise and unemployment were the only two issues on which the Congress was fighting the poll.While addressing rallies in Fatehpur, he alleged that the BJP was claiming that it gave one free LPG cylinder to rural women under the schemes floated by the Centre and state government. However, these cylinders had become useless as people could not get them refilled. As per the data available for nationalised oil companies, about 40 per cent people in rural areas of Himachal were not able to refill their domestic LPG cylinders as its price had gone beyond Rs 1,000 here, Rana said.He said the prices of petrol and diesel had gone up to unprecedented levels. In Himachal, petrol was about to touch Rs 100 per litre. This had affected every citizen as bus fares had also increased. Neither the state not the Centre had decreased taxes on petrol and diesel, the poll in charge stated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/price-rise-unemployment-real-issues-in-himachal-bypolls-rajinder-rana-326006
18-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Committed to providing best healthcare: Anurag Thakur||Hamirpur, October 17The government is committed to providing the best health facilities to the people. Union Minister for Sports and Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur said this, here today. The campus of Dr Radhakrishnan Medical College and Hospital would be completed in one year by spending Rs 350 crore, he said.He said the construction of AIIMS at Bilaspur was in full swing, which was in Hamirpur parliamentary constituency. The minister said the Prime Minister had provided free food grains to over 80 crore people during the pandemic. He said the economy of the country was growing at a fast pace.The minister said that the Modi government had sanctioned over Rs 35,000 crore for free testing and vaccination to combat the pandemic.Earlier, Anurag Thakur inaugurated roads to various villages, a cow shelter in Gasota village, near here, and performed rituals at a temple.Virender Kanwar, Rural Development Minister, said Rs 4-crore scheme was started to conserve the Pahari cow breed in the state. He said a research centre for this purpose was established at Una at a cost of Rs 47 crore. He said to improve the power supply in rural areas, an electricity substation would be set up at Lambloo at a cost of Rs 38 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/committed-to-providing-best-healthcare-anurag-thakur-326007
18-10-2021||---||Webcasting available at 1,383 poll stations for Himachal bypolls||Shimla, October 17The facility of webcasting will be available in 1,383 polling stations out of 2,796 polling stations set up for byelections.About 50 per cent of the polling stations in the byelections of Mandi parliamentary constituency and Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly constituencies would be connected through webcasting, said Chief Electoral Officer, Himachal Pradesh, C Paulrasu here today.He said to conduct free and fair elections by the Election Commission of India and as a confidence building measure for voters, arrangements for webcasting would be made in all critical polling stations and all polling stations in vulnerable areas or at least in 50 per cent of the total polling stations, including auxiliary polling stations, whichever is higher.Webcasting will be conducted in 1,168 polling stations out of 2,365 polling stations set up in all the Assembly Constituencies of Mandi parliamentary constituency for the implementation of these instructions and for effective monitoring of the voting process.He said that 215 polling stations out of total 431 polling stations set up for the byelections of Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly constituencies would be connected through webcasting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/webcasting-available-at-1-383-poll-stations-for-himachal-bypolls-326008
18-10-2021||---||Rain, snow bring chill in air, orange warning for today in Himachal||Shimla, October 17Intermittent rain and thunderstorm lashed the middle and lower hills of the state while high-altitude tribal areas and passes received fresh snowfall, signalling the onset of winters.The local MeT station has issued orange warning for heavy rain, thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places in six districts of Kangra, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur and snowfall in Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti districts tomorrow.Shimla and its surrounding areas received showers and thunderstorm and a thick fog engulfed the region, reducing visibility considerably. The foggy conditions disrupted traffic and vehicles were forced to move at a snail’s pace.Visibility is likely to decrease in view of the foggy conditions, causing difficulties to commuters and public at large in hilly areas. There can be traffic congestion and water accumulation in low-lying areas, with a possibility of landslides, the MeT office said in its impact report.Widespread light to moderate rain occurred at many places in the state while high-altitude tribal areas and mountain passes received snowfall, causing a sharp fall in day temperatures in adjoining valleys. Kufri received 14.5 mm of rain, followed by Chopal 13.5 mm, Solan 13 mm, Narkanda 12 mm, Shimla and Nauni 10.4 mm, Sangla 10 mm and Baggi 8 mm.The day temperatures dropped five to nine degrees and Una, which was hottest in the region yesterday with a high of 36 degree Celsius, recorded maximum temperature at 28.6 degree today. Keylong and Kalpa in tribal areas recorded a high of 11.8 degree and 12.6 degree, followed by Dalhousie 15.4 degree and Shimla 16 degree.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rain-snow-bring-chill-in-air-orange-warning-for-today-in-himachal-326009
18-10-2021||Lalit Mohan||Weekend tourism picks up in Dharamsala||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, October 17The hotel and tourism industry in Dharamsala, which has been under financial stress for the past about two years due to lack of tourists, is now witnessing revival of business. Weekend tourism has picked up in the region and in the coming months, tourists from other states are also expected to arrive.Ashwani Bamba, president of the Hotel and Tourism Association of Upper Dharamsala, says that hotels in the region are experiencing 50 to 70 per cent occupancy at weekends now. During this long weekend because of Dasehra, tourists started visiting in a large number. “We expect the room occupancy to cross 70 per cent,” he says.Foreign touristsBamba says that what is more encouraging for the hotel and tourism industry is that queries are being made by groups of tourists from Gujarat, Maharashtra and southern states for November. If these queries translate into bookings, it will help the hotel industry make good the losses it has suffered in the past two years.The Dharamsala tourism industry is looking forward to the return of foreign tourists as well. It is heavily dependent on foreign tourists coming for teachings of the Dalai Lama and studying in the monasteries of Tibetans in the region.Sanjeev Gandhi, general secretary of the Smart City Dharamsala Hotel Association, says that the Union Government has announced that it will give free visa to 5 lakh foreign tourists. “Till date, international flights to India have not started from many countries. We want that as soon as the threat of the third wave of Covid-19 subsides, the Union Government should go ahead with its scheme to attract foreign tourists,” he adds.The Tibetan monasteries and museums are a major tourist attraction in Dharamsala for Indian and foreign tourists. Almost all monasteries and museums of Tibetans have been closed since the outbreak of Covid-19 in March, 2020. The Dalai Lama’s teachings are also happening online. Sources say that the teachings of the Dalai Lama are not going to happen offline in the near future owing to the threat perception to the aging political figure of the Tibetan cause due to Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/weekend-tourism-picks-up-in-dharamsala-326010
18-10-2021||Shimla||HRTC staff call off strike||The HRTC employees have called off their October 18 strike following the intervention of CM Jai Ram Thakur and Secretary Transport late on Sunday evening.The Joint Coordination Committee of the HRTC employees has been agitating for three months for the release of their pending dues. “The CM has called us for talks. We have got the offer for talks in writing from Secretary Transport for tomorrow. Consequently, we have called off our agitation for the time being,” said JCC president Pyaar Singh Thakur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hrtc-staff-call-off-strike-326011
18-10-2021||Mandi||Advisory issued for Lahaul and Spiti tourists||In the wake of warning against inclement weather, the Lahaul and Spiti administration has urged tourists to avoid venturing into high-altitude areas of the district in the next two days.DC Neeraj Kumar said, “The MeT station predicted inclement weather on October 17 and 18. So, tourists are advised to avoid their journey on the Manali-Leh highway.”The HRTC Depot at Keylong had suspended its bus service on the Kullu-Kaza route via the Kunzum pass and the Killar-Chamba route via Sach pass yesterday. Regional Manager, HRTC Depot,Keylong, Mangal Chand Manepa said the Kullu-Kaza and Killar-Chamba routes went through high-altitudes areas, which might receive snow any time. “In view of public safety, I have decided to suspend the HRTC bus service on both routes,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/advisory-issued-for-lahaul-and-spiti-tourists-326012
18-10-2021||Kullu||‘Kushtu Kahika’ held on 3rd day of of Kullu Dasehra festivities||Members of Dev Samaj today held a ‘Kushtu Kahika’ (expiation ceremony) at the camp temple of deity Bijli Mahadev at Dhalpur ground on the third day of Kullu Dasehra festival as per the verdict passed by the deities during the Dev Sansad (Jagati). Various traditional rituals were held during the ceremony and palanquins of 11 deities participated .Scion of the erstwhile Kullu royal family and ‘Chharibardar’ (chief caretaker) of chief deity Lord Raghunath Maheshwar Singh performed rituals along with ‘gurs’ (oracles) of various deities. A yajna was also performed to cleanse the Dhalpur ground. The cleansing ceremony, known as ‘Chhidra’, was also held to pacify all supernatural powers.Later, palanquins of five deities circumambulated the ground through the same path where the Jaleb (religious procession) of Lord Narsingh is carried out.The members of the Dev Samaj said that the rains after a long interval today after the completion of the ‘Kushtu Kahika’ signified that their prayers and appeasement had been accepted by the deities. They hoped that deities would protect them from calamities and get them relieved from diseases.Last year, many deities had expressed resentment on not being allowed to attend the Dasehra in view of Covid and had objected to the interference of the authorities in the age-old traditions. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kushtu-kahika-held-on-3rd-day-of-of-kullu-dasehra-festivities-326013
18-10-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Members of Dev Samaj rue not being paid ‘nazrana’ to deities during Kullu Dasehra||Kullu, October 17Members of the Dev Samaj are resenting the government’s decision to not pay ‘nazrana’ (honorarium) to deities during the Kullu Dasehra this year.They said while the Chief Minister was flying in a helicopter for political rallies and bullet-proof cars were being purchased for the VVIPs, the government sighted Covid-19 to avoid paying ‘nazrana’. Every year, the amount is paid to the deities visiting the festival by the Kullu Dasehra Festival Committee, but this year, as there would be no income from commercial activities, the Committee decided not to give the ‘nazrana’.No commercial activityDevi-Devta Gur Sangh president Amar Singh Mahant said there was no dearth of funds with the government, just the lack of will. “We welcome the decision of the government that there will be no trade but this does not mean the rights of the deities can be withdrawn.” The government was not dependent on the Dasehra business and it could give the honorarium from the state treasury, he added.Dhani Ram Chauhan, president, Pujari Kalyan Sangh, alleged injustice with the Dev Samaj of Kullu. He said the Shivratri fair of Mandi was held without any Covid restrictions and the deities were paid full honorarium. Also, tourists were being invited to Himachal in large numbers and schools and colleges had re-opened, elections meetings were also being held, but there was a ban on business activities during the Kullu Dasehra festival. He demanded that full ‘nazrana’ be paid to the visiting deities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/members-of-dev-samaj-rue-not-being-paid-nazrana-to-deities-during-kullu-dasehra-326014
18-10-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Himachal Govt to decide on opening schools for Classes  I-VII on Oct 21||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 17As many as 53 students have been found Covid positive since the opening of classes on September 27. The maximum number of students affected were from Kangra and Mandi (14 each), followed by Hamirpur (8), Solan (6), Bilaspur (4), Shimla (3), Chamba, Kinnaur, Kullu and Lahaul & Spiti (1 each). No case was reported from Una and Sirmaur districts.Wherever cases were detected, schools were closed for 48 hours and Covid-19 guidelines were adhered to, said Director, Higher Education, Amarjeet Sharma. He said about 99 per cent of the total 46,744 teachers and 15,900 non-teaching employees had been administered the first dose of vaccine and over 35 and 36 per cent of them have received the second dose too.Teachers said students were fed up at home and were keen on attending school after a long gap. The percentage of attendance has increased from 48 per cent on September 27 to 60 per cent on October 16. Schools were opened for Classes X and XII on September 27 and for Classes IX and XI on September 30. Classes for standard VIII were started on October 11. Online classes are still going on.The Union Government has issued elaborate guidelines for opening educational institutions and coaching centres and has asked the state to take its own decision on opening institutions. The state government is likely to review the situation on October 21.The final decision on the opening of schools for Classes I to VII will likely be taken near Diwali after the byelections, depending on the Covid-19 situation, said highly placed sources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-govt-to-decide-on-opening-schools-for-classes-i-vii-on-oct-21-326016
18-10-2021||---||In Arki, Cong’s Sanjay Awasthy goes door to door||Solan, October 17Concentrating on door-to-door campaign, the Congress Arki Assembly candidate Sanjay Awasthy is trying to strike a personal chord with the voters while the BJP campaign is largely concentrating on senior leaders making their presence felt.Awasthy, while addressing the voters in villages, raised the issue of announcements made by the Chief Minister during his last visit to the constituency in August. He said, “The CM had made eight announcements but the BJP’s candidate failed to implement them in a timely manner thus showing his non-seriousness.”“The large-scale unemployment prevailing in the state has unnerved the educated unemployed who had nowhere to go. It was appalling to note that jobs in the public works department were given to outsiders while the state’s youth was left in the lurch,” he said.Congress’ Pradesh Congress Committee president Kuldeep Rathore did turn up for nomination and even the state’s co-incharge Sanjay Dutt was here for a day.Though senior Congress leaders like former Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sukhwinder Sukhu, Leader of the Congress Legislative Party Mukesh Agnihotri, former MLA Ramkumar Chawdhary, etc., did make their presence felt for a day the leaders assigned election duties were not seen campaigning aggressively.The Congress had given responsibilities to senior leaders like Ramlal Thakur, Ramkumar Chawdhary, DR Shandil, Lakhwinder Rana, Vinod Sultanpuri, etc., but not many were found actively campaigning for the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-arki-congs-sanjay-awasthy-goes-door-to-door-326018
18-10-2021||Our Correspondent||12 hurt in clash at Jwalamukhi temple||Palampur, October 17At least 12 persons, including 10 devotees and two others, were injured when the pilgrims, locals and temple staff clashed at the Jwalamukhi Temple yesterday.Official sources told The Tribune that trouble started when temple staff refused to accommodate the devotees after 10 pm to pay obeisance during the “shyan aarti”. The devotees, hailing from Majitha in Punjab, did not vacate the temple premises despite repeated requests and did not allow the security staff to close the main gates. Some of them even beat up the security guard on duty at the temple gate.Later, some locals reached the spot and chased the devotees down to the bus stand, where the latter were beaten. Ten devotees, one security guard and a local resident were injured.However, the devotees claimed that the trouble started when they objected to the pick and choose behaviour of the temple staff in regards to permission to pay obeisance during the “shyan aarti”. “Despite the fact that the state government has allowed the entry of only three persons during the aarti, about 10 people were inside. We requested the temple staff to accommodate us, which irked the security personnel on duty. Later, we were mercilessly beaten up and dragged up to the bus stand by the temple staff with the help of local people,” a devotee added.However, because of the hostile atmosphere against them at Jwalamukhi, the visitors refused to get an FIR registered. Since there was no medical aid available at Jwalamukhi, they preferred to take the injured to Amritsar for treatment.Temple Officer Dina Nath Yadav said he had received a call from a security guard around 11 pm regarding the clash. He immediately contacted the Jwalamukhi police station and a police team reached on the spot. Both the parties were taken to a police station, however, no case was registered as the parties reached a compromise.Yadav said one security guard had received head injuries and he was given first aid in the morning and was out of danger. He would look into the allegation of pick and choose policy of the temple staff for paying obeisance in the temple, he added.Temple staff sayDevotees wanted to attend “shyan aarti” after 10 pm. They did not vacate the temple premises despite repeated requests and did not allow the security staff to close the main gates.Devotees’ claimInstead of the permitted three persons, about 10 people were inside during the aarti. We requested them to accommodate us, which irked the security personnel and we were beaten up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/12-hurt-in-clash-at-jwalamukhi-temple-326019
18-10-2021||Solan||Nephew held for man’s murder||Sunil Kumar (25), a sewage treatment plant (STP) operator at MMU Medical College, Sultanpur, near Kumarhatti, was killed in a fight with his nephew at the college on Saturday.Parwanoo DSP Yogesh Rolta said the fight took place between Sunil and Sumit, who worked as a security guard at the college. Sumit was in an inebriated condition when he committed the crime and has been arrested.Sumit harboured animosity towards Sunil as his brother Robin, who often turned up drunk for work at the STP, was asked to mend his ways. On Saturday, Sumit attacked Sunil outside the STP. Sunil was taken to the medical college for treatment by his wife, where he succumbed to his injuries later in the evening. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nephew-held-for-mans-murder-326020
18-10-2021||In Fetehpur byelections where the BJP was finding it hard to counter the issues of price rise the posters of Congress party gave them some ammunition. The missing photos of Gandhis from election posters in Fatehpur byelections have given BJP leaders a reason to say that the Congress was a dying party where the top leadership of party was being hardly given any attention by the leaders at the ground level.||Himachal Diary: Gandhis missing from posters in Fatehpur byelections||Skepticism about warningStrange are the ways of the BJP. Convenience is the guiding force in all decision making. The party gave ticket to Baldev Thakur who contested as an independent candidate in 2017 from Fatehpur and expelled son of Narender Bragta, Chetan Bragta for contesting against the official party candidate Neelam Saraik from Jubbal Kotkhai. Avinash Rai Khanna recently said that the rebels would not be readmitted in the party but this time people are not taking the warning seriously. “We know the BJP very well and no wonder if Chetan is the official candidate of the BJP in the 2022 Assembly poll,” quipped a senior BJP leader.Practice before you preachThe BJP is trying to suppress dissension by declaring that it won’t take back leaders expelled for anti-party acts in the by- elections. The assertion has failed to work as leaders recall past precedence where such leaders have been taken back in the party fold. In the most recent instance in Solan, a party activist booked by the police in a land deal involving its party office was made a mayor candidate in the municipal corporation poll. He had not only contested against the official nominee but was even expelled from the party. The assertion, it appears, has failed to have any effect on those having made up their mind to oppose the official BJP nominees as they believe party leaders should practice before they preach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-diary-gandhis-missing-from-posters-in-fatehpur-byelections-326021
18-10-2021||Ravinder Sood||CSK Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University extends tea cultivation  to non-traditional regions||Palampur, October 17Climate change in the hills has prompted CSK Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University to extend tea cultivation, research and tea development activities to non-traditional areas of the state where tea was not grown earlier.For the first time, fresh tea plantations have been done at the research stations and Krishi Vigyan Kendras of the university at Malan, Kangra, Bara, Berthin, Sundernagar, Bajaura and Dhaulakuan in various districts of the state with the objective of creating live windows and demonstration-cum-exhibition plots. This initiative of the university will create awareness and interest for tea cultivation among farmers.VC Dr HK Chaudhry expresses hope that the new initiative will spread information about the impact of climate change on tea cultivation vis-à-vis the scope of extension of tea cultivation in other non-traditional parts of the state in Kangra, Hamirpur, Bilaspur, Mandi, Kullu and Sirmaur. In the first leg, 800 new tea plants have been planted.“It is a follow-up of the meeting of the VC with officers of Tea Board-India, state tea wing and university scientists for awareness on the heritage Kangra tea, an identified produce under the export policy,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/csk-himachal-pradesh-agriculture-university-extends-tea-cultivation-to-non-traditional-regions-326022
18-10-2021||The ABVP has opposed admission of the wards of the HPU faculty to PhD course||Admission of HPU faculty’s wards opposed||Shoolini varsity celebrates foundation dayThe Shoolini University celebrated its 12th foundation day by holding several events. The school inaugurated the Constitution gallery, basketball court, careers and international affairs office, two chemistry labs, estate store and office and an ambulance. A bicycle club was also launched, in which 10 bicycles would be placed for use by students and the faculty. Chancellor PK Khosla said the vision off the university was to be among the top-200 universities globally. Pro-Chancellor Vishal Anand talked about the journey of the university in the past 12 years.Prize distribution event at sanjauliThe annual prize distribution of Government College, Sanjauli, will be held on October 19. Principal CB Mehta said the function had not been held for the past two years because of the pandemic, but this time, the function would be held as per the Covid protocol. The names of the students, who will be awarded during the function, have been uploaded on the college website.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/admission-of-hpu-facultys-wards-opposed-326023
18-10-2021||Many tourists throw eatables out of their vehicles to monkeys on the Dhalli-Kufri stretch. Due to this||Avoid feeding monkeys on Dhalli-Kufri stretch||Drainage water spilling on roadThe water spilling from the drainage system near the Mandi bus stand on the Chandigarh-Manali highway, has become a cause for concern. It is emitting foul smell and posing a serious health hazard to the commuters. The National Highways Authority of India should undertake the maintenance work of the drainage system to check seepage of water. — Rajesh Kumar, MandiWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/avoid-feeding-monkeys-on-dhalli-kufri-stretch-326024
18-10-2021||---||Three houses gutted in Chopal||Shimla, October 17Heavily timbered houses of three brothers were gutted after a fire broke out at Kuzvi village in Rumatal gram panchayat in Chopal subdivision of Shimla, today morning.Fire tenders were rushed to the spot, but the flames spread fast and engulfed three houses belonging to Mast Ram, Dhani Ram and Hari Chand. There was no loss of life. Villagers said due to the narrow road, it took time for the fire brigade to reach the spot.The victims said the loss would run into lakhs of rupees and demanded relief from the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-houses-gutted-in-chopal-326028
