19-10-2021||Dipender Manta||No Cabinet vacancy to adjust Anil Sharma: Himachal CM||Tribune News ServiceMandi, October 18To settle a political score, BJP MLA from Mandi Sadar Anil Sharma has refused to campaign for party candidate for the Mandi byelection Brig Khushal Thakur (retd).Anil was demanding an assurance from the Chief Minister that he would be inducted into the Cabinet after the byelection and only then he would campaign for Brig Khushal. However, the Chief Minister set speculation to rest saying there was no vacancy in the Cabinet to induct Anil Sharma as a minister.He said, “It is not possible to remove any minister to induct Anil Sharma into the Cabinet. However, I have assured him that we will take care of his respect if he works for the party in the byelection. Now, it is up to him whether he will work for the party or not”.Thakur said, “The accusation of the Congress that I have insulted the women of the state by saying ‘Hume Majboor Nahin, Majboot candidate Chahiye’ is baseless. I have high respect for Congress candidate Pratibha Singh as well as all women of the state. Asha Kumari misconstrued my words”.He said that his party was contesting the byelection on the achievements of the BJP governments in the state and at the Centre. Several welfare schemes had been launched for the people.“We are seeking votes from people on the achievements of the BJP governments in the state and at the Centre. We are hopeful that we will win all four byelections,” said Thakur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-cabinet-vacancy-to-adjust-anil-sharma-himachal-cm-326322
19-10-2021||---||Tightrope walk ahead for Sukh Ram’s family||Shimla, October 18Following the BJP’s stand against dynastic politics, it will be a tightrope walk for the family of veteran Congress leader Sukh Ram.It appears that Ashray Sharma, grandson of Sukh Ram, has abandoned plans to return to the BJP; his father Anil Sharma is Mandi Sadar MLA. The fact that Ashray remained silent for some time after being denied the Congress ticket for the Mandi Lok Sabha bypoll but now has started campaigning for Pratibha Singh is a clear indication that he has had a change of mind.Son reconciles, father adamantSeeing his silence there was speculation in political circles that he may join the BJP. The speculation gained ground as his father and BJP legislator Anil Sharma had said that it would be better for him and his son to be in the same party. However, the BJP denying the ticket to Chetan Bragta for the Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly byelection due to the party’s stand against dynastic politics seems to have made Ashray change his mind.Ashray campaigned in the Balh Assembly segment in Mandi and other areas in the past two days. However, his father, despite being a BJP legislator, is not campaigning for Brig Khushal Thakur.Anil had met Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur twice recently. He had to give up his Cabinet berth in the government when his son Ashray left the BJP after being denied the ticket for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. He joined the Congress and was given the ticket.It is learnt that Anil has told the Chief Minister that he was willing to campaign if he gets due honour and importance in the BJP. The Chief Minister has gone on record saying that Anil was seeking a ministerial berth, which was not possible considering there was no vacancy in the Cabinet. He had apprised the party top leadership in this regard.Sources say that the possibility is that Anil will continue to remain in the BJP and it is towards the end of the next year, shortly before the Assembly elections, that he may also rejoin the Congress.Sukh Ram, who was a powerful union minister in the Narasimha Rao government at the Centre, had considerable influence in Mandi district. He was instrumental in keeping the Congress out of power by floating his own political outfit Himachal Vikas Congress. However, Sukh Ram family’s influence has declined with his son and grandson joining the BJP and then Ashray returning to the Congress. Being accused of indulging in politics of opportunism, the family does not hold so much of sway on people as was the case earlier.However, the Chief Minister, whose reputation is at stake on his home turf of Mandi, will not like to take any chances. He seems to be keen on keeping Anil Sharma in good humour so that that BJP sails through.Congress candidate Pratibha Singh has put up a formidable challenge to the BJP, riding high on the sympathy factor.While Virbhadra Singh and his son Vikramaditya Singh had campaigned for Ashray Sharma in the 2019 parliamentary elections, now Ashray, too, is returning the favour, even if it is out of compulsion. It is no secret that Virbhadra and Sukh Ram never saw eye to eye and remained arch rivals despite being in the same party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tightrope-walk-ahead-for-sukh-rams-family-326323
19-10-2021||---||Covid: 169 new cases, five deaths in Himachal||Shimla, October 18As many as 169 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 221,604. Besides, five persons (three in Kangra and one each in Una and Mandi) died of the virus.The highest number of 86 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 45 in Hamirpur, 21 in Mandi, nine in Bilaspur, three each in Kullu and Shimla, and two in Solan. There were no cases in Chamba, Kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti, Sirmaur and Una districts. The number of active cases declined to 1,270.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-169-new-cases-five-deaths-in-himachal-326324
19-10-2021||---||3 Nepalese labourers    die in Kaza||Mandi, October 18Three Nepalese labourers were killed and three others injured when a vehicle they were travelling in veered off the road and skidded into a gorge near Shichling village in Kaza subdivision of Lahaul and Spiti district on Sunday night.According to the police, the driver lost control over the vehicle and it rolled down into a deep gorge. The deceased have been identified as Sarpu Malha, Tek Bahadur and Vardi Malha, all natives of Nepal.Kesang, a local resident, and Kalpana and Parvati, both natives of Nepal, were injured.A case has been registered and investigation was underway to ascertain the actual cause of the accident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-nepalese-labourers-die-in-kaza-326325
19-10-2021||---||Himachal Pradesh: Tourist dies at Sarchu; 150 stuck at Sumdo||Mandi, October 18A tourist died at Sarchu due to high-altitude sickness on Sunday. According to the police, the victim was travelling on the Manali-Leh highway, when his health deteriorated at Sarchu. He was taken to an Army transit camp, where doctor declared him brought dead.Around 150 tourists were stranded at Sumdo in the wake of snowfall, reports reachig here said.Meanwhile, seven tourists were rescued from Takcha in Losar on the Gramphu-Kaza road in Lahaul and Spiti on last evening.According to the police, their vehicle was stuck after sudden snowfall near the Kunzum Pass. Locals cleared the snow and rescued them.SP, Lahaul and Spiti, Manav Verma said that no person was stranded at the Shinku La Pass now. The Kargil police had been informed and no vehicles were stuck at the pass. Earlier, the district administration had received information that nine persons were stranded at the Shinku La Pass.He said that eight trekkers were rescued from Chhatru, who reached there from the Hamta Pass trek. One trekker was rescued from the Ghepan lake area. He added that around 35 light vehicles and one bus were stuck near Sumdo. Arrangements had been made for the stay of the stranded tourists.Fresh snowfall crippled the normal life in the tribal district. The Baralacha Pass on the Manali-Leh highway, the Kunzum on the Gramphu-Kaza highway and the Shinku la on the Darcha-Zanskar road received a considerable snowfall, blocking the traffic movement.Spiti region was covered with snow, delighting tourists from far-flung areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-tourist-dies-at-sarchu-150-stuck-at-sumdo-326326
19-10-2021||Right at the start of the road turning to lower Panthaghati||Potholes difficult to negotiate||Rising prices hurting common manThe rates of tomato and onion have been rising in the last few days in Shimla. While tomato has touched Rs 80 per kg, onion is not too far behind at Rs 60 per kg. Such a hike in prices is hurting people, especially with the festival season around the corner. — Ved Prakash, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/potholes-difficult-to-negotiate-326327
19-10-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Record 281 deities take part in Kullu Dasehra||Kullu, October 18Despite Covid, a record 281 deities have come to participate in the seven-day Kullu Dasehra festival, which is the highest number in the last 15 years. The Kullu Dasehra Festival Committee had invited 332 deities. About 20 deities have come for the first time despite not being called.Last year, only seven deities were invited due to the curtailed celebrations in the wake of coronavirus, while palanquins of 13 deities had participated. However, this time the district administration had invited all registered deities and also made adequate arrangements for them.Hundreds of deities of the valley have become the pride of the Dhalpur ground and it has become a centre of devotion. A large number of devotees are paying obeisance to them.Kullu Deputy Commissioner and vice-chairman of the Kullu Dasehra Festival Committee Ashutosh Garg appealed to the people to follow social distancing at the Dhalpur ground and wear masks as the threat of Covid still persisted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/record-281-deities-take-part-in-kullu-dasehra-326329
19-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Restore nazrana to deities visiting Kullu Dasehra: Vikramaditya Singh||Kullu, October 18Vikramaditya Singh, son of Congress candidate Pratibha Singh, said today that it was unfortunate that the government had denied the payment of ‘nazrana’ (honorarium) to the deities visiting the Kullu Dasehra festival. He urged the Chief Minister to restore it.The Shimla (Rural) MLA, while talking to mediapersons here, said that it was not a political issue but it would have an adverse impact on the sentiments of the people associated with the Dev Samaj.Won’t hit government coffersThe excuse of Covid is not appropriate to refrain from assisting in 'Dev karaj' (auspicious work). The government is doing wasteful expenditure and giving a nominal 'nazrana' will not affect its coffers. — Vikramaditya Singh, Shimla (Rural) MLAHe said that his father, former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh, had deep faith in the deity culture and had started the ‘nazrana’ for the deities coming to participate in the world-famous Kullu dasehra from far-off places. He added that this year, the ‘nazrana’ had been denied on the pretext that there was no income from the festival, as commercial activities were not permitted.Vikramaditya said that the excuse of Covid was not appropriate to refrain from assisting in ‘Dev karaj’ (auspicious work). He added that the government was doing wasteful expenditure and giving a nominal ‘nazrana’ would not have affected its coffers. Later, he visited the camp temples of various deities at Dhalpur to seek their blessings. He also paid obeisance at the temple of chief deity Lord Raghunath.Earlier addressing a public meeting at Khalada village in the Lug valley, he said that the state government had amassed a debt of Rs 60,000 crore. He added that the government lacked vision and was directionless.Vikramaditya said that nothing on ground had been done for the international airport in Mandi in the past four years. Not even the detailed project reports of 69 national highways announced by the Union Government long ago had not been prepared. He added that BJP leaders were silent on the rising prices of LPG, petrol and diesel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/restore-nazrana-to-deities-visiting-kullu-dasehra-vikramaditya-singh-326330
19-10-2021||Kullu||Kullu DC urges Dev Samaj to honour ‘collective’ decision on nazrana||Deputy Commissioner and Kullu Dasehra Festival Committee vice-chairman Ashutosh Garg has urged members of Dev Samaj to respect the unanimous decision on ‘nazrana’ (honorarium) taken at a General House meeting in Atal Sadan on September 25.The DC said representatives of the entire Dev Samaj of the district, kardars, priests had unanimously decided in the General House that this time, due to the absence of commercial activities, they would not take ‘nazrana’ given to the deities for participating in the festivities. He said all office-bearers of Kullu Dasehra Festival Committee, including all MLAs of the district, the ‘Chharibardar’ (chief caretaker) of chief deity Lord Raghunath Maheshwar Singh were also present.He said representatives of Dev Samaj expressed their views and after extensive discussions, it was decided that ‘nazrana’ would not be taken as the committee has no source of income.The vice-chairman urged the people associated with Dev Samaj to respect the decision taken collectively in the General House.He said the decision of General House in Kullu on ‘nazrana’ was also presented before the state-level committee in Shimla and the committee had given its nod to the decision of Dev Samaj. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-dc-urges-dev-samaj-to-honour-collective-decision-on-nazrana-326331
19-10-2021||---||HRTC staff to get salary on time||Shimla, October 18The standoff between the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) and the government over pending dues and other demands has come to an end.In the meeting between the Joint Coordination Committee of the HRTC employees and Secretary Transport organised today, the government has in principle agreed to address their grievances after elections.“The talks were fruitful. The government has agreed to pay us salaries on the first day of the month. Also, like in the past, the employees will get overtime allowance on the 22nd of every month,” said JCC secretary Khemender Gupta.“Also, the secretary has assured us that action would be taken against the officials found involved in corruption and show-cause notices issued to employees for participating in protests will also be withdrawn,” said Gupta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hrtc-staff-to-get-salary-on-time-326332
19-10-2021||Subhash Rajta||HPMC, HIMFED barter farm items for ‘C’ grade apple||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 18The barter system may have gone out of vogue long back, but government agencies such as the HPMC and HIMFED are keeping the old method of exchange alive in Himachal Pradesh.In lieu of the full or partial payment for ‘C’ grade apple procured through the market intervention scheme, these agencies offer agricultural tools, fertiliser, crates, baskets, TSO oil, juice and jam to the farmers. Generally, these agencies make payments very late, more than a year later. As a result, many farmers opt to buy some tools or horticultural products that these agencies offer, rather than waiting for the payment.“Waiting for a couple of years for the payment is quite normal. When my payment of around Rs 20,000 got stuck for more than two years, I picked some products to adjust the amount,” says Pawan Sharma, an orchardist from Theog. “Also, these tools and products are expensive, and you don’t have any bargaining power,” he adds.Admitting delay in disbursement of payments, HPMC General Manager Hitesh Azad says that it happens because the agency itself gets money late from the government. “We have to wait for funds from the government to make payments. Once we get the money, we try to clear the pending payments as quickly as possible,” he adds.“Meanwhile, farmers are offered the choice of horticultural products in lieu of their payment, as they anyway have to spend on these items,” says Azad.However, not everyone is happy with this system. “Small and marginal growers need cash for their produce and they can’t wait for years for their payment. For them, a prompt payment system will be far better,” says a government official.Arhtiyas see a larger problem arising out of delayed payments. “Knowing that the payment will come after a long time, small farmers bring their substandard produce to the market as prompt payment is assured there. This substandard produce pulls down the overall market rate, hurting everyone,” says NS Chaudhary, president of the state Arhtiyas’ Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hpmc-himfed-barter-farm-items-for-c-grade-apple-326333
19-10-2021||---||BJP objects to use of word ‘Ravan’ for Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur||Shimla, October 18On the back foot, the BJP today claimed that the Union Government had been able to check the price rise and the price index had risen only by 6.62 per cent in the past seven years.During the tenure of Manmohan Singh government the price index rose by 11.99 per cent in 2010 but in the past seven years of the BJP government, the price index rose by 6.62 per cent, said Ganesh Dutt, chairman of the state Election Management Committee of BJP.Dutt, while addressing mediapersons here, took exception to the use of word ‘Ravan’ for Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur by Congress leader Asha Kumari and said that it was not only unethical but also derogatory. The Congress leaders were, however, habitual of making such remarks, he said.In the past also, Congress leader Sonia Gandhi termed Prime Minister Narendera Modi as ‘maut ka saudagar’. The Congress leaders should tender an apology for using an intemperate language against the Chief Minister, he added.About the remarks of Mukesh Agnihotri regarding the use of helicopter, Dutt asked whether the Chief Minister during the Congress regime travelled in a bullock cart. He reminded Agnihotri that Congress leader Vijay Singh Mankotia had also objected to the use of helicopter by his party.Dutt said the Central and state governments had worked for the welfare of the people and the BJP would win the byelections on the basis of its performance.State BJP chief Suresh Kashyap said that development was the key plank of the BJP and it would win the Mandi Lok Sabha seat by a record margin.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-objects-to-use-of-word-ravan-for-himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-326334
19-10-2021||Our Correspondent||BJP has honoured armed forces by fielding Brig Khushal, says Kashyap||Kullu, October 18State BJP president Suresh Kashyap addressed a programme of the BJP Scheduled Caste Morcha at Rambagh in Manali today. He paid tributes to former MP Ram Swaroop Sharma and said that the BJP had honoured armed forces by giving the ticket for the Mandi byelection to Kargil War hero Brig Khushal Thakur (retd). He added that the morcha had done a commendable job since 2014 and the members of the community were giving full support to the party.Kashyap said that the state and Central governments had launched various schemes for the uplift of the Scheduled Castes (SC). He said that the Union Government had conferred the Bharat Ratna upon Bhimrao Ambedkar. The state government had ensured equitable development in all 68 Assembly constituencies. He appealed to the masses to support the BJP candidate so that he could raise their issues firmly in Parliament.Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur thanked the members of the morcha for taking part in the event despite adverse weather conditions. He said that there are 21 per cent SC community voters in the Manali Assembly constituency and they had played a major role in the victory of the BJP candidates in the past in the elections.He said that the Congress candidate had remarked that Army personnel should not enter politics. “Is politics meant only for Rajas and Ranis?” he asked and condemned the derogatory remarks made by Vikramaditya Singh against Anni MLA Kishori Lal Sagar, who belongs to the SC community.The minister said that various development works had been executed in the past four years. He urged the morcha members to work at the booth level to ensure the victory of the BJP candidate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-has-honoured-armed-forces-by-fielding-brig-khushal-says-kashyap-326335
19-10-2021||Shimla||Himachal election security plan discussed||The state election security plan was discussed during the review meeting with the State Nodal Officers of Police, Excise and Taxation and Income Tax Departments, chaired by Chief Electoral Officer C Paulrasu, here today.Emphasis was laid on ensuring strict checking in border areas, 24-hour surveillance at inter-district and inter-state checkpoints and other entry points to check smuggling of alcohol, drugs, cash and illegal arms.Instructions were given to take preventive measures against history-sheeters, declared fugitives and other criminals and the execution of pending non-bailable warrants. Instructions were given to deposit arms and the action plan was discussed for the deployment of Central Armed Police Forces, coordination with flying squads and other enforcement agencies.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-election-security-plan-discussed-326336
19-10-2021||Ambika Sharma||Liquor seizure: Show-cause notice served on excise official||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 18Assistant state taxes and excise officer (ASTEO) looking after Yamuna Beverages Private Limited (YBPL), Nariwala, was served a show-cause notice today for absenting himself from duty.The Una unit of the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau seized 900 boxes of country-made liquor, manufactured at YBPL on Friday night, which were being transported on forged permit.Deputy Commissioner, STE, Sirmaur, PP Singh, said, “Official Jai Singh was directed to remain present at YBPL on October 17 as a vigilance team from Una had to inspect the unit.”“He, however, failed to turn up and bureau sleuths could not inspect the unit as its keys are supposed to be with him. Jai Singh was absent from duty without any intimation following which a show-cause notice was served on him. Intimation was also sent to senior officials for further action.”The notice was pasted outside his office at Paonta Sahib and a copy was also sent to his local residence as well as on his permanent address in Shimla district. He was also intimated through e-mail and Whatsapp, said PP Singh.Bureau DSP Anil Mehta, who was heading the seizure case, said, “Efforts are afoot to trace Jai Singh as it will help enable us to examine records at YBPL.”The YBPL had been in the thick of controversy earlier this year and it was sealed in July after 13,802 litres extra-neutral alcohol (ENA), which is a raw material, was found stocked without any permit. As many as 5,155 cases of country liquor could be manufactured from this ENA.A penalty of about Rs 32 lakh had been levied on the unit and a revenue loss of Rs 99,11,073 was caused to the state exchequer.A slew of flaws were pointed out during its inspection which, however, failed to be addressed. The unit was given permission to operate on the plea that it would exhaust the stock of ENA.“The unit was granted permission to operate on September 29 till October 13 initially and it was later extended till October 16 as the stock was yet to be exhausted,” said PP Singh.PP Singh also said after receiving directions from the Commissioner and the Deputy Commissioner, the unit was inspected by them on October 16 where Jai Singh was also present.liquor transported on forged permitThe Una unit of the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau had seized 900 boxes of country-made liquor, manufactured at Yamuna Beverages, on Friday night, which were being transported on a forged permit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/liquor-seizure-show-cause-notice-served-on-excise-official-326337
19-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Farmers interact with scientists at Kukumseri in Lahaul and Spiti||Palampur, October 18A meeting of the scientific advisory committee of CSK HP Agriculture University Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) was held at Kukumseri in Lahaul and Spiti today. Despite inclement weather, around 200 progressive farmers and district-level officers took part in farmer-scientist interaction enthusiastically.HK Chaudhary, Vice-Chancellor of the university who was in Lahaul, chaired the meeting and appreciated the hardworking farmers of Lahaul and Spiti. He said that the zeal of farmers to imbibe the new technology and their risk-bearing capacity were worth appreciating. “They know the pulse of the market and have been supplying exotic vegetables to metro cities successfully,” said Chaudhary. Plans were afoot to strengthen extension and research activities at the University Research Station and KVK situated at Kukumseri, he added.Earlier, the Vice-Chancellor chaired a farmer-scientist interaction programme and asked the farmers to explore the potential of fishery, mushroom cultivation, medicinal honey production, etc. He also sought their feedback on several issues, including climate change and value addition.Madhumeet Singh, Director of Extension Education, asked the farmers to discuss their agriculture-related issues with the extension specialists for resolution. Surinder Kumar Thakur, Programme Coordinator, KVK, presented a report of the work done and future programmes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/farmers-interact-with-scientists-at-kukumseri-in-lahaul-and-spiti-326338
19-10-2021||Shimla||HRTC pensioners up in arms||“We are forced to hold a protest in such a bad weather for our genuine demands. It shows how desperate the situation of pensioners is,” said Ashok Purohit, convener of the HRTC pensioners’ forum.Alleging that they had not received their pension even though half the month was over, Purohit said many of them were struggling to meet their daily expenses. “How the government could be so indifferent to people who have given their whole life to HRTC?” he asked.Purohit warned the government against taking 8,000 pensioners and their families lightly. “We are retired people and have no political agenda. But if the government continues to ignore us, it will have to pay for it in the elections,” warned Purohit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hrtc-pensioners-up-in-arms-326340
19-10-2021||---||Shoolini University setting up food testing lab||Solan, October 18Shoolini University is setting up a commercial food testing lab, Shoolini Lifesciences, with financial support from the Union Ministry of Food Processing. A grant-in-aid of Rs 1.62 crore will be provided by the ministry while the total outlay of the lab is Rs 2.85 crore.Institutions and corporations need certification of food items through a recognised food testing lab. “Such a lab is essential to determine the safety of food for consumption in accordance with the national and international standards,” says lab director Vishal Anand.“The lab will enable quality testing for commercial food processing industries and commercial food manufacturing units. Fruit growers will also be able to certify organic testing of their fruits and vegetables before selling them in the market,” adds Anand.It will also offer a scientific analysis of different food products and it will be equipped with high-end modern instruments. Facilities for testing hazardous or toxic contaminants will also be available.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shoolini-university-setting-up-food-testing-lab-326345
19-10-2021||A seminar on HIV was organised at Government College||Seminar on HIV organised at Government College, Sanjauli||SFI opposes PhD admissionsThe SFI has decided to oppose the decision of the HPU to give admission to teachers' children and others without entrance for PhD. The SFI has also opposed the decision to allow HPU teachers to enroll for PhD without giving entrance exam. The SFI alleged that the HPU had recruited assistant professors based on the minimum criteria to induct the BJP and RSS-inclined individuals, and now they were being given a chance to do PhD without giving any entrance test.Food packets, hygiene kits distributedStudents of Lawrence School, Sanawar, observed 'Sewa Day', in which they distributed food packets and hygiene kits to construction workers and their underprivileged children at various construction sites. Headmaster Himmat Singh Dhillon said, "The motive of observing Sewa Day is to infuse a sense of service without expectations among children and encourage them to do good for the needy, poor, weaker and disadvantaged sections of the society." About 50 students visited four construction sites in and around the school and distributed 30 food packets to small children. As many as 80 hygiene kits were also distributed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/seminar-on-hiv-organised-at-government-college-sanjauli-326346
19-10-2021||Dipender Manta||Mandi bypoll: Voters sharply divided over Nagchala airport project||Tribune News ServiceMandi, October 18The construction of an airport at Nagchala in the Balh Assembly segment of Mandi has emerged as a key election issue. The HP Government proposes to construct an international airport in Mandi, a dream project of CM Jai Ram Thakur, to promote high-end tourism in Mandi, Kullu and Lahaul & Spiti districts, which attract a large number of tourists.While locals are waiting for the project to take off, Balh valley residents are opposed to it. Surveys have been carried out to assess the feasibility of the project. As soon as the BJP came to power in Himachal, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) gave clearance to the project after a site visit in May 2018. The CM in August 2019 requested the Finance Commission for a special grant of Rs 2,000 crore for constructing the airport. The AAI completed its “Obstacle Limitation Surfaces (OLS)” survey for the project site and the Civil Aviation Ministry gave in-principle approval in October 2019.The residents of the Balh valley, whose agricultural land, residential and commercial properties are to be acquired for the project, are opposing it. They don’t want to lose their “fertile” land. Political observers say while the BJP may lose support in the Balh valley, in other Assembly segments of Mandi and neighbouring districts, it will see a surge in support.THE AMBITIOUS PROJECT||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-bypoll-voters-sharply-divided-over-nagchala-airport-project-326315
19-10-2021||Mandi||Around 150 tourists stranded at Sumdo due to fresh snowfall in Lahaul Spiti||As many as 150 tourists have been stranded at Sumdo in tribal district Lahaul Spiti on Monday evening due to fresh snowfall, which blocked the road for traffic movement in the region.Around 35 light vehicles and one bus were stuck in the area. The Kaza administration has made arrangements for the stay of these stranded tourists at Sumdo.As many as eight trekkers were rescued by the police from Chhatru, while one trekker from Ghepan lake area today. The district administration received information that 11 people have been stuck at Batal, while nine others near Shinkula pass. The rescue teams have been sent to the spot to rescue the stranded people out of the area safely.Fresh snowfall has crippled normal life in tribal district Lahaul Spiti today, which plummeted the temperature drastically in the region.Since yesterday, snowfall was occurring in higher reaches, which gripped the entire district under cold wave.The Baralacha pass (15,910 feet) on Manali-Leh highway, Kunzum pass (14,931 feet) on Gramphu-Kaza highway and Shinkula pass (16,703 feet) on Darcha-Zanskar road have received considerable snowfall, which blocked the traffic movement completely on these routes today.The entire Spiti region has been covered under the white mantle of snow, which delighted the tourists visiting here.Deputy Commissioner Lahaul and Spiti Neeraj Kumar said those stranded at Batal, had shortage of fuel in the vehicle due to that they were stuck in the area.They are at a safe place and today fuel has been provided for the vehicle. Tomorrow they will be able to move out of the area.He said that no person was found stranded at Shinkula pass as informed by the rescue team.The DC stated that tourists and common people are advised to avoid their journey in high altitude areas in the coming days to avoid any untoward incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/around-150-tourists-stranded-at-sumdo-due-to-fresh-snowfall-in-lahaul-spiti-326254
