20-10-2021||Shimla||Keep vigil on drugs, liquor, says Himachal DGP Sanjay Kundu||DGP Sanjay Kundu yesterday directed the IGs, DIGs, SPs and all field officials to ensure that narcotics, liquor, household items and other goods, which may be illegally used to allure voters, were not transported, stored and distributed in the state during the ongoing byelections.He said that strict vigil be kept on liquor producing units and if any illegal dispatch, transportation, storage or distribution was found in violation of the guidelines of the ECI, legal action would be taken. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/keep-vigil-on-drugs-liquor-says-himachal-dgp-sanjay-kundu-326715
20-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Kullu Dasehra: Deities to be paid honorarium||KULLU, OCTOBER 19Language, Arts and Culture minister and chairman of Kullu Dasehra Festival Committee Govind Singh Thakur said that ‘nazrana’ (honorarium) will be given to the deities attending the Kullu Dasehra Festival as soon as the model code of conduct for the Mandi byelection is over.He said Congress leaders were doing politics in the name of deities which was not right for Dev Samaj.The minister said that BJP respected deities and it had never done politics in their names. The BJP has given more than Rs 4 crore for the welfare of Dev Samaj in Kullu in 2018 and 2019, while the Congress had never released such a huge amount during its regime.The chairman said that the government had maintained the culture by respecting the deities and inviting all of them for the Dasehra festival in the midst of the Covid crisis.Earlier, it was unanimously decided in the general house that due to the absence of commercial activities, the deities would not be given ‘nazrana’. However some members raised questions about denial of ‘nazrana’. The Congress leaders also opposed the government’s decision to shy away from giving nominal ‘nazrana’.Thakur addressed the people in a programme of OBCs held in 14 Mile and the BJYM programme in Naggar. He urged the youth to work at booth level to ensure victory of BJP candidate by a huge margin.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-dasehra-deities-to-be-paid-honorarium-326716
20-10-2021||---||Rain, snow in Himachal's tribal areas bring down temperature||Shimla, October 19Cold wave prevailed in the tribal areas and other higher reaches of the state as mercury dropped by a few notches, following widespread rainfall in lower and middle hills and moderate snowfall in the tribal belt. However, the local MeT station has predicted dry weather in the region for the next two days and another wet spell from October 22 onwards.The mercury hovered around freezing point in high-altitude tribal areas, which received another spell of snowfall and reeled under severe cold conditions.Hansa received 38 cm of snow, followed by Koksar 15 cm, Sumdoh 13 cm and Gondla 8 cm. Sangla in Kinnaur district was the wettest with 66 mm rainfall and Reckong Peo recorded 54 mm during the past 24 hours, followed by Kalpa 50 mm, Sarahan 26 mm, Rampur 25 mm, Manali 24 mm, Rohru 23 mm, Narkanda 22 mm, Kotkhai 17 mm, Keylong 14 mm, and Kufri 11 mm.Minimum temperatures decreased by 3 to 4 degrees and Keylong was the coldest at night with a low of minus -1.3 degree C, followed by Kalpa at 0.4 degree, Manali 4.5 degree, Kufri 8 degree, Bhuntar 8.1 degree and Solan and Sundernagar at 9.3 degree.Tourists rescued||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rain-snow-in-himachals-tribal-areas-bring-down-temperature-326717
20-10-2021||Our Correspondent||3 houses gutted in Kullu||KULLU, OCTOBER 19Three houses were gutted at Kalga village of Barshaini panchayat in the Manikaran valley today.Villagers tried to control the fire but it spread rapidly and engulfed three wooden houses and reduced these to ashes. Around 25 people of five families were rendered homeless.According to sources, the fire broke out in a two-and-a-half-storey house of Kesar Singh at 1.45 am.The flames also engulfed two adjoining houses of Pyare Singh and Tikkam Dasi. The incident caused panic in the area. The exact reason for the incident is yet to be ascertained.Fire officer Durga Singh said the fire tenders could not reach the spot as the village was not accessible by road but the employees of the department reached the spot and assisted the villagers in extinguishing the fire.He said there was a loss of more than Rs 50 lakh in the incident. DC Ashutosh Garg said a team had been sent for relief and rescue operation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-houses-gutted-in-kullu-326718
20-10-2021||Shimla||Himachal Kisan Sabha slams tardy lifting of paddy||Unhappy with the slow pace of paddy procurement in Kangra’s Fatehpur and Tehora, the Himachal Kisan Sabha has termed the procurement an election stunt. “In both these mandis, only 400 quintal paddy is being procured every day. At this rate, it will take six months to buy the entire stock,” said Kisan Sabha president Kuldeep Tanwar, adding that this particular region produces 1.5 lakh quintal paddy.He alleged that the procurement, which the government started after farmers’ agitation and opposition of its candidates for the by-elections, is turning out to be a sham. “The government has not made proper arrangements. The local farmers want procurement through mandis as it is done in Punjab,” said Tanwar.Tanwar said the government should stop using the procurement process merely as a ploy to get votes and should speed up the procurement. “The quantity purchased everyday should be enhanced sharply, otherwise the procurement will continue until the next season,” said Tanwar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-kisan-sabha-slams-tardy-lifting-of-paddy-326719
20-10-2021||Ambika Sharma||Liquor seizure: Working of excise officials at Paonta Sahib under lens||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 19The working of officials of the State Taxes and Excise Department (STED) at Paonta Sahib has come under the scanner as the state has suffered a revenue loss of over Rs 17 lakh following the seizure of 900 boxes of country liquor by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau in Una.The bureau has booked Assistant State Taxes and Excise Officer (ASTEO) Jai Singh, company official Ajay Grover and the truck driver, who was nabbed with the illegal liquor, for cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy, said DSP Anil Mehta.The driver had reportedly stated that Jai Singh and Ajay Grover had given him permit and directed him to transport the liquor. The permit was, however, found forged.Four other persons were enlisted as directors while Ajay Grover’s name did not figure on the list of directors/promotors. Under what capacity he was working in the unit is being inquired into.As per norms, the liquor permit has to be issued online on the state excise module from Una and, therefore, the in-charge official at Nariwala in Paonta Sahib is required to issue online transport pass for the transportation of liquor.The case has also put a question mark on the working of the flying squad of the STED at Baddi and Una as the truck carrying the illegal liquor had failed to be detected by them.Bureau officials are now trying to inquire into the involvement of other officials, who had overlooked the laxity. The ASTEO is yet to join investigation.The DSP said, “The record pertaining to the ownership of the beverage unit as well as other parameters like amount of liquor manufactured and sold etc for the last several months has been sought and this will enable us to establish the ownership and other aspects of the case.”The vigilance bureau is tracing the official.Forged permit issued||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/liquor-seizure-working-of-excise-officials-at-paonta-sahib-under-lens-326720
20-10-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Overtaking causing traffic snarls||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com Overtaking causing traffic snarlsThe city is experiencing a lot of traffic jams these days, mainly because tourists try to overtake at narrow stretches. The road from Victory Tunnel and Tara Hall School is very narrow, yet tourists try to overtake, resulting in traffic snarls. The police should keep a vigil on this stretch to ensure smooth flow of traffic. — Ravi Thakur, ShimlaStreetlights need repairMore than 500 streetlights in Hamirpur town are not functioning for a while now. The defunct lights are causing inconvenience to the residents, especially elders, women and children. The Municipal Council should take immediate steps to repair these streetlights. Sanjay Sharma, Hamirpur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/overtaking-causing-traffic-snarls-326721
20-10-2021||The SFI held a demonstration on Tuesday to protest against students being given admissions into PhD at Himachal Pradesh University (HPU)||SFI protests PhD admissions at Himachal Pradesh University||Counselling date postponedThe counselling for candidates who have applied for admissions to various departments of HPU under cultural quota has been postponed due to entrance exams for panchayat secretary, to be held on October 22. The new dates for the counselling would be announced soon.Umesh, Himanshi Prez, SecyUmesh and Himanshi have been elected as the president and secretary of the ABVP’s new executive at Government College, Dhami. Umesh said the college lacked several facilities, like that of canteen. Also, there was a shortage of science faculty in the college, which forced the students to seek admission in colleges elsewhere, he added.UIT holds induction programmeUniversity Institute of Technology (UIT), Himachal Pradesh University, organised an induction programme for students of batch 2021 (B.Tech I year and lateral entry II year). NL Sharma, chairman and managing director, SJVN Ltd, was the chief guest for the second session of the programme. The event started with the welcome note by Prof PL Sharma, UIT director. He congratulated the students for starting their journey in the institute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sfi-protests-phd-admissions-at-himachal-pradesh-university-326722
20-10-2021||---||Nauni University’s researcher bags scholarship for PhD||Solan, October 19Naincy Sagar, an alumnus of Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, has bagged a fellowship to pursue Ph D in forest genetics at the University of Orléans, under France’s National Research Institute for Agriculture, Food and Environment.Naincy pursued B Sc (forestry) from the College of Horticulture and Forestry (COH&F), Neri, in 2018 and M Sc (forest biology, tree improvement and genetic resources) from UAS, Dharwad, under ICAR’s National Talent Scheme.At present, she is working as a junior research fellow (JRF) on a research project at the COH&F.She has been awarded a three-year fellowship for PhD and would receive a total amount of around Rs 70 lakh. Naincy thanked her parents and university faculty for their guidance and support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nauni-universitys-researcher-bags-scholarship-for-phd-326723
20-10-2021||Shimla||Anti-drugs awareness campaign be launched in Himachal||Additional Chief Secretary JC Sharma, while presiding over a state-level drug awareness campaign meeting here today, said that an awareness campaign would be launched in the state in November.Drug abuse was a matter of concern among the people of the state and all departments should work in coordination with each other to eradicate it, he stated.Sharma said during the campaign, cannabis plants would be uprooted, representatives of Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) and Urban Local Bodies would be made aware about the ill effects of drug abuse and oath would be administered to youth to prevent its usage.An exhibition and a play showcasing the ill-effects of drugs would also be organised besides slogan writing and painting competitions at the gram panchayat level, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anti-drugs-awareness-campaign-be-launched-in-himachal-326724
20-10-2021||Legal Correspondent||Full court address in honour of new Himachal Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq||Shimla, October 19A full court address was held in the High Court today to welcome the 26th Chief Justice, Justice Mohammad Rafiq. He was sworn-in on October 14.Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq said he was feeling happy on assuming the charge. He stressed on speedy and cost-effective justice, especially to the poor and the needy. He also called upon the state and district legal services authorities to identify all such litigants who deserve to be provided free legal aid.He also talked about on strengthening and streamlining the judiciary. The Chief Justice said all efforts should be made to preserve its integrity and fairness. He said the priority should be given to dispose of all cases which were more than five-year old.Justice Sabina said Justice Rafiq was considerate towards all sections of society and his concern for the marginalised and underprivileged was recognised facet of his personality. She said Justice Rafiq had always taken a keen interest in developing judicial infrastructure.Advocate General Ashok Sharma, Chairman of the Bar Council of Himachal Pradesh Ajay Kochhar, president of the HP High Court Bar Association Lovneesh Kanwar and Assistant Solicitor General of India Balram Sharma also spoke.Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, Justice Sureshwar Thakur, Justice Vivek Singh Thakur, Justice Ajay Mohan Goel, Justice Sandeep Sharma, Justice Chander Bhusan Barowalia, Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua and Justice Satyen Vaidya were present. Apart from them, former judges and members of the Bar also attended the address.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/full-court-address-in-honour-of-new-himachal-chief-justice-mohammad-rafiq-326725
20-10-2021||Ravinder Sood||Kangra eye hospital a boon for needy||Palampur, October 19The SM Eye Hospital at Kangra has proved to be a boon to the needy patients, who are being given free treatment for ailments. Besides, it is also one of the hospitals of the country, where surgeries are performed at lower rates, as compared to that of the eye centres in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi.It has emerged as a state-of-the-art centre not only for the people of Himachal Pradesh, but also for residents of adjoining states of Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab.The hospital caters to eye care needs of 200 outpatients every day and about 5,000 surgeries are performed here every year, including phaco-emulsification (stitchless surgery) for cataract, iLasik for removal of glasses, corneal transplant, vitreo retinal surgery, squint surgery and glaucoma surgery. The hospital provides a multi-specialty portfolio of ophthalmology services.“The hospital is equipped with the latest technology. The staff is supportive and provides services as per ISO 9001:2008 (a validation for maintaining the required international standards),” says Dr Sandeep Mahajan, director of the hospital.The support staff of the hospital maintains high quality of patient care in terms of cleanliness, reliability, nursing care and speedy service.Dr Mahajan said the institution was a public asset and he aimed at making it a learning centre for optometrists. It has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Chandigarh University and Chitkara University, and in future may start a fellowship for budding eye surgeons in different specialties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangra-eye-hospital-a-boon-for-needy-326726
20-10-2021||Ambika Sharma||Aluminium foil shortage may hit drug supply chain||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 19Shortage of aluminium foil (packaging material), coupled with its price escalation, might lead to scarcity of several essential drugs as their manufacturing has become unviable.The National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority controls the prices of 680 scheduled drug formulations. The prices are revised once a year, based on the wholesale price index.Prices up 25-30 pcWith aluminium foil prices going up 25-30 per cent in three months, manufacturing of several drugs has become unviable. Some scheduled drugs may become unavailable, if the situation is not checked immediately. SL Singla, adviser, drug manufacturers’ association“With the price of aluminium foil increasing by 25 to 30 per cent over the last three months, manufacturing of several drugs has become unviable. Several scheduled drugs may become unavailable, if the situation is not brought under control,” said SL Singla, adviser, Himachal Drug Manufacturers Association.Pharmaceutical manufacturers have been facing shortage of aluminium foil for the past 5-6 months. Singla, a pharma manufacturer himself whose unit uses 25 tonne aluminium products every month, said, “There has been an increase of Rs 60 in the price of packaging material over the past 45 days. This has jacked up the production cost at my unit by Rs 15 lakh.”“Due to this, the manufacturers are forced to revise the prices of drugs at short intervals. However, this cannot be done in case of scheduled drugs,” said Singla, who runs MDC Pharmaceuticals at Baddi.Sanjay Khurana, a supplier of aluminium foil in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) industrial belt, said, “Production has been hit in China due to power shortage and implementation of strict measures to check carbon footprint. This has hit supplies globally, including in India.”“Domestic producers are more keen on exports and this has created a shortage of aluminium packaging material in the domestic market,” he added.“The supply is likely to be only about 50 per cent of the domestic demand in October. The situation was almost similar during September and there is no likelihood of any improvement in the near future,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/aluminium-foil-shortage-may-hit-drug-supply-chain-326727
20-10-2021||---||Rivoli theatre building in poor state, likely to be demolished||Shimla, October 19The Municipal Corporation is likely to order the demolition of the dilapidated Rivoli building, a major city landmark about a decade back, in the next few days.“We visited the building today and found it in a very bad state. It has developed cracks at several places, the pillars too have shifted a little, and the entire structure appears tilted. We will take the decision about what needs to be done in the next few days,” said MC joint commissioner Ajit Bhardwaj.Falling apartA portion of the building had collapsed about a week back. Considering its condition, we had asked a few people residing there to move elsewhere. The building is apparently falling apart. Ajit Bhardwaj, MC Joint Commissioner“A portion of the building had collapsed about a week back. Considering the condition the building is in, we had asked a few people residing there to move elsewhere. The building is apparently falling apart,” said Bhardwaj.While the MC will take a few days to decide on future course of action vis-à-vis the building, an MC official, on the condition of anonymity, said the building appeared beyond repair or restoration and demolition seemed to be the only option now.Along with Ritz and Regal, the Rivoli theatre was one of the best known landmarks of the city. The building was declared unsafe around a decade back, forcing the closure of the theatre.“The administration declared the building unsafe in around 2010 and did not renew my license. As a result, I had no option but to stop the screening of films,” said Vinod Seth. Ever since, the building has not been maintained. Seth’s family had taken the building on rent in 1940s. “Rivoli, Regal and Ritz were the pride of the town. Unfortunately, all are shut now,” said Seth.As per the MC officials, the building is in the sinking zone. Right above the building, a portion of The Ridge, too, has been sinking for a while now. The portion was to be restored, but the project is yet to take off as the required permissions from forest department is yet to come.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rivoli-theatre-building-in-poor-state-likely-to-be-demolished-326728
20-10-2021||Mandi||Spiti’s Tashigang to be model polling station||The world’s highest, Tashigang, will be a model polling station in Lahaul and Spiti. The Election Commission will make adequate arrangements to ensure a 100 per cent voting at the polling station on October 30.Besides, two other model polling stations will be set up at Rangrik and Jhalma. Situated at 15,226 feet, Tashigang village in the Spiti valley has 47 voters, including 18 women.Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar said that three model polling stations would be set up at Tashigang, Rangrik and Jhalma. As per the guidelines of Election Commission of India, adequate arrangements would be made for the convenience of the voters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/spitis-tashigang-to-be-model-polling-station-326729
20-10-2021||KULLU||Vikramaditya's remark against Anni MLA unfortunate: BJP||BJP president Suresh Kashyap said it was unfortunate that MLA Vikramaditya Singh used derogatory language against Anni MLA Kishori Lal Sagar during a public meeting.While addressing meetings with BJP members at Manikaran and Dora Nala in the district today, Kashyap said, “The people will never forgive them for the way they have insulted brave Army soldiers. The way the Congress is working, it will vanish from Himachal”.BJP candidate Brig Khushal Thakur (retd) is an efficient leader and understands the issues of the people, he said. Thakur had won the Kargil War and now he would win the Mandi byelection. Thakur is not like Congress leaders who disappear after taking votes and return only at the time of elections, he added.—OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vikramadityas-remark-against-anni-mla-unfortunate-bjp-326730
20-10-2021||Solan||People upset over price rise, corruption: HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore||The price rise, corruption and unemployment during the BJP government have upset people, who will teach the ruling party a lesson in the byelections, said HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore today. He was addressing a corner meeting at Arki in favour of Congress candidate Sanjay Awasthy.Rathore said, “The state government is indifferent towards the plight of common people and the BJP is grappling with factionalism”. He added that Arki was represented by six-term Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh and as a true tribute to him, the voters should vote for Awasthy.Sujanpur MLA Rajinder Rana said that BJP leaders would themselves ensure the defeat of their candidate Rattan Pal Singh in Arki, as a section of party leaders were opposed to his candidature.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/people-upset-over-price-rise-corruption-hpcc-president-kuldeep-rathore-326731
20-10-2021||---||Sanjay Tandon: 1 lakh govt jobs created in Himachal||Shimla, October 19The BJP has created more than one lakh jobs in the government sector in Himachal to curb unemployment. There is a bankruptcy of leadership in the Congress at the state and national levels, said BJP state co-incharge Sanjay Tandon while addressing mediapersons here today.He said that the Congress was losing credibility with each passing day and the state and Central governments would ensure all-round development. He added that it was important that “we have our own MLA so that we can empower Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the development of the area.Tandon said, “The BJP works for development but the Congress has no vision for the progress of Himachal,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sanjay-tandon-1-lakh-govt-jobs-created-in-himachal-326732
20-10-2021||Lalit Mohan||In Fatehpur, leaders trade charges||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, October 19Leaders today traded personal charges against each other while campaigning for the Fatehpur byelection.Congress candidate Bhawani Singh Pathania alleged that the government had not been able to give jobs to the youth. Even in the private sector, the owners of industries were being threatened against recruiting youths on merit. They were being threatened against recruiting anybody unless recommended by BJP leaders, he alleged.Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania said HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore is ‘mand budhi’ (mentally-challenged). He was responding to a question by mediapersons regarding Rathore’s allegation that the Congress also carried nationwide vaccination campaigns to eradicate diseases such as polio but did not claim credit for it as the Union government was doing for coronavirus.Pathania said that coronavirus was a deadlier pandemic and could not be compared with polio virus but Rathore a ‘mand budhi’ was comparing the two vaccination campaigns.Former BJP MP Rajan Sushant, who is now contesting as an Independent candidate, said that he would do a tit for tat to the ministers in the 2022 Assembly elections who were working against him in the Fatehpur byelection. He was making a reference to Industries Minister Bikram Thakur, who is the BJP in-charge for the Fatehpur byelection.Bikram Thakur retorted saying that Sushant had grown old and hence making such threats. “I don’t want to comment on his threats and just want to pray that he lives long and continues to make such threats”.The Congress leaders also alleged that the BJP ministers campaigning in Fatehpur were holding meetings of employees and were threatening them to vote in favour of their candidate or face transfers after the byelection. They said that they would complain to the Election Commission regarding such meetings.BJP leaders said that the Congress was making baseless allegations and approaching the Election Commission and most of these had been rejected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-fatehpur-leaders-trade-charges-326733
20-10-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi missing from Congress posters in Fatehpur||Nurpur, October 19Congress leaders are red-faced as there are no photographs of Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi or top state leaders in the posters and hoardings being displayed by party candidate Bhawani Singh Pathania in Fatehpur.Pathania has used his photo, along with that of his father and former MLA Sujan Singh Pathania and former Chief Minister late Virbhadra Singh, on the posters.On the other hand, the BJP is using the issue to target Pathania. Vikram Thakur, Transport Minister and BJP in-charge of the Fatehpur byelection, in his election meetings is ridiculing Pathania’s posters. The Congress campaign managers acted defensive, claiming it was a party’s poll strategy.Rajinder Rana, HPCC vice-president and party in-charge of Nurpur zone, said since Virbhadra Singh and Sujan Singh had immense role in the development of the Fatehpur constituency, the party candidate had used their photographs in the first phase of electioneering. “Within one or two days, the campaign will be intensified and the party posters and hoardings shall carry photographs of top party leaders. This is our poll campaign strategy and the BJP is making an issue out of nothing,” Rana added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sonia-gandhi-rahul-gandhi-missing-from-congress-posters-in-fatehpur-326734
20-10-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Congress ensured equal development: Pratibha Singh||KULLU, OCTOBER 19Congress candidate for the Mandi byelection Pratibha Singh tried to strike an emotional chord with people during a public meeting at Nirmand in Anni subdivision of Kullu today.She said that her husband former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh had a close relation with the people of the region, as it enjoys a proximity with Rampur. She added that she did not want to contest the elections because she was deeply aggrieved by her husband’s death but decided to take the responsibility to serve the people.Cong to provide free health facilities: AgnihotriThe Congress will provide free health facilities and control inflation when it comes to power. Himachal is the largest electricity producer but the tariffs here are very high. People should ensure Pratibha Singh’s victory by a big margin of votes. Mukesh Agnihotri, Leader of the oppositionThe former MP said that she also tried to assist her husband in development works carried out by him. She ensured that MPLAD funds were disbursed equally among all the constituencies during her tenure as Mandi MP twice. She said that she would try to carry out development works and resolve the grievances of the people of the region in future also.Pratibha said the Congress had ensured development of the entire state. She appealed to the masses to vote for her as a tribute for the leader in their hearts.Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said that the Chief Minister was stating that Congress candidate Pratibha Singh was a ‘majboor’ candidate.He said this was the first election without Virbhadra Singh and he urged the people to pay homage to their beloved leader by voting for Pratibha Singh.Agnihotri said that condition of roads in the constituency was pitiable. The prices of LPG, petrol and diesel were rising. The prices of pulses, oil, ration and other basic commodities were sky high and state government had failed to control the inflation. Unemployment was rising in Himachal and the government was providing jobs to the people of other states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-ensured-equal-development-pratibha-singh-326735
20-10-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Himachal bypoll: Chetan Bragta may queer the pitch for BJP; Congress to gain||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 19BJP rebel Chetan Bragta, who is fighting the Jubbal-Kotkhai byelection as an Independent candidate, is likely to queer the pitch for BJP candidate Neelam Saraik. Congress candidate Rohit Thakur, two-time MLA and grandson of former Chief Minister Ram Lal Thakur, is likely to benefit from the division of votes of the BJP in the politically-volatile constituency, which is all set to witness a triangular contest.The byelection has been necessitated due to the death of former minister Narinder Bragta and his son Chetan Bragta, who was denied the BJP ticket, is an Independent candidate. The BJP is facing a virtual revolt with the BJP Jubbal Mandal president and office-bearers resigning from the party and openly supporting Bragta.Bragta, who got ‘apple’ as the election symbol, is riding the crest of a sympathy wave in the constituency. He has declared himself as candidate of people with the slogan “Neta nahin beta” and a division in the BJP vote is sure to harm Neelam Saraik’s prospects.In the 1952 Assembly elections, Congress candidate Balanand won the seat but in the 1957 elections, he lost to Independent candidate Ram Lal Thakur. He joined the Congress and won the Assembly elections consecutively in 1962, 1967, 1972, 1977, 1982 and 1998. In 1990, Balanand fought the elections on the Janta Dal ticket and defeated Congress candidate Virbhadra Singh.After Ram Lal Thakur’s death, who won nine elections from the Jubbal-Kotkhai seat, his grandson Rohit Thakur won the seat in the 2003 and 2012 elections but lost to BJP candidate Narinder Bragta in the 2007 and 2017 elections.During the 2017 elections, the Gudia rape and murder case was the main issue and the BJP was in an advantageous position. Rohit Thakur was well entrenched in the constituency but lost by a narrow margin. This time, Rohit may benefit from infighting in the BJP. Besides, he is liked by people for his low profile and friendly nature.Neelam Saraik is a former Zila Parishad member and had been active in all agitations. She is the only woman contender in this rural segment where there are 307 more women voters than men voters. She is pinning hope on women voters and common people.Jubbal-Kotkhai is located in the heart of the apple belt and the remunerative price for the apple crop, check on imported apple, discrimination with the area, and development are the main issues in the byelection. A slump in apple prices during the season is another issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-bypoll-chetan-bragta-may-queer-the-pitch-for-bjp-congress-to-gain-326736
