22-10-2021||---||Kullu Dasehra ends with ‘Lanka Dahan’||Our CorrespondentKULLU, OCTOBER 21The Rath Yatra was carried out from the camp temple of Lord Raghunath situated in the middle of the Dhalpur ground to the southern end, known as the Cattle ground, to perform the ‘Lanka Dahan’ ceremony on the last day of the seven-day festival here today.The idols of Lord Raghunath, Sita, Hanuman and other deities were placed on the beautifully decorated wooden chariot called Rath, which was then pulled by thousands of devotees. The palanquins of the deities participating in the festival accompanied the Rath during the yatra.Earlier before 2014, different animals were sacrificed to appease the Goddess Kali on the culmination of the festival at Lanka Bekar. This was believed to mark the end of Ravana and his allies.As per the tradition, sacrifice of a buffalo, a lamb, a fish, a crab and a chicken was made but now the ritual is carried out by offering a coconut and other things, after the animal sacrifice at religious places and congregations was banned in 2014 by the Himachal Pradesh High Court. The sacrifices were made to put an end to various evils like ‘krodha’, ‘madh’, ‘kama’, ‘moha’ and ‘lobha’.The wooden chariot was then pulled back to the northern end of the ground known as Rath Maidan. Later, idols were carried back in palanquins to be taken to their sanctum sanctorum in Sultanpur. The deities also returned back to their abodes after the culmination of the festival.The festivities were scaled down last year due to Covid crisis. The members of the Dev Samaj were delighted after the assurance of ‘nazrana’ (honorarium). The cultural events at Kala Kendra were not organized this year. Exhibitions were not set up by various departments and organizations and any commercial activities were also not carried out.Kullu DC and vice-chairman of the Kullu Dasehra Festival Committee Ashutosh Garg thanked the Dev Samaj, besides the officials and employees of various departments and residents of the district for their cooperation to make the Dasehra celebrations a success.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-dasehra-ends-with-lanka-dahan-327821
22-10-2021||Lalit Mohan||Price rise because of free vaccine: Himachal minister Rakesh Pathania||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, October 21Rakesh Pathania, Minister for Forests and Youth Affairs, today tried to justify the high prices of petrol, diesel and edible oils. The price rise was because of free Covid vaccine that had been given to 100 crore people in the country, he said while campaigning in the Fatehpur Assembly constituency.Rs95,000 crore being paid to farmers yearlyThe Centre has spent Rs37,000 crore on providing free or cheap vaccine to 100 crore people of the country. Besides, it is transferring Rs6,000 per annum in the bank accounts of farmers every year that is costing Rs95,000 crore.  — Rakesh Pathania, Forest MinisterPathania said, “The high prices of fuel are on the back of the mind of voters. I am, however, justifying the high prices of fuel and people are accepting the logic”.He said the Central Government had spent Rs 37,000 crore on providing free or cheap vaccines to 100 crore people of the country. Besides, it was transferring Rs 6,000 per annum in the bank accounts of farmers every year that was costing Rs 95,000 crore.“The Union Government is also providing cheap and free medical treatment to the poor under the Jan Ayushman Bharat Yojana and the state government has also launched a similar scheme. The people are being forced to pay high prices of fuel, as the government has to recover the cost of these schemes,” he said.Pathania said that every country was facing recession due to the Covid pandemic. “Himachal has been hit the hardest as its main source of revenue, tourism, came to a standstill. However, still the state government is paying salaries to its three lakh employees on time. It is an achievement of the government,” he said.Congress leaders, however, alleged that the high prices were due to the poor economic policies. Rajinder Rana, Congress in-charge for the Fatehpur byelection, said it was bad on the part of the BJP to count vaccination as its biggest achievement. “A large number of people died due to the lack of oxygen in hospitals during the second wave of coronavirus and the government could not do anything. The government is opting for the easy way out to tax people at the times of recession due to coronavirus and people are in a mood to punish the party in the byelections,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/price-rise-because-of-free-vaccine-himachal-minister-rakesh-pathania-327822
22-10-2021||---||80 tourists stranded in Lahaul and Spiti, safe||Tribune News ServiceMandi, October 21As many as 80 tourists have been stranded at Batal in Lahaul and Spiti for the past five days.They visited Chandratal on October 17 but due to inclement weather, the area received snow. As a result, the Gramphu-Kaza highway was blocked and they could not move out of the area. The matter came to notice yesterday when their relatives informed the district administration about their visit.Couple turns saviourA couple, Dorje Bodh and his wife Hishey Chhomo, who are running a dhaba, known as Chacha Chachi Dhaba at Batal, has been feeding 80 stranded tourists since October 17. They have been serving the people for the past 40 years in the region. The district administration conducted a recce with the help of an Army chopper today but could not trace them. Rescue teams were also sent from Lahaul and Spiti and they noticed them at Batal.DC Neeraj Kumar said, “The tourists are safe and camping at a local dhaba and the PWD rest house at Batal. Arrangements have been made for their evacuation by tomorrow with the help of an Army unit, the BRO and the District Disaster Management Authority.” The DC said, “It is expected that the Gramphu-Kaza highway will be restored for the movement of vehicles tomorrow.”He said 16 tourists were from West Bengal, while remaining were from Delhi, Punjab, Himachal and other states. Due to lack of communication service in the area, the district administration could not get any information about the tourists in time.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/80-tourists-stranded-in-lahaul-and-spiti-safe-327823
22-10-2021||---||Himachal Governor pays tributes to police martyrs||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 21Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar paid homage to the police personnel who had sacrificed their lives for the sake of the country on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day today. In an event organised by the Himachal Pradesh Police at the Mall Road, he said it was our duty to remember the martyrs.He said the state and central police forces make a significant contribution to ensuring internal security, despite the threat of disruptive elements, for which a grateful nation remembers them every year. On the occasion, the Governor also released the ‘Police Gaurav Geet’.Earlier, Director General of Police Sanjay Kundu read out the names of all 377 police personnel who had attained martyrdom in the line of service during the past one year. He said in the past 62 years, about 36,000 officers and personnel of various police forces had sacrificed their lives.On behalf of the state government, Harbans Singh Brascon, special secretary to the Chief Minister and director of Information and Public Relations Department, placed a wreath at the memorial. Senior police officers, former officers and other dignitaries were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-governor-pays-tributes-to-police-martyrs-327824
22-10-2021||---||BJP, Congress at loggerheads over development in Arki||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 21The BJP and the Congress are trading charges in Arki over the issue of development. Rural Development and Panchayati Raj Minister Virender Kanwar, who campaigned in Arki yesterday, said, “Locals have not seen the MLA in the past four years. Our nominee Rattan Pal has been raising issues of people with the government”.Charges against govtKanwar blamed the Congress for the lack of development in Arki. “The Congress had represented this Assembly constituency for years, but little development has happened here,” he said.Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Congress state in-charge, said, “The healthcare facilities, roads and educational institutes are not being maintained under the BJP regime.” He urged people to vote for Sanjay Awasthy.The incomplete developmental projects have become a sore point in Arki. There was resentment over the non-functional community health centre at Darlaghat, which the Chief Minister had inaugurated on August 13. Its construction was initiated by the previous Congress government and despite spending Rs 3.15 crore, residents had not been able to avail of its benefits.Jagdish Kumar, a local resident, said, “The BJP is misleading people. The centre has not been made functional even two months after its inauguration.”Similarly, a sub-treasury office opened at Darlaghat during the previous Congress regime was operating from a private building. The college at Jai Nagar did not have its own building, while the one at Darlaghat was being run from a building along the national highway. Only art stream was available in the colleges. Residents said they were skeptical if other announcements made on August 13 would see the light of day.Thakur had also announced the opening of a PWD subdivision at Jai Nagar, Jal Shakti subdivision at Kunihar, patwar circles at Beral and Kunihar, an HRTC depot at Arki, upgrading of primary health centres at Darlaghat and Loharghat to community health centres, and health sub-centre, Bagga, to a primary health centre. The development of Baridhar as a tourism spot was also announced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-congress-at-loggerheads-over-development-in-arki-327825
22-10-2021||---||Bodies of 5 missing trekkers found||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 21Army and ITBP teams today traced the bodies of five out of the 11 trekkers, who had gone missing on their way from Uttarkashi to Chitkul in Himachal, from the Lamkhaga Pass in Kinnaur district. A tourist and a guide were rescued while four persons are still missing.Most were from KolkataThe trekkers left Uttarkashi on October 11 and were scheduled to reach Chitkul on October 19 but they lost contact following heavy snow in Kinnaur on October 17 and 18. Seven belonged to Kolkata, One from Delhi and three came from UttarakhandThe trekkers left Uttarkashi on October 11 and were scheduled to reach Chitkul on October 19 but they lost contact following heavy snow in Kinnaur on October 17 and 18.The teams started rescue operations from Nitthal Tach by removing 105 cm of snow and the area was surveyed by a helicopter. The rescue teams airlifted a tourist to Uttarkashi.The bodies are being brought for identification and will be airlifted to Uttarkashi tomorrow, said Deputy Commissioner, Kinnaur, Abid Hussain Sadiq. He said that the rescue operation was suspended due to bad weather conditions. The operations will resume tomorrow. Tourist Mithun said the missing ones were following porters. The possibility of extreme cold conditions leading to death could not be ruled out. However, the true picture would emerge after the post-mortem report of the deceased was received.Eleven missing trekkers included seven tourists from Kolkata — Mithun Dari (31), Tanmay Tiwari (30), Vikash Makal (33), Saurav Ghosh (34), Saviayan Das (28), Richard Mandal (30) and Suken Manjhi (43) and Anita Rawat (38) from Delhi, besides three cooks/guides Devendra (37), Gyan Chandra (33) and Upendra (32) from Purola area of Uttarkashi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bodies-of-5-missing-trekkers-found-327826
22-10-2021||---||Rs 1.6 lakh to be recovered for poor culvert construction in Indora||Rajiv MahajanNurpur, October 21Kangra district MGNREGA ombudsman Anjala Kumari has ordered the recovery of Rs 1,66,319 from six persons, including a Junior Engineer (JE) of the Department of Panchayati Raj and Rural Development, for alleged poor construction work of a culvert in Dekwan gram panchayat of Indora.She has also recommended a disciplinary action against the JE for his failure to perform his duty while building the culvert, which partially collapsed after 15 days.According to the order of the ombudsman, misutilisation of funds of Rs 1,66,319 has been alleged in the construction of the culvert.The pradhan, up-pradhan, panchayat secretary, two panchayat gram sewaks and a JE have been held responsible. They have been issued recovery notices and directed to deposit the amount.The damaged culvert was reportedly built at an estimated cost of Rs 6 lakh, and funds were taken from MGNREGA, zila parishad and DC funds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-1-6-lakh-to-be-recovered-for-poor-culvert-construction-in-indora-327827
22-10-2021||Solan||Two paddy procurement centres opened by FCI||Two more paddy procurement centres have been opened at Malpur in Baddi and Tahliwal in Una to speed up paddy procurement. Secretary, Food Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs (FCSCA), C Palrasu, issued orders to open these centres today as resentment was brewing among the farmers because of tardy pace of procurement.The Food Corporation of India (FCI) had started lifting paddy on October 15 in the state. As many as 1,561 farmers have registered at Nalagarh and 605 at Takarala in the existing procurement centres. Produce of merely 49 farmers had been procured at Nalagarh.The farmers were apprehensive that their produce would be spoilt due to paucity of storage facilities. Since facilities have been created at the new centres to ensure smooth paddy procurement by the local administration at Malpur and Tahliwal, the secretary, FCSCA, today permitted opening of these centres.The FCI would make procurement from plot no 53-55 at industrial area, Tahliwal in Una district and industrial shed at Malpur in Baddi on immediate basis. Farmers in Baddi welcomed this move and hoped that their produce would be procured soon.Resentment was also registered by the farmers at Paonta Sahib at the tardy pace of lifting today. SDM Paonta Sahib, Vivek Mahajan, however, assured them of speedier procurement and informed that two centres at Kala Amb and Paonta Sahib were already operational. As many as 2,478 quintals were procured yesterday itself at the rate of Rs 1,960 per kg. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-paddy-procurement-centres-opened-by-fci-327828
22-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Breast cancer awareness drive to go on in Hamirpur hospital till Oct 31||Hamirpur, October 21Students of Dr Radhakrishanan Government Medical College and Hospital have launched a drive to create awareness on breast cancer till October 31. Dr Suman Yadav, principal of the medical college, while stating this here today, said the Department of Surgery had initiated the drive. Breast cancer was one of the major ailments among women but its early detection could give another 20 years of healthy life to the infected women. She said the awareness drive would be carried out in various areas of the district, including Bhoranj, Barsar and Sujanpur.Dr Lakshmi Agnihotri, Head of Department of Surgery, said every eighth woman in the world and 22nd woman in India was infected with breast cancer.The college authorities had requested the Union Minister of Sports and Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur to provide a scanning van so that the disease could be detected early and its spread could be prevented, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/breast-cancer-awareness-drive-to-go-on-in-hamirpur-hospital-till-oct-31-327829
22-10-2021||---||16 Solan students not allowed to take exams, allege parents||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 21The parents of students of MRA DAV School here today alleged that 16 students were not allowed to appear in the term exams for non-payment of their monthly dues.The parents received phone calls from the school asking them to pay the pending dues, including the computer fee; they had paid the tuition fee but not the computer fee.Solan school refutes allegationNo parent, who has any issue with the monthly dues, turned up at the school today and no student was stopped from appearing in the exams, which began on Tuesday — Masooma Singha, Principal, MRA DAV SchoolThe parents said that as no computer classes had been conducted, they should not be charged the fee. Of total 190 students, 50 had not paid the dues, including the tuition fee and other monthly charges. The parents were asked to deposit the dues and only 16 students were now left who had not paid all dues. All children, however, were permitted to appear in the exams, as the parents created a scene.The school management said that the parents were asked to pay the monthly charges before the exams began on Tuesday. It claimed that no student was stopped from appearing in the exams. The parents were phoned and asked to pay the dues. Of 190 students, the dues of only 16 students were pending now. The parents of seven students had sought more time and their request had been granted.The school management also claimed that it had sought the payment of the dues from October following the Supreme Court directions.School principal Masooma Singha said, “No parent, who has any issue with the monthly dues, turned up at the school today and no student was stopped from appearing in the exams, which began on Tuesday. The parents are routinely sent reminders to pay the pending dues. The school management has even allowed those students, who have not paid the fee, to continue”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/16-solan-students-not-allowed-to-take-exams-allege-parents-327830
22-10-2021||Hamirpur||NIT to admit pupils on JEE (Main) ranks||The admission process in the National Institute of Technology-Hamirpur for BTech and BArch has been started and those who could not qualify JEE (Advance) but had good JEE (Main) ranks can get admission in the institutes.This was stated by Dr Yogesh Gupta, Registrar of the NIT, here today. He said students would be required to register through the official JoSAA 2021 portal.The Joint Seat Allocation Authority (JoSAA) 2021 portal was set up by the Ministry of Education to regulate the joint seat allocation for admissions to 114 institutes for the academic year 2021-22. This included 23 IITs, 31 NITs, IIEST, Shibpur, 26 IIITs and 33 Other-Government Funded Technical Institutes (Other-GFTIs).Dr Gupta said a candidate was required to choose a series of academic programmes in a certain order of preference. This year persons with disability (PwD) candidates were required to visit one of the reporting centres of their choice for physical verification of their status along with a copy of the PwD certificate. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nit-to-admit-pupils-on-jee-main-ranks-327831
22-10-2021||---||BJP expels 13  Jubbal-Kotkhai office-bearers||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 21The BJP today expelled 13 office-bearers of the Jubbal-Kotkhai Mandal, including its president and general secretary, for six years for indulging in anti-party activities. The party had taken exception to their anti-party activities and their primary membership had been cancelled, said state party resident Suresh Kashyap.These leaders had declared their support to BJP rebel Chetan Bragta, son of Narender Bragta, and resigned from the Jubbal-Kotkhai BJP Mandal on October 15 in protest against the allotment of ticket to Neelam Saraik. Chetan is fighting the Jubbal-Kotkhai byelection as an Independent candidate and is expected to benefit from the sympathy vote on account of the death of his father, sitting MLA Narendra Bragta. He is likely to affect the prospects of the BJP candidate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-expels-13-jubbal-kotkhai-office-bearers-327832
22-10-2021||Shimla||202 new Covid cases, four deaths in Himachal||As many as 202 Covid cases were reported today, taking the tally to 222,138. Besides, four persons (two in Kangra, and one each in Shimla and Hamirpur) died. The highest number of 75 cases was recorded in Kangra.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/202-new-covid-cases-four-deaths-in-himachal-327833
22-10-2021||---||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur seeks one year for works still to be done in Fatehpur||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, October 21Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said, “Give us one year and we shall do everything that has not been done in Fatehpur in the past four years”. He was addressing voters at Bhatoli village in the Fatehpur.Thakur claimed that his government was about to complete fours years in power and the Congress had no charges to level against the ministers.He said that the Congress leaders, who had been criticising the government for poor management of the Covid crisis, were now standing in queues for the vaccine.He said that after Virbhadra Singh’s death, there was nobody to lead the party in the state.He blamed the Congress for the price rise and unemployment in the state. “The Congress has ruled the country for 60 years and it is responsible for the problems of price rise and unemployment. The current price rise is temporary and the Central Government will soon be able to control it,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-seeks-one-year-for-works-still-to-be-done-in-fatehpur-327834
22-10-2021||Mandi||No big project executed in Mandi, says Himachal LoP Mukesh Agnihotri||Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri targeted Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur over development issues here yesterday.He said during the four-year regime of the BJP, the Chief Minister could not execute even one big project in Mandi. “He could not lay the foundation stone of his dream project, the proposed airport at Nagchala in Mandi. Union minister Nitin Gadkar had announced 69 highways for the state. The Chief Minister should tell people about the status of these highways,” he added.“The BJP’s poll planks in the last elections was to check inflation, provide jobs, reduce the contract period of government employees from three years to two years, restore the old pension scheme, implement factor-2 to provide four-times higher compensation. Why the CM is silent on these issues despite having a clear mandate,” he said.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-big-project-executed-in-mandi-says-himachal-lop-mukesh-agnihotri-327835
22-10-2021||Our Correspondent||BJP working for every section of society, says Suresh Kashyap||KULLU, OCTOBER 21State BJP president Suresh Kashyap presided over public meetings in Shiyah, Shainshar and Deutha in Banjar yesterday.He said the BJP was a party working in the national interest and for the uplift of every section of society. Their star campaigners were popular leaders of Himachal and the BJP had full faith in them.He said on the other hand, there were people like Kanhaiya Kumar in the Congress who support anti-national forces.The BJP chief said Mandi candidate Brig Khushal Thakur (retd) was a patriot, who had served the country and during the Kargil war, he defeated the Pakistani army. He said it was unfortunate that Congress candidate Pratibha Singh undermined the sacrifice of the martyrs by terming it a mild infiltration and not a war.He said seeing the enthusiasm of the public, it seemed that the people would ensure victory of the BJP candidate again.Education Minister and BJP co-incharge of the Mandi Lok Sabha seat Govind Singh Thakur alleged that Pratibha could not even spend MPLAD funds during her tenure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-working-for-every-section-of-society-says-suresh-kashyap-327836
22-10-2021||Shimla||CITU’s protests||CITU held protests in the state against National Monetisation Pipeline today. In a protest held outside the DC office in Shimla, CITU president Vijender Mehra demanded the withdrawal of this scheme. “Under the scheme, airports, ports, power sector, highways, gas, coal mines, stadiums, etc, are being handed over to the capitalists,” said Mehra. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/citus-protests-327837
22-10-2021||Nurpur||Official machinery being misused  in Fatehpur: Congress||The HPCC has alleged that BJP leaders and ministers are misusing the government machinery for campaigning in the Fatehpur byelection.Chander Kumar, HPCC general secretary, said sensing the defeat of its candidate, the BJP was violating the code of conduc.He said Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania should apologise for his alleged derogatory remarks against HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore. “The minister termed the HPCC chief ‘mandh buddhi’ (mentally challenged). Such remarkshows his frustration.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/official-machinery-being-misused-in-fatehpur-congress-327838
22-10-2021||The Department of Botany at St Bede’s College||Activities mark World Food Day at St Bede’s College||Investiture ceremony at DAV DarlaghatDAV Ambuja Vidya Niketan Public School, Darlaghat, organised an investiture ceremony in which Doris Rao, Chief Educationist, AVNT Mumbai, was the chief guest, and Manoj Srivastava, unit head of Ambuja Cements Limited and chairman of SLMC, Darlaghat, was the guest of honour. Devansh Gupta and Himanshi Sharma were elected as head boy and head girl. The newly elected members of the senate took oath to achieve their goals and work for the welfare of school. The chief guest addressed the prefects and motivated them to be impartial and honest in discharging their duties.QCI-UIT hold virtual meetThe Quality Council of India (QCI) conducted a virtual meeting with University Institute of Technology (UIT), Shimla, for Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme (TEQIP-Phase IV). The meeting was coordinated by Kapil Bhatt, UIT assistant professor, who is also the coordinator of TEQIP at the institute. All HoDs and faculty members attended the meeting, conducted for detailed virtual assessment of the UIT. Discussions were held regarding research activities, lab facilities, ongoing projects, funding and existing and future collaboration. Dr Neeru Sharma, UIT associate professor, headed the meeting and said that TEQIP funding was important for the UIT to strengthen the quality of technical education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/activities-mark-world-food-day-at-st-bedes-college-327839
22-10-2021||The bigger buses plying on the New Shimla road||Big buses plying on New Shimla road a problem||Start Mudrika bus serviceThe local administration should ply a Mudrika bus service, starting from Karian and passing through Hardaspura, Bharmour chowk, old bus stand Sapri, new bus stand at Tatwani, Sultanpur, Baloo, Phulnu Tala, TB ward, Hardaspura and culminating at Karian again. The service on the circular road around the town would be a great facility for the people, including senior citizens. It would avoid inconvenience caused and save them the fare they spend on taxis and long-route buses. — Suresh, Vishwa Nath, ChambaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/big-buses-plying-on-new-shimla-road-a-problem-327840
22-10-2021||Subhash Rajta||Himachal sees record apple procurement in over a decade||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 21The HPMC and Himfed have procured record amount of apple this season via Market Intervention Scheme (MIS) in over a decade. Already, the combined procurement this year is close to 70,000 MT– HPMC has bought over 35,000 MT and Himfed 33,000 MT. In 2010, 1.10 lakh MT apples were procured through the MIS.“This is the maximum Himfed has procured in the last decade. Last year, we had bought 18,000 MT,” said Ajay Thakur, consultant with Himfed. For HPMC, too, this is a record procurement over the past decade or so. “We procured 33,000 MT last year, but we can end up buying around 40,000 MT this year as we have to buy till October-end,” said an HPMC official.Also read: Himachal Bypoll: Discontent among growers in apple belt may cost BJP dearHPMC, HIMFED barter farm items for ‘C’ grade appleMarket schemeThe procurement through the MIS has spiked because much of the apple was rendered substandard due to persistent hail and untimely dry spell. While the HPMC uses a portion of its procurement for making juices and jams, the rest is auctioned in Parwanoo.“This time, less produce will be used for processing as 1,000 MT juice is still left from the last season. The demand had dipped because of Covid and it’s yet to pick up,” said an HPMC official.The agencies, however, aren’t getting a good price in auction. “Over the last few days, the prices have crashed. A 35-kg bag is being auctioned for Rs 50,” said Thakur. “We are suffering losses but we can’t even hold the produce. If we don’t sell it, we will have to dump it,” he said.Experts say processing plants should be set up in apple-producing areas like Rohru, Kinnaur and Kotkhai. “We pay farmers Rs 9.50 per kg and then another Rs 2.75 per kg is spent to bring that apple to Parwanoo, where it is auctioned for Rs 2.50 to Rs 3. Processing plants in apple-producing areas will cut down some costs,” said Thakur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-sees-record-apple-procurement-in-over-a-decade-327637
22-10-2021||Shimla||Bodies of five tourists who were trekking from Uttarkashi to Chitkul found; two rescued||Bodies of five out of 11 trekkers who had gone missing on their way from Uttarkashi in Uttarakhand to Chitkul in Himachal were on Thursday traced at different places near Lamkhaga pass in Kinnaur district by Army and ITBP teams which rescued a tourist and a guide while four persons are still missing.The trekkers had left for Chitkul on October 11 and were scheduled to reach Chitkul on October 19 but they did not reach Chitkul and lost contact. Heavy snow was witnessed in Kinnaur on October 17 and 18.The Army and ITBP teams started rescue operations from Nitthal Tach by removing 105 cm of snow while other teams surveyed the area via helicopter.The rescue teams airlifted the tourists to Uttarkashi while the guide was staying with the Army personnel.The bodies are being brought to one place for identification and would be airlifted to Uttarkashi tomorrow, said Deputy Commissioner Kinnaur Abid Hussain Sadiq adding that the rescue operations were suspended due to bad weather conditions as the chopper couldn’t operate after 2 pm.The rescue operations will start tomorrow morning. The rescued tourists informed that the four missing tourists were also on their way to Himachal. The eleven trekkers, included seven tourists from Kolkata and one from Delhi and three cooks.Eleven missing trekkers included seven tourists from Kolkata namely Mithun Dari (31), Tanmay Tiwari (30), Vikash Makal (33), Saurav Ghosh (34), Saviayan Das (28), Richard Mandal (30), and Suken Manjhi (43), all from Kolkata and one and Anita Rawat (38) from Delhi besides three cooks/guides Devendra (37), Gyan Chandra (33) and Upendra (32), hailing from Purola area of Uttarkashi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bodies-of-five-tourists-who-were-trekking-from-uttarkashi-to-chitkul-found-two-rescued-327603
