23-10-2021||---||Himachal bypoll: BJP didn’t fulfil promises made in manifesto, says Anand Sharma||Our CorrespondentKULLU, OCTOBER 22Former External Affairs Minister Anand Sharma today said that the Congress had many able leaders in various states, including Himachal, and at the Centre and the party does not need a certificate from the BJP in this regard.Sharma, while addressing mediapersons here, said, “A leader should not only be campaigning but he or she should also be able to carry out development in the area. People are aware of the difference between rhetoric and visible work on the ground”.He said that the BJP had not fulfilled the promises made in its election manifesto. The party had gained power in the name of reducing unemployment and inflation but these had instead doubled during its regime. “The BJP had promised that factor-2 would be implemented for giving four-time compensation for land acquisition for the national highways in Himachal but it went back on its promise. The tourism industry has become weak not because of Covid but due to the bad policies of the government,” he added.The Congress star campaigner said that people sufferred due to the mismanagement of the Covid crisis by the government. The packages announced by the government were a hoax and no income support was given to those who lost their livelihood. No incentive was given to the industry and no help was given those dependent on the tourism industry, he added.“The Central Government has a reserve of 600 billion dollars and we told it to give 50 billion dollars to the people to revive the economy but it was unconcerned about the plight of the people,” he said.Sharma said that the Congress workers were going to people to apprising them of the false promises made by the BJP and development done during the Congress regimes. He added that the public response showed that the Congress candidate for the Mandi byelection Pratibha Singh would win with a huge margin. There was a lot of scope of development in tourism, horticulture and power sectors in the state.Former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda said that just promises were made to farmers, the poor and unemployed youths and nothing had been done on the ground. “The poor have become poorer. The government is giving no package to help the tourism sector, which is the backbone of the economy of Himachal,” he added.Hooda said each section of society was frustrated with the government. Pratibha had remained Mandi MP twice earlier and she was experienced to carry out development in the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-bypoll-bjp-didnt-fulfil-promises-made-in-manifesto-says-anand-sharma-328376
23-10-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Congress, BJP Central leaders stay away from campaigning in Himachal Pradesh||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 22Top Central leaders of the Congress or the BJP, including JP Nadda, have still not campaigned in the state.The Gandhis (Sonia, Rahul and Priyanka) have not come to the state to seek votes for the party candidates though new entrant into the Congress Kanhaiya Kumar has campaigned.Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, whose name figures in the list of star campaigners, seems disinterested in campaigning. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Channi is expected to spare a day but his tour is still not confirmed. “Chattisgrah Chief Minister Bhupesh Bhagel will address election meetings at Balh in Mandi and Kharapatthar in the Jubbal-Kotkhai segment on October 27,” said Rajnish Khimta, Chief Organisational Secretary.Former Union minister Anand Sharma and former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda campaigned in Kullu today to seek votes for Pratibha Singh. Besides, CWC member and state in-charge Rajeev Shukla and AICC Secretary Sanjay Dutt have been campaigning for the party candidates.BJP national president JP Nadda, who hails from Bilaspsur, too, is yet to head homeward to seek votes for the party candidates. The name of no Central BJP leader figures in the list of star campaigners. However, Nadda is expected to come soon for convassing.In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, BJP candidate Ram Swaroop had won the Mandi seat by a record margin of four lakh. Thus it is all the more essential for the party to ensure victory here.Mandi is the home district of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. This makes the bypoll a prestige issue for him to ensure the victory of Brig Khushal Thakur (retd), who is fighting any election for the first time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-bjp-central-leaders-stay-away-from-campaigning-in-himachal-pradesh-328378
23-10-2021||---||Kangra ignored in past 4 years: Congress||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, October 22Congress spokesperson Rajesh Sharma today alleged that the BJP government ignored Kangra district in the past four years.Bias against FatehpurThe government has discriminated against the Fatehpur segment and shifted the office of Chief Engineer, IPH, to Mandi district. — Rajesh Sharma, Congress SpokespersonSharma, while addressing mediapersons here, alleged that BJP leaders were trying to make the Fatehpur byelection a personal matter. “The BJP is trying to portray it as a fight of individuals, but the fact is that it is an election over issues being faced by Kangra district. Major projects in Kangra district, including the expansion of Gaggal airport, development of campus of the Central University of Himachal Pradesh, besides giving second capital status to Dharamsala, has been swept under carpet by the government,” he alleged.Though it was announced that the Finance Commission had granted a sum of Rs 400 crore for the expansion of the Gaggal airport in Kangra but nothing has happened in the last four years and now the government has put the airport up for disinvestment. In case the airport is sold to a private player, the dreams of expansion are likely to be over,” he alleged.He said though there was the BJP government at the Center and in the state, the work on developing the CUHP campus was yet to begin. He said the previous Congress government had given the second capital status to Dharamsala but the present government has even given up the practice of holding the winter sojourn of the CM in the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangra-ignored-in-past-4-years-congress-328382
23-10-2021||---||Virbhadra didn’t raise issues of Arki: Anurag Thakur||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 22Arki has suffered on account of lack of development as former Congress MLA Virbhadra Singh did not raise local issues in the state Assembly in the past about four years, said Anurag Thakur, Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting and Sports, today. He addressed rallies in favour of BJP candidate Rattan Pal Singh at Dhundhan, Jainagar and Kararaghat in the Arki constituency.He said, “Rattan Pal had raised various issues of the people with the state government, ensuring development of the area”.Anurag said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision had helped India achieve an exemplary feat of vaccinating 100 crore people. He elaborated on various development initiatives of the Central Government. He said, “A budget of Rs 350,000 crore was set aside for vaccination alone, which is being provided free of cost to all. States were additionally provided Rs 15,000 crore to strengthen their health infrastructure during the Covid pandemic”.“Had the Congress undertaken development in its about 55 years rule, people would have been better served. The Central Government has achieved various milestones in development in mere seven years such as direct subsidy transfer to bank accounts, free LPG connections, Aadhaar cards, sanitation, etc., and now potable water for all is also being planned”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/virbhadra-didnt-raise-issues-of-arki-anurag-thakur-328384
23-10-2021||---||At Rampur, Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur hits out at Pratibha Singh for ‘insulting’ soldiers||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 22Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur sought votes for BJP candidate for the Mandi byelection Brig Khushal Thakur (retd) in the name of development on Virbhadra Singh’s home turf of Rampur here today.He targeted Congress candidate Pratibha Singh for ‘insulting serving and retired soldiers’. “The fact that the BJP has fielded a valiant and decorated Kargil War hero as its candidate for the Mandi Lok Sabha byelection is a severe blow to the Congress,” he said.Thakur countered the Congress claims that soldiers had nothing to do with politics and said that honest, upright and dedicated people from various fields must join politics to serve people. “It is shocking to see how Congress leaders do not hesitate from even insulting the sacrifice and valour of not just Brig Khushal Thakur (retd) but also thousands of other soldiers who fought in the Kargil War by terming it as a small battle,” he said.However, he refrained from making any personal attack on Virbhadra Singh or his wife Pratibha Singh but tried to counter the Congress propaganda on the price rise and unemployment.“The Congress is blaming the BJP for unemployment and the price rise but the fact is that it is the Congress that had ruled the country for the maximum period,” he said. He added that his government had provided old-age pension to more than four lakh people above the age of 70 years. Later, Thakur campaigned for BJP candidate Neelam Saraik in the Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly segment.“I want to make one thing very clear that the party is bigger than any individual. Those who did not accept the party decision had only damaged themselves and no one else,” he said in an oblique reference to rebel candidate Chetan Bragta, son of former BJP minister Narinder Bragta.He lauded the party’s stand of not encouraging dynastic politics and giving opportunity to a common party worker like Neelam.In Mandi, the Chief Minister addressed a public meeting at Bheuli and urged the voters to support the BJP candidate.He said that despite the Covid-19 outbreak in the state, development works were not halted. Development projects worth crores of rupees were executed, inaugurated or their foundation stones were laid through the virtual mode from Shimla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/at-rampur-himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-hits-out-at-pratibha-singh-for-insulting-soldiers-328385
23-10-2021||Mandi||Darang MLA Jawahar Thakur’s comment on Pratibha Singh draws flak||The Congress today targeted BJP MLA from Darang Jawahar Thakur for his controversial remarks about the Congress Mandi candidate Pratibha Singh.During the election campaign in Mandi, MLA Jawahar Thakur stated in a public meeting that generally after the death of her husband, the wife of the deceased refrains from moving out of the house for almost one year due to grief. However Congress candidate Pratibha Singh has decided to contest the election even though not much time has passed after the demise of her husband former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh.These comments of BJP MLA irked the Congress leaders, especially women, who objected to it within no time.“The comments of the BJP MLA are derogatory and against women as these want to confine them within the house. It shows the ideology of the BJP against women. We condemn the statement of the BJP MLA,” president of state Mahila Congress Zainab Chandel said. On the other hand, state secretary of BJP Payal Vaidya was prompt to defend the MLA. She stated that his comments were being twisted by the Congress to mislead the public to gain political mileage out of it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/darang-mla-jawahar-thakurs-comment-on-pratibha-singh-draws-flak-328386
23-10-2021||---||Congress leaders in Mandi to intensify campaign||Tribune News ServiceMandi, October 22Leaders of the Congress party are camping in Mandi district to intensify the election campaign in favour of Pratibha Singh for the Lok Sabha byelection.From the past two days, former Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Sukhwinder Sukhu is camping in the district to seek votes for the Congress candidate. Today, he addressed public meetings in Nachan Assembly constituency and targetted the BJP over inflation and unemployment issues. Yesterday, he had addressed public meetings in the Sarkaghat Assembly constituency.Senior party leader Kaul Singh Thakur, former MP Suresh Chandel, Solan MLA Dhani Ram Shandil and Dalhousie MLA Asha Kumari have addressed public meetings in Darang Assembly constituency to woo voters in favour of Pratibha, a two-time MP from Mandi.Vikramaditya Singh, Congress MLA from Shimla Gramin, addressed public meetings in Seraj Assembly constituency. He was accompanied by local leader Vijay Pal Singh, Chet Ram Thakur and others during his tour in the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-leaders-in-mandi-to-intensify-campaign-328387
23-10-2021||---||176 new Covid cases, 2 deaths in Himachal||Shimla, October 22A total of 176 new Covid cases were reported today. Besides, two died of Covid — one each in Kangra and Hamirpur districts -- in the last 24 hours.As many as 87 cases were reported in Kangra, 21 each in Hamirpur and Mandi, 15 in Una, 12 in Bilaspur, 10 in Shimla, six in Kullu, two each in Solan and Chamba districts.The total number of positive cases reported inthe state till now is 2,22,312. There are 1,483 active cases now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/176-new-covid-cases-2-deaths-in-himachal-328388
23-10-2021||---||Fatehpur byelection: Rajan Sushant targets govt staff with pension||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, October 22Five-time BJP legislator and former Kangra MP Rajan Sushant, who is contesting the Fatehpur byelection as an Independent candidate, has taken up a unique agenda of getting the old pension scheme implemented for state government employees.He advocates that the payment of pension to the elected representatives, including MLAs and MPs, should be suspended till the old pension scheme is not implemented for government employees.Sushant had written to the Speaker of the Himachal Vidhan Sabha last year that his pension as a former MLA be stopped. Sources say that the Vidhan Sabha Secretariat had transferred the pension to his bank account till May this year. However, after May, the pension was not credited to his bank account as he did not submit his life certificate.Sushant is sitting on a dharna for the past about six months demanding the implementation of the old pension scheme for government employees recruited after 2004 when it was abolished. The sources say that Sushant is targeting about 90,000 state government employees, who are covered under the new pension scheme. He plans to float a political outfit before the 2022 Assembly elections with this sole agenda.The fact that Sushant has given up his pension as an MLA is helping him garner the support of the youth in the Fatehpur byelection. He held a rally in Fatehpur recently in which hundreds of local youths participated.Rakesh Kumar, a local youth who has been canvassing for Sushant, says it is not justified that young people, who are competing through various examinations to get government jobs, are not entitled to the benefit of pension while the MLAs continue to draw hefty pensions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fatehpur-byelection-rajan-sushant-targets-govt-staff-with-pension-328389
23-10-2021||---||Avinash Rai Khanna ridicules former MP Rajan Sushant on pension claim||Our CorrespondentNurpur, October 22BJP state in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna today ridiculed the claim made by Rajan Sushant, an Independent candidate for the Fatehpur byelection, that he had stopped taking his pension as a former parliamentarian. Sushant has declared that he would not withdraw pension till the old pension scheme was not restored to government employees in the state.Khanna, while addressing mediapersons at Fatehpur in Kangra district, said that a perusal of the records of the state assembly revealed that Sushant had drawn pension to the tune of Rs 103,440 in May this year and had not submitted any application declaring not to draw it. “A life certificate is required to be submitted in the Assembly every year to draw pension and Sushant has not submitted the certificate after drawing pension in May,” he said.However, Dhairya Sushant, son of Rajan Sushant, categorically denied Khanna’s allegation and said that the BJP was twisting the facts relating to his father’s pension.Khanna said that BJP candidate Baldev Thakur, who had contested the 2017 Assembly elections from Fatehpur as an Independent candidate, was re-inducted into the party and he worked hard for the BJP at the grass-roots level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/avinash-rai-khanna-ridicules-former-mp-rajan-sushant-on-pension-claim-328390
23-10-2021||---||40 EVM, VVPAT machines airlifted to Kaza||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 22The Election Department today airlifted 40 electric voting machines (EVM) and VVPAT machines to Kaza of Lahaul-Spiti district under Mandi parliamentary constituency today.Chief Electoral Officer, Himachal Pradesh, C. Paulrasu informed here today that all necessary steps have been taken to encourage voters to cast vote in maximum numbers during the bye-elections for Mandi parliamentary constituency and Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly segments. Special arrangements have been made to transport EVM machines to the polling stations located at high altitudes in these constituencies. He said these EVMs and VVPAT machines would be used for voting in 29 polling stations set up in Kaza during the by-election of Mandi assembly constituency.He said that in Mandi parliamentary constituency, a polling station has been set up at Tashigang in Lahaul-Spiti district at a height of 15,256 feet above sea level. Adhail polling station has been set up at an altitude of 8,500 feet in Jubbal-Kotkhai constituency of Shimla district.The Pambar polling station in Arki assembly constituency of Solan district is situated at an altitude of 6,204 feet and Agahar polling station in Fatehpur segment of district Kangra is situated at an altitude of 2,100 feet above sea level. All arrangements are being made through the District Election Officers (DEO) for smooth conduction of the voting process in these polling stations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/40-evm-vvpat-machines-airlifted-to-kaza-328391
23-10-2021||Subhash Rajta||Only one out of 418 Covid +ve pupils needed hospitalisation after Himachal schools reopened||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 22Out of the 418 schoolchildren, who tested positive for Covid-19 after the schools re-opened in the state on September 27, only one needed hospitalisation. As many as, 210 students have recovered while 207 are still in isolation. A 13-year-old girl from Kangra, who was hospitalised, succumbed to the disease in Hamirpur on Thursday.Number of cases rising in schoolsNational Health Mission (NHM) Director Hemraj Bairwa said the data showed that children had much better natural immunity against the virus. “It is very comforting that all children, except one, did not need hospitalisation. Many have already recovered and others are recuperating at home”.Apart from apparently being better at fighting the virus than adults, many schoolchildren have the disease induced anti-bodies too. “In the sero survey carried out a while ago, 61.5 per cent children in the age group of 10-17 years were found to have anti-bodies against Covid-19,” Bairwa said.Even as the overall situation appears quite comfortable, the death of the 13-year-old has caused some anxiety. “It is really unfortunate that the virus took away the child. On the basis of the reports we are getting from the ground, proper medical assistance was not sought until very late in her case,” he maintained. “Even if children are not getting seriously ill, parents can’t get complacent. In case the child complains of difficulty in breathing or the oxygen level dips, proper medical care must be sought without wasting any time,” the director stated.While the health officials are not hitting the panic button yet, they have started getting a little worried. “Apart from this death, we are noticing a gradual increase in the number of cases among schoolchildren. That’s worrying for us. Nevertheless, we will wait and watch for a few more days to reach some conclusion,” Bairwa said.At the moment, Hamirpur, Kangra and Una districts are giving some jitters to the health officials. “The positivity rate is rising in these districts. We are anyway keeping a close watch on the situation,” Bairwa added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/only-one-out-of-418-covid-ve-pupils-needed-hospitalisation-after-himachal-schools-reopened-328392
23-10-2021||Ambika Sharma||Solan: e-platform tie-ups boost product sales of SHGs||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 22Collaborations with e-commerce platforms such as Flipkart and Amazon has helped self-help groups (SHGs) fetch orders from all across the country for 268 products launched under the brand name ‘Son Chiraiya’ by the Department of Urban Development.The initiative has brought 176 orders worth Rs 1.3 lakh for the SHGs from all over the country. More than 3,500 SHGs are functional in urban local bodies (ULBs) of the state and most of them are engaged in making a variety of products, such as baskets, pen stands, file covers, jams, jellies, woollens, etc.“Usually, these women toiled hard to sell their produce in the local markets. Despite making rigorous, the gains were limited,” Director, Urban Development, Manmohan Sharma said.“Officials of our department registered the SHGs for the GST and opened current accounts for online sales.” The payments were credited directly to the bank accounts of the SHGs, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-e-platform-tie-ups-boost-product-sales-of-shgs-328393
23-10-2021||---||Legacy waste disposal picks up pace in urban local bodies||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 22The Urban Development Department (UDD) has started to scientifically dispose of legacy waste accumulated over the years in the jurisdiction of urban local bodies (ULBs).18 sites clearedAccording to the assessment of the Urban Development Department in 2019, 27 sites were identified in as many ULBs where legacy waste is accumulated. Out of these, 18 sites have been cleared of the waste. — Manmohan Sharma, Director, Urban Development DepartmentThe lack of finances, technical capacity and land availability have been major impediments in the scientific disposal of municipal solid waste.“According to the assessment of the department in 2019, as many as 27 sites were identified in as many ULBs where legacy waste is accumulated in the state. A strategy has been devised for its scientific disposal, including the use of machines, manual clearing and outsouring of work,” said Manmohan Sharma, Director, UDD.Various measures have been initiated to clear this waste, including the installation of 10 trommel machines in nine ULBs. In others where the waste is less, manual clearing is being done using wire mesh. The excavated and stabilised waste is spread over wire mesh and screened. The soil-like material is used as manure and it is either given to local residents or used by the ULBs in its own parks. Out of the remaining material, the recyclables are extracted using labour and sold to scrap dealers while the dry material is baled and sent to cement plants for co-processing.“Out of the 27 sites, 18 have been cleared of the waste till now. There are four sites having higher quantity of legacy waste and these have been outsourced for proper disposal,” said Sharma.These ULBs are Manali, Kullu, Mandi and Dharamsala, where 40,000 tonnes, 18,000 tonnes, 45,000 tonnes and 40,000 tonnes of legacy waste, respectively, is supposed to be disposed of. “The work has been assigned to private agencies after inviting tenders. The agreement with the selected bidder at Mandi, Kullu and Manali has been executed while the signing of agreement for the Dharamsala ULB is in progress. As per the agreement, all four sites will be cleared within 18 months”.A very foul stench emanates from the waste accumulated at the Salogra dumping site on the Solan-Shimla national highway. Residents have been complaining of its ill-effects like percolation into water bodies, besides air pollution, which has made the area unhealthy for habitation. The Solan Municipal Corporation recently outsourced the site and it is expected that the waste will be cleared soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/legacy-waste-disposal-picks-up-pace-in-urban-local-bodies-328395
23-10-2021||---||Justice Sureshwar Thakur given farewell||Legal CorrespondentShimla, October 22A full address was held at the Himachal Pradesh High Court today to bid farewell to Justice Sureshwar Thakur, who has been transferred to the Punjab and Haryana High Court at Chandigarh.Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq said Justice Thakur had a warm and affectionate nature and a genuine concern for people. His cordial behaviour and humility endeared him to the members of the Bar and Bench and his presence would be missed at the HP High Court.Justice Thakur said he felt extremely proud to have been a part of the high court here, as it had robustly stood up to the clarion call of delivering speedy and value-based justice. He motivated the young members of the legal profession and advised them to acquire more mature and cutting edge skills by learning from their seniors. He asked the seniors to impart the finer nuances of the profession and court craft to their juniors. He also asked the advocates to harness their skills not only towards the old civil, criminal and revenue laws but also adapt to the recently enacted taxation and corporate laws and the developing laws relating to insolvency, bankruptcy, arbitrations, etc.Justice Sabina, Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, Justice Vivek Singh Thakur, Justice Ajay Mohan Goel, Justice Sandeep Sharma, and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua attended the full court reference. Justice PS Rana, Chairperson, HP State Human Rights Commission, and former judges of the High Court were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/justice-sureshwar-thakur-given-farewell-328396
23-10-2021||Ambika Sharma||High fuel price key issue for transporters in Arki||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 22The rising price of diesel, poor roads and presence of administrators in various transport societies are the key issues for 7,000 truckers operating in the Arki Assembly segment.They cater to major cement manufacturing units — Ambuja Cements Limited and Ultratech — located in Darlaghat. Comprising a good chunk of voters, the truckers can prove to be decisive in the Arki bypoll.A truck operator says, “Issues like the rising costs of diesel, BS VI vehicles, insurance, tyres and other wares are not being addressed. The state government should plead with the Centre to regulate the prices”.“The price of BS VI vehicles has increased up to 33 per cent while the price of diesel has touched nearly Rs 100 in several states. The toll in various states contributes nearly five per cent to the overall cost. Besides, the costs of insurance, tyres and other wares have risen,” says Naresh, another trucker.They add that it is not easy to seek a commensurate hike in the freight vis-à-vis the hike in input costs from the companies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/high-fuel-price-key-issue-for-transporters-in-arki-328397
23-10-2021||---||Himachal Governor’s Secretariat converted into e-office||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 22The Governor’s Secretariat has been fully converted into an e-office from today.The working of the secretariat has been made completely online, as per the instructions of Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar. Secretary to Governor Priyatu Mandal apprised Arlekar of the e-office software and said it would help in bringing transparency along with speed.A spokesperson for Raj Bhavan said the work of the e-office was started in August and completed on Friday. He said the e-office had been developed by NIC, New Delhi, and implemented by the Department of Information Technology.He said all officers and employees had been trained to use the system by the IT Department. So far, about 500 files have been scanned and made available online, in which about 82,000 papers have been scanned. He said according to an estimate, this would save about 190 paper rims in a year. The spokesperson said that e-files could be easily searched and retrieved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-governors-secretariat-converted-into-e-office-328398
23-10-2021||---||59 tourists evacuated from Batal in Spiti||Tribune News ServiceMandi, October 22As many as 59 tourists were evacuated by the district administration from Batal and taken to Kaza in Lahaul and Spiti today. These tourists were stuck at Batal since October 17, when snowfall blocked the Gramphu-Kaza highway in the region.Lahaul and Spiti DC Neeraj Kumar said, “Yesterday we got information that 80 persons were stuck at Batal. Of these, 59 were tourists, while 21 are labourers working at a dhaba in Batal”.He said that all 59 stranded tourists were rescued today and moved out of the area to Kaza from where they will be able to move their respective destinations.The DC stated that in view of public safety due to inclement weather warning, the traffic movement towards Leh has been restricted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/59-tourists-evacuated-from-batal-in-spiti-328399
23-10-2021||---||28 election code violation plaints disposed of in Himachal Pradesh||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 22Chief Electoral Officer, Himachal Pradesh, C Paulrasu yesterday said that in view of the four byelections, strict instructions had been given to ensure compliance of the model code of conduct.He said that the District Election Officers and the departments concerned had been directed to take necessary action for the timely and speedy disposal of complaints related to violation of the code during the byelections.Till now, 28 of 47 complaints received with the Election Department had been disposed of and the remaining were being processed at various levels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/28-election-code-violation-plaints-disposed-of-in-himachal-pradesh-328400
23-10-2021||Hamirpur||Rs 51-cr loans given in Hamirpur||As many as 909 beneficiaries were awarded loan cheques of Rs. 51.32 crore by various banks at a function organised by the district administration here today. Deputy Commissioner Devashweta Banik said banks had started numerous schemes to encourage entrepreneurship. She said people should come forward to make the best use of the schemes. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-51-cr-loans-given-in-hamirpur-328401
23-10-2021||Shoolini University celebrated World Food Day with the theme “Our actions are our future”. Dean Prof YS Negi said the theme suggested a holistic approach towards the problem of global hunger||World Food Day celebrated at Shoolini University||Victory torch received at St EdwardsTo commemorate 50 years of India’s victory over Pakistan in 1971, PM Narendra Modi lit four victory torches on December 16, 2020, which are being taken across the country. The victory torch arrived in Shimla on October 18. NCC Shimla organised a programme at St Edwards School where the torch was received and hoisted. Chief Guest Brig Manoj Khandurie laid a wreath on the torch as a mark of respect to the fallen soldiers. A cultural programme was also held on the occasion.floriculturist Priyanka felicitatedPriyanka Thakur, principal floriculturist at the Regional Horticulture Research and Training Station (RHRTS), Dhaulakuan, of Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, has bagged the Scientific Educational Research Society's Women Scientist Award during the 2nd International e-conference on Advances in Agriculture Technology and Allied Sciences, organised by Graphic Era University, Dehradun. She has worked on native flowers and promoting dahlia cultivation in the region. She also delivered an invited lecture on the topic, ‘Mesmerising Native flowers of Western Himalayas: Propagation, digitisation and ornamental use’.Counselling rescheduledCounselling of candidates who have applied for admission under the cultural quota in various departments of HPU has been rescheduled for October 25. The counselling would start at 10:30 am at the dean's office. The candidates should reach the office at the given time with the required documents.Follow Covid-19 protocolThe Director, Higher Education, has asked all schools to ensure that Covid-19 preventive measures are taken care of. He has instructed that thermal scanning of all students must be done and standard protocols, like wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and using santisers, must be followed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/world-food-day-celebrated-at-shoolini-university-328402
23-10-2021||A few machines have been installed across Shimla in which people were supposed to insert used plastic bottles and cans and get some rewards. However||No rewards from plastic collection machines in Shimla||Amit, ShimlaStray animals cause troubleStray dogs and donkeys are causing a lot of inconvenience to the people in Chamba town. Even the presence of monkeys, whose number has increased in the recent past, is a serious threat to the locals, especially the children and the aged. In many incidents, stray dogs have injured residents in the town. There is a dire need to immunise the stray animals. — Ashwani Bhardwaj, ChambaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-rewards-from-plastic-collection-machines-in-shimla-328403
23-10-2021||Mandi||Hit by four-laning, Mandi farmers demand fair relief||A week ahead of the Mandi Lok Sabha bypoll, farmers affected by four-laning projects have taken to the streets demanding implementation of the Land Acquisition Act, 2013, for fair compensation and rehabilitation in lieu of the land they had lost to the projects.At a protest march here today, the farmers accused the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the state government of providing poor compensation for the land lost to four-laning. A number of affected persons gathered here under the banner of the Bhumi Adhigrahan Prabhavit Manch, which has been struggling to protect the rights of the affected farmers.Manch convener Joginder Walia said, “We have been forced to protest due to poor response of the state government. The affected people have been waiting to get fair compensation for their land and rehabilitation, but the state government has been silent over the issue for the past four years.”“The people have lost their fertile land to the four-laned project between Kiratpur-Manali and Kalka-Solan, while residential and commercial buildings have also been destroyed. The compensation is quite less,” he added.“During the Assembly polls, the BJP had promised to sort it on priority, if voted to power, but now the government has been ignoring our demands,” he remarked. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hit-by-four-laning-mandi-farmers-demand-fair-relief-328171
