25-10-2021||Shimla||Over 550 students test Covid-positive in Himachal in a month||Over 550 students have tested positive for COVID-19 in Himachal Pradesh in one month, a state health official said on Monday.As many as 556 students of various government and private schools have tested positive from September 27 to October 25, he added.The highest, 196 students, were found corona-positive in Hamirpur district, followed by 173 in Kangra, 104 in Una, 26 in Mandi, 22 in Shimla, 14 in Kinnaur, eight in Kullu, seven in Bilaspur, four in Solan and one each in Chamba and Lahaul-Spiti districts, he added.Of 196 students in Hamirpur district, 35 students of Navodaya Vidyalaya at Doongri were found Covid-positive on October 8, while 15 and 12 students of the Government Senior Secondary School in Bara were tested positive for the viral disease on October 23 and 24 respectively.As many as 250 of the total 556 students are still suffering from the coronavirus infection, while 305 students have recovered from it, he added.As per the Health Department data, there are a total of 1,415 active Covid cases in Himachal Pradesh as of Monday afternoon. So, over one-sixth of the total active cases in the hill state are those of students.    Besides, a 13-year-old girl student succumbed to the infection in Hamirpur district a few days ago, he added.She fell ill and got a throat infection soon after attending a marriage function with her family, he said, adding she later tested corona positive and subsequently died.The Health Department spokesperson urged the residents of the hill state in general and the students in particular to follow the COVID protocol of maintaining social distance, wearing masks and cleaning hands at regular intervals as the infection was not yet over.The Covid tally in the hill state has reached 2,22,644 with six fresh cases reported till Monday afternoon. Of them, 3,720 succumbed to the virus while 2,17,492 have recovered from the infection. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/over-550-students-test-covid-positive-in-himachal-in-a-month-329448
25-10-2021||---||3 tourists from Goa, Maharashtra die in Himachal as trekking expedition faces inclement weather||Shimla, October 25Three tourists from Goa and Maharashtra died when a 13-member group on a trekking expedition from Rohru to Sangla  in Kinnaur got caught in inclement weather conditions, on Sunday.The remaining 10 members of the group are being escorted to Karcham in Kinnaur by the local police.The group had started the trek from Janglik in Rohru for Sangla in Kinnaur when they got caught in the bad weather.Kinnaur Deputy Commissioner Apoorva Devgan said efforts are on by the ITBP personnel to bring the bodies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-tourists-from-goa-maharashtra-die-in-himachal-as-trekking-expedition-faces-inclement-weather-329390
25-10-2021||---||3 Maharashtra tourists die on Sangla trek in Himachal Pradesh after heavy snow||Shimla, October 24Three of the 13 tourists, who were on their way from Rohru to Sangla, died on the way due to heavy snow and cold wave conditions while operation is on to rescue the remaining 10. The victims were identified as Deepak Narayan (58), Rajender Pathak (65) and Ashok Madhukar (64), all from Mumbai.A police team has been sent to Barua Kanda where the trekkers have been stranded. They will be brought to Karcham tonight, said Deputy Commissioner, Kinnaur, Apoorv Devgan, adding that the ITBP team was bringing the bodies.He appealed to the tourists visiting Kinnaur to avoid visiting higher reaches in bad weather conditions and said rain led to shooting stones at some stretches and the residents as well as tourists should venture out only if necessary.Meanwhile, the post-mortem on the bodies of two trekkers from Uttarkashi, which were brought to Sangla by an ITBP team, was conducted. One body was sent to Uttarkashi by road while the other body of the trekker was sent to Shimla where family members of the deceased would collect it.As many as 11 trekkers had gone missing on their way from Uttarkashi in Uttrakhand to Chitkul in Himachal. Till now, seven persons died and two were rescued while the search for two missing trekkers is going on.The seven trekkers were identified as Anita Rawat (38) from Delhi and Tanmay Tiwari (30), Vikas Makal (33), Saurabh Ghosh (34), Richard Mandal (31), Subhayan Das (28), all from West Bengal, and Upender (22) from Uttrakashi.Temperature plummets in Lahaul SpitiMandi: Fresh snowfall occurred in Lahaul Spiti on Sunday, plummeting the temperature drastically in the region. The high hills have been covered under the thick blanket of snow. The Baralacha Pass on the Manali-Leh highway and the Kunzum Pass on the Gramphu-Kaza highway were blocked. The DC urged the tourists to avoid venturing in high-altitude areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-maharashtra-tourists-die-on-sangla-trek-in-himachal-pradesh-after-heavy-snow-329205
25-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Heavy rain, thunderstorm lash Una||Una, October 24Incessant rainfall, accompanied by thunderstorm, lashed parts of Una district on Saturday night and continued till Sunday evening, disrupting normal life.A total of 69.6-mm precipitation was recorded by the district meteorological department.The rainfall brought down the mercury in the district, which lies in the plains.The maximum and minimum temperatures recorded by the Met office in Una was 20.1°C and 13.7°C, respectively, on Sunday.Standing maize and potato crop suffered reversals, while there were reports of fruit plantations such as papaya getting damaged in some areas of the district.The Met has predicted heavy rainfall two days later, leaving farmers, particularly potato cultivators, worried because the crop has already suffered damage due to untimely rains, just after the sowing season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heavy-rain-thunderstorm-lash-una-329206
25-10-2021||Horse ride is one of the highlights of the Mall Road. Many a time||Horses defecate on The Mall road, Shimla||Repair Streetlights M ajority of the streetlights are not functional in the lower Nav Bahar area in Shimla. People, who return late from work, face inconvenience in the dark. Also, a forest is close to the area and wild animals such as leopard could easily enter the locality in the dark. The authorities concerned should fix the lights at the earliest. — Raman, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/horses-defecate-on-the-mall-road-shimla-329207
25-10-2021||Shimla||Fresh snowfall in higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh||Thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds lashed mid and lower hills of Himachal while the high-altitude areas had another spell of fresh snowfall, creating cold wave conditions.Intermittent heavy showers lashed Shimla and other mid and lower hills, foggy conditions prevailed in the region, reducing visibility to a few yards and disrupting vehicular traffic.Rain occurred at many places and snowfall at isolated places over higher reaches in the last 24 hours. The maximum temperature dropped by two to five degree and stayed five to 14 degree below normal. Gondla received 18 cm of snow followed by Hansa 10 cm and Keylong 3 cm.Dalhousie with 77 mm of rain was the wettest followed by Kheri 57 mm, Una 69 mm, Bangana 50 mm, Nagrota Surian 41 mm, Guler 39 mm, Mehre 37 mm, Dehra Gopipur 34 mm, Solan 32 mm, Jhandutta 30 mm, Amb 28 mm, Gaggal 24 mm, Dharamshla 20 mm, Manali 15 mm, Kasauli 14 mm, and Shimla and Bharmaur 10 mm each.The mercury dipped to minus 0.7°C at Keylong while Una was the hottest with a high of 20.7°C, 10°C below normal. So far, 69 persons have died during post-monsoon season from October 8 to 24. The Met office has predicted rain and thunderstorm in mid and higher hills and rain and snow at isolated place in the higher reaches tomorrow and dry weather from October 26 to 28. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fresh-snowfall-in-higher-reaches-of-himachal-pradesh-329208
25-10-2021||Lalit Mohan||Rainwater damages crops in Kangra mandis||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, October 24Untimely rain that lashed the region yesterday damaged paddy produce. Tardy procurement in three mandis, set up by the FCI in Fatehpur, Indora and Mand areas, is augmenting the problems of farmers.Officials are saying that they will not relax the procurement norms. Pawan Kumar, a farmer, said, “I had brought his paddy to the Fatehpur mandi three days ago but it was not procured. Now, it has been drenched and they say they will not buy it. My entire labour of six months has been spoiled,” he said.Swaran Singh, a farmer from Dug panchayat in Fatehpur, alleged that there was no labour in FCI mandis. Farmers are being asked to clean the crop of straw and then fill it in gunny bags before it was procured by the FCI. There was a demand for 50 to 60 labourers but only four were present.It is for the first time that paddy is being procured in border areas of Kangra district. Earlier, farmers of the area used to sell their crop in the mandis of Punjab. Since the mandis have been set up for the first time, there are no service providers or arhtiyas in mandis who clean the crop and fill it in gunny bags for a commission of 2 per cent.The farmers are being asked to do the workthat is causing delayin procurement.FCI quality control inspector present in the Fatehpur mandi Nand Kishore said the government was allowing to procure of paddy with a maximum moisture content of 17 per cent and 5 per cent damage. He admitted the shortage of labour in the area and said farmers would have to clean and fill their crop in gunny bags. Till date 167 metric tonne of paddy had been procured in Kangra district and Rs 32.78 lakh had been made to farmers. There is a target of procuring 1,300 MT.Sources said not even 10 per cent of the paddy had been lifted by the FCI.The fact that farmers of the border areas of Kangra district are not being allowed to take their crops to mandis in Punjab has become an election issue in Fatehpur byelection. The farmers in Mand were not allowing BJP leaders to canvass in their areas due to the reason.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rainwater-damages-crops-in-kangra-mandis-329209
25-10-2021||---||Dhauladhars receive heavy snow||Dharamsala, October 24The Dhauladhar mountain ranges received heavy snowfall today. It was the first snowfall after which the ranges overlooking the Kangra valley wore the white mantle.The snowfall brought a sharp dip in the temperatures in the region, signalling the onset of winters. Most of the mountain passes here, including Thumbsar pass into the Bara Bhangal valley and Indrahar pass, received heavy snow.Besides, the lower areas received heavy rainfall, which damaged paddy crop in lower areas of the district, where it is still being harvested.Stakeholders of the tourism industry are enthusiastic about change in weather, expecting that the snow-clad mountain ranges would attract tourists in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dhauladhars-receive-heavy-snow-329210
25-10-2021||Dharamsala||Kangra bank launches QR code facility||The Kangra Central Cooperative Bank has started QR code facility for its customers. This facility is being provided through Airtel Payments Bank and PhonePe, for which guidelines have been issued by the bank headquarters to all branches.Vinay Kumar, managing director of the bank, said the bank was ready to take a leap into digital banking to facilitate transactions for thousands of small traders, hoteliers, cooperative societies and other businessmen associated with the bank.He said the bank was all set to provide new-age digital banking solutions such as BHIM-UPI within two to three months. The agency selected to carry out this project of the bank has been issued the necessary guidelines to complete the task.All ATMs of the bank are also being upgraded in view of the new security guidelines of the RBI, and soon customers will be able to withdraw money as before. In far-flung areas, including Lahaul-Spiti, Kangra Bank’s ATMs were the main source of withdrawing money for the traders and tourists, and the managing director assured of restoring them soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangra-bank-launches-qr-code-facility-329211
25-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Congress leaderless at Centre and in state, says Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur||Kullu, October 24Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said the Congress was losing ground in the country. Addressing a public meeting during campaigning for the Mandi parliamentary constituency BJP candidate Brigadier Khushal Thakur (retd) at Shawad in Anni Assembly constituency today, he said that the people now know the truth that the Congress neither has a leader, nor leadership.The Chief Minister appreciated and thanked the women present at the venue saying that despite Karva Chauth fasting and adverse weather, their number was more. He also thanked other people present at the meeting.Thakur also attacked the Congress on the issue of doing politics on the Army. He said, “We agree that the army should not be mixed with politics but the remarks by Congress leaders about the brave soldiers will not be tolerated.”The Chief Minister said that the people of Anni were demanding an SDM office for decades and the BJP had fulfilled this demand. He added, “We will take care of your needs in future as well.” The Chief Minister appealed to the people to send the BJP candidate to New Delhi after voting for him and ensuring his win.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-leaderless-at-centre-and-in-state-says-himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-329212
25-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Man, 3 girls held with drugs||Nurpur, October 24Following a tip-off, the Kangra narcotic cell team led by its in charge Hameed Mohammad raided the house of an alleged drug peddler at Chhani-Beli under Damtal police station jurisdiction last evening, and seized 11-gram heroin and cash to the tune of Rs 51,600.According to the police, the accused, identified as Ashwani Kumar, alias Dara, along with his three daughters Pooja, Rajji and Kajal, were involved in drug peddling for the past some time and the district narcotic cell had concrete information.After recovering synthetic drugs and cash from their possession, all four accused were arrested by the narcotic cell.Surinder Sharma, Sub Divisional Police Officer, Nurpur, said a case under Section 21-29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act had been registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-3-girls-held-with-drugs-329213
25-10-2021||Shimla||69 new Covid cases, 2 deaths in Himachal||A total of 69 new Covid cases were reported today, while two persons succumbed to the virus in the past 24 hours. With this, the number of positive cases rose to 2,22,638, with 1,496 active cases. The two deaths were reported from Kangra and Mandi districts, taking the fatality figure to 3,720. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/69-new-covid-cases-2-deaths-in-himachal-329214
25-10-2021||Our Correspondent||‘Nazrana’ assured to deities at Cong’s instance: Pratibha Singh||Kullu, October 24Congress candidate from Mandi parliamentary constituency Pratibha Singh said the BJP had misled the people to gain power and now the people had become aware of their rhetoric and false promises.Addressing meetings at various places in Banjar Assembly constituency today, she said people were made to believe that there would be drastic development after the BJP came to power but the state and Central government failed in all spheres. She said that all sections of the society were frustrated and were feeling cheated by the BJP.She said the ‘nazrana’ to deities during Kullu Dasehra Festival was denied by the state government on the excuse of coronavirus. The government assured honorarium to the deities after the Congress built pressure on the issue.The former MP alleged that the BJP raised the issue of regionalism to divide and rule. “BJP leaders stated that development was done by Congress in the upper regions and the lower regions were left out. Former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh had ensured equal development of the entire state,” she said.She said that people were aware who had actually carried out development and those who just raise non-issues to befool the masses. She said, “The BJP was raising the issue of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya while they were silent on the condition of temples in the state. Raja Saheb had great faith in deities and he had carried out renovation of many dilapidated and ancient temples of Himachal.”Singh said the interests of apple orchardists were compromised to benefit big corporate houses. The government had no strategy to control rising inflation and unemployment.The leader said she had carried out various development works in the entire Mandi parliamentary constituency during her tenure as an MP. She would further strive for development of the region and raise the voice of the people firmly if elected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nazrana-assured-to-deities-at-congs-instance-pratibha-singh-329215
25-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Fatehpur byelection: Code violation plaints to be disposed of in 100 minutes||NURPUR, OCTOBER 24The Election Commission’s (EC) general observer for Fatehpur byelection Dr Pratibha Singh said that the EC had launched a mobile application for uploading complaints, if any, against violation of model code of conduct in the byelection. She said the EC would address these complaints within 100 minutes to ensure a free and fair election process.The observer said the people could also file their complaints on toll free number 1800-180-8014 before the district monitoring cell of the EC. She said the EC was keeping a close vigil on any temptation or allurement if extended to influence the electorate. If such a complaint was filed and found true the accused person would undergo one year’s imprisonment or fine or both.“To offer or accept bribes for exercising one’s franchise is a crime and the EC has constituted a flying squad to check violations,” she revealed. She said the EC had directed the Excise and Taxation Department to submit daily reports of liquor sale and seizure of illicit liquor across Kangra district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fatehpur-byelection-code-violation-plaints-to-be-disposed-of-in-100-minutes-329216
25-10-2021||UNA||Two scrub typhus cases reported in Una||Dr Raman Kumar Sharma, Chief Medical Officer (CMO), Una, today said that two persons with scrub typhus bacterial infection had been reported in the district. The patients were being given free treatment at government health institutions.The CMO said the district Health Department had already issued an advisory to the public regarding the symptoms of scrub typhus, caused by the bite of infected mites that live on rats. The ongoing climatic conditions were conducive for the spread of the disease and people needed to take care, he stated.Fever, headache its symptomsDr Sharma said the symptoms included headache, chilling sensation and fever, adding that these get severe as the infection increases and nodules could form on the neck, in arm pits and groin area. If untreated, the infection could even lead to failure of vital organs. He advised people having such symptoms to report to the nearest government health facility for free diagnosis and treatmentMeanwhile, the CMO informed that Covid vaccination was continuing in the district and 4,31,420 first dose vaccines and 2,70,011 second dose vaccines had been administered in Una district. As per the latest report received from the Tanda medical college, 21 positive cases were reported on Saturday, out of the total 1,432 samples tested, and the Covid positivity rate in the district was 1.45 per cent. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-scrub-typhus-cases-reported-in-una-329217
25-10-2021||---||Congress will win all 4 seats in Himachal bypolls: Kaul Singh||Mandi, October 24Senior Congress leader Kaul Singh Thakur claimed that the Congress would win all four seats (three assemblies and one parliamentary) in byelections.“Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur is in dilemma due to huge response from the people in favour of Congress candidates in these respective constituencies. Now, the CM is addressing small meetings in streets to woo voters. If the CM had done development works in the past four years, he would not have had to address small meetings in streets,” Kaul Singh said.“Fearing defeat, the CM has now involved senior BJP leader and former CM Shanta Kumar in the election campaign in Mandi to attract voters. The former CM had announced his retirement from active politics,” he said.Targeting the BJP, Kaul Singh said the party always played politics in the name of Indian Army, which should not happen.“The state government failed miserably to ensure the progress of the state. In Mandi district, of the 10 Assembly constituencies, development took place only in two Assembly constituencies, Seraj and Dharampur, the home constituencies of CM and Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-will-win-all-4-seats-in-himachal-bypolls-kaul-singh-329218
25-10-2021||---||Anand Sharma  remembers Himachal only during poll: BJP||Shimla, October 24The state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) today lashed out at Congress Rajya Sabha member Anand Sharma for criticising the Modi government and remembering Himachal only during the elections.While speaking to mediapersons here today, BJP chief spokesman Randhir Sharma said Anand Sharma, who is a Rajya Sabha member from the state, comes for ‘Himachal darshan’ like a tourist during the elections and has made no contribution to the state’s development during his four terms as Member of Parliament.“Where were you when the state was battling the pandemic,” Randhir questioned him.“Anand Sharma needs to get political tuitions before making statements against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Central Government,” he said, maintaining that holding the Modi government responsible for the inflation was untenable.Randhir reminded Anand Sharma that when he was a minister at the Centre, he used to blame international reasons for the rising prices but “When the entire world is witnessing inflation due to Covid, Anand Sharma is busy misleading the people”.The spokesman said the Congress remained in power for more than 50 years but did not even think about the poor. During the previous UPA government, inflation was at its peak and the Congress leaders indulged in corruption. But during the past seven years of the Modi government, not even a single scam had surfaced, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anand-sharma-remembers-himachal-only-during-poll-bjp-329220
25-10-2021||Ambika Sharma||Himachal set for truck operators’ union poll, addl force called||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 24Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Nalagarh has sought deployment of additional police force for peaceful conduct of elections of Nalagarh Truck Operators Union (NTOU) tomorrow.Being Asia’s biggest transport union, about 4,000-5,000 operators are slated to converge at Nalagarh to convene the union’s general house meeting. The new body comprising president, vice-president, cashier, etc would be elected at the meeting.“The general house meeting of the NTOU is a sensitive issue and in order to ensure that there is no law and order problem, a request has been made to the Superintendent of Police, Baddi to provide an additional battalion,” informed SDM Nalagarh Mahendra Pal.Several contentious issues are likely to figure in the meeting which include an agreement signed between the union and the Baddi Barotiwala Nalagarh Industries Association in July this year. Freight had been slashed as per a unanimous agreement arrived between the industry association and the truck union.Anticipating trouble by some miscreants, the union has issued identity cards to its members. Only those having these cards would be permitted to enter the meeting hall at union’s Nalagarh office where the meeting would take place tomorrow.In a bid to ensure peaceful conduct of the meeting, the union has requested police to permit entry of only those members who carry identity cards. With force from the battalions having been stationed at various constituencies where by-elections are being held, the police from various police stations would be rushed in for the meeting at Nalagarh informed a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-set-for-truck-operators-union-poll-addl-force-called-329221
25-10-2021||A national seminar||Seminar on sustainable development held at Government College, Sanjauli||Parent Student Forum threatens stirThe Parent Student Forum accused the Auckland House School of putting the parents under pressure for depositing arbitrary fee. The forum has alleged the school was not releasing the report cards of the students, who had not deposited the arbitrary fee. It said if no action was taken against the school for torturing the students and parents, the forum would sit on a hunger strike outside the office of the Education Directorate.Discussion on Nobel LaureateShoolini University organised a discussion on Tanzanian-born writer Abdulrazak Gurnah, who has been honoured with the 2021 Nobel Prize in Literature. Assistant Professor Purnima Bali began the session by quoting from the book ‘Paradise’ - “Respect yourself and others will come to respect you.”Dr Sakshi Sundaram introduced the writer. Dr Navreet Sahi elaborated on his works, while Samrat Sharma talked about the two themes that runs parallel, sense of belonging and longing linked to each other. Rajesh Williams and Hemant Sharma dwelt upon the language of Gurnah and how he had dealt with the African lives during colonialism in his works.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/seminar-on-sustainable-development-held-at-government-college-sanjauli-329222
25-10-2021||The BJP is in catch-22 situation in the Jubbal Kotkhai constituency after the mandal president and office-bearers collectively resigned and openly came in support of rebel Chetan Bragta. The party is yet to decide whether to constitute the mandal or campaign for its candidate. The BJP dubs the Congress as leaderless and issueless but in Jubbal Kotkhai||BJP in catch-22 situation in Jubbal Kotkhai constituency||Fundraising bluesPolitical leaders are facing problems in raising funds for the byelections. Sources said the mining industry that had faced raids and strict measures in the past few months had turned its back on politicians. The political leaders are running here and there to meet the election expenses.Revenue generator or loserA department, mandated to generate revenue, appears to have become synonymous with causing loss to the state exchequer. While little action is taken against the erring officials, the silence of senior officials is intriguing. An official, who has been booked for cheating in Sirmaur district, continues to stay put in his position, much to the surprise of the agency probing the case. Even a recommendation to transfer the officer in an earlier case had been conveniently overlooked. The lack of action has tarnished the image of the department.Free from sorrowsThe planting of an ashoka tree on the premises of the Himachal Hospital of Mental Health and Rehabilitation in Shimla by Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar on World Mental Health Day is a welcome move. Ashoka (means free from sorrows) plant will have a psychological effect and give hope to patients as well as the hospital staff to restore the mental well-being of the people, said a doctor, adding that with depression taking its toll on people, every house needs an ashoka tree.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-in-catch-22-situation-in-jubbal-kotkhai-constituency-329224
25-10-2021||Palampur||Power cut in Palampur||Palampur and its adjoining areas have been facing frequent electricity failure, following unannounced power cuts. Suburbs of Palampur comprising 10 municipal wards did not have power supply for more than nine hours today.Power failure has affected normal life in Palampur. Residents of Ghuggar, Aima, Sughar and Bindravan Choki areas today lodged a protest and threated to take action if the power supply system was not improved.Shortage of field staff and poor infrastructure has affected the power supply system in Palampur and its adjoining areas. Rural areas are worst-affected, where there is no one to attend to complaints after 5 pm.At present, over 60 per cent posts of the field staff comprising linesmen, supervisor, electricians, foremen and other technical workers have been lying vacant for the past five years. Many employees have retired, but no new recruitment has been made.Surinder Kumar, Executive Engineer, HPSEB, Palampur, said snags in power supply lines had led to crisis. Efforts were on to overhaul the junked system and the situation would improve soon, he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/power-cut-in-palampur-329225
25-10-2021||---||In 22% Himachal Pradesh mishaps, vehicles go off road||Bhanu P LohumiTribune News ServiceShimla, October 24In Himachal this year, almost 98 per cent of the accidents that involved vehicles plunging down hillside occurred in rural areas while only 2 per cent of such road mishaps took place in urban areas.From January 1 till October 15, 817 persons died and 2,617 were injured in 1,862 road accidents. Out of these, 418 accidents (22.4%) were caused due to vehicles veering off the road and rolling down steep hills, claiming 392 lives and injuring 672 persons.Of the 418 accidents, 409 took place in rural areas where the condition of roads and safety infrastructure is poor and about 26 per cent (108) of the accidents occurred in evening hours (6 to 10 pm).High speed and dangerous driving on narrow roads with blind curves and the absence of crash Lahaul-Spiti (13 each), Hamirpur and Una (seven each) and Baddi (5). The maximum (168) are attributed to high speed, 85 to dangerous driving, 60 to absence of parapets and crash barriers, 59 to carelessness while negotiating the curves, 13 to consumption of drugs/alcohol, nine each to uneven roads and blind curves and six to slippery road conditions.In urban areas, seven accidents were in Shimla, besides one each in Hamirpur and Kangra. Cars were involved in about 50 per cent of the accidents.District-wise accident mapping, analysis and micro-management have helped the police identify the mishap-prone stretches and reasons for the accidents, said DGP Sanjay Kundu.The average number of accidents has come down from 3,100 during 2015-18 to around 2,300 since 2019 due to a proactive approach to the problem, he added.The DGP said some of the other safety measures adopted include doppler radars to check speed and deployment of traffic police at vulnerable points. The PWD has also been asked to fix the black spots and install crash barriers at vulnerable stretches.barriers have been identified as the main reasons for the fatal mishaps.The highest number of such accidents were reported in Shimla (133) followed by Mandi (52), Sirmaur (47), Chamba (45), Kullu (30), Solan (29), Kinnaur (20), Bilaspur (17), Kangra andcontinued on page 9||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-22-himachal-pradesh-mishaps-vehicles-go-off-road-329123
