26-10-2021||---||Delhi resident found shot dead in taxi in Himachal’s Solan||Solan, October 26A Delhi resident was found shot dead in a white Ertiga taxi found parked on the Kandaghat-Shimla national highway near Dhayarighat on Tuesday morning.His blood-stained body in the parked taxi was noticed by the passersby, who informed the Kandaghat police.Additional SP Solan Ashok Verma said the deceased had been identified as Vachit Khan, a resident of Delhi.A team of forensic science experts from State Forensic Science Lab, Junga, was requisitioned on the spot to collect evidence. Further probe is under way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/delhi-resident-found-shot-dead-in-taxi-in-himachals-solan-329921
26-10-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal Bypoll: Against hydel project, Kinnaur panchayat to boycott LS bypoll||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 25Armed with the stamp of approval from its local deity “Patharo”, the residents of Rarang panchayat in Kinnaur have decided to boycott the Mandi Lok Sabha by-poll in protest against the setting up of 804 MW Jangi Thopan hydel project. They termed it as environmentally degrading.Get deity's blessingsThe fact that our deity ‘Patharo’ has given his consent to the decision to boycott the by-poll, now nobody from Rarang Panchayat will cast his or her vote as people have profound faith in the Devta. — Chering Gyocha, Secy, Rarang Sangharsh SamitiThough the clamour for the boycott of the bypoll has been getting louder, now, with the local deity “Patharo” giving its sanction today, the villagers are likely to boycott polling en-bloc. The tribal Assembly segment of Kinnaur falls under the Mandi Lok Sabha constituency and there are about 1,000 registered voters in the Rarang Assembly segment.The villagers from Rarang, Khab, Thopan and Khadar have been up in arms against the coming up of the hydel-project. They have been demanding that it should be scrapped as it will be environmentally degrading for the Rarang panchayat. The project has been allotted to Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam Ltd, though the work is yet to begin. “The fact that our deity “Patharo” has given hisconsent to the decision to boycott the bypoll, now nobody from Rarang Panchayat will cast his or her vote as people have profound faith in then Devta,” said Chering Gyocha, Secretary of the Rarang Sangharsh Samiti.Chering warned that if the government tried to force and commission the Jangi Thopan project on the people, there will be an agitation. “The agreement with the public sector undertaking for commissioning of the project must be cancelled immediately or else the government will have to face the ire of the villagers,” warned Bhagat Singh, who is associated with the Save Himalaya Andolan and General Secretary of the Himalayan Buddhist Cultural Association.“Despite the villagers holding several protests and sending numerous representations to the Centre as well as the state government in the past 12 years since the project was conceived no agency has bothered to even give us a patient hearing to address our grievances,” said Kishore Kumar, president of the Rarang Sangharsh Samiti. He added that it was up to the people whether they wished to exercise the right to franchise or not. As per their deity’s approval, nobody would cast their vote on October 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-bypoll-against-hydel-project-kinnaur-panchayat-to-boycott-ls-bypoll-329721
26-10-2021||---||Himachal CM promises development in Arki segment, seeks votes||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 25Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today sought votes for Arki nominee Rattan Pal as a return gift for Diwali while promising development of the segment.While addressing people at Kunihar, the Chief Minister elaborated upon the development initiatives of his government and said, “Inaugurations and foundation stones of development works worth Rs 150 crore have been done in Arki. No one can accuse us that despite an MLA from the opposition, development works have suffered here.”“Some people were saying that recent announcements won’t be honoured but I assure you today that all works would be completed. Voters should vote for Rattan Pal and he will ensure that all announcements are honoured within a year,” he said.Jai Ram Thakur claimed that the Mandi seat which was won by a margin of over 4 lakh votes last time would be won by the party candidate by a record margin again. “Though the Opposition Congress is spreading canards about the BJP our organisation is united and our supporters will ensure victory of the party candidates.”Responding to the Congress allegation of price rise, he said, “We have seen price rise in the Congress regime when there was no Covid pandemic which has severally hit the global economy.”He said the Congress had cast doubts over the Covid vaccine as the party indulged in politics while the BJP was working hard to save the people from this pandemic. “Congress leaders were now themselves turning up at vaccine centres and enquiring about the next dose,” he remarked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-promises-development-in-arki-segment-seeks-votes-329722
26-10-2021||---||Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu promises cheap cement to Arki people||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 25Sukhwinder Singh Sukku, former Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president and Nadaun MLA, today announced that if the party is voted to power, cement would be made available to the people of the Arki Assembly constituency on the no profit no loss basis from local manufacturers. The party would even bring a law to fulfil this promise.Sukhu, while campaigning for party candidate Sanjay Aawasthy at Chandi and Kashlog in Arki, said, “It is lamentable that even locals are forced to buy costly cement. The state government has failed to protect the interests of people though the cement companies have been provided land to set up their units”.He alleged, “The government is trying to finish transport societies by appointing administrators. These societies should be run by the transporters themselves”.Sukhu said that the autonomy of the transport societies would be restored if the Congress is voted to power. “Transport societies will be reconstituted, as per the suggestions of transporters. This is a key issue here but the state government is acting against the aspirations of people. The voters will give a befitting response to the BJP in the Arki byelection for failing to address their concerns,” he claimed.Sukhu said, “Opening of the plants of cement companies here has not benefited locals as several of them have not received compensation. These companies do not follow the norm of 70 per cent employment for locals”.He urged the locals to support Awasthy, who was well aware of their problems.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sukhwinder-singh-sukhu-promises-cheap-cement-to-arki-people-329723
26-10-2021||---||90% promises fulfilled in Himachal: Sanjay Tandon||Our CorrespondentKULLU, OCTOBER 25BJP state co-incharge Sanjay Tandon said that “Congress mukt nahin Congress lupt hone ja raha Bharat” (India is not only becoming free of Congress but Congress is going to disappear). Addressing a press conference here today Tandon said that in many states Congress cannot contest elections without coalition.Hits out at congressCongress star campaigners are coming from other states and meeting a few office-bearers and leaving after enjoying political tourism. — Sanjay Tandon, BJP State Co-inchargeThe co-incharge said Congress star campaigners were coming from other states and meeting a few office-bearers and leaving after enjoying political tourism. He added that such political tourists had no concern about the issues of the masses.Tandon said, “We have fulfilled 90 per cent of the promises made in our state election manifesto. Even at the national level, the promises made decades back on issues like Ram Mandir, Article 370, triple talaq, etc, had been fulfilled by the BJP.”He said the Congress had given a slogan of ‘Garibi Hatao’ in 1971 but it did nothing on the ground to help the poor. MGNREGA payments of Rs 18,000 crore were made in cash till 2014. He said that way back a Congress Prime Minister had stated that only 15 per cent of the actual allotted amount under various welfare schemes reached the deserving masses. Modi ensured that various subsidies and assistance given by the government went directly into the bank accounts of the beneficiaries.The co-incharge said that the government had launched various schemes to provide relief to persons affected due to inflation. The budget of MGNREGA had been increased and Kisan Samman Nidhi was being given to the farmers. Various pensions, subsidies and allowances were being provided to assist the masses. He said that free health facilities were being provided to the deserving masses.He said that the BJP candidate from Mandi will effectively raise local issues at the appropriate level because there was a BJP government in the Centre. The people should support the BJP candidates in all the 3 Assembly constituency byelections to ensure rapid development of their areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/90-promises-fulfilled-in-himachal-sanjay-tandon-329724
26-10-2021||---||Congress protests price rise in Mandi||Tribune News ServiceMandi, October 25Congress workers, led by Sanjay Dutt, party co-incharge for Himachal, staged a protest march here today against the state and Central governments over the rising prices of petrol and diesel and unemployment.Dutt said, “Inflation has risen exponentially. The price of a LPG cylinder has crossed Rs 1,000. The prices of petrol, and diesel, and food items are increasing continuously. Unemployment has reached 8 per cent in the state and the government is giving jobs to outsiders”.“More than 14 lakh educated youths are unemployed in Himachal but the Chief Minister is silent on the issue. Farmers are facing the brunt of the government policies,”he added.“Darang MLA Jawahar Thakur’s comments against Congress candidate Pratibha Singh are derogatory and show the narrow-mindedness of BJP leaders,” said Dutt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-protests-price-rise-in-mandi-329727
26-10-2021||Dipender Manta||Expansion of Bhuntar airstrip hangs fire||Tribune News ServiceMandi, October 25The expansion of the runway at the Kullu-Manali Airport at Bhuntar is hanging fire for a long time. Many surveys regarding the runway expansion have been conducted in the past but nothing concrete has happened.Why runway expansionThe airport expansion is a long-pending demand of the region’s hoteliers as well as other stakeholders of the tourism industry. Due to the short runway, a routine aircraft packed with passengers cannot land or take off, which forces travellers to pay hefty charges for travelling between Delhi and Kullu.At present, a 70-seater ATR-72 aircraft of Alliance Air, a wholly-owned subsidiary of national carrier Air India, is operating from the airport. The aircraft is allowed to ferry only around 20 passengers due to load stipulation because of the short runway.The airline generally charges above Rs 22,000 for a Kullu-Delhi ticket and over Rs 20,000 for Kullu-Chandigarh travel.The hoteliers said the runway expansion was a must to enable medium-size aircraft to operate and ferry more passengers. It would also encourage other airlines to start operations in this sector, thereby reducing airfares, which, in turn, would promote tourism and boost the economy of the region.A team of senior officials of the Union Ministry of Civil Aviation had carried out a survey on March 6 to explore the possibility of runway extension. There is a proposal to increase the length of the runway from 1,052 metres to 1,712 metres by diverting the Beas.Mukesh Thakur, president of Hoteliers Association Manali, said, “The association has raised the issue with the state and Central Governments. However, there is little possibility for its expansion. The government is constructing a big airport in Mandi and we are hopeful that it will give impetus to the tourism industry here”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/expansion-of-bhuntar-airstrip-hangs-fire-329729
26-10-2021||---||Fresh snow, rain in higher reaches of Himachal bring down temps||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 25A cold wave persisted in tribal areas and higher reaches as minimum temperatures dropped by three to four degrees after a fresh spell of rain and snowfall. Gondla received 15 cm of snow, Hansa and Khadrala 5 cm each and Keylong 3 cm.Bodies of three elderly tourists from Mumbai, who died on their way from Rohru to Sangla due to extreme cold conditions, are yet to reach Sangla as the bad weather and tough topography acted as a hurdle.Meanwhile, Rajgarh was the wettest in the state with 77 mm rainfall, followed by Kasauli 68 mm, Naina Devi 52 mm, Amb 43 mm, Jhandutta 40 mm, Dharampur and Solan 34 mm each, Barthin and Tissa 32 mm each, Aghar 31 mm, Pachhad, Renuka and Kothi 30 mm each, Kandaghat 25 mm, Manali 24 mm, Bhoranj 23 mm and Nadaun and Paonta Sahib 22 mm each.The local Met office has predicted dry weather in the region over the next six days. the minimum temperatures decreased by three to four degrees. Keylong was the coldest at night with -0.5°C. The maximum temperatures rose by five to six degrees and Sundernagar, recording a high of 27.2°C, was the hottest in the day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fresh-snow-rain-in-higher-reaches-of-himachal-bring-down-temps-329730
26-10-2021||---||Bypoll to be referendum on Himachal Govt's false growth claims: Cong||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 25Chairman of the Congress media department and sitting Shillai MLA Harshwardhan Chauhan today said that the byelections would be a referendum on the functioning of the BJP government as false claims of development works existed only on paper.Chauhan, while addressing mediapersons here, said that during the four-year BJP rule a majority of development works had failed to take off. “The GDP of Himachal in 2017, when the Congress was in power, was at 7.5 per cent while in the following years, it dropped to 6.5 per cent, 4.5 per cent and minus 6.5 per cent (2020-21),” he said.He said that people were fed up with the price rise and unemployment. “The BJP keeps blaming the Congress for all ills but we will like to ask the Central and state governments what steps they have taken to provide relief to common people,” he added.“The fact that people from other states are being given jobs, especially when unemployment is very high, speaks volumes of the concern of the BJP regime for educated jobless youths,” he said.Chauhan said that the government’s inept handling of the Covid crisis was more than evident in its failure to ensure the supply of oxygen, ventilators, beds and makeshift hospitals.He took exception to the Chief Minister and other BJP leaders referring to Congress candidate Pratibha Singh as “majboor”. He alleged, “Seeing the tremendous response that the Congress is getting, we apprehend that there can be poll rigging in the Seraj, Banjar and Darang segments”. He urged the Election Commission to ensure free and fair elections and act on the complaints of misuse of the official machinery lodged by the Congress.He alleged that government employees had been the worst sufferers as the Chief Minister’s office had issued 3.45 lakh demi official (DO) notes in one year, including more than two lakh only for transfers. “Oppressed employees sought relief from courts, which set aside many transfer orders,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bypoll-to-be-referendum-on-himachal-govts-false-growth-claims-cong-329731
26-10-2021||KULLU||BJP doesn’t practise what it preaches: Pratibha Singh||Congress candidate for the Mandi byelection Pratibha Singh held meetings at various villages in Parbati, Kharal and Lug valleys besides Kullu and Shamshi in the district today. She alleged that the BJP did not adhere to what it preached. She said, “Haathi ke daant, khane ke aur, dikhane ke aur”.She said that the Congress had done development work and would continue to do it in future. The party was seeking votes in the name of development. She alleged that the government was ignoring the issues of rising inflation and unemployment and the concerns of farmers and common people.Pratibha said that this election would prove to be a huge public opinion against BJP's anti-people policies and decisions, rising inflation, unemployment and other such issues.Pratibha assured people that like her husband Virbhadra Singh, she would serve people sincerely.—OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-doesnt-practise-what-it-preaches-pratibha-singh-329732
26-10-2021||---||BJP, Congress in war of words in Mandi||Tribune News ServiceMandi, October 25A war of words is going on between BJP and Congress leaders during the election campaign for the Mandi Lok Sabha byelection. The Congress is accusing the BJP of playing politics of regionalism, while the BJP is accusing the Congress of promoting family politics in the state.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur is constantly on the target of Congress leaders, who were accusing him of being biased over development issues. On the other hand, the BJP leaders are targeting Congress candidate Pratibha Singh and her son Congress MLA from Shimla (Rural) Vikramaditya Singh for encouraging family politics.Vikramaditya today accused Thakur of playing politics of regionalism. Soon after his statement, BJP candidate Brigadier Khushal Thakur (retd) and BJP MLA Rakesh Jamwal from Sundernagar hit back by saying that Congress was promoting family politics. They said that the accusation of Congress MLA against the Chief Minister was baseless.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-congress-in-war-of-words-in-mandi-329733
26-10-2021||Subhash Rajta||Most houses in Shimla sans insurance, vulnerable to fire||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 25Even as several fire incidents are reported from rural areas of Shimla district every year, especially during the winter, a huge number of residential buildings continue to be without any insurance cover. “Our guess is that at least 80 per cent of the buildings in rural areas are without the insurance cover,” said JK Chandel, Senior Division Manager, National Insurance.Lack of awarenessBesides, the lack of awareness among people, the other reason behind their hesitancy to get an insurance cover is the joint holding of land and property. When the title of the property is not clear, no one bothers to get it insured. — JK Chandel, Senior Division Manager, National InsuranceThe number is absolutely mindboggling, considering that a majority of rural houses are made of wood, and are vulnerable of catching fire. Also, people here have a tendency to spend a large chunk of their earnings and savings in building their houses. Yet, most people leave them uncovered, even though the annual premium for Rs 50 lakh insurance is as low as Rs 2,000 to Rs 2,500. “Besides the lack of awareness among people, the other reason behind their hesitancy to get an insurance cover for their house is the joint holding of land and property,” said Chandel. “When the title of the property is not clear and is owned by many, no one bothers to get it insured. Also, the insurance company too faces problems while disbursing claims for such properties,” said Chandel.Monita Chauhan, a Zila Parishad member from Rohru, blames the insurance hesitancy among people to the lack of awareness campaigns by government or insurance companies. “Fire incidents are common in our area, especially during the winter. Yet, no awareness campaigns have ever been conducted to encourage people to buy insurance for their houses,” said Monita Chauhan.Dhirender Chauhan, an advocate from Chopal, feels the government should start a massive campaign and link the insurance cover to schemes like Kisan Credit Card. “Most people are not aware that they can insure their houses, many who have a little idea about the concept, think it’s expensive and involves a lot of paper work. If this is linked to the KCC or any other scheme, the situation will change overnight,” said Chauhan.Chauhan feels the gram panchayats need to take a massive initiative on this front. “Gram panchayats should hold camps in which they can invite insurance agents/experts to address the reasons behind this hesitation and motivate people to get their houses insured,” he said.In certain areas though, the situation has changed in the last four-five years. “I am into insurance work since mid-nineties. Over the last four-five years, awareness has increased among people and they are insuring their houses. I think we have 30-40 per cent houses insured in and around Kotkhai,” said Sushil Chauhan, an insurance agent from Kotkhai.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/most-houses-in-shimla-sans-insurance-vulnerable-to-fire-329736
26-10-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||To check mishaps, police to focus on road safety: DGP||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 25Traffic police stations on busy national highways and interceptor vehicles to check speed can reduce the number of accidents in the state. Speedy driving is the leading reason for accidents in Himachal.“We cannot create new life but we can save life by reducing the number of accidents and fatalities. The focus of the police has shifted to road safety. We have requested the state government to provide interceptor vehicles to control over-speeding and traffic police stations on busy national highways,” says DGP Sanjay Kundu.Human errors are responsible for over 93 per cent of the total accidents in Himachal and about 30 per cent to 35 per cent accidents occur on the national highways. In hilly roads, curves on the national highways are designed for 45 km per hour speed and negotiating a curve at a speed of 70 km to 80 km per hour often results in an accident, say PWD experts.As per the data compiled by the Road Accident Data Management System (RADMS) for three years ending June 2019, the maximum accidents in the state are attributed to over-speeding, followed by dangerous and negligent driving, wrong overtaking, bad road conditions, drug and alcohol abuse and other reasons, including adverse weather conditions and mechanical faults.Till October 15 this year, 817 persons were killed and 2,617 injured in 1,862 accidents. The police have identified 10 to 12 clusters where the maximum accidents are taking place. A data bank has also been created on the basis of daily accident mapping with the categories of vehicles involved, dangerous and vulnerable stretches, black spots, timings and the reasons for accidents.Police sources said two traffic police stations each on the Shimla–Kinnaur highway and the Mandi-Pathankot highway can ease the situation. Moreover, the Pinjour-Nalagarh highway is the busiest road and around 40,000 vehicles ply in Baddi (being the industrial hub of the state) and there is a dire need for a DSP (Traffic) there for better monitoring and regulation of traffic. For the time being, the charge of DSP (Traffic) has been given to the SDPO, Baddi. The early completion of the project to widen the Pinjour–Nalagarh National Highway will be a big relief to local residents, industrialists as well as commuters, says SP, Baddi, Mohit Chawla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/to-check-mishaps-police-to-focus-on-road-safety-dgp-329740
26-10-2021||---||Bad weather: Kinnaur admn bans trekking||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 25The Kinnaur district administration today banned trekking and mountaineering activities in the district till further orders.A large number of enthusiasts scale mountains, treks and peaks in the district. However, the climate changes during the onset and peak of winters pose threat to the lives of trekkers, Kinnaur DC Apoorv Devgan said. Conducting search operations in such conditions to find the missing trekkers is also risky, he stated.The decision was taken after 10 trekkers (seven trekking their way from Uttarkashi in Uttrakhand to Chitkul in Himachal) and three tourists from Mumbai on their way from Rohru to Sangla, died enroute. The search to find two missing trekkers is still on.Yesterday, the DC had appealed to the tourists visiting Kinnaur to avoid visiting higher reaches in bad weather conditions to avoid untoward situations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bad-weather-kinnaur-admn-bans-trekking-329741
26-10-2021||Lalit Mohan||Pong Dam area residents grapple with water shortage||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, October 25The non-availability of drinking water in the areas located near Pong Dam lake has emerged a major issue in the Fatehpur byelections. The residents of Ray, Anoh and Polian villages, spread across an area of about 25 km along the Pong Dam lake, are getting water once every three days.Depend on natural streamsAt times we get drinking water after five to 10 days. The people of the area have to depend on natural streams to wash their clothes and bathe. Arvind, a shopkeeperRakesh Kumar, a resident of the area, while talking to The Tribune said, “We have enough water to drown in Pong Dam but not enough to drink or irrigate our fields. This concept fits well in our area.”Arvind, a shopkeeper, said that at times they get drinking water after five to 10 days. The people of the area had to depend on natural streams to wash their clothes and bathe. Many politicians have visited the area and made tall promises but no one has been able to solve the problem of drinking water here, he alleged.The SDO of IPH in the area, Vikas Nag, admitted that drinking water was being supplied only once every three days. He blamed the power department for their failure to supply water regularly to the people of the area.Nag said that heavy motors installed for water supply schemes require at least 400 kw power to run. The IPH Department had got transformers installed in the area to get adequate load for their motors. However, the department has given connections to locals from transformers of the IPH department due to which enough power was not being supplied to IPH pump houses to run the motors, he said.The SDO also said that the IPH department was installing 13 new water supply schemes in the area under Jal Jivan Mission which would be ready by March this year. However, till adequate power was not supplied to the pump houses even the new machines would not be able to function.The IPH schemes installed in the area date back to 1980s and need upgrade to meet the demands of growing population.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pong-dam-area-residents-grapple-with-water-shortage-329743
26-10-2021||---||As winter sets in, shepherds start moving to lower hills of Himachal||Ravinder SoodPalampur, October 25As the winter is approaching, fearing early snowfall in the high-altitude areas of the state, scores of shepherds are seen on the highways these days with their flocks of animals migrating to warmers places in lower hills.The change in the snowline during the past few years and global warming have impacted their traditional routes of seasonal migration, making their life risky and making search for new pastures difficult. Global warming has led to erratic rainfall. Some regions have seen an increase in the intensity of rainfall coupled with unseasonal hailstorms.The shepherds are from the traditional Gaddi community and they have been moving like this every year since generations. Every year, they lose hundreds of sheep and goat because of unusual snowfall and heavy rains in higher hills of the state. During the last winter, hundreds of sheep were buried alive near the Jalsu Pass (Baijnath) when avalanches hit a shepherds’ camp.During the summer, they move up in high-altitude areas of Dhauladhars, Chhota Bhanghal, Lahaul and Spiti, Kinnaur and in parts of Chamba district. During the winter, they roam from one place to other in Una, Bilaspur, Kangra, Hamirpur and Sirmaur districts in search of better pastures for their animals.Trilok Kapoor, chairman of HP State Wool Federation, said that because of the impact of global warming and unusual rainfall and snow in the high altitude areas of the state many shepherds had stopped rearing sheep. Besides, grasslands have also shrunk in the past few years because of stringent environment laws. He said that the new generation was not willing to take up the profession anymore. There is an acute shortage of manpower for grazing animals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/as-winter-sets-in-shepherds-start-moving-to-lower-hills-of-himachal-329744
26-10-2021||UNA||4 Himachal Pradesh players selected for Challengers Cup||Four cricket players of the state, including three girls, have been selected by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) to participate in the Under-19 Challengers Cup being organised by it.Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association (HPCA) secretary Sumit Sharma today said the women’s Challengers Cup is being organised at Jaipur from October 25 to November 7, while the men’s tournament is being organised at Ahmedabad from October 25 to November 10.Sharma said three women cricket players, who play for the HPCA in the Under-19 category, were participating in the Challengers Cup. They are Nancy Sharma, Shivali Thakur and Sakshi Thakur, while HPCA player Raghav Angra has been selected to participate in the Men’s Challengers Cup.The HPCA Secretary said the selection of these players was done by the BCCI on the basis of their performance in the recently concluded Under-19 Interstate Cricket Tournament. He added that four teams had been constituted by the BCCI for the Women’s Challengers Cup, while six teams had been constituted for the Men’s Challengers Cup.Sumit Sharma said the selection of four players from Himachal Pradesh in the prestigious tournament would motivate the young cricket talent of the state to enhance their performance. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-himachal-pradesh-players-selected-for-challengers-cup-329745
26-10-2021||Kullu||Tourist dies after falling from cliff in Manikaran valley||A tourist died after falling from a cliff near the Malana project in the Manikaran valley of Kullu district on Sunday. The incident took place when Dhani Kurnal (39) of Katargam Surat in Gujarat and Vipin Bai Sakhrelia (37) of Rajkot, Gujarat, were going towards Malana on a motorcycle. They stopped near the Malana project to click photos. When Dhani went to fetch his helmet placed on the edge of a cliff, he lost his balance and fell down.Kullu SP Gurdev Sharma said the police located the body after a tough search operation and sent it to the regional hospital for a post-mortem. He said the police had registered a case and further investigations were underway. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourist-dies-after-falling-from-cliff-in-manikaran-valley-329746
26-10-2021||Shimla||PhD admission without test violation of UGC norms: SFI||Continuing its protest against some students being given admission to PhD without entrance test, the Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) campus unit of Students Federation of India (SFI) today accused the university of violating guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC) to accommodate favourites and demanded cancellation of these admissions.Taking a strong exception to the admissions, Vivek Raj, president of the campus unit, said the university Executive Council (EC) had decided to admit recently appointed teachers without entrance test, which was a violation of the UGC guidelines and the ordinance of the university. He demanded cancellation of these admissions.The EC also adopted a resolution to create super luminary seats in PhD to accommodate the kin of some employees holding key positions. Raj questioned why such seats were not created for teachers in colleges.Raj alleged that the decision to give admission to PhD to wards of university employees without clearing the entrance test was a brazen step towards “saffronisation” and cautioned that the SFI would intensify the agitation in case these demands were not accepted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/phd-admission-without-test-violation-of-ugc-norms-sfi-329747
26-10-2021||Mandi||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur playing politics of regionalism: Vikramaditya Singh||Congress MLA from Shimla (Rural) Vikramaditya Singh today alleged that Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur was playing politics of regionalism to win the Mandi Lok Sabha byelection due on October 30.He said, “It is quite unfortunate that the CM is seeking votes in the name of regionalism. During public meetings, the CM was saying ‘Mandi hamari hai’. It was the first time in the history of the state that any CM was seeking votes in the name of regionalism.”“Jai Ram Thakur-led state government has failed to ensure development in the state. The only development that took place was in Seraj Assembly constituency, the home constituency of the CM. The CM should list at least four big development works in Mandi that he executed in the past four years,” he said.“The international airport in Mandi is still on paper, while the tender of the Shiv Dham project was floated at higher rates. The condition of Kiratpur-Manali fourlane is getting worse,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-playing-politics-of-regionalism-vikramaditya-singh-329748
26-10-2021||Shimla||252 new Covid cases, one death Himachal Pradesh||As many as 252 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 222,890. Besides, one person died of the virus in Shimla district.The highest number of 109 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 50 in Hamirpur, 27 in Bilaspur, 26 in Mandi, 21 in Una, 12 in Shimla, three each in Kullu and Solan, and one in Kinnaur. The number of active cases rose to 1,657.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/252-new-covid-cases-one-death-himachal-pradesh-329750
26-10-2021||---||BJP expels 7 Mahila Morcha office-bearers for campaigning against Jubbal-Kotkhai candidate||Shimla, October 25BJP Mahila Morcha president Rashmi Dhar Sood today expelled seven office-bearers of the morcha, including president, vice-president and general secretary, from the party for six years for campaigning against official Jubbal-Kotkhai candidate Neelam Saraik.Earlier, the party had expelled rebel Chetan Bragta, son of Narender Bragta, and the president and other officer-bearers of the Jubbal-Kotkhai BJP Mandal for six months. Chetan is contesting the Jubbal-Kotkhai byelection as an Independent candidate and the BJP Mandal is supporting it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-expels-7-mahila-morcha-office-bearers-for-campaigning-against-jubbal-kotkhai-candidate-329751
26-10-2021||---||FCI procurement centre at Tahliwal functional||Our CorrespondentUNA, OCTOBER 25The Food Corporation of India (FCI) yesterday made functional a paddy procurement centre for farmers at Tahliwal village in Haroli sub division. Another such centre is already functioning in Takarla village of Amb sub division since October 15.Chairman of the Una District Agriculture Produce Market Committee Balbir Bagga said to save the farmers the hassle of transporting their farm produce to Punjab, the Jai Ram Thakur government has got the FCI centres activated in different parts of the state.He added that the farmers are selling their produce at the MSP decided by the Union government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fci-procurement-centre-at-tahliwal-functional-329752
26-10-2021||Shimla||AAP to hold protest in Shimla to demand compensation for farmers||AAP will hold a protest in Shimla tomorrow to demand compensation for farmers who had suffered losses due to the inclement weather. The party will also raise the concerns of the people displaced due to the construction of highways.Meanwhile, the party claimed that several Congress workers from Chamba had joined AAP. “Former Zila Parishad chairman, Chamba, and several other Congress workers have joined AAP,” the party claimed.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/aap-to-hold-protest-in-shimla-to-demand-compensation-for-farmers-329753
26-10-2021||The three-day annual sports meet of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Government Medical College (PJNGMC)||Sports meet culminates at Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Government Medical College, Chamba||32 units of blood donatedThirty two units of blood were collected during a blood donation camp held at Government College, Sanjauli. As many as 35 students participated in the camp. Professor Manoj Mehta donated blood for the 41st time during the camp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sports-meet-culminates-at-pandit-jawaharlal-nehru-government-medical-college-chamba-329755
26-10-2021||The parking of vehicles near Uttam Gas agency on the BCS-Vikas Nagar road often leads to traffic congestion. Such irresponsible drivers should be heavily penalised. Interestingly||Haphazard parking causing jams||Repair school buildingThe building of Government Primary School, Dadri, in Chamba district is in a dilapidated condition. There are about 35 children studying in the school from Class I to V. The residents of the area have even met the local MLA demanding that the building be repaired at the earliest. — Chamba residentsWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/haphazard-parking-causing-jams-329759
26-10-2021||Subhash Rajta||Paddy procurement tardy, extend it by a month till Dec 30: Himachal Pradesh to Centre||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 25Witnessing tardy procurement of paddy, the Himachal Pradesh Government has urged the Centre to extend the purchase process by a month till December 30.KC Chaman, Director, Food and Civil Supplies, said the state had written to the Centre seeking extension of the deadline. “Given the pace at which paddy is being procured, the farmers who have registered on online portal will not be able to sell their produce by November 30,” he said.It’s for the first time paddy is being procured through the portal in the state. “There’s no middleman involved. Farmers sell their produce directly and get payment in their accounts within 48 hours,” said Chaman.Though paddy growers are happy with the initiative, some farmer bodies had raised questions over the pace of procurement, claiming it may take six months for all to sell their produce.Agreeing that procurement was not progressing at the desired pace, Chaman attributed it to the farmers’ unfamiliarity with the process. “Famers don’t clean up their produce properly and when their crop is rejected, they start cleaning it up inside the market yard. This delays the procurement. They also need to be made aware about appropriate moisture content,” he said.Paddy is being procured at nine centres in four districts, namely Kangra, Una, Solan and Sirmaur. “We will procure 54,000 MT, with 19,000 MT from Sirmaur, 15,000 MT Kangra, 10,000 MT Solanand 10,000 MT Una,” said Chaman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/paddy-procurement-tardy-extend-it-by-a-month-till-dec-30-himachal-pradesh-to-centre-329585
