28-10-2021||---||Shimla’s iconic Rivoli building to be razed||Shimla, October 27The Municipal Corporation has decided to demolish the dilapidated Rivoli building, which housed a popular single-screen theatre until a decade back and was one of the major landmarks of the city for decades.“It has been decided to demolish the building under Section 258 of the Municipal Corporation Act. The demolition notices are being served on the owners of the building,” said MC Joint Commissioner Ajit Bhardwaj. “The owners will be given three weeks to comply with the order. Should they fail to do so, the MC will act as per the provisions in such cases,” he said.Another city heritage goneIt may be mentioned that the movie screening had stopped in the building more than a decade back when its licence was not renewed by the administration in 2010. Ever since, the building was lying abandoned. In the absence of proper maintenance, the building kept deteriorating and a portion of it caved in some time ago.“A MC team had visited the spot a while ago and we found it in a dilapidated state. It had developed cracks at various places, and the structure appeared to have tilted. On the basis of the report submitted by the committee, it was decided to demolish the building, lest it causes harm to others,” said Bhardwaj.Meanwhile, the filmgoers of the city expressed unhappiness at the news of the Rivoli being demolished. “Regal was gutted, Ritz has shut down, and Rivoli also stopped screening a decade back. Only Shahi is left. Many people grew up watching movies in these singe-screen theatres. The government should have helped such theatres to survive in these tough times,” said Sahil Sharma, the proprietor of Shahi Theatre.Sharma recalled that Rivoli attracted heavy footfall for the English movies it screened. “Rivoli screened very good English movies, along with Ritz. With all these theatres at their peak, cinema lovers had a great time,” Sharma added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimlas-iconic-rivoli-building-to-be-razed-330795
28-10-2021||---||Hail, thunderstorm lash Shimla||Shimla, October 27A severe thunderstorm, accompanied by hail and showers, lashed Shimla and its adjoining areas this afternoon. The sky was clear in the morning but the conditions became overcast and fog engulfed the region by the afternoon. The thunderstorm, hail and the downpour continued for more than one and a half hour. Residents were caught unaware as the local MeT office had predicted a dry weather.Meanwhile, rain and snowfall occurred at isolated places across the state during the past 24 hours. Gondla and Keylong recorded 4 cm and 3 cm of snowfall while Manali and Kothi received 10 mm rain, followed by Shimla 6 mm, Udaipur 4 mm, Wangtoo 3 mm, Salooni 2 mm and Dalhousie 1mm.The maximum day temperatures stayed two to eight degree above normal. Una was hottest in the region with a high of 30.8°C, followed by Sundernagar 26.6°C, Kangra 25.3°C and Solan 24°C.A cold wave persisted in the high-altitude tribal areas as minimum temperatures stayed close to freezing point and Keylong and Kalpa recorded a low of -1.7°C and 1.4°C. Manali recorded 5.4°C, followed by Kufri 7.3°C, Dalhousie 7.5°C and Shimla 8.5°C.The state received an average 54.9 mm rain during the post monsoon season from October 1 to October 27 against normal rainfall of 26 mm, an excess of 111 per cent. All districts received excess rainfall and Una and Kinnaur received 354 and 345 per cent excess rainfall, followed by Bilaspur 178 per cent, Kullu 171 per cent, Kangra 152 per cent, Solan 151 per cent and Chamba 97 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hail-thunderstorm-lash-shimla-330796
28-10-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Curtains on Himachal bypolls campaigning||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 27The BJP and the Congress wrapped up their poll campaign by holding election rallies, addressed by senior leaders, across the state as electioneering for the bypoll concluded today.As campaigning for the Mandi Lok Sabha and three Assembly segments of Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai came to an end, the candidates tried to put up a show of strength in rallies. A total of 15.49 lakh people will cast vote on October 30 while the counting will take place on November 2. There are 18 candidates in the fray.While the campaigning for the Mandi Lok Sabha seat remained fiery all through, the poll pitch remained feverish in Fatehpur and Arki. The presence of Chetan Bragta as an Independent from Jubbal-Kotkhai in the apple heartland added an interesting dimension. He garnered more sympathy for being denied the ticket than the death of his father Narinder Bragta.Both parties relied primarily on their state leadership for campaigning, with CM Jai Ram Thakur being the BJP’s star campaigner. Barring token presence of some central Congress leaders, it is the state leadership only which held the reins of the Congress campaign.The Chief Minister chose to address an election rally in support of party candidate Brig Khushal Thakur (retd) at Karsog in Mandi today as he tried to play up the “Mandi sentiment” to ensure victory.“Mandi has always been with us and I want that Chhoti Kashi (Mandi) should go with Bari Kashi (Varanasi),” he urged. On the other hand, Congress candidate Pratibha Singh addressed election meetings in Manali, banking on the sympathy factor in the name of her husband Virbhadra Singh.Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur addressed workers at Anti in Jubbal-Kotkhai to bolster the morale of party workers as Neelam Saraik is facing a tough time; The entire block unit of the party is campaigning for Chetan.Chetan Bragta’s rally at Kotkhai was impressive with his mother appealing to people to make her son victorious as a protest against injustice meted out to him.Congress candidate from Jubbal-Kotkhai Rohit Thakur held a rally at Kharapatthar, which was addressed by Congress president Kuldeep Rathore and MLAs Ram Lal Thakur and Harshwardhan Chauhan.Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Bahgel and Himachal Congress in-charge Rajeev Shukla addressed an election rally in Arki. The BJP concluded its campaign by holding an election meeting at Paniharu. In Fatehpur, too, BJP candidate Baldev Thakur and Congress nominee Bhawani Pathania held rallies to woo voters as Independent Rajan Sushant indulged in the high-pitched electioneering, giving sleepless nights to the ruling party.All set for voting nowOctober 30 15.49 lakh people will cast voteNovember 2 Counting will take place18 candidates in the fray||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/curtains-on-himachal-bypolls-campaigning-330797
28-10-2021||---||In Jubbal-Kotkhai, Anurag Thakur lists govt’s achievements||Shimla, October 27Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur today asserted that the BJP government was the benefactor of farmers and fruit growers and highlighted the steps taken in Himachal Pradesh.Addressing an election meeting in Jubbal-Kotkhai, he said the subsidy on anti-hail nets, a hike in import duty of apple and setting up a chain of markets to facilitate growers are the gifts by the government and appealed to voters to vote for BJP candidate Neelam Saraik.The BJP is the only party which has given 50 per cent reservation to women in the organisation and also given ticket to a woman from Jubbal-Kotkhai. Taking a dig at the Congress, he said how could a party, which could not elect its president, win the elections.BJP in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna said the CM had given two SDM offices and a fire brigade as the Diwali gift to Jubbal-Kotkhai. State BJP chief Suresh Kashyap said the people had made up their mind to ensure the victory of the BJP and the party would win all four byelections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-jubbal-kotkhai-anurag-thakur-lists-govts-achievements-330798
28-10-2021||Mandi||BJP getting good response for Himachal bypolls: Sanjay Tandon||State co-incharge of BJP Sanjay Tandon said that the BJP would win all four seats in the byelections due on October 30. The BJP is getting overwhelming response from the people in Mandi and three Assembly constituencies of Fatehpur in Kangra, Arki in Solan and Jubbal- Kotkhai in Shimla.Addressing a press conference here today, Tandon said, “Congress leaders have lost all decency during the election campaign for the Mandi seat. Congress candidate Pratibha Singh gave a controversial statement on the Kargil war to target the BJP candidate, while Congress MLA from Shimla (Rural) Vikramaditya Singh gave a similar statement about BJP MLA from Anni during public meetings.”“The Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri was targeting the Chief Minister over use of helicopter service. Perhaps he has a helicopter phobia as this is not the first time that the CM is using helicopter,” he added.“Congress always promoted family politics. However, the BJP gives preference to its party workers. In these byelections too, the BJP has given ticket to workers of the party, while the Congress has promoted family politics,” he said.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-getting-good-response-for-himachal-bypolls-sanjay-tandon-330799
28-10-2021||Ambika Sharma||Arki voter indifference keeps parties guessing||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 27The indifference among the voters in Arki has kept the BJP and the Congress on tenterhooks. Desperately seeking voters support, both parties are sweating it out for the October 30 byelection.While price rise, lack of employment opportunities and scarcity of staff in health institutions occupied the minds of the common man, the youth felt the lack of job-oriented course in the ITIs have left them in the lurch.Resentment among transporters“The rising prices of oil, pulses, LPG, etc., have left everyone worried. It has become difficult to eke out a living under these circumstances as the government has failed to provide any relief,” said Vandana, a resident of Arki.“Though hospital buildings have been constructed, they lack adequate number of doctors like an orthopaedic. A majority of patients were referred to other hospitals even for small ailments,” she said.The locals gave credit for the schools and a college at Arki where various streams were being taught but lack of significant trades at the ITIs was another grouse echoed by the youth. “There was no polytechnic in Arki and a few trades are available at the ITIs,” rued Vikas a youth at Arki who was still struggling to find a job in his early 30s.Locals were now pinning hopes on the National Mineral Development Corporation’s limestone project for securing gainful employment.About 7,000 transporters who constitute a significant chunk of the voters here enlisted issues like steep hike in the price of fuel and other commodities. The major issue of concern was, however, the appointment of administrators in all transport societies to run the daily affairs. “There is deep resentment among the transporters as the state government has appointed administrators which interfered with their functioning,” a transporter said.Arki town witnessed hectic political activity but as one goes towards the villages lack of interest among the voters greets a visitor. Though posters and banners of the BJP and Congress were visible voters exhibited lack of enthusiasm.“Assembly polls are less than a year away and an MLA would be elected for merely a year,” remarked a villager at Domehar which is the home bastion of BJP nominee Rattan Pal, pitted against Cong’s Sanjay Awasthy.While some improvement was seen in the condition of roads those connecting the industrial hub at Darlaghat cried for repair and maintenance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/arki-voter-indifference-keeps-parties-guessing-330800
28-10-2021||Nurpur||BJP will face voters’ ire in Fatehpur: Cong||Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri has accused the government of neglecting Kangra district in the past about four years. The government is anti-Kangra and the neglect of the district will boomerang on the BJP in the Fatehpur byelection, said Agnihotri while canvassing for Congress candidate Bhawani Pathania today.He alleged that all three Cabinet ministers from Kangra did not protect the interests of the district. They even kept silent when the office of the Engineer-in-Chief (Project) was shifted from Fatehpur to Mandi. “Not even one project has been sanctioned for the district in the past three and a half years. The work on road widening projects worth Rs 65,000 crore and 69 national highway projects announced by the Union government was yet to kick-start due to the apathy of the state government,” he alleged.Agnihotri said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur was playing regional politics in his campaigning in the Mandi byelection. He added that the state government had failed to get a financial package or a major development project from the Central Government. “The state is under heavy debt, which is likely to rise to Rs 85,000 crore by the end of the tenure of the BJP government,” he alleged. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-will-face-voters-ire-in-fatehpur-cong-330801
28-10-2021||Shimla||Cong fighting poll on behalf of public: Sanjay Dutt||AICC secretary Sanjay Dutt today said the Congress was fighting the byelection against the BJP on behalf of the public who is up in arms against price rise and unemployment.Addressing a press conference here today, Dutt said the fight as such was not between the BJP and the Congress. “The BJP is talking of making India ‘Congress mukt’ and not core issues like price rise and unemployment,” he said.Dutt said the Prime Minister only imposed his “Mann ki baat” on the public without bothering to listen to their grievances. He accused Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur of being unfamiliar with the ground realities as he only travelled by helicopter.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-fighting-poll-on-behalf-of-public-sanjay-dutt-330802
28-10-2021||Lalit Mohan||Fatehpur seat a prestige issue for BJP||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, October 27The Fatehpur byelection has become a prestige issue for the BJP in Kangra district. The BJP is going all out to win the byelection as it can set the tone for the 2022 Assembly elections in Kangra district.Fatehpur is all set to witness a triangular fight between Congress candidate Bhawani Pathania, BJP nominee Baldev Thakur and Independent candidate Rajan Sushant.BJP workers campaigning at the booth level reportedly had a hard time convincing people over the issue of price rise. The BJP is also banking on Baldev Thakur, who is a ground-level party worker and has his own vote bank. He fought the 2017 Assembly elections as an Independent candidate and secured around 13,000 votes.Bhawani Pathania is relying on the legacy of his father Sujan Singh Pathania, whose untimely death necessitated the Fatehpur byelection. He has also been touching the sensitive issue of price rise during campaigning. Congress workers have been playing old videos of BJP leaders protesting against the price rise.Pathania is also relying on the strong Rajput vote bank in Fatehpur, as his late father was one of the tallest Rajput leaders in Kangra district. CLP leader Mukesh Agnihotri has been alleging discrimination against Kangra by the BJP government.Independent candidate Rajan Sushant, former BJP MP and five-time MLA from Fatehpur, is also a strong contender. He has espoused the agenda of getting the old pension scheme implemented for state government staff in Himachal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fatehpur-seat-a-prestige-issue-for-bjp-330803
28-10-2021||Shimla||261 new Covid cases, two deaths in Himachal||As many as 261 Covid cases were reported today. Besides, two persons died of the virus—one each in Shimla and Kangra. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/261-new-covid-cases-two-deaths-in-himachal-330804
28-10-2021||Our Correspondent||16 houses gutted in Malana||Kullu, October 27A major fire gutted 16 houses in the Dhara Behar area of historic Malana village of Kullu in the wee hours today.According to information, the fire started from a vacant house and spread to the adjoining residences. The blaze spread rapidly in the wooden houses of ‘Kath-Kuni’ architecture, having stocks of fodder for livestock and firewood for winters. The residents tried to douse the flames but it had taken a formidable form and was uncontrollable, leading to an atmosphere of chaos in the village. The residents left their houses with essential items, money and ornaments etc.Kullu Deputy Commissioner Ashutosh Garg said the fire broke out at 1 am and teams of the fire brigade, police and home guards were rushed to the spot. He said the village was not approachable by road and the teams ferried the equipment, including pipes, pumps, generator etc, through a span. The fire fighters brought the blaze under control by collecting water from the effluent water source and using it through pipes, the DC stated.He said 16 houses were reduced to ashes and about 150 people of 38 families were rendered homeless. According to preliminary estimates, the loss due to the fire has been pegged at Rs 9 crore. There was no loss of life or livestock. The cause of fire was not yet ascertained. Relief material were transported to the village through the span till 4.45 am, Garg said.The officer added that he, along with Kullu SP Gurdev Sharma, SDM Vikas Shukla and revenue officials, visited the spot to take stock of the relief and rescue operations. Immediate relief was being provided to the affected families. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has also expressed grief over the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/16-houses-gutted-in-malana-330805
28-10-2021||Hamirpur||Integrated system to check traffic violations in Hamirpur||The police installed an Integrated Traffic Management System on the national highway bypass here yesterday. It will monitor traffic violations and automatically issue challans to the violators.Devashweta Banik, Deputy Commissioner, inaugurated the ITMS centre in Dugneri village on the outskirts of the town. She said the ITMS would curb the traffic violations and help in managing the traffic. It would also encourage responsible driving practice among people.Akriti Sharma, Superintendent of Police, said a team of police personnel would educate drivers and create awareness among people about the ITMS. Initially, three types of traffic violations would be monitored - overspeeding, triple riding and driving without helmets. The system would be operative 24x7 and automatically issue traffic challans to violators. The system would generate the challan and message would be delivered on the mobile number registered with the registration authority, she added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/integrated-system-to-check-traffic-violations-in-hamirpur-330806
28-10-2021||Shimla||Himachal High Court reassigns admn, executive work  to judges||Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq of the HP High Court has redistributed administrative and executive business among the judges. Justice Sabina has been assigned Civil and Sessions Division, Shimla, Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan Kangra, Justice Vivek Singh Thakur Mandi, Justice Ajay Mohan Goel Una and Hamirpur, Justice Sandeep Sharma Solan and Kinnaur, Justice CB Barowalia Bilaspur and Sirmaur, Justice Jyotsana Rewal Dua division and Justice Satyen Vaidya Chamba. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-high-court-reassigns-admn-executive-work-to-judges-330807
28-10-2021||Shimla||High Court High Court seeks details of facilities in govt schools||The High Court has directed the Deputy Advocate General to file a district-wise status report furnishing the details therein that how many primary and middle government schools are there in each district and about their annual budgets.A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq and Justice Sabina passed the order on a PIL petition regarding the lack of facilities in government schools.The court asked the state to furnish the information regarding electricity connections in the schools and toilet facility for male and female students. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/high-court-high-court-seeks-details-of-facilities-in-govt-schools-330808
28-10-2021||An awareness campaign on AIDS/HIV and tuberculosis was held at Government College in Kotshera||Awareness campaign on AIDS, TB||Law varsity, HPU sign pactA Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) has been signed between Dr BR Ambedkar National Law University, Sonepat, Haryana, and Himachal Pradesh University (HPU), Shimla. The MoU was signed by Prof Sikander Kumar, HPU Vice-Chancellor, and Prof Viney Kapoor Mehra, Vice-Chancellor of the law university. The main objective of the MoU is to explore possibilities offered by cooperation, recognise the need to develop and nurture new partnership with the aim to promote academics and research through collaborated efforts of both the institutions.Workshop for maths teachersTo train mathematics teachers, the Himachal Pradesh Council of Science, Technology and Environment (HIMCOSTE), in association with Punjab State Council for Science and Technology (PSCST), is organising a three-day national-level training workshop on visual explanation of geometrical theorems at Health and Family Welfare Training Centre, Parimahal, Shimla, which started today. About 30 school teachers participating from different districts of the state would be trained through the patented kit. The workshop has been sponsored by the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India.SFI protests against PhD admissionsThe SFI took out a protest rally against the admissions granted in PhD without entrance test. The student body alleged that the HPU VC was admitting individuals of one particular ideology under instructions from the state government and the RSS by throwing rules and regulations out of the window. The SFI further alleged that migration of students from private universities to HPU was also a scam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/awareness-campaign-on-aids-tb-330809
28-10-2021||Stray cattle have become a cause for concern for the residents of Mandi town. The cattle head can be seen roaming in the middle of the road||Stray cattle menace in Mandi town||Govt vehicles misused A few government vehicles are occasionally seen heading towards schools in the morning. Apparently, these vehicles are being used to drop the children of officials at the schools. It is not setting a good example for the future generation, and the officials concerned should not misuse their government vehicles. — Raman, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stray-cattle-menace-in-mandi-town-330810
28-10-2021||---||SDO ‘hit’ by BJP men in bypoll-bound Fatehpur||Dharamsala, October 27An SDO posted in the Fatehpur area was allegedly beaten up by some BJP workers at a rest house late last night. The victim, Sanjay Kumar, has filed a complaint in this regard and the police are investigating it.The matter came to light after Rajan Sushant, an Independent candidate contesting the upcoming Fatehpur bypoll, released a video clip purportedly showing the SDO alleging that he was beaten up by BJP workers and the PSO of Industries and Transport Minister Bikram Thakur around 11 pm yesterday. He alleged he went to the IPH rest house and found some BJP workers, including the PSO, there despite no booking. Kumar alleged the BJP workers told him to open the VIP room. When he refused, they allegedly beat him up and fractured his finger.Sushant alleged it was a misuse of power by the ruling party leaders. Thakur termed the allegations as an effort by Sushant to sensationalise the bypoll. He claimed his PSO was with him at his residence last night. “The SDO was drunk and later apologised to my PSO for accusing him of assault. I don’t know who misbehaved with him,” Thakur alleged.Khushal Sharma, SP, Kangra, said Kumar had not named anyone in his complaint. He said a medical examination of the officer was being done to ascertain the facts. Nipun Jindal, Deputy Commissioner, Kangra, said besides the police, an inquiry would be conducted by the Fatehpur SDM and SE, IPH projects.Files complaint with police||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sdo-hit-by-bjp-men-in-bypoll-bound-fatehpur-330522
