30-10-2021||Kinnaur||Voters in 3 panchayats in Kinnaur district boycott bypoll to Mandi Lok Sabha seat||Villagers in three panchayats in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur district boycotted the bypoll to the Mandi Lok Sabha seat on Saturday in protest against the construction of a hydro-electric project, which they claimed will adversely affect the environment.Besides these panchayats, villagers in four polling stations in Shimla district also boycotted the bypoll over bad condition of roads in their area.The bypolls to the Mandi parliamentary constituency was held along with byelections to the Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly seats in the state.Kinnaur Deputy Commissioner and District Election Officer Apoorv Devgan told PTI that no voter in three panchayats cast their vote till 5 pm. Data after 5 pm is still awaited, he added.There are 1,080 voters in Rarang panchayat, over 500 voters in Jangi panchayat and over 298 voters in Aakpa panchayat in Kinnaur district.Rampur Sub Divisional Magistrate and Assistant Returning Officer Yadvender Pal told PTI that not even a single voter cast their vote in Runupu, Khori and Sharan polling stations, while only six exercised their franchise at the Jarashi polling station in Shimla district.On the boycott of the bypoll by the three panchayats, villagers said the decision was taken to protest the construction of the Jangi Thopan Powari Hydro-Electric Project and claimed that the project will adversely affect the environment of the area.The villagers said that four people cast their vote at Rarang panchayat’s Aryan polling station. But they are not “permanent residents” of the area, they claimed.The villagers said that the government has not paid any heed to their objections to the project and therefore, the decision to boycott the bypoll had to be taken. People were left with no other choice, they said.Members of the Dafla Sports Club in Kanam village also did not cast their vote in support of the three panchayats boycott call, the villagers said from the three panchayats of Kinnaur district said.In Shimla district, none of the 268 voters of Runupu polling station in Runupu village of Kinnu panchayat, 204 voters of Khori polling station in Kungal Balti panchayat and 265 voters of Sharan polling station in Naren panchayat cast their votes. Only six of total 166 voters at Jarashi polling station in Sharan panchayat cast their votes.Villagers, who are voters of these polling stations, said that they had demanded several times from the government to improve the condition of roads.The demand was never met, and with no other choice left, the decision to boycott the bypoll was taken, they said.The residents of Sharan and Jarashi had also sent a memorandum to Shimla Deputy Commissioner Aditya Negi and election commission through the SDM, the villagers said.The Mandi seat fell vacant after the death of BJP MP Ram Swaroop Sharma. He was found dead at his official residence in Delhi on March 17.The Mandi bypoll saw a direct contest between Pratibha Singh of the Congress and Kargil war hero Brigadier Khushal Chand Thakur of the BJP.Besides them, Ambika Shyam of the Rashtriya Lokniti Party, Munshi Ram Thakur of the Himachal Jankranti Party and independent candidates Anil Kumar and Subhash Mohan Snehi are also in the fray in the Mandi bypoll. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/voters-in-3-panchayats-in-kinnaur-district-boycott-bypoll-to-mandi-lok-sabha-seat-332065
30-10-2021||---||Himachal’s highest polling booth sees 100% voting||Shimla, October 30The highest polling booth in Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi parliamentary bypoll, which saw a low of minus 16 degrees, on Saturday recorded 100 per cent polling, election officials said here.The polling booth in Tashigang village in Lahaul-Spiti district had 47 voters, including 18 women. Donning traditional dresses, most of the electorate reached the booth to cast their votes.Tashi Chojam, who was the first to cast her vote, said: “We must exercise our franchise. I am happy to be part of the democratic process”. Seventy-year-old Sakya Dolma said she exercised her right to vote every time. “Today also I did it.” The Election Commission had set up the model polling booth with a selfie point with the Himalayas in the background.Assistant Returning Officer Mohinder Partap Singh said there was 100 per cent polling at the Tashigang booth.The counting of ballots for the Mandi parliamentary seat will take place on November 2 along with the state’s three assembly seats where the polling was also held on Saturday. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachals-highest-polling-booth-sees-100-voting-332053
30-10-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||At 104, independent India’s first voter Shyam Saran Negi casts his vote in Mandi Lok Sabha bypoll||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 30Not the one to miss his date with polling, 104-year-old Shyam Saran Negi, Independent India’s first voter, was accorded a red carpet as he reached the polling station at Kalpa in the tribal district of Kinnaur to cast his vote for the Mandi Lok Sabha by-election, polling for which is being held on Saturday.Having turned down the offer to cast his vote from the comfort of his home, considering his age, Negi cast his vote for the Mandi bypoll at Kalpa-05 polling station in Kinnaur.Frail yet strong in resolve to understand the significance of casting his vote, an alert Negi assisted by his family in a wheel chair reached the polling station to cast his vote. He was honoured with a scarf and flowers as he said he was fortunate never to have missed voting in any election.Negi has the honour of being the first voter of independent India when he cast his vote for the general election on October 25, 1951. The polling in the snow-bound tribal areas was held five months prior to rest of the country, giving Negi the honour of being Independent India’s first voter.The tribal Assembly constituency of Kinnaur is one of the 17 Assembly segments that constitute the Mandi parliamentary segment, where polling is being held on Saturday.Negi has always taken pride in exercising his right to franchise, notwithstanding his age and health. Each time he walks to the polling station to cast his vote, he makes it a point to make a special appeal to everyone to understand the value of one’s vote.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/at-104-independent-indias-first-voter-shyam-saran-negi-casts-his-vote-in-mandi-lok-sabha-bypoll-331999
30-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Kullu: Samples of damaged Bhootnath bridge sent for testing||Kullu, October 29A team of experts has taken samples of Bhootnath bridge and sent the data to Dubai for examination. Five tests were conducted on the damaged portion. The bridge has been lying closed for traffic for almost three years.A 30-tonne tipper was parked on different parts of the bridge to examine its infrastructure in addition to the static load capacity. The data collected has been sent to experts in Dubai, who will determine further course of action after scanning the data.About bhootnath bridgeThe sample report will be received within 15 days and the repair work of the bridge will be done based on the report. The expert team of Freyssinet Menard Company and Public Works department (PWD) were involved in taking of the samples.The repair work of the damaged portion of the bridge had commenced in January 2020. The repair work was, however, hampered after the outbreak of Covid. The PWD has been postponing the completion of repairs and restoration of the bridge for traffic.Importantly, the repair work of the damaged bridge is being carried out by spending Rs 2.68 crore, while it was built with a budget of Rs 10 crore. The foundation stone of this 96-metre bridge built on the Beas was laid in 2005. It was completed in 2013 and it developed cracks in 2018. It connects the left bank bypass to the right bank road near the Kullu bus stand in the Sarwari area of Kullu town.KK Sharma, Superintending Engineer, PWD, Kullu, said that the samples have been sent to the company’s head office in Dubai for investigation and the repair work will be carried out after the sample report is received. He said that the expert team has checked every aspect of the bridge. The retrofitting work will be started soon. He added that if the test report is okay, the repair work will be completed within one-and-a-half months.The residents are hopeful that their traffic woes would end once the repair work on the bridge is done and it is restored for traffic. The traffic problem has escalated in Kullu town due to the closure of the bridge and agriculturists of the left bank region are particularly hassled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-samples-of-damaged-bhootnath-bridge-sent-for-testing-331700
30-10-2021||---||Rakesh Pathania to sue Rajan Sushant for defamation||Dharamsala, October 29Forest and Sports Minister Rakesh Pathania today said that he would file a defamation case for Rs 2 crore against former BJP parliamentarian Rajan Sushant, who is contesting the Fatehpur Assembly byelection as an Independent candidate.Pathania, while addressing mediapersons here, said that during election campaigning in Fatehpur, Sushant levelled allegations that earlier forest guards were recruited at the rate of Rs 9 lakh but now the rate had increased to Rs 22 lakh. He added that it was shocking to hear such allegations from a five-time MLA and former minister.“I have discussed the matter with Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, BJP president Suresh Kashyap and organising secretary Pawan Rana. These leaders have advised me to file a defamation case against Rajan Sushant and I am going to move court in the matter soon,” he said.Pathania said that Sushant was the Revenue Minister in the BJP government between 1998 and 2003 and he should tell people at what rate patwaris were recruited during that time. He added that Sushant had sensationalised the issue of the thrashing of SDO Sanjay Bharadwaj at the IPH rest house in the Sansarpur Terrace area two days ago. The SDO was drunk and in the morning he even could not identify the PSO of Industry Minister Bikram Thakur against whom he had levelled the allegation of beating him, he added.Pathania said that Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri had manufactured the issue of shifting of the office of Chief Engineer (Projects) of the IPH Department from Fatehpur to Mandi district. “If he was so concerned about the shifting of the office, he should have taken up the issue in the Assembly session. He is now raising the matter to influence voters,” he added.The minister claimed that the BJP would win the Fatehpur byelection. Meanwhile, Sushant was not available for his comments over Pathania’s allegations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rakesh-pathania-to-sue-rajan-sushant-for-defamation-331711
30-10-2021||---||BJP desperate to win Himachal bypoll, can use unfair means: Congress||Shimla, October 29Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Rathore today said his party had a serious apprehension of booth capturing and large-scale distribution of liquor by the BJP to sway the voters.Addressing mediapersons here today, he said the Congress had asked its workers to make videos and collect proof as the BJP was desperate to win and can resort to all unfair means. “We apprehend booth capturing in Seraj, the Assembly segment represented by the Chief Minister. So, we urge the Election Commission of India (ECI) to ensure that there is no such illegal activity,” Rathore demanded.Rathore fears booth capturing in SerajWe apprehend booth capturing in the Seraj Assembly segment represented by the Chief Minister. So, we urge the Election Commission of India to ensure that no such illegal activity takes place. —Kuldeep Rathore,  HPCC presidentHe said, “The Chief Minister was seen moving around with a cavalcade in his Assembly segment of Seraj in Mandi yesterday. He also addressed an election meeting, which was a clear violation of model code of conduct,” said Rathore. He expressed surprise that despite complaint by the Congress, no action had been taken.“The officials in the ECI were not available in case we wish to meet them to bring issues to their concern”, he alleged. Sharing details of the complaints made by the Congress, he said 111 complaints were filed by the party before the ECI from all over the state. “However, we have not got any response”, he said.He said people would cast their vote on the issue of price rise, unemployment, deteriorating law and order situation and for safeguarding everyone’s future. “These bypolls will lay the foundation of the 2022 Assembly polls next year which the Congress will win,” he said.He said BJP candidates are fighting to save their security deposits. “Seeing the response of the voters, the Congress will register victory in all four byelections,” he claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-desperate-to-win-himachal-bypoll-can-use-unfair-means-congress-331713
30-10-2021||---||Holiday in Mandi today||Mandi, October 29In view of the byelection, Mandi Deputy Commissioner Arindam Chaudhari today declared a public holiday on October 30.He said that all government offices, institutions, public undertakings, factories and other establishments would remain closed tomorrow.“It will also be a paid holiday for daily wage earners. Employees belonging to the district serving in different parts of the state may be given special casual leave for voting. For this, they will have to produce a certificate of voting issued by the presiding officer of their polling station,” he said.“Special care will be taken to follow Covid-19 guidelines. Polling stations will be fully sanitised before and after polling. On duty personnel will be given masks, face shields, gloves etc. Along with this, all voters will also be given masks and gloves and they will be allowed to press the EVM button only after wearing gloves,” Chaudhari said.“Special arrangements have been made for Covid patients to vote in the last hour of polling,” he added.The Deputy Commissioner urged the voters to exercise their right to franchise for the Mandi Lok Sabha byelection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/holiday-in-mandi-today-331715
30-10-2021||---||Councillors flay SJPNL for water shortage in Shimla||Shimla, October 29Councillors slammed the Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited (SJPNL) for water shortage and its “autocratic attitude” in the monthly MC House here today. Alleging that there was no reason at the moment for giving water supply on the third or the fourth day, the councillors raised questions over the functioning of the company.“In my ward, Annadale, water is coming on the third and the fourth day. It’s neither summer nor rainy season now, which can affect the supply. So, why the company is not providing water regularly,” asked Kusum Sadrate, councillor of Annadale.Supply on third or fourth dayIn Annadale, water is coming on the third and the fourth day. It’s neither summer nor rainy season now, which can affect the supply. —Kusum Sadrate, Councillor of annadaleDivakar Sharma, councillor from Majaith, said the company was providing 70,000 to 80,000 litres of water to Totu and Majaith, while it had promised 2.70 lakh litres per day. “People are facing problems because of water shortage,” said Sharma. “This is happening when the MC is 51 per cent stakeholder in the company. The MC hardly has any control over the firm,” he said.MC Commissioner Ashish Kohli cleared the air over allocating houses, which are being built in Krishna Nagar for the poor. “The MC employees have been shifted to the houses being built under Rajiv Awas Yojna temporarily. They will vacate these houses once their own houses, being constructed through Shimla Smart City Mission, are ready,” said Kohli.As many as 64 houses are being constructed under the Rajiv Awas Yojana to rehabilitee the poor in the locality. The MC has shifted its employees to 16 of these houses. “All 64 houses being built under the Rajiv Awas Yojana should be ready in a couple of months. The beneficiaries have been identified. All 64 houses will be given to the rightful beneficiaries,” the MC Commissioner said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/councillors-flay-sjpnl-for-water-shortage-in-shimla-331717
30-10-2021||Mandi||Manali-Leh highway opened after snowfall||The Border Roads Organisation threw open the Manali-Leh highway for traffic movement last evening. This highway had remained blocked since October 17 due to heavy snowfall near Baralacha pass.Deputy Commissioner, Lahaul and Spiti, Neeraj Kumar said, “In view of public safety, civil traffic is restricted on this highway from Darcha ahead towards Leh. However, the movement of Army vehicles is allowed towards Leh from Lahaul side.”“We will review the situation of the highway tomorrow and thereafter a decision will be taken to restore it for normal traffic,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-leh-highway-opened-after-snowfall-331718
30-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Raft capsizes in Beas, 2 tourists drown||Kullu, October 29Two women tourists were drowned as a raft capsized in the Beas near Chharudu, 4 km from here, today.Kullu SP Gurdev Sharma said that a group of 11 women had arrived in Manali on October 27. They today boarded two rafts at Babeli with six of them in one raft and five in another. He added that the raft in the front capsized while negotiating a rapid and all six occupants fell into the river.One killed as bike falls into ditchSharma said that those who drowned were identified as Rukia Dahod (75), a resident of Mumbai, and Sakera Bombaywala (53), a resident of Indore. However, the guides were able to rescue the other four. He added that the bodies of the victims were recovered. A case has been registered.There are over 300 rafts operating in Raison, Babeli, Bashing, Pirdi, Bhuntar and Bajaura, which provide employment to local youths. As several fatal accidents have occurred involving these adventure sports in the past, the Tourism Department has enforced strict norms for them. Licences have been provided to the guides for rafting, which have to be renewed frequently. A technical monitoring committee carries out periodic inspection of the equipment and the guides to ensure the safety of the revellers. The committee also repeatedly directs the operators to adhere to the norms and conduct adventure activities safely.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/raft-capsizes-in-beas-2-tourists-drown-331720
30-10-2021||---||257 new Covid cases, three deaths in Himachal||Shimla, October 29As many as 257 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally of total cases to 2,23,876. Besides, three persons succumbed to the virus, including two in Hamirpur and one in Shimla.The highest number of 114 cases was reported in Kangra, followed by 45 in Hamirpur, 27 in Bilaspur, 23 in Mandi, 18 in Shimla, 12 in Una, seven each in Chamba and Solan, three in Kullu and one in Sirmaur. With this the number of active cases rose to 1,978.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/257-new-covid-cases-three-deaths-in-himachal-331723
30-10-2021||Palampur||CSK HP Agriculture University, SJVN to train 1,000 Himachal farmers||CSK HP Agriculture University and Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam (SJVN) Foundation have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to train 1,000 farmers of the state.Vice-Chancellor Prof HK Chaudhary said skill development programmes for aspiring farmers and entrepreneurs of Himachal would help them in a variety of income generating professional activities. It would enable farmers to learn integrated agriculture and some of them may even adopt start-up programmes in agri-entrepreneurship. This year, 40 groups of 25 farmers each would be trained by the university at the Directorate of Extension Education and the Krishi Vigyan Kendras. SJVN Foundation would provide Rs 78.13 lakh for the training camps.Prof Chaudhary appreciated the SJVN for its endeavours to uplift farmers and livestock keepers. The university and the SJVN Foundation have been organising the training programmes since 2016 and more than 3,000 farmers have been trained. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/csk-hp-agriculture-university-sjvn-to-train-1-000-himachal-farmers-331724
30-10-2021||---||Blast in Baddi pharma unit, five workers hurt||Solan, October 29Five workers were injured in a blast in the tablet section of Shri Nivas Gujarat Laboratory at Bagvania village in the Baddi industrial area around noon today.According to DSP, Baddi, Navdeep Singh, a blast occurred in a drier, resulting in a fire in the production area of the pharmaceutical unit at Bagvania village. Five workers, including three women, were injured. They were admitted to a local hospital and their condition was stated to be stable.The blast reportedly occurred due to a short circuit and cracks due to its impact were visible on the walls while windowpanes also broke. Fire engines were rushed from Baddi to douse the fire. A case under Sections 336, and 287 of the IPC has been registered against the company management and a probe is underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/blast-in-baddi-pharma-unit-five-workers-hurt-331727
30-10-2021||Bhanu P lohumi||Ineligible Himachal institutes ‘given NOCs’ for training of nursing students||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 29The Himachal Pradesh Nursing institutions Association has accused the state authorities of giving no objection certificates (NOCs) to ineligible institutions for clinical training of nursing students in violation of norms.Plaint to be forwarded to Nursing CouncilI have received the complaint, which will be forwarded to the Indian Nursing Council and the state authorities for further action. —Major Gen Atul Kaushik (retd), Chairman, HPPEIRCIn a complaint to the Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPEIRC), office-bearers of the association have stated that as per the Indian Nursing Council (INC) criteria for giving the NOC to a hospital attached to a nursing college, the student-patient ratio should be 1:3 and the institution must have a minimum of 150 beds. However, the government has given NOCs to some hospitals with 30, 40 or 50 beds and even primary health centres have been counted for meeting the requirement of minimum 150 beds. After getting NOCs by manipulation, such hospitals manage to get permission for clinical training in institutions such as the IGMC, Kamla Nehru Hospital and the Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Hospital, which are already overburdened, the complaint states.“In such a situation, how can quality education be imparted when the government has made a mockery of the system,” it says. The government has delayed admissions to nursing colleges by eight to 10 months and students may opt for nursing colleges outside the state, resulting in seats remaining vacant in Himachal.Further, besides getting the fee structure approved by the government, the colleges have to pay the affiliation and recognition fee, which works out to be Rs 5 lakh to Rs 10 lakh per year. Even during 2020-21 when occupancy was 20 per cent to 50 per cent, the colleges were forced to pay the charges, the complainant states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ineligible-himachal-institutes-given-nocs-for-training-of-nursing-students-331730
30-10-2021||---||IGMC-Shimla forms panel to help claim ex-gratia||Shimla, October 29The IGMC has formed a committee to provide required documents to the next of kin of the person who died of Covid-19 to claim the ex-gratia amount of Rs 50,000 from the government.“As most people were struggling to collect the documents, the IGMC has formed a committee that will help people get these documents from the hospital,” said Dr Rahul Gupta, a member of the committee.The hospital has released the format of the application, which the people requiring the documents will need to submit to the MS office.“They just need to fill up the deceased’s name and the relationship between them. Also needed would be the Aadhaar card and the contact number of the claimant,” said Dr Gupta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/igmc-shimla-forms-panel-to-help-claim-ex-gratia-331732
30-10-2021||The Department of Computer Science||Activities on e-safety at Government College, Arki||Workshop on geometrical theoremsA three-day capacity training workshop on visual explanation of geometrical theorems concluded at Health, Family and Welfare Training Centre, Parimahal, Shimla. The workshop was orgainsed by the Himachal Pradesh Council for Science, Technology & Environment (HIMCOSTE) and the Punjab State Council for Science & Technology (PSCST) jointly, with support from the NCSTC, DST, Government of India, for 30 mathematics teachers from 11 districts of Himachal Pradesh. The master resource person for the workshop was Gurmeet Singh, who has patented an educational kit, which practically demonstrates more than 14 geometrical theorems, to cover more than 90 per cent of the syllabus of Classes VI to X. KS Bath,Talk on environment conservationVarious events were organised at Government Postgraduate Degree College and Government Senior Secondary School in Chamba to mark ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’. Various speakers emphasised the need to conserve environment, wildlife and forest wealth. Arun Sharma, a social activist, who represented the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), delivered a lecture on fundamental duties of Indian citizens as described in the Constitution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/activities-on-e-safety-at-government-college-arki-331734
30-10-2021||---||Shoolini University, Vardhman Textiles Limited sign MoU for research in nanotechnology||Solan, October 29In a bid to encourage industry-academia partnership, Shoolini University has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Vardhman Textiles Limited (VTL) who will contribute Rs 3 crore for research in nanotechnology.By putting nano-materials and techniques to use in the state-of-the-art lab, Shoolini University aims to work for environmental detoxification, clean energy production and waste utilisation.Rs 3-crore grantThe MoU was signed by Shoolini University Chancellor Prof PK Khosla and Vardhman Textiles director and chairman of CSR, Prafull Anubhai Patel, in the presence of S P Oswal, chairman and Managing Director of Vardhman Group.“Industry-academia partnership is the right step for application of research for societal benefits. The support that Vardhman is giving for establishing this lab in Shoolini University will go a long way in promoting this. The lab is named after SP Oswal’s father - Ratan Chand Oswal Himalayan Center of Excellence in Nantoechnology — will help to sprout the seeds of this joint partnership,” said Prof Khosla.Praful Anubhai Patel from Vardhman said that the group was committed to holistic development and considered education and quality healthcare facilities as essentials. “With sustainable development as our goal, we find it a privilege to be able to give back. As a responsible corporate citizen, we willingly contribute to social cause and participate in the development of communities that host us.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shoolini-university-vardhman-textiles-limited-sign-mou-for-research-in-nanotechnology-331736
30-10-2021||The PWD should inform in advance when and where they are planning metalling and tarring of the road. Over the past few days||No prior info on metalling of roads||SFI-ABVP clash not overIt’s really sad to see the SFI and the ABVP students clashing over the past few days. Even the girls at Rajkiya Kanya Mahavidyalaya have come to blows, which is unfortunate. The college administration should take strict action in this regard. — Santosh Verma, SanjauliWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-prior-info-on-metalling-of-roads-331740
30-10-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||In Himachal, semis ahead of Assembly poll||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 29About 15.49 lakh voters will decide the fate of 18 candidates in fray for the Mandi Lok Sabha and Jubbal-Kotkhai, Arki and Fatehpur Assembly bypolls tomorrow, being seen as a semifinal ahead of the Himachal Assembly elections next year. The counting of votes will take place on November 2. With campaigning having come to an end yesterday, a majority of the senior politicians, including Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, ministers and Congress bigwigs, spent the day at their native places making last-minute poll calculations. Thakur will cast his vote at Seraj village in Mandi district, following which he is expected to return to Shimla.Pratibha Singh, Congress candidate from Mandi, will cast her vote along with her family in Rampur. The other candidates too cooled theircontinued on page 13from page 1heels at their native places while party workers maintained vigil against allurement of voters by rivals.Election authorities said arrangements were in place to ensure free, fair and peaceful polls as polling parties had already reached their destination, especially the higher reaches that had witnessed snowfall. There are 12,99,756 voters in Mandi, 87,222 in Fatehpur, 92,609 in Arki and 70,965 in Jubbal-Kotkhai. Polling will take place in 20 of the 68 Assembly segments, including 17 that are part of the Mandi Lok Sabha seat.As many as 2,361 polling centres have been set up for the Mandi parliamentary constituency, 141 in Fatehpur, 154 Arki and 136 Jubbal-Kotkhai. A total of 38,305 first-time voters in the 18-19 age group will cast their vote, which includes 32,077 in Mandi seat. The highest polling station has been set up at 15,226 feet in Tashigong village of tribal Lahaul Spiti district (part of Mandi seat).There will be a total of 36 model polling stations, besides 40 stations to be handled exclusively by women staff.18 in frayBypolls are being held for Mandi LS and Arki, Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly seats||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-himachal-semis-ahead-of-assembly-poll-331584
