31-10-2021||Dharamsala||COP26: Climate change must be addressed on cooperative global level, says Dalai Lama||Ahead of the crucial climate conference in Glasgow, the Dalai Lama on Sunday said issues of climate change must be addressed on a cooperative global level for everyone’s benefit.In his message to the UN conference on climate change known as the Conference of Parties (COP26), the Tibetan spiritual leader said realistic action founded on scientific understanding was needed to tackle climate change.The COP26 summit starting on Sunday will bring parties together to accelerate action towards the goals of the Paris Agreement and the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change.“Today, we need to address the future not with prayers prompted by fear, but by taking realistic action founded on scientific understanding. The inhabitants of our planet are interdependent as never before. Everything we do affects our human companions, as well as innumerable animal and plant species,” he said.“We must confront issues of climate change on a cooperative global level for everyone’s benefit. But we must also do what we can on a personal level,” he said.“Even small daily actions, such as how we use water and how we dispose of what we don’t need, have consequences. We must make taking care of our natural environment a part of our daily life, and learn what science has to teach us,” he added.The Dalai Lama said he was encouraged to see that the younger generations were demanding concrete action on climate change as it gives some hope for the future.The efforts of young activists such as Greta Thunberg to raise awareness about the need to listen to science and act accordingly are crucial. Since their stance is realistic, we must encourage them, he said.“Global warming is an urgent reality. None of us is able to change the past. But we are all in a position to contribute to a better future. Indeed, we have a responsibility to ourselves and to the more than seven billion human beings alive today to ensure that all of us can continue to live in peace and safety,” he said.“With hope and determination, we must take care of both our own lives and those of all our neighbours,” he added.Our ancestors viewed the earth as rich and bountiful, which it is, but what’s more it is our only home. We must protect it not only for ourselves, but also for future generations, and for the countless species with which we share the planet, he said.The Tibetan plateau, the largest reservoir of snow and ice outside the North and the South Poles, has often been called “the Third Pole”, he said.“Tibet is the source of some of the world’s major rivers, among them the Brahmaputra, the Ganges, the Indus, the Mekong, the Salween, the Yellow River and the Yangtze. These rivers are the source of life because they provide drinking water, irrigation for agriculture, and hydropower, for nearly two billion people across Asia,” he said.“The melting of Tibet’s numerous glaciers, the damming and diversion of rivers, and widespread deforestation, exemplify how ecological neglect in one area can have consequences almost everywhere,” he added.The Dalai Lama said he regularly emphasises on the importance of maintaining a sense of the oneness of humanity, the idea that every human being is a part of us.“The threat of global warming and climate change is not limited by national boundaries; it affects us all. As we face this crisis together, it is imperative that we act in a spirit of solidarity and cooperation in order to limit its consequences,” he said.“I hope and pray that our leaders will gather the strength to take collective action to address this emergency, and set a timetable for change. We have to act to make this a safer, greener, happier world,” he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cop26-climate-change-must-be-addressed-on-cooperative-global-level-says-dalai-lama-332373
31-10-2021||---||Highest 78.6% show up in Jubbal-Kotkhai||Shimla, October 30The polling for the byelections to Mandi Lok Sabha and three Assembly seats of Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai today was peaceful. The apple heartland of the Jubbal-Kotkhai segment reported a heavy turnout of 78.69 per cent.As compared to the polling in the three Assembly segments, there was a relatively low polling for the Mandi seat comprising 17 Assembly segments. While there was heavy polling in Seraj, the home segment of the Chief Minister, the polling was low in Rampur, home town of Congress candidate Pratibha Singh, wife of Virbhadra Singh.The voting, which was sluggish in the morning, picked up in the afternoon with brisk polling reported in the last two hours. The final polling in Mandi was 57.73 per cent, 66.20 per cent in Fatehpur, 64.97 per cent in Arki and 78.69 per cent in Jubbal-Kotkhai.The polling was peaceful and there was no report of any violence. Three panchayats in Kinnaur boycotted the poll against the coming up of the Jangi Thopan hydel project.The voter turnout was the highest in Jubbal-Kotkhai with a final percentage of 78.69 per cent by 6 pm. A total of 55,708 votes were polled of a total of 70,792 votes.Men outnumbered women with a voter turnout of 81.9 per cent (28,827) as compared to 75.45 (26,881) per cent by women.At Arki in Solan district, the final polling percentage was 64.97 with 59,701 persons casting their vote of a total of 91,884 electorate.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur was among the first senior leaders to cast his vote at the Bharari polling station under Murhag panchayat in Seraj along with his wife and two daughters.“I urge people to come out in large numbers to exercise their right as this will strengthen democracy,” he said. BJP candidate from Mandi Brig Khushal Thakur (retd) cast his vote at the Nagwain polling booth along with his family.66.20% in FatehpurDharamsala: The Fatehpur constituency witnessed around 66.20 per cent voter turnout today. Of the 87,222 voters, 56,726 exercised their franchise. Long queues of voters were seen at polling booths. Many physically challenged voters came out to vote. The district election authorities made special arrangements for them. The corona patients were allowed to vote through postal ballot.At the Tatwali polling station, a 104-year-old woman, the oldest one in the segment, cast vote. Deputy Commissioner Nipun Jindal said no untoward incident was reported and the polling was peaceful. The constituency was witnessing a triangular contest between Congress candidate Bhawani Singh Pathania, BJP candidate Baldev Thakur and independent Rajan Sushant. The high percentage of voting was being viewed from different perspectives by political parties. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/highest-78-6-show-up-in-jubbal-kotkhai-332272
31-10-2021||Solan||65% polling in Arki||Around 64.97 per cent voting was registered in the Arki byelection in Solan district today. Polling began at a sluggish pace with barely 7 per cent votes cast in the first hour till 9 am.The lowest polling of 47.66 per cent was registered at the Sanog polling booth while the highest polling of 81.70 per cent was witnessed at the Jandu booth.Only two booths registered more than 80 per cent polling while 31 booths registered more than 70 per cent voting. Less than 50 per cent voting was registered in two booths at Sanog and Kunihar.Congress candidate Sanjay Awasthi cast his vote at Kandar while BJP candidate Rattan Pal Singh at Vikrampur.Enthusiasm among elderly women was phenomenal, as they turned out at the polling booths. Despite the option of postal ballots for voters above 80 years of age, only a few opted for it.Meanwhile, all eyes were on disgruntled BJP leaders such as former MLA Govind Ram Sharma, who cast his vote at the Kotli polling booth and Zila Parishad member Asha Parihar, who cast her vote at Domehar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/65-polling-in-arki-332273
31-10-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||104-yr-old Shyam Saran Negi casts vote for 33rd time||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 30Not the one to miss his date with polling, 104-year-old Shyam Saran Negi, independent India’s first voter, was accorded a red carpet welcome as he reached the polling station at Kalpa in Kinnaur district to cast his vote in the Mandi Lok Sabha byelection today.Negi had turned down the offer to vote from the comfort of his home, considering his age, and exercised his right to franchise for the 33rd time in his life at Kalpa-05 polling station.“I consider myself fortunate to have never missed voting in any election till date, since I cast my vote for the first time on October 25, 1951,” he said.Frail yet strong in resolve to understand the significance of casting vote, an alert Negi assisted by his family members in a wheel-chair reached the polling station. He was honoured by the district administration with a Bushairi green cap, khatak (scarf) and flowers amid the playing of traditional instruments.The polling in the snow bound tribal areas was held five months prior to rest of the country, giving Negi the honour of being Independent India’s first voter.Negi has always taken pride in exercising his right to franchise, notwithstanding his age and health. Each time he walks to the polling station to cast his vote, he makes it a point to make a special appeal to everyone to understand the importance of one’s vote.The tribal constituency of Kinnaur is one of the 17 Assembly segments constituting the Mandi parliamentary segment. The counting of votes will take place on November 2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/104-yr-old-shyam-saran-negi-casts-vote-for-33rd-time-332274
31-10-2021||Mandi||100% voting at highest booth in Tashigang||Situated at 15,226 feet, Tashigang, the world’s highest polling station in Lahaul and Spiti district, recorded 100 per cent polling in the Mandi Lok Sabha byelection today. There are a total of 47 voters, including 18 female.Assistant returning officer Mahender Pratap Singh said, “Despite the minus temperature at the Tashigang polling station, 100 per cent voting was recorded here today. All 47 voters cast their vote. Apart from this, five EDC (Election Duty Certificate) also cast their vote at this polling station. Officials posted at this polling station wore the traditional attire of Lahaul and Spiti.”Tashigang was decorated in a traditional way, where employees on election duty welcomed the voters by wearing the traditional attire of this district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/100-voting-at-highest-booth-in-tashigang-332275
31-10-2021||Shimla||3 Kinnaur  panchayats boycott Mandi bypoll||The gram panchayats of Rarang, Jangi and Akpa in Kinnaur district today boycotted the Mandi Lok Sabha byelection in protest against the proposed 860 MW Jangi Thopan hydroelectric project in the area.The local deity had also given a decree for the poll boycott, and as a result almost 3,000 voters in the three panchayats did not exercise their right to franchise. Only four votes were cast at the Aryan polling booth outside these villages. The Youth Club of Kanam panchayat in Kinnaur, too, boycotted the byelection.There are 1,080 voters in Rarang panchayat, over 500 in Jangi and 298 in Akpa panchayat. The polling booths set up in these panchayats wore a deserted look throughout the day with no person turning up to cast vote. The villagers did not accede to the request of officials trying to persuade them to exercise their right to vote. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-kinnaur-panchayats-boycott-mandi-bypoll-332276
31-10-2021||Lalit Mohan||Congress leader GS Bali to be cremated with state honours||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, October 30Senior Congress leader GS Bali (67) passed away in AIIMS, Delhi, early morning today. Sources said that Bali had undergone a kidney transplant at a private hospital in Delhi. He developed postoperative complications and was shifted to AIIMS, where he died.Had undergone kidney transplantHis last remains were brought in an air ambulance to the Gaggal airport this evening and from there taken to his family house in Kangra. He would be cremated at the Chamundaji temple cremation ground tomorrow. Bali's body would be kept at the OBC Bhawan in the Nagrota Bagwan Assembly constituency for his supporters to pay their last respects to him.Meanwhile, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur expressed condolence over Bali's death. The Chief Secretary today issued orders that Bali's funeral would be held with state honours. The Kangra Deputy Commissioner and the SP would represent the government at the cremation.Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar also expressed grief over Bali's demise and prayed to the almighty to give peace to the departed soul and strength to the bereaved family.Viplove Thakur, a former Rajya Sabha member, and Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said his death was an irreparable loss to the people of Kangra and the Himachal Congress. Bali's was elected MLA from the Nagrota Bagwan Assembly constituency on the Congress ticket in 1998. He won four times consequently from the constituency from 1998 to 2017. He was a minister in the Congress government from 2003 to 2007 and again from 2012 to 2017. As Transport Minister, he got his personal phone number painted on all HRTC buses, which made him popular in the entire state. He lost the 2017 Assembly election to his former supporter and BJP candidate Arun Kumar.Bali was known for having good relations with leaders of all parties, bureaucrats and the business community. He built a business empire in the Kangra region comprising Fortis Hospital, hotels and commercial complexes. In Nagrota Bagwan, he is known for helping the needy financially directly or through his charitable society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-leader-gs-bali-to-be-cremated-with-state-honours-332277
31-10-2021||Shimla||Himachal HC’s jolt to police over pay structure||If a person participates in a recruitment process without protest/prejudice, such an incumbent cannot assail the process thereafter. This was held by the HP High Court while dealing with a petition filed by police constables for the grant of the revised pay structure on the completion of two years of regular service instead of eight years.Rejecting the plea of the petitioners, Justice Ajay Mohan Goel observed, “The revised pay band and grade pay was payable to the constables after eight years of regular service as a condition of recruitment notice to which the petitioners responded and participated. It is not in dispute that the petitioners neither challenged the condition at the time of participating in the process of recruitment, nor participated in the process, subject to their right to assail the condition”. The court observed, “Pursuant to the issuance of the recruitment notice on September 6, 2015, it was open for the petitioners not to respond to it, if they were not satisfied with the terms and conditions of the appointment, including the pay scale.Rejecting the prayer of the petitioners, the court held that in the advertisement, it was clearly mentioned that the revised pay band and grade pay was payable to the constables after eight years of regular service.However, disposing of the petition, the court clarified, “The non-grant of the relief to the petitioners by the court shall not come in the way of the state government if it does intend to revisit the number of years of regular service, which a constable has to put in after his appointment for the grant of the revised pay scale and grade pay.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-hcs-jolt-to-police-over-pay-structure-332278
31-10-2021||Shimla||145 new cases, five deaths in Himachal||As many as 145 cases were reported today. Besides, five persons died of the virus — two each in Hamirpur and Kangra and one in Mandi. As many as 46 cases were recorded in Kangra, 32 in Hamirpur and 21 in Mandi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/145-new-cases-five-deaths-in-himachal-332279
31-10-2021||Shimla||Diwali: Green crackers allowed for 2 hours in Himachal||Complying with the directions of the Supreme Court, the state government has banned the use of conventional firecrackers on Diwali and other occasions like Gurpurb, Christmas and New Year.The government has, though, allowed the use of green crackers for a limited time period to celebrate these occasions. “The government has issued directions to administrative authorities and other stakeholders that only green crackers will be allowed for a very short duration on these occasions,” said a press release issued by the HP State Pollution Control Board today.As per the release, people can burst green crackers from 8 pm to 10 pm on Diwali. On Gurpurb, falling on November 19, people can burst green crackers from 4 am to 5 am and then from 9 pm to 10 pm. For Christmas and New Year celebrations, the time slot is from 11:55 pm to 12:30 am. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/diwali-green-crackers-allowed-for-2-hours-in-himachal-332280
31-10-2021|| Solan||Adulterated sweets factory unearthed in Sirmaur district||Food safety officials today unearthed a factory manufacturing adulterated sweets at Mahipur in Sirmaur district. Food safety officer Sunil Sharma, who raided the premises at 11 am, found three workers engaged in making various sweets in unhygienic conditions with dead insects in them. The sweets were meant to be sold during the festive season of Diwali and were being prepared in the open in large containers.Sharma said that three quintals of adulterated sweets were destroyed and four samples of various materials were lifted for lab analysis. The factory was operating without registration or licence and its owner Saif Ali was challaned under the provisions of the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/adulterated-sweets-factory-unearthed-in-sirmaur-district-332281
31-10-2021||Hamirpur||Rakesh Thakur Himachal Pradesh Kho-Kho Association chairman||Rakesh Thakur, a former Zila Parishad chairman, was unanimously elected the chairman of the Himachal Pradesh Kho-Kho Association, here yesterday. He said that the first-ever national kho-kho championship in the state would be held in Una from November 27 onwards. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rakesh-thakur-himachal-pradesh-kho-kho-association-chairman-332282
31-10-2021||---||57.7% polling in Mandi||Shimla, October 30The polling for the byelections to the Mandi Lok Sabha and three Assembly seats of Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai today was peaceful with a heavy turnout in the apple heartland of Jubbal-Kotkhai at almost 79 per cent.As compared to the polling in the three Assembly seats, there was relatively low polling of 57.73 per cent for the Mandi parliamentary seat, comprising 17 Assembly segments. While there was 67.67 per cent turnout in Seraj, the Assembly segment of the CM in Mandi, the polling was moderate at 58 per cent in Rampur, the home town of Congress candidate Pratibha Singh.The outcome of the bypolls holds great significance for Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and at the same time it will decide political fate of Pratibha Singh, who contested the polls for the first time without the support of her late husband Virbhadra Singh. Voting, which was sluggish in the morning, picked up in the afternoon. The overall polling in the 17 segments of the Mandi constituency was 57.7%, with the lowest turnout being at 46.72% in Sarkagaht. The polling was 66.20% in Fatehpur, 64.97% in Arki and 78.69% in Jubbal-Kotkhai. Three Kinnaur panchayats boycotted the poll in protest against the upcoming Jangi Thopan Hydel Project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/57-7-polling-in-mandi-332186
31-10-2021||---||Himachal byelections: 55% polling for Mandi Lok Sabha seat; heavy turnout for Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly constituency||Shimla, October 30The polling for the byelections to the Mandi Lok Sabha and three Assembly seats of Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai on Saturday was peaceful with a heavy turnout in the apple heartland of Jubbal-Kotkhai at almost 79 per cent.As compared to the polling in the three Assembly seats, there was relatively low polling of 55 per cent for the Mandi parliamentary seat, comprising 17 Assembly segments. While there was 67.67 per cent turnout in Seraj, the Assembly segment of the CM in Mandi, the polling was moderate at 58 per cent in Rampur, the home town of Congress candidate Pratibha Singh.The outcome of the bypolls holds great significance for Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and at the same time it will decide political fate of Pratibha Singh, who contested the polls for the first time without the support of her late husband Virbhadra Singh.Voting, which was sluggish in the morning, picked up in the afternoon. The overall polling in the 17 Assembly segments of the Mandi Lok Sabha constituency was 55 per cent, with the lowest turnout being at 46.72 per cent in Sarkagaht in Mandi district. The polling was 66.20 per cent in Fatehpur, 64.97 per cent in Arki and 78.69 per cent in Jubbal-Kotkhai.Three panchayats in Kinnaur boycotted the poll in protest against the upcoming Jangi Thopan Hydel Project.The polling was peaceful as there was no report of any violence or untoward incident. The counting of votes will be taken up on November 2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-byelections-55-polling-for-mandi-lok-sabha-seat-heavy-turnout-for-jubbal-kotkhai-assembly-constituency-331961
31-10-2021||---||Himachal Congress leader GS Bali dies at 67||Dharamsala, October 30Himachal Congress leader GS Bali died in New Delhi on Friday night.He was 67.He had undergone a kidney transplant and was admitted to AIIMS in New Delhi following post-operation complications.His son and AICC secretary RS Bali took to Facebook to break the news.His body will be brought to Kangra on Saturday.Bali was a four-time MLA from Nagrota Bagwan and remained a minister in the Congress government from 2003 to 2007 and from 2012 to 2017.Leader of opposition in state Assembly Mukesh Agnihotri expressed grief on Bali's demise.In a Facebook post, he said Bali's body would be brought to Himachal Pradesh and kept for 'antim darshan' for the public.Born on July 27, 1954 in Kangra, Gurmukh Singh Bali was a diploma holder in mechanical engineering.He served as the food supply, transport and technical education minister in the Congress governments.A founder president of Himachal Nagrik Sudhar Sabha, Bali was vice chairman and later chairman of the Himachal Social Bodies Federation.He was the Convener of the Indian National Congress Vichar Manch from 1990 to 1997.He was also president of the Congress Seva Dal from 1995 to 1998 and the joint secretary of the Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee from 1993 to 1998.His body will be flown to Dharamsala on Saturday evening and the last rites will be performed in Chamunda Dham on Sunday, according to family sources.His son said: “With a very sad heart, I have to inform you that my father and your dear Shri GS Bali ji is no more. Last night he breathed his last at AIIMS in Delhi. My father always used to say, whether GS Bali is in the world or not, he will always be in the hearts of his supporters. His ideals and guidance will always remain in our hearts.” With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-congress-leader-gs-bali-dies-at-67-331960
