01-06-2020||News||Leading India to full independence, writes Rajnath Singh||Great changes are witnessed in history on rare occasions. 2014 was such a time for India when it saw momentous changes in its political history. At that time, people wanted to get rid of an incapable and corrupt government. This is what drove them to vote the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), led by Narendra Modi, to power. People generally don’t repose enough trust in an incumbent government to vote it back to power a second time. Modi is one of the few leaders in Indian history to have been voted in successively, and with an even greater mandate, to office. While the 2014 mandate was for change, the 2019 one was a clear indication of the people’s acceptance and trust in the changes that were brought by his government. However, when people put such faith in any political leader, the challenge he faces in fulfilling their aspirations and expectations is huge. This requires a substantial degree of political credibility. But in 2019, when the BJP government came to power again, Prime Minister (PM) Modi took several decisions in a courageous and determined manner to fulfil the promises made, something which has remained the ideological foundation of the party. In doing so over the last one year, Modi has enhanced his credibility and that of the BJP. In fact, the last year can be considered a milestone from the credibility perspective for politics. Whatever one’s political ideology, on this count, the political fraternity should acknowledge Modi ’s contribution. Also read: The PM must support workers, encourage rural economy, revive industry | OpinionThe abrogation of Article 370, the abolition of triple talaq, amendments in the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and paving the way for the construction of a temple at the Ram Janmabhoomi site in Ayodhya makes the year memorable on many counts — social, political and constitutional. Muslims women have long been victims of the practice of talaq-e-biddat, which makes it easy for a husband to divorce his wife by uttering a few words. They do not have to fear this now. In fact, the abolition of this practice has given Muslim women their self-respect back. After the Supreme Court judgment on Ram Janmabhoomi , the degree of peace and amity that was seen across the country, counts, in my view, as a seminal achievement of the Modi government in the last one year. Our political ideology is based on Ram’s ideals of Ram Rajya, which enjoins upon everyone to live in peace while practising their own religions. While Modi tried to reverse the crisis of credibility in politics, the Opposition parties did the opposite when on the issue of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act or CAA, they issued hostile statements. The states ruled by them passed resolutions and sullied the issue. India is a secular nation, and being a global power, it is our constitutional duty to help those people who suffer from religious persecutions in our neighbourhood. Amending CAA to give citizenship to the persecuted religious minorities, is, I feel, an unprecedented step in the history of secularism. But vested political interests tried to create baseless misconceptions among the Muslim community. The first year of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA)-2 government saw more assistance for farmers, better working conditions for labourers, small shop owners and other micro, medium and small enterprises, and assured pension for the elderly. Also read | Modi 2.0: Successes, defects and a challengeAs defence minister, the first thing that I wanted was to create the office of the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), which had been pending and could facilitate better coordination among the forces. On August 15, 2019, the PM, in his address to the nation from the Red Fort, announced the creation of the post of CDS. In NDA-1, the government resolved the one- rank one-pension issue. In order to make India self-reliant in security terms, the thrust was on domestic production of defence equipment, the indigenous manufacture of guns and rifles with private sector participation, the corporatisation of the Ordnance Factory Board, ensuring the delivery of the state-of-the-art Rafale fighter plane from France and the induction of the indigenously-built fighter jet Tejas into the Indian Air Force. I have flown in both these jet fighters and am proud of India’s defence achievements over the last year. Today, as the world faces the greatest threat in recent history to mankind, the coronavirus pandemic, the PM has displayed both vigilance and competence in fighting this by imposing a strict lockdown at the right time. Today, migrant workers and farmers are going through very difficult challenges. But the government has acted with utmost sensitivity and that is commendable. From ensuring the direct transfer of money into the accounts of poor people and providing them free food grains, to taking inputs from not only politicians but all sections of society, the PM has set the bar for efficient administration very high. Modi displayed his capability for turning challenges into opportunities by implementing, over the last year, several decisions such as allowing farmers to sell their crops anywhere; introducing a one-nation one-ration card system for labourers; changing the definition of small and medium enterprises; and developing India as a major repair maintenance and overhauling hub for aircraft. The effects of all this will be seen in the decades to come.This is the centenary year of the death anniversary of Lokmanya Tilak. He raised the slogan of complete independence for India. Given the kind of work that Modi has undertaken in the service of the nation, it can be said with confidence that the Swarajya dream of Tilak at the beginning of the 20th century will most likely be achieved by the third decade of the 21st century.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/leading-india-to-full-independence/story-glng4UFUFtLDr2THkJ8S3N.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Migrants can visit Ludhiana’s Guru Nanak Stadium on Tuesday, Wednesday to register for Shramik trains||Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said here on Monday that the migrant labourers, who want to travel to their home states by trains and could not get themselves registered earlier, or who are still waiting for their turn, can visit the Guru Nanak Stadium at 11am on Tuesday and Wednesday and get themselves registered. He appealed to migrants not to bring their luggage while coming for registration.He said after their registration, trains would be arranged as per their numbers. He said special counters are being set up at the stadium for the registration of migrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/migrants-can-visit-ludhiana-s-guru-nanak-stadium-on-tuesday-wednesday-to-register-for-shramik-trains/story-3Sey0mdVXuc98jD05y234O.html
01-06-2020||Noida||Section 144 extended till June 30 in GB Nagar||The Gautam Budh Nagar Police on Monday said that the movement of individuals in the city will be strictly prohibited between 9pm and 5am, with effect from June 1 to June 30, when the first phase of Unlock is scheduled to end.The orders, issued under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), prohibits any social, religious and political gatherings, besides any rally or exhibition in the district limits. The order restricts movements, except for essential activities, in the containment zones with immediate effect. “Due to exigencies and as a large number of people are likely to be affected by it, the order is passed ex-parte and any aggrieved person may approach the competent authority for modification of the same,” states the order signed by additional commissioner of police, Ashutosh Dwivedi.The order further said that till further notice, all the educational institutions, including schools, colleges, training and coaching centres will remain closed. “Cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, recreation parks, theatres, bars, assembly halls and auditoriums will remain closed till further orders. No audience will be permitted to go inside sports complexes and stadiums. Visiting hours for the parks have been fixed for 5am to 8am and 5pm to 8pm,” the order said.As per this order, markets are not allowed to open before 9am and after 9pm. “It is mandatory to wear face cover and gloves for shopkeepers. And, if customers are found not wearing a mask, the shopkeepers can turn them away. All hairdressers or beauty salon attendants need to shield his or her face,” the order read. The order also restricted taxis, autos and e-rickshaws, from taking on passengers without face covers. “It is mandatory for the driver and pillion riders of two wheelers to wear helmets. Spitting at public places is also restricted. Persons above the age of 65, children below the age of 10 and pregnant women are still not allowed to venture out of their homes, unless there is an emergency,” read the order. Violation of the orders will be a punishable offence under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and violators can be punished with impris­onment for a term which may extend to one month or fined or both.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/section-144-extended-till-june-30-in-gb-nagar/story-jGLtI3hzTJuHRp62sygxON.html
01-06-2020||City||Liquor shops get nod to open two hours extra till 9pm||Ghaziabad: The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday gave its nod to open the liquor shops from 10am to 9pm across the state, barring those which are in containment zones. The decision is likely to benefit about 800 shops in Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar districts. The previous timings for the liquor stores were from 10am to 7pm. In its guidelines issued on Sunday, the UP government had directed for opening of markets from 9am to 9pm.“The liquor shops which opened earlier from 10am to 7pm will now open from 10am to 9pm. These will exclude liquor shops which fall under the containment zones. The directions will be applicable for all districts,” said Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, principal secretary of UP excise department.Officials said that the revised timings will be applicable for shops of country liquor, Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL) and beer shops, including the model shops which are located outside the containment zones.There are about 460 liquor shops in Ghaziabad, including about 60 falling under the containment zones/hotspot areas, while 371 of 481 are presently open in Gautam Budh Nagar district.The liquor sales are a major revenue generator for the government, and generate a revenue of about Rs 30,000 crore annually. Official sources of the excise department said that the revenue proposed for the current financial year is about Rs 36,000 crore.However, the liquor sales have seen a sharp decline as shops were directed to close down in UP in the wake of lockdown imposed in the last week of March. “As per our estimates, the sales of beer have come down to 10% while those of foreign liquor and country made liquor have come down to about 20% and 30%, respectively. The sales of beer have been largely affected as people have been advised against taking cold items or beverages to prevent aggravation by Covid-19,” the officer added.In order to boost sales, the state cabinet on May 23 approved the ‘Uttar Pradesh Excise (Settlement of Licences for Premium Retail Vends of Foreign Liquor) Rules, 2020’ which mandates sales of premium liquor brands in shopping malls, departmental stores and supermarkets.The officials said that arrangement is likely to start in the next two months after the modalities are finalised for the license fees and lockdown conditions get relaxed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/liquor-shops-get-nod-to-open-two-hours-extra-till-9pm/story-t7BuHOiLyUMYyEbNgfUIhO.html
01-06-2020||City||Nodal officials appointed to survey land earmarked for farmers who gave theirs for Jewar airport||The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration on Monday formed a committee to survey the land earmarked for a township to rehabilitate farmers who gave theirs for the Jewar airport. The committee has been asked to prepare its report within a week.Eight staff members will conduct a survey and carry out the valuation of assets on the land earmarked for the township. Naib Tehsildar Balendu Bhushan has been appointed as the nodal officer to carry out the survey and complete the evaluation in a week’s time.“We will carry out the evaluation and survey all families of farmers, whose land is to be acquired for the township. Once the work is done, we will send the report to the state government for further action,” Balram Singh, additional district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.On May 29, 2020, Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY had directed the staff to conduct a survey and evaluate assets on the land identified for the township planned on 48.097 hectares of area in Jewar Banger, located off the 165km Yamuna Expressway that connects Greater Noida with Agra.The DM’s directions followed orders from the UP government on the issue—top officials wanted to expedite the process so that the farmers are rehabilitated well in advance before the work on the Noida International Greenfield airport project begins at Jewar. The Switzerland company Zurich International AG is likely to start work at the site by the end of August as it has received security clearance and fulfilled other formalities by now.The administration has already acquired and transferred 1,334 hectares of land for the airport project. At least 3,000 families are to be rehabilitated in this township.The administration will develop the township and provide residential plots to farmers who gave their land for the airport project. It will also pay compensation and provide other benefits to those farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nodal-officials-appointed-to-survey-land-earmarked-for-farmers-who-gave-theirs-for-jewar-airport/story-g4Gez5h7ik7l2MJSCE5QqM.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Unlock 1.0: Shop timings extended by 2 hours in Chandigarh||Acting on the central government guidelines for ‘Unlock 1’, the UT administration on Monday announced a slew of relaxations, including opening of barber shops and salons, extending shop timings by two hours and opening of shopping malls, restaurants, hotels and religious places.While some of the relaxations came into effect immediately from Monday, some will be applicable from Tuesday, and others from June 8 onwards.Opening after more than two months from Tuesday, barber shops and salons will have to follow standard operating procedure (SOP) announced by the administration on Monday. UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said: “In Chandigarh, Covid-19 cases are concentrated in a few pockets. We have decided that in clean areas, total normalcy be restored and economy be brought back on track. This will help us to focus medical attention on limited pockets and get better, faster results.”SHOPS, OFFICES RELAXATIONSWhile earlier the shops timings were staggered, and for most shops it was between 10am to 6pm, now the shops will be allowed to open from 10am to 8pm. However, for shops selling essential items, such as bread, milk, medicines, vegetable and fruit, the above time restrictions will not apply.The odd-even formula adopted for congested markets will continue. With regards to weekly closure of shops, the notification issued prior to the lockdown will apply.The private sector and government offices will be allowed to call in their 75% staff with immediate effect, and 100% staff from June 8 onward.NO MOVEMENT PASS REQUIREDAlso, there will no requirement for mandatory pass for entering the city from other states. However, random screening will be done on border and visitors will be advised self-monitoring for 14 days. Chandigarh residents desirous of taking “travel pass” for visiting other states can apply online to the district magistrate. Only persons outside containment zone will be issued such passes. The district magistrate will take the final decision on eligibility for such passes.All restrictions on entry and exit points in tricity and police nakas on Chandigarh side have been removed. All connecting roads can be used now.However, the Union government has not yet relaxed conditions imposed earlier on vehicles regarding maximum number of persons allowed.RELIEF FOR HOSPITALITY INDUSTRYAll shopping malls, restaurants, and hotels will be allowed to open from June 8 onward. Though, they would have to follow the SOP to be announced by the ministry of health and family welfare strictly.Significantly, while the UT order detailing the relaxations stated that June 8 onward, takeaways will be allowed from restaurants in the city, Parida clarified that following the MHA guidelines in toto, the administration has allowed restaurants to serve food to customers in their premises too from June 8.Also, use of selected community centres will be permitted for holding marriage functions (50 persons) and last rites ceremony (20 persons) from June 8 onward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/unlock-1-0-shop-timings-extended-by-2-hours-in-chandigarh/story-hJXk3SaF4zRM5qEYsuXmSI.html
01-06-2020||Noida||UP government releases guidelines for opening of offices, social distancing a must||The Uttar Pradesh health department has issued guidelines for commercial, industrial and other offices to follow standard operating procedures as they slowly decide to resume operations under Unlock 1 — under which all kinds of businesses are being allowed to start operating phase-wise. All the firm owners will have to ensure that workers wash hands, use sanitizers and maintain social distancing, among other measures, in order to protect against Covid 19 infection.Amit Mohan Prasad, principal secretary of Uttar Pradesh government’s health department has asked all district magistrates — including Gautam Budh Nagar — to ensure compliance of guidelines in order to prevent the spread of Covid 19 infection.“The nationwide lockdown implemented to prevent the spread of Covid-19 is being lifted in phases to allow offices to start functioning again. As a result, work is being resumed at construction sites, work places and at offices. Contact among workers will now increase as will the risk of spread of the infection. Therefore, precautions are required to be exercised at all workplaces,” said Amit Mohan Prasad principal secretary with UP government.The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration also said that it was geared up to implement the instructions of the state government. “We have issued instructions asking people to follow all instructions at workplace and at offices,” said Suhas LY district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.The instructions, which are to be followed, include washing of hands for workers, providing sanitizers, thermal screening, sanitization of touch points like door handles, taps, lift buttons, maintaining distance of two yards between workers and social distancing during lunch breaks, among other steps. “The workers need to wear masks, greet with namaskar instead of shaking hands, stop sharing tobacco products at workplace, avoid touching mouth or nose and taking care of other basic hygiene. The workers are advised to inform the health department immediately if they suffer from fever or cough,” said Prasad.The UP government has asked the owners of industrial units to maintain a register of all employees, along with mobile numbers so that the health department can contact in case of an emergency. Pregnant women have been advised not to be allowed to resume work during this time so that they can stay away from the infection. In a 100 seater bus, only 50 workers can travel, said the guidelines. If workers are found positive with Covid-19, then the office or unit in question will be shut down for 24 hours. And all workers will be put in 14 days quarantine.“We have advised all factory and industrial unit owners to follow the guidelines strictly so that we manage tokeep workers safe at their workplaces,” said Vipin Malhan, president of Noida Entrepreneur association (NEA), a group of industrial units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-government-releases-guidelines-for-opening-of-offices-social-distancing-a-must/story-PETRFzQqmv3Cvcl8Q5aaVM.html
01-06-2020||City||Noida girl donates savings to help three migrants fly back home||Noida: A 12-year-old city girl has donated more than Rs 48,000 to help a family of three migrants stuck in Delhi go back to their native place in Jharkhand.The girl, Niharika Dwivedi, is a resident of a high-rise in Sector 50 and a class 8 student of a private school.According to her parents, she had been deeply affected by the plight of migrants for the past few weeks.“The footage of a toddler trying to wake up his dead mother on the railway platform was just one of the few videos that had Niharika anxious about the migrant workers. She was willing to contribute in some manner. We are proud of her for helping out in any manner whatsoever,” said Surabhi Dwivedi, the girl’s mother.Niharika has earned accolades from Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren for her noble gesture. According to a statement from the CM’s office, Soren appreciated the gesture and said he was grateful to the girl for her sensitivity to the needs of others and wished her a bright future.To reach out to the migrant family, Niharika’s parents helped her get in touch with a non-government organisation (NGO).“In the time of Covid-19 pandemic, there are so many people out there who need help. After my parents contacted the NGO, we got to know about a family of three migrants, including a young child, who were stuck at a shelter home in Delhi’s Yusuf Sarai during the lockdown. One of them is even suffering from cancer. They wanted to go back to their hometown in Jharkhand. So, we got them air tickets to go back home,” said Niharika.An avid dancer, Niharika had Rs 48,530 in her ‘piggy bank’ which she decided to donate for helping the migrants leave Delhi on Sunday.“A big chunk of the amount was given by her grandparents or relatives that she had been saving for the past few years. The rest of the money she had won in dance competitions,” said the mother.The mother further said that the migrants, who worked as daily wager, lived in the Yusuf Sarai area before moving into the shelter home. They had also sold part of their property in Jharkhand for the cancer treatment last year, she added.Niharika hopes to help out further in whatever way she can and wants to make her career in civil services.In April this year, Noida-based young golfer Arjun Bhati, who have won the junior world championship in 2018 and 2019, had donated Rs 4.3 lakh to the PM Cares fund set up by PM Narendra Modi to deal with the Covid-19 crisis. Interestingly, the 15-year-old golfer raised the amount by selling his 102 trophies which he had won in the past several years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-girl-donates-savings-to-help-three-migrants-fly-back-home/story-NbX7mYNQ0SovFFGNGy5FaM.html
01-06-2020||Noida||Noida: Shoppers back in markets, e-rickshaws back on roads as life limps back to normalcy||With more relaxations in the nationwide lockdown being announced on Monday, life is slowly bouncing back to normal as people return to markets, e-rickshaws and autos start ferrying passengers and vehicular traffic returns to what it used to be during a weekday before the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country.As the curfew timings were changed from 7pm to 7am to 9pm to 5am, markets are remaining open for two extra hours. Traders say that while a complete restoration of business may still take a while longer, the fresh timings will be helpful in regaining some of the lost business.“The markets are allowed to be open from 9am to 9pm, as per the government orders,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.However, confusion over the odd-even pattern system for shops to open in markets prevailed among many.“The businessmen had been asked to remain patient, and we know that the recovery of the losses will take time. But now since the curfew timings have been reduced, it will be easy for our shoppers to visit markets in the evening and not brave the daytime temperatures. In a way, we can say this is a prelude of normalcy,” said Sushil Kumar Jain, president, Sector 18 market association.While certain enterprises such as saloons, parlours and malls are yet to open, shopkeepers are now being extra cautious about maintaining social distancing and allowing only limited people inside stores or at cash counters at a time.“On Monday, more shops have opened, and people have also started coming out. We see the maximum crowd towards the evening, so we have to ensure that no more than four customers enter the store at a time. People are cooperative and are ensuring social distancing,” Gauri Shankar, a general store owner in Sector 77, said.“More and more people are returning to the market, however their demand is specifi -- most of our customers are demanding dumbbells and other gym equipment believing that gyms will be the last to open,” said a sport shop owner in Sector 18. At Rajnigandha Chowk, near Sector 16, a number of e-rickshaws were seen carrying a maximum of three passengers unlike days prior to the lockdown clampdown on March 25, when they would ferry at least five to six at a time. “There is no pressure and we have not been told anything, but people are themselves insisting on not carrying more than three passengers at a time, otherwise we would take at least five passengers,” said Lalit Kumar, an e-rickshaw driver.Roadside ice-cream vendors, nurseries, clay goods sellers, furniture sellers, etc., near Brahmputra Market in Sector 29, Bhangel, and Sector 51, among others, have also started setting up shops after over 60 days. The auto market in Sector 16 is also largely operational.“Monday seemed like any other day, as the number of customers were what it used to be during a normal day before lockdown. We serviced many cars, wheels alignment and tyre changes. There are more and more customers whose cars need servicing,” said Vishal Dang, who owns a tyre and auto repairs shop in Hoshiyarpur, Sector 51.A few roadside eateries and dhabas also started operations from Monday, though the day was not promising for them.“We have had only three customers since morning and they were all non-locals -- factory workers and such. We only have takeaways for now,” said Dharmendra Yadav, who owned a popular dhaba in Sector 51.With the crowds gathering strength, police are also more vigilant. “There are personnel at all those places where there is possibility of crowding and we are ensuring social distancing,” said Sankalp Sharma, DCP Zone 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-shoppers-back-in-markets-e-rickshaws-back-on-roads-as-life-limps-back-to-normalcy/story-Z1Vvv8ymj1ye8Hpp3o9IrO.html
01-06-2020||City||UPSRTC initiates intra-state operations from Ghaziabad; 232 samples taken from Vaishali on day 1 of sealing||Ghaziabad: The Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) on Monday initiated the commercial operations of about 500 buses from the Ghaziabad region for different cities and towns in the state. About 180 state-run buses departed to various destinations till Monday evening, officials said, adding that online reservation facility will also be available from Tuesday.The commercial operation of buses was started after the state government on Sunday rolled out the plan to open up activities in accordance with the May 30 directions of the Union ministry of home affairs, which has allowed inter-state and intra-state movement. On Sunday, the UP officials had said that UPSRTC would initiate intra-state operations.“About 180 buses departed till Monday evening and we are expecting more response on Tuesday. Closing of borders by Delhi will not affect us much and our buses, which earlier also operated from Anand Vihar, will now depart from the nearby Kaushambi area. So, people of Delhi can come to the border on foot and board buses to their home towns. Since we have started the commercial operations, the passengers are now charged the normal fares for travel,” said AK Singh, regional manager of UPSRTC.The buses, which left Ghaziabad on Monday, departed for different cities, including Lucknow, Gorakhpur, Bareilly, Shahjahanpur, Farukkhabad, Kasganj, Etah, and Mainpuri, among others.The Ghaziabad region operates 980 buses, including luxurious and Pink Line Women-only ones, to different cities in Uttar Prdesh and other states like Delhi, Bihar and Uttarakhand, among others.“We did not rope in high-end Volvo and Scania buses on Monday, while Pink Line Women-only buses and normal AC buses departed. The buses left with seating capacity of 50 passengers who were properly screened with infrared thermometer and nobody was allowed to board without mask. There are strict directions that only seating will be allowed and no one should travel standing,” Singh added.Hundreds of passengers arrived at Kaushambi and maintained social distancing as the UPSRTC staff asked them to sanitize their hands and details of every passenger were noted down.Dinesh Kashyap, a passenger at Kaushambi, said, “It took some time to board the bus due to several precautions like social distancing, screening, etc. The staff also noted down personal details like addresses and mobile number of every passenger on board. Since I could not get a train ticket, I preferred to travel by bus to my home town.” Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home), said directions have been given for surveillance and tracking of passengers.“Since the train services have also started, we have proposed to give handbills to every passenger about precautions to be taken against Coronavirus. We have also written to the chairman of the Railway Board in this regard. At every station, there will be deployment of police and health department teams who will monitor passengers,” he added.232 samples taken from VaishaliMeanwhile, the Ghaziabad district administration on Monday implemented its ‘sector scheme’ to seal Vaishali, which is now divided into two administrative zones and four sectors.“We have deployed a three-member team comprising a doctor, a lab technician and a pharmacist in each sector to take up sampling and surveillance in households. On the first day, 232 samples were taken from Vaishali. Each team has been given a target to cover 150 households,” said a statement from the district magistrate’s office.“An ambulance has been kept ready in each sector to deal with any emergency. Extensive sanitization by three fire tenders and fogging activity by the municipal corporation were also undertaken. The district magistrate has given instruction for strict implementation of sector scheme in Vaishali,” the statement said.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls on Monday.Till May 31, the total number of Covid-19 cases stood at 34 in Vaishali. The sealing activity in the locality was initiated on Monday in order to keep in check rising number of cases. A similar sealing is already in place in Khoda since May 10 and in Loni since May 27.According to official records, 15 cases came from Khoda till May 9 after which the sector scheme was initiated on May 10. Thereafter, 25 more cases have emerged from Khoda. Likewise, in Loni which saw about 22 cases till May 26, six more have come till May 31 after sealing was put in place on May 27.“The Covid-19 cases are still coming in from Khoda and Loni, and positive cases may continue to come from Vaishali also. But our teams are trying to contain any spread further. This is why the sector scheme has been initiated in Vaishali. People having symptoms like fever, cough and cold, etc, will be screened by out teams and appropriate treatment will be provided,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/upsrtc-initiates-intra-state-operations-from-ghaziabad-232-samples-taken-from-vaishali-on-day-1-of-sealing/story-7y3pvRWRKvb6IKR47X6CBL.html
01-06-2020||Noida||Lockdown 5.0: No respite from traffic at borders||Traffic remained chaotic across Noida-Delhi borders on Monday even as the country moved on to the fifth phase of the lockdown.“It took me over two hours to reach Noida’s Sector 18 from Greater Kailash in Delhi via the DND Flyway. The police checked every vehicle for a valid pass and ID while only one lane was operational. Vehicular movement has been slow due to checking for the past few days, but this morning it was worse than usual. There were more vehicles on the road, which led to the traffic crawling even slower,” Rishi Oswal, a business owner who commutes to Noida every day, said.During the past phases of the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, even as Delhi permitted certain relaxations, commuters had alleged that the Noida police were a lot stricter concerning cross-border movement.“However, today (Monday) morning it was bad on both sides (of the border). While crossing the Noida gate towards Delhi, there are barricades in place that slow down the traffic considerably, even though the Delhi Police rarely bother to check permits. I left my house in Noida around 8.20am but reached my workplace in Delhi only around 10am. The situation is equally bad while getting into Noida. Even though I have a pass, many others don’t. They argue with the police who check each vehicle, making it a very slow process. It’s been over two months now. They should have allotted designated lanes for people with passes to keep the traffic moving steadily. There is also a disconnect between the issue of regulations and information to the public,” Anil Arora, a commuter from Sector 50, said.Commuters allege that the situation is just as bad as it was before, with more traffic on the roads.“The regulations have not changed in weeks. Why people go out despite that is unfathomable. They argue and hold up traffic which would otherwise move steadily. Most of these people do not have requisite permissions,” a senior police officer said, requesting anonymity.The police, however, believe that the situation will improve at the border now that Delhi has also decided to seal its borders.“We hope that the traffic volume will go down by almost 50% after both sides seal the border from both ends. That will go a long way in tackling the traffic menace at any chokepoint,” deputy commissioner of police, traffic, Rajesh S, said.Traffic at Mayur Vihar-Sector 14 A (Chilla) border is slightly less compared to that on DND Flyway and Kalindi Kunj.“We keep opening more lanes depending on what the situation warrants. There is steadily moving traffic in Chilla. Even at the other two places, traffic is not stalled, just slow. With Delhi also now closing its borders, the situation should become much better,” DCP, zone 1, Sankalp Sharma, said.So far only people with administrative passes, medical personnel, Delhi High Court lawyers, passengers with confirmed rail or air tickets, and emergency vehicles are allowed to cross the border. The police often turn back the remaining people.The lockdown had first been announced on March 24 to tackle the pandemic in India. The district had sealed its border with Delhi in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/lockdown-5-0-no-respite-from-traffic-at-borders/story-vGaWwhUhfT2E6mmB4dTAIL.html
01-06-2020||City||Noida: One booked for taking samples illegally; Covid-19 count reaches 470||NOIDA: Two days after six private laboratories operating in Delhi-NCR were served notices for giving ‘false’ Covid-19 positive reports to eight persons in Gautam Budh Nagar, a person was booked on Monday for illegally collecting samples on the behalf of a Delhi-based private laboratory, district administration officials said.GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that during a routine inspection of hospitals, the district medical officials found that one person was collecting nasopharyngeal samples of patients in front of a hospital in Sector 30. “On inquiry, it was found that he was allegedly working for a New Delhi-based private laboratory. It has been reported that he was collecting samples for Covid-19 tests. He used to travel on a two-wheeler with collection apparatus on it. He was also found flouting bio-medical waste management rules as well as all norms of sample collection for Covid-19 patients,” Suhas said.The DM further said that an FIR against him has been lodged with Sector 20 police station. “As per notifications issued by ICMR, only those laboratories are allowed to collect samples, which have valid collection centres in the area. This person was collecting samples in the district without having a valid collection centre. We have also asked the hospitals and health establishments to operate in accordance with bio-medical waste management rules. Stern action will be taken in case of violation,” he said.Covid count reaches 470Meanwhile, GB Nagar reported 17 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the tally of positive cases to 470 in the district. However, five patients were discharged after being cured from the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, health officials said. Of the 17 new cases, six patients are from Bhangel and remaining 11 are from different parts of the district. According to district surveillance officer Dr Sunil Dohre, of 470 positive cases till Monday evening, 299 patients have been discharged from different hospitals. “Seven patients have so far lost their lives and 29 have been cross-notified from other districts and states. As a result, the district now has 164 active cases,” Dohre said.Giving details of the 29 cross-notified Covid-19 cases, the district surveillance officer said that while 13 of them are from Delhi, one patient each from West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh has also been cross-notified. “While one patient has a duplicate entry in the log, the remaining 13 are from other districts of Uttar Pradesh, including six from Bulanshahr, four from Ghaziabad, two from Hapur and one from Agra,” he said.Dohre further said that health camps were organised in 12 sensitive places in the district on Sunday, including at Mamura, Nithari, Sarfabad, Harola, sectors 8, 9 and 10. “A total of 673 patients were screened today and 11 of them, who had symptoms of fever, have been referred to the district hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-one-booked-for-taking-samples-illegally-covid-19-count-reaches-470/story-SxE76RQQHl7g6eCVPV66rM.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Portions of three commercial buildings razed, four shops sealed in Ludhiana||Taking action against illegal constructions, the building branch of Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) demolished illegal structures of three commercial buildings, including a hotel, and sealed four commercial shops, on Monday.An RTI activist had complained to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s office against one of the buildings in the Jawahar Nagar camp area recently, following which the action was taken.Mohan Singh, assistant town planner (ATP), Zone D, said illegal portions of a hotel and a commercial shop were demolished, and four illegal shops were sealed, in Jawahar Nagar camp area. He added that an illegal commercial building at Malhar road was also razed. An official, pleading anonymity, said a meeting of the MC committee for fixing change of land use (CLU) charges has been scheduled for Tuesday. He said the action was taken by the building branch to avert action by the committee, who had warned the officials in a meeting held last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/portions-of-three-commercial-buildings-razed-four-shops-sealed-in-ludhiana/story-7y5mBVjPgzkXtyQSvb3CWP.html
01-06-2020||Delhi||NDMC parks to open for longer||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Monday revised the timings for walking and jogging activities in its parks, allowing visitors from 5.30am to 11am and 4.30pm to 8.30pm. The earlier timing of visiting these parks, in Lodhi Garden and Talkatora Garden, among others, was 7am to 10am and 3.30pm to 6.30pm.“Now, visitors can go to NDMC’s Lodhi Garden, Nehru Park, Talkatora garden for walking, jogging and running purposes only between 5.30 am to 11am in the morning and 4.30pm to 8.30pm in evening from June 1 (Monday) to June 30. Open gym, yoga and any other activities not allowed in the parks and gardens,” NDMC said in an order. The civic body had on May 20 opened its parks and gardens for the public, with restricted timings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ndmc-parks-to-open-for-longer/story-GLOWbwvAKRTVOEqSUrH7tN.html
01-06-2020||Gurugram||129 new Covid-19 cases; City crosses 900-mark||With a spike of 129 fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the last 24 hours, the city breached 900-mark on Monday. This is the second-highest surge of coronavirus cases in the last one week. The previous highest single-day spike of 157 cases was recorded on May 30. Gurugram’s count stands at 903, as per the state health bulletin. Of these 615 are active cases, while 284 have been discharged. The death count stands at three. Data shows that the number of cases has increased by almost 218% in the last one week, almost triple the cases reported on May 25, when the total tally was 284.It is in the last four days, Covid-19 cases have rapidly increased in the city. The city saw a major spike of 68 cases on May 28, followed by 115 cases on May 29, 157 on May 30 and 97 cases on May 31. Citing that there has been ease in the lockdown and free movement of people, health officials said that the cases will continue to rise. “Testing has also increased with the rising cases,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer(CMO). The health team on an average are collecting 230 samples per day, as per the data Among the 22 districts, Gurugram has the highest case burden in Haryana. The state’s cumulative number of positive cases is 2,356 cases, with Gurugram contributing nearly 38% to the overall burden.Punia said, “We are focusing on the emerging hot spots to control the SARS-CoV-2 virus from spreading. Asymptomatic patients in these areas are kept under home isolation. Currently, more than 200 patients are under home isolation,” he said.Health bulletin shows one or two cases are being reported from almost every area of the city. The largely affected ones are Rajendra Nagar, Sirhaul, Sector 10A, Rajeev Nagar, Ravi Nagar, Hari Nagar, Palam Vihar, Jyoti Park, Dundahera, Gandhi Nagar, Shakti Park among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/129-new-covid-19-cases-city-crosses-900-mark/story-3AjOrUqpphlpuS5Veiv36L.html
01-06-2020||Delhi||NDMC records first Covid death of staff as virus kills two more civic body workers||A 31-year-old sanitation worker of New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday, officials of the civic body said..According to NDMC officials, this is the first Covid-19 death reported from the civic body. A senior NDMC official said that the man had last attended office on May 23 and succumbed to the virus on Sunday. “On May 23, he told his colleagues that he was going home as he was not feeling well. On May 28, he got himself tested at BLK Hospital and a day later he was found Covid-19 positive. He was then admitted at RML Hospital where he died on May 31,” the official, said requesting anonymity. The deceased was deployed at NDMC’s drainage service centre in Netaji Nagar. He is survived by his wife and two children — a four-year-old son and a three-month-old daughter. The civic body has announced a compensation of Rs 15 lakh to the family of the employee.The official said that contact tracing of staff in contact with the man is yet to be conducted. The deceased was appointed as a “Beldaar“ at the Netaji Nagar drainage service centre and was engaged in desilting drains.“We have no idea how was he contracted the virus. There are around 42 people who work at the office. I have written to the senior authorities in NDMC to start contact tracing of all the staff members so that people who had come in contact with the deceased can be identified and quarantined. Around 5-6 of his colleagues, with whom the deceased used to clean drains, have been asked to quarantine themselves,” an official at Netaji Nagar drainage service centre, said.In the last two months, a total of 33 Covid-19 positive cases has been reported from areas under NDMC’s jurisdiction. Out of these 33 cases, four have recovered and one has died. On May 28, the NDMC had to seal its headquarter building on Sansad Marg after six employees tested positive for the virus here.District administration officials said that the contact tracing of the staff would start from Tuesday. “For now, we are trying to find out how the victim got infected with the virus. We will be able to identify high risk and low-risk symptom people only after the contact tracing is completed,” a district administration official said.North Delhi civic body junior engineer diesMeanwhile, a 41-year-old junior engineer employed with the North Delhi Municipal Corporation became a victim of the virus on Monday.According to north corporation officials, the junior engineer was deployed at the Civic Centre — North corporation’s headquarter— and had tested positive on May 30.“Unfortunately, a junior engineer of the north corporation died due to Covid-19 today (Monday). The man had developed fever on May 18 and was on leave since then. He was admitted to Lady Hardinge Medical College and Hospital on May 20. He tested Covid-19 positive on May 30 and died on June 1 (Monday),” a north corporation spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ndmc-records-first-covid-death-of-staff-as-virus-kills-two-more-civic-body-workers/story-Uwbnqv4gQVaJ98NUtqBEIJ.html
01-06-2020||Gurugram||Thieves steal ₹42.39 lakh from ATM||Unidentified thieves allegedly stole ₹42.39 lakh from an automated teller machine (ATM) in a shopping complex in Sushant Lok, the police said on Sunday. The police said the suspects were yet to be identified. They said that according to the preliminary probe, two masked men had entered the ATM kiosk on the afternoon of May 23 and tampered with the CCTV camera in the kiosk, eventually decamping with the cash. According to the police, a Sector 55-based cash management company had replenished the ATM with ₹28 lakh in cash on May 20. The police said that three days later, the company received information that the machine was not operational due to a technical fault. Girish Pal Singh, the complainant, said, “After the complaint, we conducted an enquiry and found that ₹42,39,100 was missing from the account during an audit on May 29. We also recovered footage from the CCTV camera, in which two masked men could be seen entering the kiosk and taping the camera lens on May 23 around 2.30pm. The same day, we received a complaint stating that the machine was not working.”The police said they received information of the incident on Sunday and the complainant handed over the CCTV camera footage. A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said that the thieves did not use a gas cutter to steal the cash from the ATM. “The initial probe suggests that the suspects used a hacking device. We have sent the CCTV camera footage for forensic analysis and are trying to trace the suspects,” the police officer said, adding that they were probing whether the theft was an ‘inside job’.The police registered a case against the suspects under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 29 police station on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/thieves-steal-42-39-lakh-from-atm/story-fC8ED9dLyK11LuvTX5HRMP.html
01-06-2020||Gurugram||City auto drivers stare at a bleak future||Auto-rickshaws have slowly begun returning to the city streets over the past two weeks, ever since the beginning of Lockdown 4.0, which began on May 17. However, several of them, on Monday, said they are earning very little, and that they do not see any hopes of a financial recovery at least for the next year. According to Yogesh Sharma, state general secretary, Haryana Auto Chalak Sanghatan, “Most auto drivers do not own the vehicles they drive. The daily rent for an auto, depending on its condition and mileage, is between ₹300 and ₹500 per day. Add to that another ₹200 to ₹300 for fuel. However, these days, auto drivers are unable to earn anything more than ₹400 a day, if at all. This does not cover even their basic costs. As such, only those who are working with app-based services or those who own their independent vehicles are plying.” Sharma said in the days following the lockdown, he was flooded with several calls from distressed auto drivers who were trying to find their way back to their home states. Before the outbreak, Sharma estimated that there were anywhere between 25,000 to 30,000 autos plying in the district on a daily basis. “At least one-third of these drivers have simply packed up and gone home. Unions leaders have been in talks with some of the drivers in Gurugram and Faridabad. However, it does not seem like things will pick up financially until the next year or so,” Sharma said. With most people preferring to commute via private cabs or their own personal vehicles — as evidenced in a recent public perception survey in Delhi-NCR by the Centre for Science and Energy — the demand for autos has fallen to unprecedented levels, drivers said. “Our main source of passengers were Metro commuters and tenants living in rented accommodations. But many people have returned home now. Work has completely dried up. If I am lucky, my daily earnings will come to ₹200 but not more,” said Javed Uddin, an auto driver residing in Nathupur village. Auto drivers have currently pinned their hopes on the Delhi Metro, which they hope will resume soon. “If that happens, then we will be able to find passengers along the MG Road Corridor, from Guru Dronacharya to Huda City Centre Metro station. But if the Metro doesn’t start soon, things will be difficult,” said Uddin.The few auto drivers who are still plying, however, are going the extra mile to protect themselves and commuters from the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Several of them said they have equipped themselves with masks, hand sanitisers and disinfectants and have also installed protective plastic screens in their vehicles to keep themselves and passengers separated. Many others said they have begun accepting digital payments to minimise contact with commuters.A majority of these drivers are affiliated with private cab aggregators. “The companies have been providing us with sanitisers and disinfectants,” said Sudhir, an autorickshaw driver and an Uttar Pradesh native, who went only by his first name. Sudhir said he has been sanitising his vehicle twice a day with alcohol-based disinfectant and insists on commuters wearing masks and using hand sanitiser before entering his vehicle. Lalit Kumar, a driver from Patna, Bihar, said, “Earlier, I had not installed the plastic sheet in my auto-rickshaw. But then I saw that police were issuing challans for not adhering to social distancing norms. So, I used hoarding material from a discarded board and put it up in the auto, which now separates the space between my seat and that of the passenger. I also purchased gloves. I did not want to lose my customers. If they think I am not taking precautions, they will not get in.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-auto-drivers-stare-at-a-bleak-future/story-CzF5Wn8DlxE35HebBZmxIP.html
01-06-2020||Gurugram||Health department directs private labs to fall in line||As the number of people infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to swell with the total count reaching 903 on Monday evening, a delay of at least three days by private laboratories in the city in delivering the Covid-19 test reports to the patients and the district health department is adding to the challenges being faced by the administration in controlling the spread of the infectious disease, officials said.Earlier this week, the district administration and health department held a meeting with representatives of private lab directing them to streamline the testing process and share the test reports on time.On May 28, the health department issued a notice to CORE diagnostic lab for not submitting the complete test results of Covid-19 positive patient on time. The notice stated that a sample was sent to the lab on May 22 and the health department received the test result on May 28 only after repeated calls were made to the private lab. The notice further stated that the lab was not following government’s instruction on sharing Covid-19 test results.Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, said, “We have not received a response from CORE diagnostic lab yet. We have observed that many private labs were conducting tests without collecting the proper ID proof of the patient, or even complete addresses of the patients, and the labs were not uploading the reports on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal on time. They are taking at least three days to deliver the results. We are working to streamline the process to prevent further spread of the disease.” CORE Diagnostics, however, said they its response to the government. “We have responded to the government’s notice saying that the report in question was sent on time. The government is satisfied with our response. In this time of crisis, we are actively working with the government, hospitals, and health care workers to ensure patients get excellent service. We are fully compliant with all government guidelines and protocols for Covid-19 testing,” said Zoya Brar, founder, and chief executive officer, CORE Diagnostics.There are seven private labs in Gurugram who are approved by ICMR to conduct Covid-19 tests.Data shows nearly 43% of the samples collected in Gurugram have been tested in private labs. From April 9 to May 31, at least 7,231 samples have been tested by the government labs and 5,357 by private labs. “As per the protocol, labs have to put the test reports on the ICMR portal. What has been happening in Gurugram is that the lab reports are reaching the patients first, and then to the health department which delays the process of tracing the direct and indirect contacts of the patients. A delay of one day doesn’t matter much, but a delay of three days increases the chances of the highly infectious disease spreading further to others in the patient’s family,” said a member of the district’s rapid response team, who is privy to the matter. According to official data, one Covid-19 patient in Gurugram has affected at least two people on an average, and to three people in many cases. The state and district health departments, however, refused to share the details of the infection rate called RO(pronounced as R-naught). The RO is a unit used to measure the number of new infections generated by each case.Upon the last calculation by ICMR in April, the national RO value was 2.5. Also, an ICMR study in April predicted that a Covid-19 patient can infect 406 people in 30 days if preventive measures such as lockdown and social distancing are not implemented. A senior state official said, “Government teams are ensuring that the suspected patient puts himself/herself under quarantine until test reports come. Private labs also cannot let go of the suspected patients after taking their swab samples. Once the test reports come, they are required to inform the patients and the district health team. However, in many cases, a delay in reporting to the health officials was reported. It is for this reason that we have directed the private labs to follow the standard operating procedures (SOP) for sample testing which includes, timely test results and sharing the data on ICMR portal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-department-directs-private-labs-to-fall-in-line/story-Kvb2A0IykrwWL8K5o4c6GM.html
01-06-2020||City||80 new cases push Navi Mumbai Covid count to 2,284||A total of 80 Covid 19 cases were reported by Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) on Monday, taking the total positive cases in the city to 2,284. Two deaths were reported.There have been 75 Covid deaths in the city so far. The highest number of Monday’s cases was 18 from Nerul, followed by 14 in Airoli, 13 each in Kopar Khairane and Turbhe, seven in Ghansoli ward, six from Vashi, and six from Digha.Four children tested positive on Monday. These include an 11-year-old girl from Juinagar, a 14-year-old boy, a 16-year-old girl and a 13-year-old boy from Nerul||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/80-new-cases-push-navi-mumbai-covid-count-to-2-284/story-JpRO11pcu8xAcPbcTfGybN.html
01-06-2020||Gurugram||DTCP makes stilt parking compulsory for construction of 3rd and 4th floors||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has revised the rules for construction on plots in private colonies and HSVP sectors. It has now made stilt parking mandatory for the construction of third and fourth floors in towns falling under hyper-potential category i.e. Gurugram Manesar Urban Complex. For other towns in the state, stilt parking shall be mandatory for construction of the 4th floor. The department said that this rule would be applied with prospective effect for the approval of all new building plans for vacant plots or when a plot is proposed to be reconstructed.Prior to this order, the stilt construction was mandatory only if a plot owner constructed the fourth floor, said officials.The department has also issued directions that plot owners will have to seek approval for the car-parking on the ground floor as per the size of the plot. Officials said that a number of violations were committed under the stilts. Small rooms or additional rooms, which were not part of the building plan were often constructed by owners or developers in violation of the rules.As per the new rules, for a 500 square metre(sq m) plot, sanction will be granted for two equivalent car spaces (ECS) per floor; 1.5 car spaces per floor will have to be provided for a plot size of 250 sq m to 500 sq m; one car space per floor would have to be provided for a plot between 100 sq m to 250 sq m and 0.5 car spaces per floor will have to be made available for a plot of 100 sq m.One equivalent car space is equal to 12.5 sq metre, which has to be indicated in car bay size in residential plots, the order said.There are between 3,000 to 4,000 plots in both licenced and HSVP sectors in the city, which are under construction. These properties got a boost after Haryana government allowed registration of fourth floor, which ensured increased demands for these properties.RS Bhath, district town planner, said that this decision will ensure that illegal construction under the stilts is stopped and that sanction for parking us sought for approval of building plan. “This is a step in the right direction and it will stop illegal activities,” he said.The real estate developers engaged in construction of small plots also welcomed the decision and said that adequate parking can now be made available for buyers of such properties. “The buyers will get parking as per the size of the plot and floors,” said Ramesh Singla, president, Gurugram Home Developers and Plot Holders Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-makes-stilt-parking-compulsory-for-construction-of-3rd-and-4th-floors/story-cADw2JH4i6XWF1ZtcDal5O.html
01-06-2020||Gurugram||Air quality deteriorates in May as public mobility increases||Air quality in the city deteriorated in May, with an average daily reading of 143 on the air quality index (AQI), according to data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). This was up from an average AQI value of 110 in April, and 113 in March. Experts said they expected the uptick in pollution, as the past month has seen an increase in vehicular movement during phases three and four of the ongoing nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. The deterioration of air quality between April and May is also atypical, experts said. “Usually, with a rise in temperature as the summer progresses, air quality tends to improve in May. This year we are seeing the reverse take place. But on the whole, air quality is still better than it was during the same time last year,” Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality scientist, said.Another indicator that points to increasing vehicular emissions as the cause for Gurugram’s deteriorating air quality is a spike in atmospheric ozone, which was recorded as a primary pollutant on 22 days in May, as per the CPCB’s daily AQI bulletin for the city. Ozone is a composite, or secondary pollutant, formed due to chemical reactions undergone by other pollutants, such as sulphur oxides and nitrogen oxides. “NOx are directly emitted by vehicles. The formation of ground-level ozone implies that primary pollutants, in this case, nitrogen oxides, are being emitted into the atmosphere,” Panwar explained. This is also reflected in data from Gurugram’s four air quality monitors. For example, on April 30, the average concentration of NOx in the city’s air was 8 parts per billion (ppb), down from 14ppb on April 1. In May, however, the concentration of NOx in city air shot up, exceeding over 100ppb on several days of the month. Further evidence of increased public mobility can be seen in data published by Google. Between April 26 and May 25 in Haryana, public movement to retail and recreational spaces increased by 24%, while visits to transit stations increased by 15%, and visits to pharmacies, food markets and grocery stores increased by 38%. Visits to workplaces also increased by 6% during the same time frame, while visits to parks and public spaces increased by 8%.Despite repeated calls and texts, Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) officials were not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/air-quality-deteriorates-in-may-as-public-mobility-increases/story-mV1FAWeUVlhuQpmfymLPSO.html
01-06-2020||Mumbai||78% of Shramik trains from Maharashtra sent to UP, Bihar||As many as 621 or around 78% of the total 799 special Shramik trains that departed from Maharashtra till May 30 were destined for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Of these, 426 trains went to Uttar Pradesh (UP) and 195 departed for Bihar.Immediately after migrants living in slums at Bandra took to the streets on April 14, demanding transport to their home states, the state government wrote to the Centre for the special trains. The demand was approved in the last week of April and the first Shramik special train departed from Nashik on May 1.Since then, 799 trains have departed to 22 Indian states, transporting 11.54 lakh migrants. Around 9.13 lakh migrants are estimated to have gone back to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, and many more are still on the waiting list for Shramik trains. Most of the trains have been operating to Jaunpur and Gorakhpur districts in UP and Darbhanga in Bihar.“At least 20 lakh people are expected to have gone back to their respective states from Maharashtra over the last month. Thousands more have registered with the authorities, mostly in Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Most of them are from these two states,” said an official from the state government.Ramji Tiwari, former head of the department of Hindi at the University of Mumbai, said that most of north Indians living in Mumbai are from eastern parts of UP. “There are at least 25 lakh north Indians living in Mumbai. Most of them are from UP’s eastern districts like Gajhipur, Baliya, and Jaunpur, which are comparatively dense in population and less developed. The migrants have left Mumbai in distress after they lost their jobs and were finding it difficult to survive. It is unlikely that they will return to the city anytime soon,” he said.The Maharashtra government had made a budgetary allocation of ₹100 crore for the Shramik train services. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said that the state has already spent around ₹90 crore on train fare.At present, 37,994 migrants workers are living at various camps set up across the state. Before Shramik trains were arranged, the number of migrants living at these camps was more than 5.70 lakh in the last week of April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/78-of-shramik-trains-from-maharashtra-sent-to-up-bihar/story-K5YmY19rUPNHxMg3GE2A2K.html
01-06-2020||Gurugram||Industrial units, e-commerce firms allowed to operate with 100% staff||The Haryana government on Monday allowed industrial units, e-commerce companies, and factories located in industrial estates, municipal and rural areas to operate with 100 percent staff paving the way for a return to normal business operations. The government, however, said all units will have to register on the Haryana government portal Saral to generate automatic permissions and passes.The validity of passes issued to companies has been extended from May 31 to June 31, according to the new guidelines issued by the state government with reference to industry and other establishments.The industrial units and e-commerce companies will be allowed to operate 6am to 8pm. However, companies that come under the category of ‘continuous process’ shall be allowed to operate as per departmental and union ministry of home affairs guidelines, the order said. It further stated that all inter-state and intra-state movement of staff vehicles and good/cargo vehicles including empty trucks shall be allowed unhindered.“The industries, industrial establishments, commercial establishments which resume or have resumed operations shall have to ensure adherence to the lockdown measures and national directive for Covid-19 management,” the order said.Since the lockdown was imposed in the state on March 22, most industry and business establishments have been operational only partially after some lockdown norms were relaxed.In a related development, the Haryana government also gave permission to open all shops from 9am to 7pm in the state while asking them to adhere to social distancing norms.Home minister Anil Vij said that the odd-even or left-right formula will not be followed in the state anymore and instead directions will be issued to ensure social distancing norms are maintained in congested markets after assessing local conditions. The minister also said guidelines will soon be issued regarding the opening of religious places. Apart from this, home deliveries for restaurants, eateries etc. will be permitted but the delivery should be made before 9pm.During the fourth phase of the lockdown, between May 18 and May 31, the entire state was classified as an ‘orange zone’ and all economic activities were allowed with 50 percent to 75 percent staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/industrial-units-e-commerce-firms-allowed-to-operate-with-100-staff/story-CpuIqthgmlqErOxzS2XFNK.html
01-06-2020||City||Thane records 164 cases, five Covid deaths||Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) recorded 164 positive cases and five deaths on Monday. The total cases in the city are 3,196. In the past 12 days, the number of cases has been more than 100. Lokmanyanagar, Savarkarnagar and Mumbra continue to record the highest number of cases in the city.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “Three men aged 65, 53 and 72 years died. Two woman aged 77 and 42 are also among the five dead. Two out of five died on May 22 but the test reports came out after their death.”The death toll in the city is 92.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-164-cases-five-covid-deaths/story-rKd4pHprDQk70c8Cbj1wJI.html
01-06-2020||Mumbai||Outstation passenger trains resume from Mumbai||After 71 days of lockdown, the first set of outstation passenger trains operated from the city on Monday. The Mahanagiri special train was the first to depart from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) at 12.10am to Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh (UP). Nearly 1,700 passengers travelled in the Mahanagiri special train.Passengers were asked to arrive 90 minutes before departure but many started to arrive three hours early. They underwent thermal screenings and their luggage was sanitised before boarding.“I had come to the city before the lockdown to meet my brother. I was not aware that the lockdown would be extended for so long. I’m happy to be going back home. I have got a food packet and water for myself as they will not be served on the train,” said Ankita Shukla a resident of Varanasi. To maintain social distancing, different entry and exit points for the railway stations have been introduced. The railways on Sunday night had written to the Maharashtra government to ensure protocol for passengers. “Chairman of the railway board, Vinod Kumar Yadav had asked the chief secretary to issue necessary instructions to district administrations for guidelines to operate special trains,” said a senior railway official. The first set of passenger trains will arrive in the city on Tuesday.Union railway minister Piyush Goyal had announced the operation of 200 special trains, starting from June 1. From the city, passenger trains including the Kushinagar Express, Kamayani Express, Mahanagari Express, Bandra Terminus-Ghazhipur Express, Gorakhpur-LTT Express, BDTS-Gorakhpur Awadh Express, Pushpak Express, CSMT-Gadag Express, Udyan Express, Hussain Sagar Express, and Nethravati Express will be operated. There will also be 17 pairs of passenger trains between Mumbai and Ahmedabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/outstation-passenger-trains-resume-from-mumbai/story-qBkQ5DIk8fOBQkVK5irEUM.html
01-06-2020||Gurugram||Community involvement bolsters Nuh’s fight against Covid-19||Ten days ago Nuh district became coronavirus free temporarily after discharging the last five Covid-19 positive persons until a new case emerged three days later on May 26. From having the highest number of cases in Haryana in the second week of April, the district seems to have come a long way with only seven people undergoing treatment currently for the deadly disease.Nuh has recorded a total of 73 cases, out of which 66 have recovered so far, while results of 173 samples are awaited. Among the country’s most backward regions, the district was able to turn the tide, much to the surprise of people who were skeptical about its health care infrastructure and socio-economic backwardness, and is one of the few districts in the states to have active cases in single digits. In April 2018, NITI Aayog had identified Nuh, earlier known as Mewat, as the most backward district in India. In an assessment on multiple parameters such as education, health, agriculture, financial inclusion, skill development, and infrastructure, Mewat scored 26% — the lowest across the country. The district has also had a chequered history with immunisation programmes. Yet, despite various limitations at play, the district’s efforts at containing the spread have been encouraging, and no deaths have been reported so far. No new case was reported in the district for ten straight days between May 16 and May 26.Nuh’s deputy commissioner Pankaj (who goes by his first name) said the administration worked in tandem with local community leaders and village heads to contain the spread of coronavirus in the district. In April around 513 villages of the district, health department teams surveyed around 2, 35,000 households and screened over 14.5 lakh people in the district, according to the chief medical officer (CMO) of Nuh, Virender Yadav.“A large number of cases were reported in April here. During this period, anyone who came from outside was quickly traced within two days and quarantined. These included people who had some contact history with the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi. Everyone including asymptomatic individuals who have had a history with the congregation were tested. Much of this could only take place due to cooperation from local people and community leaders,” said the deputy commissioner. So far, the district has sent 5,305 samples for testing as many as 645 people found to be in contact with Covid-19 positive persons were put in self-isolation. CMO Yadav said the district recorded the maximum number of cases between April 2 and April 23 and the situation was brought under control by treating everyone with symptoms as a suspected patient. “We saw a rise in cases till April 23 and during this period, we ensured that the patient was immediately isolated and samples from the patient’s contacts collected were collected the same day,” he said.To ensure that the process of screening, testing, and isolating people with symptoms took place without any hurdles, the administration reached out to the local community, made them stakeholders in all its efforts, and took a number of confidence-building measures. Overcoming ChallengesApart from the efforts of the health and police teams, support from locals helped to propel Nuh’s fight against the disease and ward off challenges. One such challenge was to allay the apprehensions of the Muslim-concentrated region that people in quarantine could be ill-treated, a fear that became palpable with the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi hitting the headlines.The Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in Delhi had emerged as a big Covid-19 hot spot in March, after which at least 2,346 persons were evacuated, out of which many had been admitted to hospitals and more than 1,800 people were put under quarantine.“Initially, we were anticipating law and order problems when many Jamaatis were quarantined, but we tackled the reservations of people though our transparent mechanisms and active communication. We kept the Jamaatis accessible, and we informed the community leaders that they would be given escorted visits to meet the Jamaatis anytime in the quarantine centres. This worked as a confidence-building measure and helped to allay fears in the mind of the public,” said Pankaj. Additional deputy commissioner Vikram said multiple meetings were held with religious and community leaders to assuage the fears among the locals. “Initially, there was some kind of apprehensions among people. They wondered how the Jamaatis would be treated. We got all religious leaders on board and took them to quarantine facilities and the shelter houses, and assured them that the Jamaatis were being kept properly. They were satisfied and helped us in our efforts,” said Vikram.Community patrollingAt the peak of its coronavirus crisis, Nuh had around 45 containment zones, including 23 villages and two urban areas. During this period, the administration formed 289 teams that started screening people for Covid-19 symptoms. To ensure the success of the screening process, the administration reached out to village heads and imposed ‘thikri pehras’ outside the villages. Thikri pehras, a provision under section 3 of the Punjab Village and Small Town and Patrol Act, 1918, was invoked to regulate the movement of people to and from villages. “We placed thikri pehras outside the villages under which village heads (sarpanch) and other local leaders placed checkpoints at the entrances. This system ensured that outsiders couldn’t enter the villages without informing anyone. We conducted screening for anyone entering the villages from outside to ensure that infection from outside didn’t enter the village. This system was put in place around 317 panchayats. Locals maintained a vigil during the day and night,” said ADC Vikram.The involvement of village heads in halting the spread of the diseases proved useful with locals playing an active role in ensuring that their villages remained on guard. From extending help to those managing quarantine facilities to aiding the screening process, local leaders ensured that people with a travel history were quarantined and reported to the administration.Sabir Hussain, sarpanch of Malab village—where a polytechnic college was among the seven quarantine facilities in the district— said village heads and leaders played an active role in maintaining vigil, especially in the containment zones.“We kept a close watch and ensured that people coming from outside and those with symptoms were screened. Village heads shouldered a lot of responsibility and ensured that everything in quarantine facilities, from food to cleanliness, was taken care of. In our village, we took over the responsibility of delivering food at the quarantine facility after taking permission from the administration,” said Hussain.He added that many had feared that Covid-19 would rapidly spread in Nuh, but proving such expectations wrong people in the district stepped up and ensured that safety measures were followed and the situation could be brought under control. “Everyone, including the administration, perhaps thought that it would be difficult to contain the spread of coronavirus in the region, yet people proved them wrong and surprised everyone with their resilience.” Efforts by the administration and the locals have left Nuh with just one containment zone (Tauru block).CMO Yadav said the health department was able to quickly trace, test, and isolate individuals returning from Covid-19 hot spots and other states due to intervention of locals who informed the administration on time. “While we made efforts of detecting cases, the locals helped us by ensuring that anyone coming to the villages from outside was screened.” Dispelling rumoursWith the initial lockdown restrictions disrupting the reach of newspapers, the administration took support from community leaders in relaying reliable information timely and dispelling rumours. This was a much-needed step in a region that has had a tumultuous history with immunisation drives with misinformation hindering the efforts of health teams.Around March 2017, rumours that the government’s immunisation campaigns were a conspiracy to make children sterile had spread like wildlife in the region. Doctored videos circulating on social media had further heightened the fears among the local population.. To avoid a repeat of the episode, the district administration reached out to community leaders for effective outreach among the local population.“Religious leaders in Nuh cooperated with us a lot. We organised three or four meetings with them initially. The leaders would make announcements from mosques and madrassas emphasising that people should offer prayers at home and support the health team in all their efforts,” said deputy commissioner Pankaj. He recalled that some people were reluctant about sharing samples during the holy month of Ramzan, but they were pacified after the much helpful intervention of religious leaders.“Some people were not willing to let health teams collect their samples during Ramzan, but religious leaders stepped in and clarified through videos that giving samples wouldn’t affect their fasting in any way,” said Pankaj.Mufti Zahid Hussain of Nuh’s Bada madarssa said he has been in constant touch with the administration ever since coronavirus cases started emerging in the region. “ It was a mutually beneficial relationship for both sides. People followed the lockdown rules and stayed inside. We made sure that people cooperated with the health teams. People abided by the lockdown rules and offered prayers, including the Eid and Jummah prayers at home,” he said.Along with making announcements over loudspeakers in mosques, social media and community radio stations were also used to quell misinformation and spread awareness on physical distancing. Community radio stations such as Radio Mewat and Alfaz-e-Mewat aired special programs on Covid-19 providing reliable information and serving as a bridge between the government and locals.Siddique Ahmed Meo, social activist and community historian, said the administration’s approach of working with the locals had strengthened its fight against the pandemic. “Village heads were asked to inform the authorities about outsiders who had their concealed travel history from the administration. Village heads communicated with these individuals and convinced them to get in touch with the administration. At some places, people themselves reached out to the government, and in other instances, the administration came to take them to quarantine facilities. The mutual arrangement worked for the district,” said Meo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/community-involvement-bolsters-nuh-s-fight-against-covid-19/story-gYe0E36s31Nm5Rjxy0YhJO.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Biggest spike in Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh during lockdown 4.0||Chandigarh: The steepest rise in Covid-19 cases in the city was registered during Lockdown 4.0 as compared to other phases beginning from March 24 this year to prevent the transmission of Covid-19, calculations made from data shared by health authorities reveal.The cases spiked when restrictions were eased considerably during lockdown 4.0, with public transport and public dealing in government offices resuming, markets opening and restaurants allowed to home deliver of food after nearly two months.Only 95 cases were reported in the city during the first two lockdowns – 21 in the first and 74 in the second – when strict restrictions were in place, and 96 recorded in the third phase lasting for 14 days from May 4 to May 17. The next phase, from May 18 to May 31, recorded 103 positive cases, or 34% of the total cases.Biggest single day spikeThe biggest single day spike of 29 cases also came on May 24, a week after the restrictions were eased. Three areas , EWS Colony in Sector 38 and parts of Sector 52 and Shastri Nagar in Manimajra, however, were denotified as containment zones in this phase.One interesting aspect of the last lockdown, however, was that cases were all localised in the Bapu dham containment zone in Sector 26 with only four of 103 cases reported from other localities of Dhanas, Sector 30, Dadu majra and Khuda Ali Sher.Now only three containment zones remain, including Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, Kacchi Colony in Dhanas, and parts of Sector 30B.Another interesting point to note was the surge in recovery rates after the fourth lockdown. From May 18 to May 31, there were 145 recoveries out of a total of 199 owing to changes in discharge policy of patients when asymptomatic and mild cases were discharged from Covid-19 designated centres without testing. Earlier, only those with two results testing negative consecutively within 24 hours were allowed to go home.Peak yet to comeHowever, according to Dr Jagat Ram, Director, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PRIMER), seeing the trend of the cases, a peak in the number of cases is yet to come.“The peak may come anywhere between June and July, but that does not mean that everything should be shut. The virus is here to stay and to we need to modify our lifestyle to stay safe,” he said.Completely unlocking the city will require a fine balancing act between humanitarian and health concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cases-spiked-34-in-chandigarh-during-lockdown-4-0/story-oICfg8C34Vq8hVM7txYexM.html
01-06-2020||Mumbai||Traffic snarls begin again on all major highways, police expect further surge from June 3||An increase in movement of private vehicular traffic was witnessed on city roads on Monday morning as the state government announced some relaxations while extending the lockdown in the state till June 30.Slow-moving traffic was reported in certain patches on both, the western express highway (WEH) and eastern express highway (EEH). Traffic slowed down outside vegetable markets on the Sion-Panvel road and other areas in the suburbs. This came after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday night announced Mission Begin Again – the fifth phase of the lockdown.From June 5, all markets, shopping areas, and stores, except malls and market complexes, will be allowed to function on an odd-even basis from 9am to 5pm, the Maharashtra government guidelines indicated. Standalone shops in one lane will be allowed to open on odd dates while those in the next lane can function on even dates. The government notification, however, warns that failure to maintain social distancing norms by shops and markets will result in the immediate closure of such commercial establishments.This is also seen as one of the reasons for traffic as shopkeepers have started to venture out for stocks. “The nakabandi is underway. We anticipate that traffic will further increase from June 3,” said additional commissioner of police (traffic) Pravin Padwal.Starting June 3, the state has also lifted restrictions on outdoor physical activities like cycling, running, and jogging. Use of beaches, parks, playgrounds, gardens, and promenades will be allowed from 5am to 7pm.Lack of public transport and the need to maintain social distance has resulted in citizens taking their vehicles on the roads. “We are allowing essential services which also include goods carriers, tempos, and trucks. Local trains are non-operational while BEST buses are running at half capacity. Hence, we expect that the use of private vehicles may increase,” said Padwal. People took to Twitter on Monday to report the increase in traffic. “Unlock 1 started bit early for Mumbai. Mumbai highway started seeing traffic again,” wrote one user. Others raised concerns that this may lead to a rise in infection while some said that doctors, nurses, and those working for essential services may get affected due to the traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/traffic-snarls-begin-again-on-all-major-highways-police-expect-further-surge-from-june-3/story-qjjBSJay9H6ESyRvQyjCoL.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana witnesses one death, 265 new infections||Haryana continued to witness steep rise in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Monday as 265 fresh infections were detected in 14 districts, pushing the state’s tally to 2,356.A coronavirus patient also died in Gurugram, whose death took the state toll to 21.Among the NCR districts, Gurugram reported 129 cases, Faridabad saw 25 infections and Sonepat 13.As per the health bulletin, Sirsa witnessed 28 new cases, Rohtak 14, Hisar 13, Kaithal and Palwal 11 each, Bhiwani five, Kurukshetra and Jhajjar four each, and Nuh and Jind two each.1,055 corona patients have been cured and discharged till now as the state’s recovery rate stands at 44.78%.SIRSA TURNS INTO NEW VIRUS HOTBEDWith 28 fresh cases, Haryana’s Sirsa on Monday recorded its biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 infections, taking the district’s tally to 43. Sirsa had reported only 15 cases during the first four lockdowns.Among the new patients were 19 people, who had returned from other states; four jail inmates and a constable; a dental assistant at a community health centre; a private hospital staffer; an employee of Dabwali court and a man from the containment zone in Dabwali.SIX KIDS FOUND POSITIVE IN KAITHALSix children were among 11 people who tested positive for the virus in Kaithal.Chief medical officer Rakesh Sehl said nine of them were in contact with already infected persons, while two patients had a travel history to Delhi.Four people, including two women, were found infected in Karnal, taking the number of Covid carriers to 56 in the district.Though health bulletin mentioned limited cases, local authorities said 24 infections were detected in Rohtak, 21 in Sonepat, 10 in Bhiwani, seven in Dadri and four in Jhajjar.Rohtak civil surgeon Dr Anil Birla said the new Rohtak patients comprised four employees of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), 12 contacts of a PGIMS staffer, three contacts of another infected man and five others.In Sonepat, 17 contacts of an infected man from Rai area were found positive besides the driver of a senior Delhi Police officer. Three family members of an infected man from Nathuwas village were among 10 Bhiwani cases.Similarly, four family members of an infected man, who works as an engineer in Gurugram, tested positive for Covid-19 in Jhajjar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-witnesses-one-death-265-new-infections/story-qpQExjl7diBOxfOLcWhZQO.html
01-06-2020||Delhi||IIT-D offers ‘early graduation’ option to final-year students||The Indian Institute of Technology in Delhi (IIT-D) on Monday announced it would provide an “early graduation” option to its final-year students to avoid any delay in their future plans due to the Covid-19 pandemic.According to IIT-D director V Ramgopal Rao, the senate—the highest decision-making body of the institute—approved the policy. “According to the current plan, we hope to get students back on the campus in a phased manner from July 2. However, these dates can change depending on how the Covid-19 situation develops (they may be delayed). Since there may be some delay, a time-bound Early Graduation Plan is being offered. We will not force students to take it, but will give them the flexibility to exercise this option,” Rao said.Under the early graduation option, which will allow students to graduate by the end of June, they can either choose an “audit” or a “credit” option. In the credit option, the students will take online tests, home exams, assignments and telephonic viva-voce, among other options, Rao said.The audit option will allow students to choose to be evaluated based on their previous exams. “The course instructors will inform the students about their grades based on their previous performances. In case they are not satisfied with that, they can appear for online tests or home exams under the credit option,” he said.“All early graduation requirements will be met through an online process. No student will need to come to the campus. The only reason the graduating batch will need to come to the campus will be to pick up their belongings,” the director added.“Besides, students can also choose the regular graduation process as and when they are allowed back on the campus,” he said.The students will be asked to pick an option through an online portal in the next few days. “In case a student cannot complete their graduation requirements by the end of June via these options, they will have a fallback option to graduate when the semester reconvenes. The pass/fail percentages this year will be no different from previous years. It will be our responsibility to ensure that no one is disadvantaged because of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic,” Rao said.Meanwhile, students said that the administration should fix a uniform criteria for the audit option for all courses. “Audit criteria for many courses like Maths are unmanageable. They go as high as 80 marks and students need to be given relaxation, in lieu of the reduced quality of online education. We hope the administration can fix the audit criteria for all courses, instead of providing guidelines, so as to smoothen out the heterogeneity in these difficult times. This would significantly lower the misery for many students [sic],” a statement by the IIT-D board of students read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/iit-d-offers-early-graduation-option-to-final-year-students/story-gYqwfpLc1AzV2yx9U1w6nJ.html
01-06-2020||Mumbai||391 flights operated to, from city since May 25||After the directives issued by the Government of India to resume domestic flight operations from May 25, the Mumbai International Airport managing Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA), has operated a total of 391 flights, which include 196 departures and 195 arrivals, in the last one week.CSMIA has handled a total of 42,503 passengers, which include 31,665 passengers at departures and 10,838 at arrivals.“CSMIA was operating to 14 sectors until Wednesday and saw two sectors - Kolkata and Rajkot added on Thursday. In the last one week, the passenger load capacity has been the highest on Mumbai - Delhi route with 8,130 passengers departing out of CSMIA,” said MIAL spokesperson.Due to the mandate by the aviation ministry and the state government, CSMIA has been operating 50 commercial passenger flight movements.On Monday, CSMIA handled flights to destinations like Delhi, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Kochi, Calicut, Guwahati, Jaipur, Bengaluru, Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Ranchi and Patna.Apart from six flights operated by GoAir, Air Asia India and Air India Express operated one departure and one arrival, Air India operated four flights, IndiGo operated 20 flights, SpiceJet operated 12 flights and Vistara operated four flights. Thus, CSMIA handled 50 flight, its maximum permitted flight operations by the government.GoAir started its operations from CSMIA, on Monday, with three departures and three arrivals from Patna, Lucknow, and Varanasi route, carrying 320 passengers at arrivals, and 538 passengers at departures from Mumbai airport.“GoAir was first scheduled to operate on Delhi route but, it cancelled, and instead operated from Patna route,” an airport source said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/391-flights-operated-to-from-city-since-may-25/story-TccZq1skgxJL4lmfp2QYGM.html
01-06-2020||Mumbai||Two IIT-B startups design temperature sensors to detect Covid suspects in a crowd||Two startups incubated at the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, have designed temperature-sensing devices that work on artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning. These devices can scan a large group of people at a time for body temperatures to aid government agencies in detecting Covid-19 patients and carriers as the lockdown measures ease across the country.Faclon Labs, which works on providing technology solutions for reducing operating costs of companies, is currently working with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to set up automatic plug-and-go screening devices that can be mounted on a wall or tripod. These devices capture thermal snapshots of individuals and activate alarms upon detecting those with fever.“The camera is a plug and play setup that uses artificial intelligence to localise and detect a person in its field of view and analyses it to get the thermal data to identify the body temperature. Once the temperature is higher than the threshold, relevant people are alerted to take necessary actions,” said Parth Chaudhary, heading the business development division of Faclon. The startup is in the process of applying for a patent, he added.Augle AI, another startup, has designed a temperature sensing system that can skim through hundreds of people moving in public places. Tejendu Mouli, the head of their technology team, said, “We are integrating this (device) with our existing facial recognition system to strengthen the safety and security in offices, government buildings, public places, malls – any place where people gather in large numbers.” The team said that the facial recognition module can help identify those with high body temperatures and aid healthcare agencies to identify carriers of the infection. They also provide drone-based crowd analytics for quarantined areas for increasing the safety of police officials and health workers.Both startups were mentored by the Desai Sethi Centre School of Entrepreneurship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-iit-b-startups-design-temperature-sensors-to-detect-covid-suspects-in-a-crowd/story-tTlTYs5bV3nYl75K5OUEJN.html
01-06-2020||City||Kalyan-Dombivli records highest single-day jump of 62 cases||The twin cities of Kalyan-Dombivli recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases in 24 hours on Monday. With 62 new cases, the tally of positive cases in the city is 1,096. Two deaths were also reported on Monday, taking the death toll to 31.In the newly recorded cases, seven patients are senior citizens. A 70-year-old woman from Titwala and 65-year-old man from Bail Bazaar in Kalyan (West) are the recent deaths. As per the health department of KDMC, the woman had fever since May 25 and she went to Rukminibai hospital in Dombivli. She was sent to Sion hospital, where her test was carried out. She died on Sunday and her report came the same day, showing her Covid positive.The 65-year-old man was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. He had fever since May 28. He went to Meera hospital in Kalyan from where he was sent to Sion hospital. He died the next day and his report on Sunday showed he was Covid positive.“Both patients had high fever,” said an officer from health department of KDMC.Sports complex to turn into care centreThe KDMC will use its Savlaram Krida Sankul (sports complex) in Dombivli MIDC for Covid care centre. On Monday, the civic chief Vijay Suryavanshi, officials and doctors inspected the on-going work.A total of 200 beds will be set up at the centre. Ten beds will be set up as semi ICU (intensive care unit) for critical patients. The work at the centre is expected to be completed by June 8.“With the increasing cases in Kalyan-Dombivli, we need to be ready with more beds and facilities. The sports complex was shut since lockdown. We have decided to use its space for Covid patients,” said Madhavi Pophale, public relations officer, KDMC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-dombivli-records-highest-single-day-jump-of-62-cases/story-PCUOPfxAq6sVrwt8shGhvJ.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Immigration fraud: Four Haryana travel agents held||Four travel agents were arrested in connection with immigration frauds, wherein several Haryana residents were illegally sent to the US, police said on Monday. The action came three days after Karnal police had registered 25 FIRs against such agents on the complaints of 26 local youths, who were recently deported from America. As per the police, those arrested are Ravinder of Jundla village and Hardeep Singh of Kabulpur Khera village in Karnal district, Rajkumar alias Raju of Kaithal’s Dhand village and Deepak Narwal of Panipat’s Joshi village. Karnal superintendent of police Surender Singh Bhoria said the accused were booked under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Emigration Act.He said, “These agents used an illegal way, popularly known as donkey flights, to send local youths to the US and the UK. They used to lure youths by promising them a brighter future. These youths used to be sent to the US via Colombia, Panama, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Guatemala and Mexico.”SP Bhoria said of the 76 people who were recently deported from the US, 25 belonged to Karnal district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/immigration-fraud-four-haryana-travel-agents-held/story-8kvjTVycyWuV5YyMTzKtCP.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Newlywed couple commits suicide in Sonepat||A newly married couple committed suicide in Sonepat, police said on Monday. The 25-year-old man ended his life by jumping before a train, while his wife hanged herself from a ceiling fan at her in-laws house in Sonepat’s Mayur Vihar area. They had got married on May 27. A spokesperson of Sonepat police said the couple took this extreme step due to a family dispute.“The suicide came to the fore when their family found the woman hanging in her room in the morning. They rushed her to the civil hospital, where doctors pronounced her dead on arrival. Later in the day, the man’s body was found on tracks between Sonepat and Rajlugarhi,” the spokesman added.The man was a clerk at the Delhi High Court. “We have sent the bodies for autopsy and its report will decide our further course of action. We have launched a probe into the matter,” police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/newlywed-couple-commits-suicide-in-sonepat/story-KXT6TFWrm6FGJEurTKWAwI.html
01-06-2020||City||Body found in Dera Bassi pond: Police arrest victim’s in-laws; husband on the run||Two weeks after the body of a woman was found in a pond in Saidpura village of Dera Bassi, police have identified the deceased and arrested her mother-in-law and sister-in-law for murder. Her husband is still at large.Assistant sub-inpector (ASI) Satinder Singh said, “The woman has been identified as Veena Devi, 28, a migrant. Her body was found floating in the pond on May 15.”Investigations revealed that the husband, Jagmohan Singh, a native of Khushepur of Kannauj district of Uttar Pradesh, had allegedly killed her as she did not deliver a son. The couple has two daughters. The accused had fled the town, taking his two daughters along, after the murder. The body had been kept in the mortuary for 72 hours for identification following which a murder case was registered against unidentified persons.The ASI revealed that the deceased had been living with her husband in a rented house in the village for the last four years. Her husband worked as a helper at the nearby Nectar Life Science Factory. On May 12, the victim had spoken to her family and told them that her husband was beating her. The mobile phone remained switched off after that call. Police have booked the victim’s mother-in-law Meena Devi and sister-in-law on the statement of the victim’s brother. They were produced before the court after arrest and sent to five-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/body-found-in-dera-bassi-pond-police-arrest-victim-s-in-laws-husband-on-the-run/story-FDLN6rRNOlg0Hw9M4kuH7I.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh mulls reopening government schools, virtually||In line with the private schools of the city, the government schools in Chandigarh might start functioning through online classrooms as well.A committee meeting in this regard was held on Monday to mull plans after the extended vacations end on June 7.A department official who attended the meeting said the committee mulled the idea to start mandatory online classes for government school students. “The plan is to call the teaching and non-teaching staff to the school in a staggered manner. The staff can prepare online modules from the school,” the official said.“One primary concern still remains, how will students access online education in the absence of technology,” she added.STUDENTS WITH NO ACCESS TO TECHNOLOGY TO BE IDENTIFIEDThe committee has been asked to prepare a data entry chart on the number of students with access to online education. Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director school education, said, “The focus is on strengthening the online preparedness. Right now it’s all in the discussion stage. Students will not be called to the schools before July in consonance with the MHA guidelines.”Many government schools have been running online classes, said a teacher. “Every Thursday, a detailed report is sent to district education officer Alka Mehta, where she is informed if schools are following NCERT e-content or not,” he said.The UT education department on Friday had decided that the government, as well as government-aided schools in Chandigarh, will remain closed till June 7. A committee was also constituted for deciding on extension of vacation or reopening of schools by the department.This was the third time that summer breaks were extended due to Covid-19 spread in Chandigarh. The move impacts over 1 lakh students of 123 government and eight government-aided schools of Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-education-department-plans-to-reopen-government-schools-virtually/story-3I3SvhrxYhN2DNLarGjEpO.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Another rainy spell ahead in Chandigarh||Following showers over the weekend, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast another spell of light rain in the city to begin from Wednesday onwards.“The sky is likely to get cloudy with a slight chance of rain on Wednesday, and more rain is likely to follow on Thursday. Temperature is likely to stay on the lower side during this period,” said an IMD official.Maximum temperature went up from 31.9°C on Sunday to 33.8°C on Monday. Minimum temperature went down from 22.3°C to 21.1°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 35 and 36 degrees while minimum temperature will remain between 20 and 22 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/another-rainy-spell-ahead-in-chandigarh/story-Xwl2eSCskwl4EBoqPfpGGO.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Drug addict tries to end life, doctors at Ludhiana hospital ‘deny’ treatment||High drama was witnessed at the ESI hospital near the Bharat Nagar Chowk here after the wife of a drug addict, who tried to commit suicide, alleged that her husband was not treated at the hospital.The issue escalated after a patient at the hospital recorded the video and uploaded it on the social media.The woman, identified as Shalu, a resident of Jain Colony in Haibowal, said her 35-year-old husband was a chronic drug addict and hooked to chitta. She said he attempted to commit suicide on Monday by hanging himself from a ceiling fan after a drug peddler, despite taking money, refused to give him the daily dose of drug.Shalu said she reached the room on time and managed to save himShe said she rushed him to the ESI hospital, but the doctors there refused to treat him. “I took him back home after a wait of two hours,” Shalu added.Later, the matter was brought to the notice of civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga, who said he had sought an explanation from hospital authorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/drug-addict-tries-to-end-life-doctors-at-ludhiana-hospital-deny-treatment/story-NBMWTCqLCyAtamXV1VwnVN.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Now, water supply from 3:15am in Chandigarh||The water supply and sewerage disposal committee of the municipal corporation on Monday decided to enhance water supply hours in the morning from 3:15am to 9am during this summer.At present water is supplied from 4am to 9am. The supply in the afternoon (12-2pm) and evening (6- 9pm) will continue as usual.“If required, we asked the officials to extend the evening timings too,” said councillor Anil Kumar Dubey, who chaired the meeting.The committee also instructed engineers to keep the fleet of water supply tankers ready to be made available to citizens whenever required.54 given notices, 1 challanedTo ease low water supply in the areas, a team of officers and committee members will visit the areas and challans will also be issued to those who have installed illegal motors. The members also decided to visit Hallomajra and Ram Darbar to check low water pressure in the evening.For water wastage, the local MC on Monday issued notices to 54 households. For the second violation, they will be issued challan.One of the households was issued a challan for Rs 5000 for using a motor.Meanwhile, it has been decided that road gullies will be checked throughout the city by the subdivisional engineer concerned and a daily report will be submitted to the higher authorities.The committee members were of the view that pending works related to public health, which were started before the lockdown, be taken up on priority and completed well before the monsoon to avoid untoward incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-water-supply-from-3-15am-in-chandigarh/story-jE4CX9SDDvff0h2swZQeMK.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Hooda accuses BJP-JJP govt of framing anti-farmer policies||Accusing the BJP-JJP government of framing anti-farmer policies, former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda asked the government should lift all curbs imposed on paddy cultivation in the state.“Even though the cost of production is on the rise, the government is announcing new anti-farmer policies daily,” he added. Hooda said the government will have to withdraw curbs on paddy cultivation following a campaign by the opposition. “Instead of imposing restrictions on farmers and panchayats, the government should resume projects like Dadupur-Nalvi; digging of Rakshi River, Saraswati River, Khand Nala, Ottu Lake, Bibipur Lake, Kotla Lake, ponds, drains and canals,” he added.He also demanded that the government should clear farmers’ pending payments of wheat and sugarcane immediately and should compensate them soon for losses suffered due to hailstorms and unseasonal rains.Expressing his concern over the alleged liquor scam, Hooda said that the intention of the government was not clear. “Far from an impartial probe into the scam, the government has not yet been able to decide which agency should investigate it,” he said.In reference to the scam, he said that the government doesn’t even listen to its own minister (home) Anil Vij.“Vij is my old friend but I wish to ask him why does he bother to speak even though his own government does not listen to him,” he said, adding that a new scam was unfolding even before the investigation could begin on this one.He alleged that the contractors were selling liquor at an arbitrary rate.Hooda also expressed concern over the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state and demanded that the government should pay attention to complaints regarding corona patients not being looked after properly. “At this time, the health of people is more important than politics,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hooda-accuses-bjp-jjp-govt-of-framing-anti-farmer-policies/story-yRKqeNXbeosQ2vV5GYhlFL.html
01-06-2020||City||Government to set up trauma centre at Kiratpur Sahib, says Punjab health minister Sidhu||Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu while talking to media persons in Nangal on Monday said the state government will be setting up a trauma centre at the historic town of Kiratapur Sahib in Rupnagar district.Sidhu said that the proposed trauma centre will prove to be a boon for the people of Kiratpur Sahib, Anandpur Sahib, Nangal and adjoining areas of Himachal Pradesh. More health facilities will be provided at the Lala Lajpat Rai civil hospital in Nangal, and vacant posts of doctors will be filled soon, he added.Sidhu also said that medical colleges were being set up in Mohali, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala to meet the shortage of qualified doctors in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/government-to-set-up-trauma-centre-at-kiratpur-sahib-says-punjab-health-minister-sidhu/story-vaaCTaX8Qsumb4eZ9mFMHP.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sirsa records biggest single-day spike with 28 new Covid-19 cases||With 28 fresh cases, Haryana’s Sirsa on Monday recorded its biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 infections, taking the district’s tally to 43. Sirsa had reported only 15 cases during the first four lockdowns. Among the new patients were 19 people, who had returned from other states; four jail inmates and a constable; a dental assistant at a community health centre; a private hospital staffer; an employee of Dabwali court and a man from the containment zone in Dabwali’s Prem Nagar.Sirsa civil surgeon Dr Surender Nain said, “Of 29 people who had returned from Mumbai, 15 tested positive for the virus. Two persons who had came back from Patiala, one from Hyderabad and another from Gurugram were also found infected,” he added. The civil surgeon said they had sent 26 patients to the Covid hospital in Sirsa and remaining two to the Agroha medical college. “We will collect the samples of contacts of the jail inmates and asked the officials to sanitise the barracks. We are tracing the contact history of those who had returned from other states,” Dr Nain added.SURVEILLANCE HELPED IN DETECTING CASESDr Nain said proper surveillance and testing helped the district administration in detecting the virus among people who had returned from other states. “People coming from other states are being monitored by doctors and health workers. We have asked the returnees to strictly go into home quarantine and approach us if they notice any symptoms of Covid-19,” the civil surgeon added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sirsa-records-biggest-single-day-spike-with-28-new-covid-19-cases/story-cMDxg11T3XxYJVgBH41H7K.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University’s UIET launches products to make campus virus-free||University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), Panjab University, on Monday launched a sensor-based touch free hand sanitiser and UV light cabinet, which were made in the institute to prevent the spread of Covid-19 within the PU campus.The institute also launched a foot-operated sanitiser stand. The in-house products were launched by a UIET team formed by the institute’s director Savita Gupta under the supervision of Harbhinder Singh, assistant professor at the mechanical engineering department.The products were inaugurated by PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar for use in the varsity campus. The sensor-based hand sanitizer pours sanitiser when a person puts his hands below the nozzle. As per officials, it costs less than ₹4,000.The UV light cabinet is used to make paper free of contamination. Online course started Meanwhile, a one-month online course on programming using python was started by UIET on Monday. As many as 240 participants from various technical colleges are participating in the course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-s-uiet-launches-products-to-make-campus-virus-free/story-vO2iUvaF55jQBcRZckkv8J.html
01-06-2020||City||File FIR, probe rape charges against youth Cong leader: Court to cops||A court here on Monday directed the district police to investigate the rape complaint against youth Congress leader Varun Joshi after registering an FIR.A woman has alleged that Joshi of Himmatpura village in Moga raped and blackmailed her by threatening to upload videos of her getting intimate with another person on the internet. She stated in her complaint that in December 2019, Joshi had demanded a sexual relation from her and ₹5 lakh to delete the videos.“I paid ₹4 lakh to one Balwinder of Himmatpura and Joshi assured that he had deleted all the videos. On April 24, he again came to my office and told me he has deleted only a few clips and demanded ₹3 lakh more. Joshi then took me to a secluded place on Bhagi-ke-Saidkoke road and raped me,” she stated.The survivor’s counsel, Ranjit Singh Dhaliwal, argued that she had narrated the incident to police officials, but they did not initiate any proceedings against the accused as he is an influential person.Sub-divisional judicial magistrate Amandeep Kaur ordered that the police was required to register an FIR and had no right to carry out a preliminary inquiry to verify the credibility of information supplied by the victim. “Keeping in the view the facts and circumstances, the SHO of Nihal Singh Wala police station is directed to investigate the matter after registering an FIR,” Kaur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/file-fir-probe-rape-charges-against-youth-cong-leader-court-to-cops/story-XIVxn6MNYfMxQnG0pEXWtM.html
01-06-2020||Pune||Pune reports 57 Covid-19 positive cases in 24 hours till Monday evening||The city on Monday recorded 57 Covid-19 positive cases taking the count of progressive positive patients to 6,529. Six deaths have also been reported taking the death toll to 320. There are currently 174 critical patients at various hospital out of the 2,259 active cases admitted as of Monday. Also, 168 patients were discharged on Monday taking the count of such cured and discharged in the city to 3,950 cases. The total count in samples collected in the city crossed 50,000 with 50,917 samples collected at government and private hospitals as of Monday evening out of which 1,597 were collected on Monday. Results of over 1,000 samples were still awaited as on Monday, said PMC health officials. Dr Ramchandra Hankare, chief health officer, PMC, said, “The number of positive cases has fallen across the district. There is no specific reason for this as the testing and results continue to come. However, we cannot say that this indicates any trend, for that we will have to wait at least for a week.” The six deaths include a 74-year-old male from Market Yard who had been admitted to the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital on May 30 and suffered from diabetes and ischemic heart disease (IHD). The person was declared dead on Sunday.A 76-year-old female from Kondhwa was reported dead at Sassoon General Hospital. She was admitted to the hospital on May 23 and declared dead on Sunday. The patient also suffered from diabetes and hypertension.A 58-year-old female from Bibvewadi was reported dead from the Bharati hospital. The patient was admitted on May 22 and declared dead on Sunday. The patient also suffered from diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease. A 75-year-old female residing at Yerawada was reported dead from AICTS hospital. The patient was admitted on May 22 and declared dead on Monday. The patients also suffered from diabetes, hypertension and benign prostatic hyperplasia.A 60-year-old female residing at Pandavnagar was declared dead at Jehangir hospital. The patient was admitted on Monday and declared dead on the same say. The patient suffered ARDS due to Covid-19. A 74-year-old female was reported dead from the Symbiosis hospital who was residing at Pandavnagar. The patient was admitted on May 23 and declared dead on Monday. The patient also suffered from diabetes, IHD and asthma. Two critical patients discharged from Aundh Civil HospitalAundh Civil hospital discharged two critical patients as of Monday who suffered from multiple ailments or were senior citizens. Medical officer Dr Prakash Rokde said, “Of the total 134 positive Covid-19 patients who were admitted to the hospital, 26 patients required ICU admission out of which 12 patients have recovered till date and have been transferred to the negative ward, nine have been discharged and three await discharge. On Monday, we discharged two critical patients aged 79 and 66 and one who was a pulmonary tuberculosis defaulter.” The three patients who were discharged include a 66-year-old male residing at Ganj peth and was referred from the Naidu hospital. The patient was in ICU for 12 days. Another 79-year-old male who lived at Janavadi PMC Colony and was in ICU from May 13 to May 25. A third 19-year-old male patient who was from Maval taluka was a pulmonary tuberculosis defaulter and was admitted on May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-reports-57-covid-19-positive-cases-in-24-hours-till-monday-evening/story-DECMSainJTuwHTbcslDM1M.html
01-06-2020||Delhi||List steps taken to protect sanitation workers from Covid-19, HC tells Delhi govt, civic bodies||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought to know from the Delhi government and the three municipal corporations — north, south and east — about steps they have been taken for the safety of the safai karamcharis (sanitation workers) from Covid-19. The court also asked them to file detailed affidavits about the status of dumping of bio-medical waste at common dumping grounds, which they feared can aid the spread of Covid-19 among manual scavengers. A bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad said that dumping of bio medical waste at common dumping ground is a “critical area” and matter of concern as scavengers would be first to be exposed to the infection.“This is a critical area, considering the submission made by counsel for the petitioners that bio-medical waste is being dumped in common dumping grounds, which can itself be a breeding ground of Covid-19 infection if any person unknowingly comes in contact with an infected PPE kit or gloves or masks. This is particularly a matter of concern as manual scavengers will be the first ones to be exposed to the infection,” the court said.The court’s remarks came while hearing a bunch of pleas seeking PPE kits and other medical equipment for sanitation workers.On Monday, the court noted that the affidavit and status reports filed by the Delhi government and the three municipal corporations were incomplete. It asked the authorities to give details of the number of sanitation workers in their jurisdictions and the number of PPE kits provided to them on a day-to-day basis during the Covid-19 pandemic.It gave the Delhi government and the three municipal corporations a week’s time to file fresh affidavits highlighting the points raised by the bench while also detailing “whether sanitizing cubicles have been installed by the civic authorities in each ward and if not, what steps have been taken to ensure that after the safai karamcharis complete their duty for the day, they are adequately disinfected”.Advocate Mehmood Pracha, appearing for one of the petitioners Harnam Singh, told the court that while the authorities claim to have distributed the PPE kits, the workers on the ground do not appear to have received them.The Delhi government in the affidavit, filed through its additional standing counsel Gautam Narayan, said that a PPE kit comprises of coveralls, masks, gloves and goggles and it has been receiving these components separately from HLL Lifecare Ltd, a government of India enterprise.It has also said that using different components, it has made 2.77 lakh PPE kits till May 22 out of which 2.75 lakh kits have been issued to chief district medical officers, Delhi government hospitals and health institutions, municipal hospitals and zonal offices of different municipalities where sanitation workers are employed.The matter would be now heard on June 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/list-steps-taken-to-protect-sanitation-workers-from-covid-19-hc-tells-delhi-govt-civic-bodies/story-mlhZJCEzjI3zLLNTZnDTSO.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||MBBS fee hike: AAP to gherao education minister’s house||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday said the Punjab government had ‘debarred’ students from humble backgrounds from becoming doctors by effecting a huge fee hike in government medical colleges of the state.Addressing a press conference here, AAP MLA Meet Hayer, state general secretary Dinesh Chadha and state youth wing president Manjinder Singh Sidhu announced that the party’s youth wing will lay siege to medical education minister OP Soni’s residence in Amritsar on Wednesday to support the deserving students. “All the safety protocols laid out by the government will be strictly adhered to during the protest,” they said.Meet Hayer said in 2010, the fee for MBBS degree in the government-run colleges in the state was ₹13,000 per annum which has been increased 12 times within 10 years, forcing aspirants to cough up ₹1.56 lakh per annum now, whereas doctors’ salaries and stipends have been raised only marginally in all these years.Dismissing the state government’s take that colleges could not function without raising fees and the aim was also to provide better facilities to doctors in medical colleges, Hayer asked if the neighbouring states of Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan and Delhi are running medical colleges by charging nominal fees, why Punjab can’t replicate the model.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mbbs-fee-hike-aap-to-gherao-education-minister-s-house/story-RTsLuzKDxKEz6eISu1xRKI.html
01-06-2020||City||Vigilance raid in Kharar areas to check illegal felling of Khair trees||Mohali: The Punjab vigilance department on Monday raided areas near Karoran village in the Kharar area following directions from the Punjab chief minister’s office (CMO) to probe reports of felling of 5,500 khair trees during the Covid-19 lockdown even as permits to cut down 4,000 had been issued.It remains to be probed how the trees were felled when strict rules allowing only essential services were in place during the lockdown.The team of 10 vigilance officers led by assistant inspector general (vigilance) Ashish Kapoor with district forest officers of Garhshankar and Ropar raided the Karoran village area after the CMO’s office received complaints that the contractor allotted the contract had felled more trees than permitted, a vigilance official said.The raids revealed that no registers showing number of trees felled had been maintained and no fresh saplings planted as per the forest management plan approved by the government of India. Rules to mark and fell trees were also violated by opening up the close canopy of the forest. Labour records of workers entering and exiting forest areas were also not kept and trees were felled after sunset, which was prohibited, the official said. Apportioning of common land shares to owners of the common land was also not done, he added.Katha used in paan (betel leaf) and cutch, used as a food additive, in astringent, tannin, dye and medicines are produced from Khair or Acacia catechu. The wood is much prized for posts in house construction and used for making oil and sugarcane crushers, oil and sugar crushers and parts of boats. The raids will continue for the second day on Tuesday.“This is private forest land, the government has nothing to do with this. What the teams are checking are illegal felling of trees as permits were given for the same. We have marked all Khair trees,” said Guraman Singh, district forest officer, Mohali.The forest department gives permission to fell trees after every five years as per silviculture practices. Though guidelines state that felling had to be completed by March 15 and logged wood moved to stores by March 31, reports had been received of felling continuing till mid-April amid the lockdown when strict rules allowing only essential services were in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vigilance-raid-in-kharar-areas-to-check-illegal-felling-of-khair-trees/story-UyUju31QCpbbJlzf8NtfpN.html
01-06-2020||City||Sangrur tops in wheat procurement, production across Punjab||By procuring over nine percent of total wheat in Punjab, Sangrur has topped the state in wheat procurement this year. As per official figures of the progressive purchase in the state till May 31, of total 12,711,895 metric tonne wheat, over1,197,391.6 MT has been procured in Sangrur by different agencies.Bathinda has been ranked second by purchasing 998,623 MT and Muktsar third with 932,477 MT, by May 31. In the last wheat procurement season as well, Sangrur had topped the state by procuring 1,189,454MT wheat on May 31.Sangrur DC Ghanshyam Thori said the district has one again topped in wheat purchase across Punjab. “The lifting of purchased wheat is almost completed,” he added.Sangrur has also been ranked first in production of wheat for many years. District chief agriculture officer Dr Jaswinderpal Singh Grewal said as per available figures, Sangrur has topped with 16.49 lakh tone production on 2.90 lakh hectare land.“The yield of wheat is 5,687kg this year, but it is less as compare to 5,800kg of last year. Earlier, the farmers of Lehra and Khanauri areas used to sell their crop in Haryana, but this year, they sold it in local markets which increased crop arrival,” said Grewal.‘STATE WORKING ON HASSLE-FREE PROCUREMENT’Chairman Lal Singh said at least one lakh people including government staff, farmers, police and labour were engaged in procurement and every one adhered to the protocol and standard operating procedures decided by the state for a hassle-free procurement season. He added that procurement has given boost to the rural economy as Rs 23,000 crore was distributed among farmers as MSP for wheat procured from them. The state has earned Rs 1,470 crore from procurement which comprises three percent each of rural development fund (RDF) and mandi fee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sangrur-tops-in-wheat-procurement-production-across-punjab/story-gyxbEER5AH1rWxzuaaGz8O.html
01-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 tally crosses 20,000-mark, death toll mounts to 523||The number of coronavirus cases in the national capital crossed the 20,000 mark on Monday while the death toll has risen to 523, authorities said. As many as 8,746 patients have recovered, while there are 11,565 active cases. In a bulletin issued on Monday, the Delhi health department said the total number of cases has mounted to 20,834. The death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 523, including 50 Covid-19 deaths that took place between April 7 and May 31, nine fatalities on May 25 and 10 on May 30, it said. The cumulative death figure refers to fatalities where primary cause of death was found to be Covid-1 as per the report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case sheets received from various hospitals, the health department said. With the highest daily rise of 1,295 cases on Sunday, the total number of cases reported in the national capital had reached 19,844. This was the first time that over 1,200 Covid-19 cases were reported in the city in a day. As many as 6,238 patients are in home isolation while there are 2,748 patients admitted in various hospitals like LNJP Hospital, RML Hospital, Safdarjung Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) and AIIMS, Jhajjhar. Out of the admitted patients, 219 are in ICU and 42 on ventilators.  The government has carried out 2,17,537 tests till now. The total number of containment zones is 124. Facing criticism for “under reporting” Covid-19 deaths, the Delhi government had recently issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for hospitals and other health facilities in the city on reporting fatalities due to coronavirus.  Delhi LG Anil Baijal held a meeting with senior officer to review the Covid-19 situation in Delhi, the authorities said. Health Minister Satyendar Jain held a daily review meeting with officers of Health department, other officials and Medical directors of dedicated Delhi government Hospitals for Covid-19. A revised order has been issued regarding paid quarantine at designated hotels, the bulletin said. An order has been issued to add one more additional hotel for accommodation of Delhi government officers for Covid1-9 treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-covid-19-tally-crosses-20-000-mark-death-toll-mounts-to-523/story-zmDbYN5Y35ckKbG0d2OPMP.html
01-06-2020||Jaipur||Five more die of coronavirus as infection count breaches 9,000-mark in Rajasthan||Coronavirus claimed five more lives in Rajasthan as the state’s infection count rose to 9,100 with 269 fresh cases on Monday. So far, the state has reported 199 deaths due to the infection, officials said. On Monday, three deaths were reported from Jaipur and one each from Baran and Bikaner districts, they said. Of the fresh 269 positive cases, the highest 52 were reported from Pali; 42 from Bharatpur; 36 from Jaipur; 32 from Jodhpur; 27 from Baran; 12 from Sikar; 11 from Kota and 10 from Udaipur besides cases in other districts, they said. The officials said 5,569 Covid-19 patients have been discharged from hospitals so far. There are 2,688 active cases in the state as of now, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/five-more-die-of-coronavirus-as-infection-count-breaches-9-000-mark-in-rajasthan/story-VR08UZHDtn10E1cZjttURJ.html
01-06-2020||City||PRTC starts e-booking of tickets through app||In a bid to facilitate passengers and reduce use of currency notes amid the Covid-19 pandemic, PRTC has commenced online ticket booking for all buses from Monday. Earlier, the online booking facility could only be availed for Volvo and AC buses.The residents can now download the ‘Pepsu Online’ mobile app and book tickets for buses being run by the PRTC.Officials said all information regarding number of buses being run, bus timings, and seat availability can be checked on the app.Presently, around two dozen PRTC buses are being run from Ludhiana depot due to low footfall. But the number of buses and routes will increase in the coming days. The app will then be updated accordingly. The app received a low response on Day-1 as only 15 persons booked tickets using it.Officials said it was the first day and low footfall is being witnessed even at bus stands. Around 2,500 buses used to depart from Ludhiana on normal days and now only 50-60 buses are departing. PRTC Ludhiana general manager, Surinder Singh, said, “Online payments is being encouraged and department is expecting good response in the coming days.”Slow start for pvt busesAfter being allowed to operate since May 20, some private operators have commenced services at bus stand on Monday, but the operators are complaining of low occupancy. Private buses were run on four routes - Patiala, Sri Muktsar Sahib, Jalandhar and Patiala. Station supervisor Kuljit Singh Sodhi said the private buses are not being allowed to operate without thermal screening of passengers and use of hand sanitisers.A private operator, Lakhvir Singh, said, “There is low occupancy and we have to wait for at least half an hour for getting some passengers. Earlier, the buses used to get overcrowded within 2-3 minutes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/prtc-starts-e-booking-of-tickets-through-app/story-0oBuhPyd2qJ3Sr1uCEKv3L.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Mismanagement leads to passengers entering Ludhiana railway station without confirmed tickets||Mismanagement marred arrangements at the Ludhiana railway station here on Monday as passengers without bookings managed to reach the platforms without screening.Passengers had been asked to reach the station one-and-half hours in advance so that they could be properly screened before allowing them to reach Platform 1. A counter was established near the main entrance for thermal screening of passengers, but passengers managed to reach the platforms from other entrances, without checking. The staff also reportedly missed checking the identity cards of the passengers.Besides, most passengers were also seen ignoring the social distancing norms on the platform. However, some passengers, aware of the risk of virus infection, took precautions on their own.Ajay Kumar of Darbhanga of Bihar said, “I work in a factory in Ludhiana. I am waiting to go to Bihar to see my family. I avoided the Shramik special train fearing that social distancing would not be maintained in that train. As passenger train services have been resumed, I opted for this.”Ashwani Kumar of Haridwar said, “I am carrying a 350-ml bottle of sanitiser along with me. I will sanitise the seat before sitting on it. I will also let my co-passengers to use the sanitiser.”Commercial inspector Ajay Pal said, “Only passengers with confirmed tickets are being allowed to enter platforms after undergoing thermal screening. Passengers with coronavirus-like symptoms will also not be allowed to board the trains. Such passengers would be sent to hospitals for examination.”Senior divisional commercial manager (DCM) Vivek Sharma said a total of eight trains left for various destinations. Six trains, which departed from other stations would reach the Ludhiana railway station on June 3.Four ticket-checking staff members have been deputed on each train, but they have not been provided with face shields so far||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mismanagement-leads-to-passengers-entering-ludhiana-railway-station-without-confirmed-tickets/story-pbsbBDSG7fdoma5JY0lTiK.html
01-06-2020||City||Nine more test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal, count mounts to 340||Nine more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Monday, taking the state’s tally to 340.At present, active cases in the state stand at 213.Four cases were reported from Chamba, two from Solan and one each from Hamirpur, Mandi and Una.Chamba deputy commissioner Vivek Bhatia said a 29-year-old woman, a 27-year-old man and a youth aged 18 have tested positive for the virus. “The woman returned from Delhi while the two men had travelled back from Tamil Nadu.They were under institutional quarantine,” he said. One more person tested positive late evening. His travel history is being traced, he added.Two cases have been reported from Ramshaher of Nalagarh sub-division in Solan district. “They had returned to Nalagarh last month and were under institutional quarantine, where their first samples had tested negative for Covid-19. However, their second samples tested positive on Monday,” said medical officer health, Solan, Dr NK Gupta.A Mumbai-returned man has also tested positive in Sundernagar of Mandi. He was under institutional quarantine. Besides, one person has tested positive in Hamirpur district. He had returned from Delhi on May 29 and was institutionally quarantined. One case was reported from Una.Himachal Pradesh has witnessed a spurt in Covid cases since May 4 with 300 people testing positive for the virus. So far, the state’s tally is 340 cases with five fatalities, including three men and two women.More than 90% of the cases reported since May 4 are those who returned to HP from other states.Hamirpur is the worst-hit district with 112 cases followed by Kangra with 87 cases. A total of 39 cases have been reported in Una, 32 in Solan, 24 in Chamba, 18 in Bilaspur, 13 in Mandi, nine in Shimla, four in Sirmaur, and two in Kullu.So far, 118 people have recovered in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-count-mounts-to-340/story-xXiSixY4imIx6tSAl3dWWL.html
01-06-2020||Pune||Cyclone Nisarga: Maximum temperature dips in Pune as rains lash city||Pune reported a fall in its maximum temperature, which came down to 28.06 degrees Celsius on Mondy after moderate rains lashed the city. The city witnessed a cloudy weather with a minimum temperature of 21 degrees Celsius on Monday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), which has forecast heavy rains for Pune with cyclone Nisarga nearing Maharashtra.IMD stated that it recorded 0.4mm rainfall till 8am at the Shivajinagar observatory while Lohegaon recorded 2mm of rainfall even as the city received more rains in the evening. In the region, Kolhapur received the highest rainfall (29mm) in central Maharashtra. Marathwada and Vidharba region did not record any rainfall during the day. The weather department has forecast moderate to heavy rains on Tuesday and Wednesday for Pune city and its adjoining areas.IMD has sounded cyclone alert over north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts. The IMD stated that the cyclone is very likely to “intensify into a deep depression over east central and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea during the next six hours and intensify further into a cyclonic storm over east central Arabian Sea during the subsequent 24 hours”. IMD forecast division head Anupam Kashyapi, said, “The cyclonic circulation is likely to concentrate into a depression over central and adjoining Arabian sea and is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during the next 24 hours. The cyclonic condition is likely to bring rain to mainly Konkan and Goa regions, including central Maharashtra. The heavy rains might lead to inundation and preparation with a proper drainage system is important.” The cyclonic storm is very likely to move nearly northwards initially till June 2 morning and then recurve north-northeastwards and cross north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts between Harihareshwar (Raigad, Maharashtra) and Daman during the afternoon of June 3, according to IMD.Under the influence of the system, light to moderate rainfall at most places with isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over Lakshadweep area, north Kerala and coastal Karnataka. Light to moderate rainfall at most places with isolated heavy to very heavy rain very likely over Konkan and Goa on June 2 and over south Konkan and Goa on June 3, the IMD forecast in its public information broadcast.In view of the developing cyclone situation in Arabian sea, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has deployed nine teams in Maharashtra- three in Mumbai, two in Palghar and one each in Thane and Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, NDRF officials stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cyclone-nisarga-maximum-temperature-dips-in-pune-as-rains-lash-city/story-L8m1WTcQEEF91SdN4hM8cM.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||7 arrested after two groups clash over parking in Chandigarh’s Sector 49||Two cases were registered and seven persons were arrested after two rival groups clashed over parking in a Sector-49 colony here, police said on Monday.Police arrested Mandeep Malik, Shivam, Pradeep, Deeapk Kumar, Sandeep Kumar, Rahul Kumar, Vikas, Ankit, all residents of Sector 49C. All the accused were later bailed out.Mandeep Malik, 26, who works as a gym trainer, in his complaint alleged that a few days ago he had a fight with Pradeep over parking. The matter had ended in a compromise, but Pradeep had issued him threats about which he had complained to the president of the colony, Malik told the police.Police said despite a night curfew, a meeting to settle the issue was called on Sunday by president of the colony Raj Kumar. As Malik had some work, he asked his brother-in-law Shivam to go ahead. When he reached there, he saw accused Pardeep, Deeapk Kumar, Sandeep Kumar, Rahul Kumar, Vikas and Ankit assaulting Shivam. After he intervened, the accused attacked him as well. Injured Mandeep and Shivam were admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.In the second case, Pradeep, 26, who works as a safai karmachari, accused Mandeep of threatening and attacking him and his family. Pradeep told the police that the woman he had divorced in 2015 had remarried Mandeep, which is why the latter nursed a grudge against him.Two separate cases were registered under sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/7-arrested-after-two-groups-clash-over-parking-in-chandigarh-s-sector-49/story-5jgkjWKVp4H145ND0oKMnK.html
01-06-2020||City||Gym owners in Ludhiana hold protest, hand over memorandum to MLA Talwar||With the state government not allowing gyms to open, the local Gym Ekta Welfare Association staged a protest at the Samrala Chowk here on Monday demanding opening of gyms and handed over a memorandum to Congress MLA (Ludhiana east) Sanjay Talwar.Members of the association said, “The government has opened the marketplaces, where a large number of residents gather at a time, but it has not opened the gyms, which help in improving immunity of residents. We are also at the receiving end as we have to pay monthly rent, property tax and GST, etc while gyms are closed.”Director of the association Ramesh Bangar said, “The fitness sector across the state has been hit hard due to lockdown, but the government has failed to pay heed to the problem. Athletes, trainers, administrative and maintenance staff, gymnasium owners, supplement and other wellness and equipment manufacturers have been affected, as gymnasiums are closed for over two months. If lockdown continued for gymnasiums, it would also result in unemployment. Athletes generally work as trainers in gyms and their salary is the basic source of their income. Gymnasium owners are also burdened with electricity bills, rent of premises, etc for the lockdown period.”Talwar said gymnasiums have been closed for the safety of visitors. But, he would take up the matter with the government so that some relief could be provided to the sector, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gym-owners-in-ludhiana-hold-protest-hand-over-memorandum-to-mla-talwar/story-zKrdI5niaZ76JEMXlgyYZK.html
01-06-2020||City||Housing society in Panchkula’s Sector 20 declared a containment zone||A 63-year-old Delhi man, who was visiting his son in Sector 20, Panchkula, has tested positive for Covid-19 at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh. Following this, the locality — Milan Cooperative Group Housing Society — has been declared a containment zone. However, the case won’t be counted in Panchkula district’s tally, as the patient is from Delhi.The man had reached Panchkula on May 26, following which he complained of chest pain and visited a local private hospital followed by the PGIMER. “He tested positive at the PGIMER. We have declared the Sector 20 society a containment zone and have taken samples of four family members,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula.She said contact tracing of the patients is being conducted. Members of 24 households in the neighbourhood have been screened. These include at least eight children and 10 senior citizens. The district has reported 26 Covid-19 cases so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-s-sector-20-declared-a-containment-zone/story-lh0zohqtbmAe9QZrq3037N.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Senate elections: Panjab University extends last date for enrolment in registered graduate constituency to June 16||Panjab University has decided to extend the last date for fresh enrolments into the registered graduate constituency for senate elections from June 1 to June 16, registrar Karamjeet Singh said.He said the decision was taken during the syndicate meeting of the university on Saturday.As many as 15 members are elected from the registered graduate constituency for the 91-member PU senate.The PU senate elections are scheduled to be held in August and September this year. Singh said the forms can be submitted at Single Window II (opposite PU Guest House) at the university campus from 11am to 12am on all working days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/senate-elections-panjab-university-extends-last-date-for-enrolment-in-registered-graduate-constituency-to-june-16/story-rKFofvJqyTFGVsIHfWnNQM.html
01-06-2020||City||Motorists going out of town stopped at Vashi toll booth||A day after the state eased some of the restrictions but extended the lockdown, many motorists were stopped by the traffic police on Sion-Panvel highway on Monday.The traffic police said some thought they could travel inter-state and so took a chance.Bhanudas Khatavar, traffic police inspector, Vashi traffic, said, “Many two-wheelers and four-wheelers were on road on Monday. They did not have e-pass and had no instructions to allow people to travel so we sent most of them home.”More than 50 commuters were sent back from the Vashi toll and more than 30 people from the Kharghar toll.“After questioning them, we found that many were going to their native village in Konkan. We had to explain to them the reason they cannot be allowed to leave city,” said Khatavar.Many started arguing with the traffic policemen.“We thought that now there is no need of e-pass hence, we stepped out but we were stopped by the traffic cops,” said Ankur Jaiswal, 40, a Kharghar resident.Navi Mumbai police commissioner Sanjay Kumar said, “We started getting a lot of queries about inter-district and interstate mobility. The state guideline issued on May 30 said interstate and inter-district movement of people shall continue to be regulated. This means one still requires a pass and a genuine reason to travel.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/motorists-going-out-of-town-stopped-at-vashi-toll-booth/story-VbZpCtop6CoIlQ1dEE35HN.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Art and culture make a quick beeline to the digital||SHOW MUST GO ON Seeing the pandemic as a hiccup in history, cultural groups have gone digital with great enthusiasm lest the chain be broken and the audience lostWith lockdowns, social distancing and closure of cultural functions; art and culture academies, literature festival groups as well as individual artists have lost no time in seeking visibility in the visual world through dialogues, discussions and performances online.While it was Namita Gokhale, co-director of the Jaipur Literature Festival (JLF), who started with the Saturday series of international participants titled ‘The Brave New World’ after Aldous Huxley’s dystopian novel on the end of human spontaneity and freedom. However, cultural and literary groups in the region were quick to meet the challenge of lost space of the real world.Love’s labourAfter two years of intense world involving two literary festivals a year for adults and one for children, Preeti Gill of Majha House was all set to hold the Basant Festival 2020 on March 21 and 22, put together with care and some of the best talent of the country participating. But it was not to be as Covid-19 had struck home. “It was love’s labour lost,” says Preeti, “and instead of all the effort coming to not, we decided to take what we could digitally and thus offering a series on culture to our eager audience!” Interestingly, in this period Majha House has made a special effort to build cultural ties across borders by starting the initiative ‘Sanjha Punjab’, a group to foster common cultural ties between the two Punjabs. After an initial dialogue with artists and writers from Pakistan, more digital meets on issues of interest are being organized, including the saga of ‘Heer’ by Waris Shah.Tricity initiativesA number of initiatives are coming up in the tricity and an interesting three-part online exhibition by the Chandigarh Lalit Kala Akademi involving a large number of senior and young artists of the city and their lockdown art. Akademi chairperson Bheem Malhotra says, “Our Open Hand Sudios and galleries were deserted and the tempo of the activity that we had built came to a standstill. It was a sad season but we decided to come out online because our artists were at work painting their responses to the pandemic”. The artists sent pictures of their works as well as the process of creation and these were mounted online, covering 90 senior, middle and upcoming artists.Social media offers artists, musicians and writers to post their works online and the city artists have responded well to the challenge of ‘5 paintings in 5 days’ on the Facebook, bringing works from some of the best city artists including the reticent master painter Raj Kumar. A remarkable feat in this line is by city photographer Vijay Ozo who has won as many as 43 awards in international photography in minimal depiction of the Lockdown. The show indeed goes on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/art-and-culture-make-a-quick-beeline-to-the-digital/story-z8Qp7r2siqimNdqWqbGCBL.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Students moved from GNPS Birmi to another branch, parents allege they were not informed||About 400 students of Guru Nanak Public School (GNPS), Birmi, have been moved to the Model Town Extension branch without parents being informed or consulted, it has been alleged.More than a 100 parents gathered at 9 am to protest against the move outside the school at Model Town Extension on Monday, alleging that no prior notice had been issued to them and that they were informed about the move when they went to deposit the school fee. The parents continued protesting even as the principal, Mona Singh, invited five representatives from among them for a talk. They consented to come inside and speak to her later only after the police were called in at 1 pm. Mona Singh reportedly assured them that the Birmi school would not be closed.“The school authorities should have informed the parents in March about their decision to close down the Birmi Branch as no institute affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will admit our children should we decide to transfer them anywhere,” said Dapinder Singh, a parent of two children in Class 3 and 8.A resident of Ayali Kalan, Dapinder Singh said the Model Town Extension branch was located far from their residence and it would be very difficult to pick up and drop the children.Ramandeep Kaur, the sarpanch of Purain, a village close by, said, “15 children from our children were studying in GNPS Birmi for quite some time and no intimation was given to their parents to move them.”Adding that it was up to parents to decide where their children studied and not school authorities, Kaur added: “We admitted our children at the Birmi branch because the school was close to our village. It was affiliated to CBSE and the Model Town Extension branch to the Indian School Certificate Examination, so how can the students study there? Textbooks for the next session on the CBSE pattern have also been bought.” Later, Mona Singh, said, “We have not informed the parents regarding closure of the Birmi branch and it is only a rumour. Out of 100 protestors, only 20% were parents and others were outsiders trying to defame the school. I have decided to lodge a complaint against these protestors with the police commissioner for targeting our school and unnecessarily holding a protest outside the school. I asked the parents to maintain social distancing in the wake of Covid-19, but nobody listened to us.”The principal also added that the parents had been informed that they could pay the tuition fee in cash or through card at the Model Town Extension branch. “Online payment option is also available,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/students-moved-from-gnps-birmi-to-another-branch-parents-allege-they-were-not-informed/story-ESCyDFXHjJdPdmPlJofkPK.html
01-06-2020||City||155 fresh Covid-19 infections take J&K tally to 2,601||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 155 fresh Covid-19 infections on Monday, taking the total number of cases in the UT to 2,601, officials said.Three more people have also died due to the virus in Doda, Pulwama and Shopian. With this, the death toll in J&K has risen to 31.A health department official said, “A 70-year-old-man from Pulwama was brought dead to the hospital on Monday morning. His samples have tested positive. The deceased had comorbidities.” The samples of a 45-year-old man from Shopian, who died at Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences in Srinagar, have tested positive. In Jammu, a 72-year-old man from Doda, who was admitted at the Government Medical College (GMC) Hospital in Jammu last week, died in the morning, a day after his Covid-19 test results came out positive.“Jammu region has witnessed the biggest single-day spike of 99 new cases. These fresh cases were reported from Ramban, Doda, Jammu and Vijaypur. In Kashmir, 56 more people have tested positive in eight districts,” a health department official said.This is for the sixth day in a row that the Union territory recorded more than 100 cases. The highest jump of 12 new cases was recorded in Anantnag followed by Kupwara at 11 and Srinagar at 10. There were single digit jumps in other districts of the Valley.“33 out of the 910 samples tested at CD Hospital were found to be positive. Among these, nine are pregnant women and one is a doctor from GDC Srinagar,” J&K nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Salim Khan said.Also, 19 more patients have recovered and were discharged—11 from Jammu division and eight from Kashmir, officials said. So far, 946 people have recovered of which 815 are from Kashmir and 131 from Jammu division.At present, active cases in Kashmir stand at 1,157 and 467 are in Jammu.Till date, 1.76 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 38,276 in home quarantine, 38 in hospital quarantine and 48,964 under home surveillance. Besides these, 87,872 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.Meanwhile, after a senior IAS officer, who had attended a high-level meeting, tested positive for the disease on Sunday, the civil secretariat was sanitised and 80 government officials along with their contacts were put in quarantine.Lieutenant governor Girish Chandra Murmu has taken serious note of the alleged violations of the Standard operating procedures (SOPs) by the officials while holding meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/155-fresh-covid-19-infections-take-j-k-tally-to-2-601/story-BZ7OrIQP0ZXPFHjT4naAJM.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Man injured in Sector 37 fire caused by LPG cylinder leak||Chandigarh Fire broke out in a shed in the backyard of a house in Sector 37 on Monday, suspected to have been caused by a leaking LPG cylinder, leaving the 55-year-old owner, Yashwant Singh, with minor burn injuries. The shed was being used as a store. Some packaging material, cupboards and the cylinder were destroyed in the fire. Yashwant Singh, who runs a bakery in Sector 22, said he rushed home from work after his wife called to tell him about the fire and was injured while attempting to put it out. Three fire engines, two from fire stations in Sector 38 and one from Sector 17, put out the fire.Yashwant Singh was sent home after treatment for minor injuries at the Government Multi Specialty Hospital in Sector 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-injured-in-sector-37-fire-caused-by-lpg-cylinder-leak/story-W1DKMagl5dEA3EkzbI3VrL.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Man arrested with illegal weapon in Ludhiana||The CIA staff -1 of the police arrested a man here on Sunday and seized an illegal pistol and five bullets from his possession.The accused has been identified as Satnam Singh, 24, of Balliyewal village. He is a farmer.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Major Singh, investigating the case, said the accused was arrested during a special checking on the Dheri Road near Bajra village. When frisked, the police recovered a .32 bore pistol and five bullets from his possession.The ASI added the accused was already facing trial in a case of assault. He said he accused told the police that he was receiving threats from some people and he had bought the pistol from a truck driver for self-defence.The ASI added the accused was produced before a court on Monday and the court remanded the accused for three days in police custody for questioning.A case under sections 25, 54 and 59 of the arms Act has been registered against the accused at Meharban police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-arrested-with-illegal-weapon-in-ludhiana/story-XARci9BhPtLCvPnsvJlL3O.html
01-06-2020||City||Tenant among three held for NRI couple’s murder in Phagwara||The Kapurthala police have cracked the NRI couple murder case and arrested three persons, including their tenant, here on Monday.Canada-based Kirpal Singh and his wife Davinder Kaur, both in their 70s, were found dead at their house in Onkar Nagar on Saturday night. They had come to their ancestral house four months ago.Addressing a press conference here, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh said the accused tenant, Jagdev Singh, along with his two friends brutally murdered the couple with sharp-edged weapons and later fled from the spot.The SSP said Suraj Kumar of Friends Colony and his friend Ranjeet Singh from Haryana helped Jagdev to execute the couple before looting ₹12,000, two gold bangles and mobile phones.Suraj has been arrested from Phagwara, while Jagdev and Ranjeet were nabbed from Haryana. A police team is bringing them back, the SSP said adding, “Motive of the crime will be ascertained after interrogating the accused.”A case under Section 302 (murder) has been registered against the trio.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tenant-among-three-held-for-nri-couple-s-murder-in-phagwara/story-HaEmpMhIsE3HXPTRrtPogP.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University gets interim dean of students welfare||Professor SK Tomar of the department of mathematics was on Monday appointed as the interim dean of students welfare (DSW) of Panjab University.The charge of DSW was given to him by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar after he was authorised by the syndicate to appoint an interim DSW till the next syndicate meeting scheduled for June 27.The decision came after the syndicate members on Saturday could not reach a consensus on appointing professor Devinder Singh as the DSW. His name had been recommended by the V-C. The terms of professor Emanual Nahar, the former DSW, and professor Neena Capalash, the former DSW (woman), ended on May 31.Professor Sukhbir Kaur of the department of Zoology, whose name was approved by the syndicate as DSW (woman), took charge on Monday. Meanwhile, Dr Rupinder Kaur also took charge as the chief medical officer at Bhai Ghanaiya Ji Institute of Health, PU, after the syndicate’s approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-gets-interim-dean-of-students-welfare/story-l1akcSXSI9eQPAFezvBENI.html
01-06-2020||City||19-year-old axes father to death for attempting to rape her, arrested||A 45-year-old resident of Baratpada in Talasari was axed to death by his 19-year-old daughter after he allegedly tried to sexually assault her on May 31. The attack was witnessed by the man’s 22-year-old son who then called the Talasari police. The accused was arrested and charged with murder. The victim has also been posthumously charged with rape and molestation.According to police, the 19-year-old was the victim’s daughter from his second marriage. He had a son with his first wife who had since died. “The daughter claimed that since 2011-12 [when she was a minor], her father would regularly molest and rape her when she was alone at home. Because of the attacks, she opted to live with her mother in Ganjad in Dahanu, but would visit her father for a few days,” said Ajay Vasawe, senior inspector of Talasari police station.“Whenever the woman came to visit, her father would try to rape her. On May 31, around 2am, he came to her room and tried to sexually assault her. The accused then picked up an axe from the kitchen and attacked the victim on his head, neck, hands and other body parts, killing him on the spot,” said Vasawe. The man’s son was sleeping in the other room and on hearing the commotion, came out and witnessed the murder. He then called the police.“We arrested the woman for murder and when produced before the Dahanu court on Monday, she was remanded in police custody for five days,” said Vasawe. “We also registered a case of rape and molestation under sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012, against the victim, based on the daughter’s testimony,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-year-old-axes-father-to-death-for-attempting-to-rape-her-arrested/story-0CK2unSEymiIef8P4A7PzO.html
01-06-2020||City||PSERC public hearing: Ludhiana industry demands waiver of fixed charges in power bills for one year||Members of the Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association (JNSSMA) and the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO) attended a public hearing of the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) on Monday and demanded that the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) should waive fixed charges in electricity bills for at least one year.The industrialists also demanded that the regulatory authority should allow another licencee to supply power in the state, which will result in competition and better services would be provided to the industry.JNSSMA president Jaswinder Singh Thukral said, “The state had in April waived fixed charges in power bills for two months and moved a petition for the same in the PSERC. Acting on the same, the PSERC had, in May, sought objections and suggestions from residents over the same till May 19. We submitted a suggestion on fixed charges, following which a public hearing was held on Monday.”“We have told the regulatory commission that if the fixed charges are not waived, it would not only affect the industry, but also have a negative impact on the PSPCL, as industry is going through a tough phase. If the industry would not consume power, the PSPCL would also run into losses,” said Thukral.FICO president Gurmeet Singh Kular said, “Apart from the demand of waiving fixed charges for a year, the FICO also demanded that night tariff should be introduced for the industry at Rs 2.50 per unit. Also, the cross-subsidy clause, which forces the industry to pay Rs 3.50 per unit to the PSPCL, if they buy power from an open source should be removed.”Members of the Ludhiana Induction Furnace Association and the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertaking (CICU) also attended the hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pserc-public-hearing-ludhiana-industry-demands-waiver-of-fixed-charges-in-power-bills-for-one-year/story-PyiQ71z5frTyHA2kJ6ZlDI.html
01-06-2020||Pune||Congress leader bats for high capacity mass transit route plan||Congress leader and former deputy mayor Aba Bagul has asked Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to resume high capacity mass transit route (HCMTR) plan by issuing tenders.Maharashtra government had instructed government departments and municipal corporations put proposed projects on hold to tide over the financial situation triggered by the Covid-19 situation. Hence, PMC placed its proposed projects on hold, including HCMTR as it was only at a tender level.A civic official on condition of anonymity confirmed that the municipal commissioner placed HCMTR project on hold as per the state government’s directions.“HCMTR was proposed in the 1987 Development Plan. I am following the project for the last twenty years. As tenders were inflated by participants, it was scrapped. Now, PMC should take steps to keep the project alive,” Bagul said about the Rs 6,000-crore plan.“The civic body did not need to pay the whole project cost in one year and it could be divided in the next five to six years,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-leader-bats-for-high-capacity-mass-transit-route-plan/story-gKjiw1tsVrcRMv9p3QXvRP.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh traffic police extend deadline to pay challans till June 30||With the extension in lockdown period, the Chandigarh traffic police have extended the deadline to pay routine challans till June 30.Payment of routine fines at the challaning branch was suspended on March 19. At present, only payment of curfew-related challans is allowed for people to recover their impounded vehicles.A two-month extension was allowed for other routine offences from the date of the challan. People who want to dispose of their pending challans will have to schedule an appointment on the eSaathi Chandigarh Police app to prevent overcrowding at the challaning branch in the Traffic Lines, Sector 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-traffic-police-extend-deadline-to-pay-challans-till-june-30/story-7osS7wsS81FiwpYVmpYyhO.html
01-06-2020||City||3 Patiala cops get premature retirement over poor service||Three police constables were given forceful premature retirement for their alleged poor service records and repeated complaints.The constables, Sukhwant Singh, Maghar Singh and Joginder Singh, were immediately relieved from service 3-4 years before scheduled retirement.Senior superintendent of police Mandeep Singh Sidhu said the stringent action has been taken against the trio for sheer indiscipline.“Repeated warnings were given to them on multiple occasions, but the constables failed to mend their ways. Even the annual confidential reports (ACRs) of these employees carried mentions of actions taken against them earlier for poor service,” the SSP said.He added that among the main reasons, it has been found that the constables often remained absent from duty for longer periods without informing their seniors during their service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-patiala-cops-get-premature-retirement-over-poor-service/story-rS3q5zZg2ybXXhzXnb5l5I.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College planning to hold lectures for next semester online||Punjab Engineering College (PEC) is planning to conduct lectures exclusively through virtual platforms for the next semester, the proposal for which is currently under consideration.PEC will be the first educational institute in the region to do so, if they go online for the first semester of the 2020-21 academic session.PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi said, “As of now, the proposal is under consideration and it may take another week for us to make the final decision.”“We usually start the session in July but that is unlikely to happen this year,” he said.The proposal is currently being discussed with all stakeholders and faculty members of the institute.Online placement drive being heldPEC has also started an online placement drive for its students.JD Sharma, head of PEC’s career development and guidance centre, said, “Many companies were approaching us to recruit students. So, we have decided to have a special placement drive for those who did not get jobs earlier.”Students to be notified about examinationMoreover, PEC is likely notify students of first and second year regarding the examinations in a week.PEC has already announced they will not conduct examinations for students of the outgoing batch (semester eight) and instead, grade them on the basis of their performance till March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pec-planning-to-hold-lectures-for-next-semester-through-virtual-platforms/story-WXmtjf6ugPKhlGDatCwupO.html
01-06-2020||Pune||Cash-strapped PCB presents Rs 250 crore budget||The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) which is staring at a fiscal crisis, on Monday, proposed a Rs 250 crore budget for the current fiscal year.PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar said the budget included provision of central funds of the ongoing infrastructure development projects in the cantonment, and also includes a special provision of Rs 20 crore which is meant to be paid as arrears to the employees as part of the Seventh Pay Commission, due since 2016. Also a special allocation of Rs 2.50 crore has been made for Covid-related expenditure.The board had proposed a budget of Rs 167 crore last year.“We have sent the budget to the Principal Director General of Defence Estates Office for approval. The budget emphasises development works and a separate Covid-related budget. Besides this, we need to pay arrears to our employees for which we have sought Rs 20 crore. The final budget will be approved by Command headquarters,” said Kumar.Kumar said that the budget has been increased as curtailment of funds from the vetting authorities’ results in issuance of lesser funds for the cantonment board. During the meeting Kumar told the finance committee members that the budget has been prepared, “taking into consideration the bankruptcy of the board”.According to the budget, Rs 10 lakh will be spent on sanitising tunnels, hands-free sanitising mechanism, jet spraying fogger, service robots, screening robots, automatic sanitiser machine and training programmes for carrying out Covid related work.PCB finance committee member Vinod Mathurawala said, “Elected representatives will follow up with the ministry of defence in ensuring that adequate funds are released for the development of the cantonment area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cash-strapped-pcb-presents-rs-250-crore-budget/story-q9yyY6vReIll1RTnsIpNTK.html
01-06-2020||City||Public transport back on road in Himachal but with low passenger turnout||Public transport, mainly bus services, resumed in Himachal Pradesh on Monday after over two-months due to the Covid-19 lockdown.More than 70% Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) buses resumed operations on inter-district and intra-district routes with strict compliance of social distancing norms and other preventive measures to contain the spread of virus, officials said. However, most private buses remained off road. In Dharamshala, Pankaj Chaddha, regional manager of HRTC flagged of the bus service in the morning. He also briefed the staff on social distancing norms and use of sanitisers.While speaking to mediapersons, Chadha said every alternate seat in the buses was being kept empty. “As per the guidelines, occupancy will not be more than 60%,” he said.“A separate cabin has been created for drivers and conductors in the buses. Conductors will avoid physical contact with the passengers while issuing the ticket. Drivers and conductors have also been provided protective gears like face shields and gloves,” he said.Even as bus services resumed across the state, people preferred to stay home and only a few undertook the journey on the first day due to fear of Covid-19. Many buses in Shimla were seen plying almost empty or with minimal occupancy.In other districts too, very few people were seen travelling in buses. The inter-state bus terminals at Dharamshala and Shimla also wore a deserted look as few passengers turned up.The Himachal Pradesh government has allowed inter-district and intra-district public transport without e-passes. Taxis, maxi cabs and auto-rickshaws can also ferry passengers from one district to the other. The number of passengers allowed on board depends on the capacity of the vehicle. In small taxis, three passengers are allowed excluding the driver and in cabs it may vary from four to seven. Wearing masks in the vehicle is mandatory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/public-transport-back-on-road-in-himachal-but-with-low-passenger-turnout/story-vqiP5isafSds9V1HaBpIuM.html
01-06-2020||City||BSF DG reviews security scenario along IB in Jammu||Amid spike in ceasefire violations and intrusion bids along the Line of Control, director general of Border Security Force (BSF) SS Deswal visited the forward areas along the India-Pakistan international border in Jammu sector to review the security scenario on the strategic frontier.“Director general BSF SS Deswal visited the area of Jammu frontier on Saturday and Sunday. He was accompanied by additional DG S Panwar, IG BSF Jammu frontier NS Jamwal and other officers,” a BSF spokesman said.The IG BSF briefed the chief about the complexities of management of Jammu border under prevailing security scenario, while the field commanders apprised him about the various ongoing construction works on the border and constraints being faced during their implementation, the spokesperson said. “DG BSF also reviewed the border domination plan. He visited the critical areas of entire border stretch and held discussions with various field commanders and senior police officers regarding border domination and other security measures being adopted,” he said.While interacting with jawans and patiently attending to their issues, the DG BSF stressed about the importance of physical fitness and exhorted the troops to engage themselves in regular fitness exercises and games. He also planted various tree saplings in the Border Out Posts to give it a look of ‘green border’, the spokesperson said. He said Deswal stressed upon the idea of cultivation of land ahead of fencing with the help of BSF who can provide security to the farmers. Deswal, who was here on a two-day visit, also reviewed the prevailing COVID-19 situation and advised the troops to indulge in physical activities for improved immunity to deal with the pandemic, the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bsf-dg-reviews-security-scenario-along-ib-in-jammu/story-RBtxwae0riKTXs1iwuDGpL.html
01-06-2020||City||Nigerian among six held with 3.5kg heroin in Mohali||The Mohali police have recovered 3.5 kg heroin and Rs 1 lakh drug money with the arrest of six people, including a Nigerian national, superintendent of police (investigation) Harmandeep Singh Haans said on Monday.The crime investigating agency (CIA) set up a naka on the Chhajjumajra village road in Kharar on the basis of a tip-off on May 28, said Haans. Two people in a car tried to escape on seeing police, but were nabbed. In all, five men were arrested: Parivar Singh of Ballomajra in Mohali, Ravi Verma of Sunny Enclave in Kharar and Dalvinder Singh of Khehra Kalan in Mohali besides Anjul Sodhi and Neelu of Sirsa in Haryana. A Maruti Swift car and a Chevrolet car along with 1.3 kg heroin and Rs 1 lakh drug money were seized from them, said the SP.Upon their interrogation, police nabbed another drug supplier, a Nigerian national named David, from Delhi on May 31, and seized 2.2 kg heroin from him.Haans said the gang had been active in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh for long. One of the accused, Dalvinder Singh, has been supplying heroin for the past four years and has three cases registered against him in the region.He along with Anjul Sodhi and Neelu used to bring heroin from Delhi and sell it in the region at high prices, said the SP. Ravi Verma and Parivar Singh used to supply their consignment in Mohali and Chandigarh. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, has been registered at the Kharar (City) police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nigerian-among-six-held-with-3-5kg-heroin-in-mohali/story-F3NAnY9HSYr4KkMmsLqE5I.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||With CM nod to Covid cess on liquor, Punjab to mop up ₹145 crore revenue||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday approved the imposition of Covid cess on liquor with effect from June 1.The move will help the state mop up additional revenue of ₹145 crore in the current financial year.The state is facing a revenue shortfall of ₹26,000 crore, which is 30% of the total budget revenue estimates, for financial year 2020-21, necessitating some tough measures to generate additional revenue, the CM said, accepting the recommendation of the group of ministers (GoM), which was constituted on May 12 to examine the matter, to levy additional excise duty and additional assessed fee on liquor during the current financial year.The revenue generated from the additional levy shall be utilised entirely for Covid-related expenditure, the CM said, directing the department of excise and taxation to charge the cess in the current year, at the time of issuance of permits for transportation of liquor from L-1 and L-13 (wholesale licences).Amarinder had earlier asked GoM, comprising the finance, education and housing and urban development ministers, to examine the proposal on levying special Covid cess on the sale of liquor, to partially recoup some of the revenue losses amid this unprecedented crisis.In line with GoM’s recommendations, the excise department has decided to impose additional assessed fee on imported foreign liquor and imported beer, and additional excise duty on other types of liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-cm-nod-to-covid-cess-on-liquor-punjab-to-mop-up-145-crore-revenue/story-HqMez7xMhrgQh2hy1SmokJ.html
01-06-2020||City||Husband, mother-in-law booked as 24-year-old woman tries to immolate herself in Ludhiana||A 24-year-old woman tried to immolate herself at her house in Peeru Banda Mohalla of Salem Tabri on late Sunday night, allegedly following a verbal spat with her husband. The woman suffered more than 80% burns and has been admitted to ESIC Hospital, where her condition is stated to be critical.According to the police, the woman has strained relations with her husband and mother-in-law. She alleged that they used to physically and mentally harass her over petty issues. Besides, they were unhappy with the fact that she used to work as a domestic help to earn a living. Things got worse when she gave birth to a girl child. On Sunday evening, when she returned from work, her husband started arguing with her for returning late. When he stepped out of the house, the woman locked herself in their one-room accommodation and set herself ablaze after sprinkling kerosene upon herself.Her mother-in-law had gone out with their two children--three-year-old-son and nine-month-old daughter-- at the time. On hearing the 24-year-old woman’s screams, neighbours informed her husband, who then climbed up the roof, made of tin, and rescued her.Based on the woman’s complaint, police have lodged a case against her husband, a scrap dealer, and her mother-in-law. The case has been lodged under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 511 (attempt to commit an offence) of the Indian Penal Code. A hunt is on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/husband-mother-in-law-booked-as-24-year-old-woman-tries-to-self-immolate-in-ludhiana/story-nO2gQPsS8Fd1JJan5MrF2J.html
01-06-2020||City||Cherry sales plunge in Kashmir, growers demand minimum support price amid Covid-19 crisis||With low demand and deficient transport facilities crippling their business, cherry growers in Kashmir have appealed to the Jammu and Kashmir administration for a minimum support price.Kashmir Fruit Growers cum Dealers Union(KFGDU) has assailed the administration for its ‘failure’ in providing adequate transport facilities during the lockdown as well as disregarding their request to provide minimum support price for the fruit.“The union has also requested Lt Governor’s administration for consideration of minimum support prices of cherry at ₹100/kg so that the cherry growers of the valley who have constantly suffered heavy losses since 2014 floods may heave a sigh of relief. However, the administration did not pay any attention to the said proposal,” said Bashir Ahmad Basheer, chairman KFGDU, in a statement.The cherry production in the valley is estimated to be 12,000 metric tonnes. Last year, the figure was around 11,700 metric tonnes.Kashmir exports some 3,500 to 4000 metric tonnes of cherries to other states every year.Despite the sizeable yield, farmers are a worried lot because of the lack of demand following the closure of markets and poor transportation facilities from farms to markets amid Covid-19 restrictions. They are getting a price of ₹45-50 per kg as against double the amount last year.Basheer said that owing to the apprehension of the total damage of cherry crop this year, the cherry growers of the valley are staring at losses of crores of rupees with around 10 lakh families directly or indirectly connected with this industry.Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole said that there was no past precedent for such demand or its fulfillment. “Is there an example that such a thing has happened in the past which we could emulate,” he said.“Given the circumstances, the supply chain of every commodity is disrupted. Nevertheless, we are facilitating them,” he added.Kashmir produces four types of cherries – Awwal Number, Double, Mishri and Makhmali.Pole said that the admin was facilitating the transportation of the fruit to Delhi while Mumbai was a red zone. “Every day 5-7 trucks are going to major markets of Delhi. Although 70% of the supply of cherry goes to Mumbai the city is closed down,” he said.The union said that the Canning Owners Association, which lifts the double cherry variety, is reluctant in view of the closure of canning factories and uncertainty of its marketing.Pole said that they have given a nod to 20 canning units to start functioning. “The units will be opening and some 4000 metric tons will be used for canning,” Pole said.Cherries are grown on an estimated 2,713 hectares in Kashmir and over the years, the production has increased. From 8,282 metric tonnes during 2016-17, the figure increased to 11,280 metric tonnes in 2017-18 and further to 11,789 metric tonnes in 2018-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cherry-sales-plunge-in-kashmir-growers-demand-minimum-support-price-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-4KrNmtaHvEYFlHQYDQmmaP.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab health minister lauds social, religious organisations for role during Covid lockdown||Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said on Monday said that religious and social organisations have rendered invaluable service during the Covid-19 lockdown.Sidhu said he recently met chief of Dera Beas, Gurinder Singh Dhillon, and thanked him for the exceptional service rendered by the organisation to serve the needy. He added that the dera followers are distributing food packets to the needy on a daily basis and have the record for disbursing maximum packets in a day. He said that on May 5, they distributed 5.36 lakh food packets. The minister said dera followers provided top quality food and better boarding and lodging facilities compared to other states and countries during the lockdown. He added that the example set by the 119 branches of the dera is rarely found anywhere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-health-minister-lauds-social-religious-organisations-for-role-during-covid-lockdown/story-u5TA8zwuqZiDiQStRlfJnI.html
01-06-2020||City||Ganga Saptami in Haridwar witnesses thin crowd, few locals visit ghats||On the first day of Unlock 1.0 stage with eased restrictions, Haridwar did not witness much rush as just a few locals visited Ganga ghats on the festive occasion of Ganga Saptami. City markets remained largely deserted with many shopkeepers closing their establishments by late afternoon as fewer customers were seen in the markets.Ganga Saptami is considered as an auspicious day when sacred Ganga descended from matted locks of Lord Shiva and descended from Gaumukh, Gangotri till Ganga Sagar, after severe penance and meditation by King Bhagirath.While district administration didn’t allow people to take a holy dip in Ganga at sanctum sanctorum of Brahamkund Ganga ghat at Har-Ki-Pauri - where entry was prohibited, other Ganga ghats like Birla, Alaknanda, Kushawrat, Rishikul, Maharishi Kashyap, Swami Vivekanand, Gobind, Maharaja Agrasen, Prem Nagar ghat among others were visited by locals who took a dip in Ganga and performed Ganga Saptami related rituals.Ganga Sabha, the managing religious body of Har-Ki-Pauri, performed special Ganga rituals while following social distance norms in the wake of coronavirus pandemic.City markets of Upper Road, Moti Bazar, Shiv Moorti, Chandracharya square remained deserted despite easing of lockdown restrictions.“We had high hopes that on the occasion of Ganga Saptami and the first day of Unlock 1.0 there would be movement of people and local pilgrims in the markets but all our hopes were shattered. Many traders couldn’t even sell items in the first few hours as coronavirus impact has highly affected the trading. Now, we hope after June 8, when religious places of worship, restaurants, shopping complexes open up there may be some improvement in trading,” said Rajat Ohri, of General Store owner at Moti Bazaar.While City Trader Division, Jwalapur president Vipin Gupta said that markets in suburban Jwalapur has not witnessed major change as far rush is concerned, with fewer non-essential buyers arriving at markets. We are adhering to safety and precautionary guidelines but as far as trade and market buzz is concerned its missing, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ganga-saptami-in-haridwar-witnesses-thin-crowd-few-locals-visit-ghats/story-JVrThiyqIutiUM1IAmCozM.html
01-06-2020||Mumbai||HC rebuffs attempt to stall sale of prime Cuffe Parade bungalow||The Bombay high court (HC) has rebuffed an attempt to stall sale of a prime bungalow, spread over around 25,000 square feet, at Cuffe Parade for recovery of dues of a financial institution. A bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice NR Borkar on Friday refused to grant any interim relief to the owner of the bungalow.Apart from challenging the notice issued on April 15 for sale of the property, the owner had also challenged validity of a notification issued by Union finance ministry on November 9, 2016 dispensing the requirement of consent of the borrower for the sale of the asset by private treaty. It was argued on the owner’s behalf that by taking advantage of the nationwide lockdown, the property was grossly undervalued and was being secretly sold by private treaty.The petitioner’s counsel pointed out that for auction sale the property was valued at ₹158 crore in August 2018, but now the valuation has been brought down to ₹75 crore. Citing that the alleged default occurred in March 2019, but the financer waited for almost a year, the counsel said no prejudice will be caused if the sale was stayed till the lockdown if lifted. He submitted that if a public auction is held after lifting of the lockdown, a better price can be fetched for the property which will benefit the financial institution as well.The financial institution opposed the plea contending that artificial cause of action was created to invoke jurisdiction of the high court just to avoid payment of 25℅ of the amount required to file an appeal with the Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal.The court was further informed that a notice dated February 17, 2020 had fixed the reserve price for the property at ₹82 crore, which has been brought down to ₹75 crore after imposition of lockdown.The bench found substance in the contentions of the financial institution that the value of the property was successively brought down after no response was received to auction notices and that no advantage was taken of the lockdown to bring down the reserve price for the property.“There is merit in the contention that the petitioner’s sole attempt is to somehow stop the sale of the property, as the petitioner has not tried to bring any buyer or to make a statement before the Debt Recovery Tribunal or to this court that the petitioner will deposit a certain amount or will bring a buyer. The Debt Recovery Tribunal has rightly noted this conduct of the petitioner,” said the bench. “In this factual position, we do not find that the attempt to sell the property by private treaty is malafide,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-rebuffs-attempt-to-stall-sale-of-prime-cuffe-parade-bungalow/story-RrUt4dLdskQmKIIecjS6GO.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two held with drugs, pistol, Rs 4.53 lakh in Amritsar||Two members of an intra-state drug smuggling gang were arrested at Anand Vihar Colony, Chabbal Road, on Monday.The accused - Munish Kumar of Anand Vihar Colony at Chabbal Road and Karan Kumar of Ramdas Nagar at Gilwali Gate – were caught with 50 grams of heroin in their unregistered vehicle.As many as 1,020 narcotic tablets, a pistol, five rounds of ammunition and Rs 4.53 lakh were seized from their homes.Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) staff in-charge inspector Sukhwinder Singh said, “Acting on a tip-off, a police team started patrolling Anand Vihar Colony at Chabbal Road. On spotting a grey-coloured vehicle without a registration number, they signaled the occupants to stop. The two accused tried to escape but were arrested.”“Munish used to smuggle drugs in different districts of the state and five cases under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act were already registered against him in different police stations,” the inspector said.A case has been registered against the accused at Gate Hakima police station under sections of the NDPS Act and the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-held-with-drugs-pistol-rs-4-53-lakh-in-amritsar/story-DiX0ORAWwnNzOiJNxZLx0K.html
01-06-2020||Kolkata||People throng streets in large numbers, traffic snarl in Kolkata||People came out on the streets of Kolkata in large numbers with total disregard to social-distancing norms, while traffic snarl was noticed in many places as the lockdown relaxations come into effect in West Bengal on Monday. Many shops across the city that remained closed during the lockdown also reopened during the day. Religious places like the Thantania Kali temple and Lake Kali Bari also reopened, but the Kalighat temple remained closed. “A decision on reopening will be taken by the shrine committee,” sources said. People either availed of the skeletal public transport or travelled to their workplaces in two-wheelers and cars. Traffic snarls were noticed on Jessore Road near airport, Esplanade, Howrah Bridge and VIP Road, with people standing in queues waiting for buses and auto. Huge traffic was also noticed on BT Road. Some buses are plying in few routes of the city, and in districts like Howrah and Hooghly. State buses plied in 40 city routes and some inter-district routes. Ferry services across the Hooghly river also resumed at one-hour intervals. The state government had on Saturday extended the lockdown till June 15, but allowed total attendance in micro, small, medium and large industries, including mining activities, from June 1. The government also allowed construction activities with 100 per cent of the strength of workers from Monday. It has also given nod to indoor and outdoor activities related to TV and cinema production, barring reality show production, from June 1. As the West Bengal government has allowed 100 per cent deployment of workforce in the jute industry from Monday, there was nearly 60 per cent attendance in the first shift. Sources said it would fall to 50 per cent in the second shift and further to 30 to 40 per cent in the night shift. This is due to a huge chunk of the labourers having gone back to their native places like Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha due to the lockdown, according to sources. While the state government also allowed 100 per cent deployment of workforce in the tea gardens, it was much higher on Monday than the previous days, sources said. The Home Ministry had said on Saturday ‘Unlock-1’ would be initiated across the country from June 8, in which the nationwide lockdown from March 25 would be relaxed to a great extent, including opening of shopping malls, restaurants and religious places, even as strict restrictions would remain in places till June 30 in the containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/people-throng-streets-in-large-numbers-traffic-snarl-in-kolkata/story-BtdzCFH1MqY02PJR6SqW1H.html
01-06-2020||Lucknow||Pedalling for pleasure & fitness: Cyclists hit the road once again||Before Lockdown 1.0, “No helmet, no ride!” was the standard warning to members in all cycling groups in the city . In simple words, it meant a rider sans a helmet would be turned back.But since Lockdown 4.0 began, there is an added warning: “No mask, no ride!”. In the interim period cycling groups suspended all organised rides but now they have hit the roads again.“Yes, we are back”, said Dr Imran Khan, 38, a medical professional and an avid bicyclist, who rode along with Kushagra Kapoor, a businessman, Yashesh Vyas, an architect and Shad Zaman, a marketing professional with a telecom giant.Khan said: “Covid-19 had confined cyclists too indoors and we survived by various fitness regimens. But they all pale against riding outdoors in a natural environment”.Shad Zaman, 41, says: “We rode maintaining social distance and following safety protocols.”Shad maintained a gruelling indoor fitness regimen with weight training, yoga, breathing exercises, burpees, indoor running and whatnot. But he swears by outdoor cycling. He took to cycling 4 years ago when at 37 most of his medical parameters--from knee condition to lipid profile--all rang alarm bells.“Now, I am fit as a fiddle,” says Shad. In work from home (WFH) mode, Shad says he will resume his four days a week cycling routine now with 200 km per week.Vandana Mishra, 41, while talking about the resumption of her daily cycling routine, brings in ‘mind’. An entrepreneur, homemaker, mother of two adolescents, a cyclist, biker, runner, and pursuing a PhD in psychology, Vandana says: “Pedalling during the lockdown was the safest bet for maintaining sanity. The daily cycling routine brought in the much-needed catharsis.”“Covid-19 has brought in tremendous stress and anxiety for all age groups. And what better way can there be than to pedal away worries, exploring new trails each day,” she says.While all these riders are members of multiple cycling groups in the city, not all groups have resumed organised group rides. So, most cyclists these days are either riding solo or in small sub-groups. The Cyclopedia group’s manager Vishal Sharma says: “We ride in small groups and follow Covid-19 safety protocols. Earlier, we all held refreshment parties mid-way or at the end of the rides, but not anymore.”5 AM, PLEASE:Major Gaurav Mathur (retired), 72, who founded Pedal Pushers cycling group, says: “We are not resuming yet. We find lifting of curfew at 7 am a bit skewed. Let shops and establishments stay closed till 7 am or 8 am, but morning walkers, runners, cyclists should be allowed. At 4 am, curfew should end for people like us. I suppose the government wants people to strengthen their immunity. All experts say that strong immunity is a shield against Covid-19. Exercising in the morning improves health and immunity. If people continue to stay indoors, then even healthy ones would end up with weakened immunity. The summer heat has risen. We will not resume until the curfew ends entirely or at least end each day by 5 am.” A daily rider, Major Mathur, did not ride even a day since February 23.Dr Imran Khan, medical professional and a rider supports Major Mathur on immunity idea but emphasises pedalling. He says: “Ourdoor cycling is a moderate impact exercise and has great cardio benefits. It improves breathing, circulation, and immunity, which helps in fighting Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/pedalling-for-pleasure-fitness-cyclists-hit-the-road-once-again/story-3esoBaG3wYPyYEYLZiEUpO.html
01-06-2020||Pune||Monday Musings: Coping with Covid-19 as we fast-forward into the future||What started as a lockdown for three weeks on March 25, went into four extensions, changing our world like never before. We will soon enter Unlock 1.0 from June 8 even as the pandemic needs to be brought under control in Pune and Mumbai. As of today, the collateral damage from Covid-19 has been colossal and the after-shocks will be felt month after month. Businesses across sectors have been hit hard with the worst-affected being the hotel, tourism and the hospitality industry. Schools are yet to re-open and while school and college education is rapidly moving to the digital platform, the poor will continue to suffer with no access to either computer or internet. Struggling with job losses and a livelihood crisis, education for their children is going to an added challenge.Migrant labourers are still struggling to reach home from various parts of the country and clearly, they are not going to return any time soon even if the lockdown is lifted. Industrial productivity for at least two quarters is therefore going to be affected, and consequently, employment. While these are the mega challenges before the government calling for major policy interventions, the Covid-19 pandemic has forced us to take four basic precautions: wear a mask in public places, use the sanitiser and handwash frequently, maintain social distance and avoid crowded places. It has forced us to adopt better hygiene and sanitation…at least for now. In the containment clusters, the Pune municipal corporation has been cleaning public toilets thrice a day, and hopefully, all public toilets will be better maintained in the future. The pandemic has forced us to go digital faster than we expected. It has encouraged us to pay greater attention to our health with immunity-boosting diets and a dose of daily exercise.Coping with the future in a post-Covid-19 situation would mean work-from-home becoming routine, requiring us to work efficiently from home and re-orienting ourselves, digitally and otherwise. Offices, restaurants and public spaces will need to be re-structured to ensure social distancing. It’s not going to the same again, at least for the next year or two, till a vaccine becomes a proven prophylactic against the disease. Who would have thought that we would be fast-forwarded into the future within a matter of weeks?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/monday-musings-coping-with-covid-19-as-we-fast-forward-into-the-future/story-kxC3gTYKPkAxNf59BGri9J.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Eight test positive for Covid-19 in Hoshiarpur village, district tally touches 129||After eight people tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday, Nangli Jalapur village was declared a containment zone.So far, 25 people of the village, all of whom had come in contact with a 37-year-old who succumbed to the disease on May 17, have tested positive for the virus.On verbal instructions of the district magistrate, Dasuya sub divisional magistrate Jyoti Bala had asked the police to seal the area on May 30, when there were 15 cases in the village.Nine adjoining villages of Salempur, Rara, Awan, Bhulpur, Jalal Nangal, Bassi Bohra, Ghoreshah, Pindi Khair and Akbarpur (Kapurthala district) have also come under the containment zone.All entry and exit points have been sealed.Nodal officer Sailesh Kumar said medical teams had been deputed to conduct door-to-door survey and screen suspected Covid-19 patients.So far, the district has recorded 129 Covid-19 cases and five deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/eight-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-hoshiarpur-village-district-tally-touches-129/story-7YqnahZJQPl7twcsyNKKOI.html
01-06-2020||Pune||After a two-month hiatus, 50 shops a day to operate at Pune’s Tulshibaug||After the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) begun relaxing curbs, the city is opening up in phases. On Monday, the iconic Tulshibaug market is also set to resume operations.On Sunday, some of the shop owners at Tulshibaug market opened their businesses for cleaning and sanitisation. By afternoon, many of them shut down again after citizens began thronging the market for shopping.According to Tulshibaug shop owners association, 15 per cent of the total of 318 shops in the market and 300 hawkers will resume operations from Monday.According to Nitin Pandit, secretary of the Tulshibaug shop owners association the PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane along with senior officials visited the market and took a review on how the market could be opened.“Today all shop owners started preparations for reopening from June 1. Out of the total 318 shops, we’ve got permission for 15 per cent shops to open on a daily basis which is 50 shops daily. Similarly, out of the total 300 registered hawkers inside the market 15 per cent of them will open their businesses which also includes 50 hawkers. In rotation, shops and hawkers will start the market, so that each shop owner gets a chance to open their shop. Timings which we have decided is from 10am to 8 pm for the market,”Tulshibaug is one of the oldest and famous markets in Pune especially for ladies wear, jewellery, kids wear, and household things. Earlier, there was always a large crowd at the market except on Monday when the market is closed.“As a precautionary measure we are going to keep sanitiser stands outside shops, and then we are going to keep security guards at all entry gates where a thermal checkup will be done. We have made precautionary rules mandatory for all shop owners, in which workers from containment zones will not be allowed in the market. And we have appealed to all shop owners to create awareness amongst the customers about public health safety and taking precautions while shopping” added Pandit.Meanwhile, citizens and women in particular are happy about Tulshibaug market resuming operations.Sonali Mehta, a Pune resident said, “Since the lockdown has started we were not able to go out unless it was for essential items that we need daily. It is good that Tulshibaug market is reopening now, the quality and reasonable ladies items which we get there, we don’t get anywhere else in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/after-a-two-month-hiatus-50-shops-a-day-to-operate-at-pune-s-tulshibaug/story-TzqTsepEAciKSorXuQ0K1K.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Unlock 1: Curfew relaxed by 14 hours, religious places opened in Himachal||As the state enters phase one of Unlock 1, the state government has relaxed the statewide curfew by 14 hours and allowed residents to visit religious places.Now, movement will be restricted from 8pm to 6am throughout the state, except for essential services. The new guidelines will come into effect from June 1 and will continue up to June 30.A notification issued by the state government says religious places will be open to only residents of Himachal Pradesh as per the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the department of language, art and culture.RESTAURANTS CAN FUNCTION AT 60% CAPACITYRestaurants and eateries can serve food by operating at 60% of their capacity and in accordance to SOPs issued by the department of tourism.People will only be allowed to enter the state with valid passes issued by district magistrates or nodal officers appointed for interstate movement of migrants and other stranded people.Inter-state movement of public transport buses will remain prohibited. However, taxis will ply with the permission of deputy commissioners concerned.Inter-district movement of public transport buses, taxis, private vehicles and autos will be allowed without passes. Taxis and private vehicles will be allowed on road during permitted hours.Residents can exit the state without permit but if they intend to visit other states for a shorter duration for medical, business or official purposes and intend to return to state within 48 hours, they may exit the state with permit and return without being quarantined, provided they are asymptomatic.NO TOURISTS ALLOWED IN HOTELSHotels will be opened for the use of those in the state for business purposes and not for tourism. Local residents can also stay in hotels but tourists from other states will not be entertained till further orders.Orchardists, agriculturists, contractors and project proponents will have to arrange quarantine facilities for all labourers brought to the state from outside.Educational institutions will not be used as quarantine centres and preference will be given to community buildings, hotels and guest houses.Anyone coming from a red zone will be institutionally quarantined while all asymptomatic persons will be home quarantined. Persons jumping home quarantine will be taken to institutional quarantine facilities.Any person demanding better facilities other than those identified by the district administration will be allowed to quarantine in paid facilities, which have been pre-identified and notified by the district administration.WEEKEND COMMUTERS TO GET PASSESDaily, weekend commuters through interstate barriers will be issued passes without any quarantine requirements. However, it will be individual’s personal responsibility to report at health facilities in case of flu or influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms.All persons coming from abroad will be quarantined as per the guidelines of the ministry of health and welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/unlock-1-curfew-relaxed-by-14-hours-religious-places-opened-in-himachal/story-LYqPnGgWYrmsrySdSiTQoK.html
01-06-2020||Mumbai||Bodies left on hospital beds as coronavirus overwhelms Mumbai||Hospital wards with corpses left unattended in hallways. Patients asked to sleep on the floor until beds open up. A woman with brain damage who died because she was refused medical help until her family could prove she was virus-free.The public health-care system in Mumbai, epicenter of India’s worsening coronavirus outbreak, is overwhelmed as Covid-19 patients pour in and hospital staff work around the clock. Medical care for non-coronavirus patients has basically been shut off due to a lack of resources.“We are opening new wards daily but they get filled by end of day with Covid-19 patients. It is pretty bad right now,” said Saad Ahmed, a resident doctor at state-run King Edward Memorial Hospital in central Mumbai. “All wards are now Covid-19 wards and they are full to the capacity.”Despite a strict two-month-long lockdown, the outbreak in India’s financial capital has snowballed, with the city now accounting for more than a fifth of India’s over 5,400 deaths and 190,600 infections. The pandemic’s center is shifting away from New York and Europe to nations like Brazil and India, where under-funded health care infrastructure and poor living conditions provide fertile ground for the virus. India’s virus death toll overtook China’s on Thursday.A Twitter video earlier this month showed corpses of virus victims left on beds next to patients in a hospital ward in Mumbai’s state-run Lokmanya Tilak Hospital. The hospital probed the incident and replaced its dean. Pictures recently emerged of bodies left unattended in the hallways of King Edward Memorial hospital.New UntouchablesBodies have piled up in hospitals in the last few weeks after family members refused to claim them out of a fear of infection, said Madhuri Ramdas Gaikar, a nurse at the King Edward Memorial hospital. The intense fear around the virus has created a new class of untouchables in India, with the infected and their families being shunned by their neighbors or shunted out of rented apartments.“We used to keep the paperwork and everything else ready, still bodies were not being taken away,” said Gaikar.Hospitals’ emergency wards are seeing twice the number of patients they have beds for, said a doctor in a state-run hospital who did not want to be named fearing repercussions from her employer. That meant one oxygen station had to service multiple patients and some were forced to share beds, she said.The other bottleneck is in critical care facilities and health care staff -- doctors, nurses, lab technicians and cleaning staff -- as many are infected or quarantined.“Critical patients are struggling hard to get beds everywhere in Mumbai,” said Vikas Oswal, a private sector chest physician who also sees patients in the state-run Shatabdi Hospital. “It takes 12-16 hours to find a single bed. Beds get filled up immediately with next patient in queue.”Even as India started implementing a phased exit from the world’s biggest lockdown, Maharashtra -- the state where Mumbai is located -- on Sunday extended the stay-at-home measures in the metropolis to June 30. Some small relaxations will kick in from June 5 in Mumbai such as allowing shops and markets to open on alternate days.Fear Of InfectionWhile other virus epicenters from Wuhan to New York and Bergamo in Italy have seen similarly overwhelmed hospitals, Mumbai’s situation is compounded -- some say created -- by the reluctance of its massive and better-equipped private health system to get involved in virus care out of a fear of infection.There was a shortage of beds for Intensive Care Units, or ICUs, and critical care initially when the pandemic broke out but it has largely been mitigated now, according to Sanjay Oak, a physician heading Mumbai’s virus task force set up in April by the Maharashtra government.The state government has taken over 80% of general category beds and all the ICU beds in the city’s private health care facilities, Oak said in an email. These beds “are displayed and alloted through a common dash board” at an affordable price, he said.Despite these efforts, some patients are still getting crowded out.Members of a family, who did not want to be identified for fear of being stigmatized, spent a night in an ambulance after three private hospitals refused to hospitalize their elderly diabetic mother who had a fever and bouts of shivering. The private facilities insisted on a certificate showing she was virus-free, and kept redirecting her to the public hospitals.The woman was asked to spend the night on the floor at a state-run hospital as she waited for her test results, as there were no vacant beds, said one of her relatives. The family chose to take her away and keep trying other hospitals.S Kumar, a social worker in Mumbai, struggled to secure medical help for a woman who had suffered brain damage after a fall at home. At least three leading private hospitals insisted on a certificate saying she didn’t have Covid-19 before starting treatment, according to Kumar. The woman died before her treatment could start.“Treatment delayed is treatment denied,” Kumar said, adding that he had seen at least half a dozen deaths in the past six weeks due to lack of timely medical care.Social InequalityThe chaotic situation has also exposed the consequences of the social inequality that divides and defines Mumbai, where globe-trotting executives live in condominiums next to slums where their drivers, cooks and house cleaners reside.The city’s deep-seated issues make it the perfect breeding ground for the highly-contagious pathogen, blunting the government’s efforts. It also houses Dharavi, Asia’s most-crowded slum, where as many as eight people may be staying in a 100-square-feet tin hutment and 80 sharing a public toilet.Stigma has complicated contact tracing and social distancing efforts especially in slum clusters with health care workers being obstructed and cops being pelted with stones.Local authorities have been aggressively ramping up facilities, readying as many as 100,000 beds by creating quarantine facilities everywhere from a race course to a planetarium and a nature park. A new 1,000 bed Covid-19 hospital was built from scratch within two weeks and started last week.The local public health officials also sent notices to 75,000 private sector doctors to be ready for a two-week mandatory virus duty to rest the extremely fatigued and overworked public sector health care workers.Slowing The VirusAggressive disinfecting and contact tracing has helped slow the rate at which virus cases are doubling across Mumbai. In the slum cluster of Dharavi, the pace is now 20 days instead of three in April.While there are enough beds for non-critical and asymptomatic patients, Shatabdi Hospital’s Oswal said the real crunch was in beds, ventilators and oxygen stations for critical patients.Patients come gasping for breath and sometimes couldn’t be saved, said the government hospital doctor cited earlier.“The health care system will soon be placed in a very difficult situation where they have to make a choice between who to provide care to and who to simply say, ‘sorry, we can’t do anything for you’,” said Vivekanand Jha, executive director of the George Institute of Global Health in India.For doctors and nurses at the frontlines, challenges mount.There have been instances where relatives have just left the patients in wards and taken off scared that they might catch the virus, according to Ahmed, the doctor at King Edward Memorial Hospital.“Health care staff has taken round-the-clock care of such patients,” he said. “We don’t know their names or history but have to start their treatment anyway.”Sword Over Your HeadSome medical workers said that media coverage of bad conditions in government hospitals was demoralizing as they have been working relentlessly for weeks.Gaikar, the nurse at King Edward Memorial Hospital, hasn’t stayed with her nine-year-old daughter or husband for two months. Neither has she visited her elderly parents for fear of infecting them.“It’s a very difficult fight, as your own life is at stake,” Gaikar said. “There is this sword always hanging over your head. Will I test positive when my swab is taken after the duty?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bodies-left-on-hospital-beds-as-coronavirus-overwhelms-mumbai/story-VXZBmFzIY38Uen87fgZ6pJ.html
01-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai suburbs experience cloudy sky, light showers||Mumbaikars and people in neighbouring areas woke up to cloudy weather and light rain on Monday morning following the formation of a low pressure area in the Arabian Sea.The depression in the Arabian Sea is likely to intensify into a severe cyclone and cross the north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts on June 3, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said.The light showers/drizzle in parts of Mumbai city, its suburbs and neighbouring districts of Thane and Palghar on Monday morning brought some respite to people from the sweltering heat and humidity.Dharavi, the slum pocket of Mumbai, recorded the highest 31.46 mm downpour in the past 24 hours, according to IMD’s website.On Sunday also, some parts of the state, including Pune, witnessed rain with thunderstorm and gusty winds.“Maharashtra state experienced rain with thunderstorms associated with gusty winds especially in interiors in last 24 hours,” IMD Mumbai’s deputy director general of meteorology K S Hosalikar said in a tweet on Monday.Light rain coupled with thunder and lightning was reported in parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) since 4 am on Monday. But, the rain intensity reduced considerably after 7 am in most parts of the city.In the last 24 hours, 0.2 mm rain was recorded in suburban Santacruz and 2 mm rain at Colaba in south Mumbai, according to IMD’s website.The highest 31.46 mm rain was recorded at Dharavi during the period, it said.No untoward incident related to rain was reported, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday appealed to fishermen not to venture into the sea.The state government has stepped up safety measures along the Konkan coast to tackle any eventuality.Thackeray last week held a meeting on monsoon preparedness with officials of the government, IMD, BMC, and the Army, Navy and Air Force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-suburbs-experience-cloudy-sky-light-showers/story-RNl5QmTbn7hiiJAzgjpEHN.html
01-06-2020||Gurugram||Long queues at Delhi-Gurugram border as commuters unaware of restrictions||Long queues of vehicles were seen at the Delhi-Gurugram border on Monday as people were not aware of restrictions on movement. “The state government announced yesterday that inter-state travel is allowed, but today they are not allowing us as we do not have any movement pass,” a commuter told ANI. Sanjay Kapoor, who came from Delhi’s Rohini and was heading to Sohna road said: “Earlier, they were allowing vehicles. Now, police are stopping us. They are saying that people with passes will be allowed.”Earlier in the morning, vehicles were seen moving freely at the Delhi-Gurugram border without any checks. A similar situation was seen at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border near Ghazipur but the district administration of Gautam Buddha Nagar decided to seal its border.Uttar Pradesh Police officials were seen checking check passes and identity cards of people entering the district at the Noida-Delhi border near Delhi’s Mayur Vihar Extension area and at the Delhi Noida Direct Flyway.As per a report of the Gautam Buddha Nagar health department, ‘source of infection in 42 per cent of the COVID-19 cases in the last 20 days has been tracked to Delhi’.Meanwhile, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that the borders of the national capital have been sealed for the next one week and only essential services will be allowed amid a surge in COVID-19 positive cases here.The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in its new guidelines on Saturday, which will be applicable after the end of the fourth phase of lockdown on May 31, has said that there shall be no restriction on interstate and intrastate movement.Also, no separate permission/approval/ e-permit will be required for such movements.However, if a state or union territory, based on reasons of public health and its assessment of the situation proposes to regulate the movement of persons, it will give wide publicity in advance regarding the restrictions to be placed on such movement and the related procedures to be followed.(The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text, only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/long-queues-at-delhi-gurugram-border-as-commuters-unaware-of-restrictions/story-DaxIVvtCLLBdyh5vnHVsVJ.html
01-06-2020||Ranchi||25 more Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, state tally reaches 635||Twenty-five more Covid-19 cases have been reported from Jharkhand taking the total number of cases in the state to 635, said Health Secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni. Out of the new cases, two are from Sahebganj and 23 from Dhanbad.Meanwhile, with a spike of 8,392 new Covid-19 cases and 230 deaths reported in the last 24 hours in India the total number of cases in the country now stands at 1,90,535, said the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/25-more-covid-19-cases-in-jharkhand-state-tally-reaches-635/story-4YE8HoWxzf4bRAXxBmLAjO.html
01-06-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand CM urges industries, corporates to support evacuation of migrant workers||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Monday said that the state government has made “sincere efforts” to bring back migrant workers and urged the industries and corporate houses to support it in the evacuation of workers.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSoren, in a Tweet, said that hundreds of migrant workers from the state are still stranded in several remote places across the country amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown.“We have made sincere efforts to bring back our migrant workers from inaccessible remote places like Ladakh & Andamans. We still have hundreds of workers stranded in such remote places. My humble appeal to all industries/corporate houses to support us in evacuating our workers,” Soren tweeted.In the following tweet, the Chief Minister also tagged several industries and corporate giants seeking their assistance in the effort to bring migrant workers back to their home state.Notably, the Jharkhand government had last week airlifted around 180 and 60 stranded migrant workers from Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Ladakh respectively.This comes as migrant workers, stranded across the country amid the ongoing lockdown, are being transported back to their home states in special trains and buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-cm-urges-industries-corporates-to-support-evacuation-of-migrant-workers/story-SjDUzm5YEaarGctwYIEnUP.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Jagdish Chander is HP principal secy while RN Batta is adviser to CM||Seventy days after the countrywide lockdown, the Himachal government has effected a major administrative reshuffle, transferring 22 Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers and two Himachal Pradesh Administrative Services (HPAS) officers.Jagdish Chander has replaced Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Sanjay Kundu as the principal secretary to chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur after the latter was appointed director general of police. Chander will also hold an additional charge of PWD, excise and taxation and information and public relations principal secretary.Ravindra Nath Batta has been appointed adviser to CM. He will also hold the additional charge of principal private secretary to the CM.HPAS officer Vinay Singh has been appointed special secretary to CM. He is also the PWD special secretary.Ram Subagh Singh is now the additional chief secretary (MPP and power, NCES and industries). He will continue to hold the additional charge of HP State Electricity Board Ltd chairperson.Nisha Singh is Himachal’s health adviser at New Delhi and additional chief secretary of social justice and empowerment, printing and stationery and animal husbandry and fisheries.Sanjay Gupta is the additional chief secretary forests.Manoj Kumar is now industries adviser for the Himachal government in New Delhi and additional chief secretary of home and vigilance and food civil supplies and consumer affairs.RD Dhiman has been appointed additional chief secretary of health and family welfare, personnel and language, art and culture.Kamlesh Kumar Pant was appointed as principal secretary transport technical education, labour and employment. He will also hold additional charge as financial commissioner (appeals) and Rapid Transport System Development Corporation managing director.Rajneesh will join as secretary environment science and technology and information technology. He will continue to hold additional charges of secretary of urban development and town and country planning and HP State Pollution Control Board chairperson.Devesh Kumar has been appointed secretary to CM and secretary tourism and civil aviation, secretariat administration department (SAD), general administration department (GAD) Sainik Welfare and parliamentary affairs.Sandeep Bhatnagar has been appointed secretary of rural development and Panchayati Raj, training and foreign assignments, administrative reforms and public grievances.Akshay Sood is secretary of finance, planning, economics, statistical cooperation and housing. He will also hold additional charges of Himachal Pradesh Housing and Urban Development Authority (HIMUDA) chief executive officer (CEO) and ayurveda secretary.GK Srivastava has been appointed secretary to governor. He will hold the additional charge of divisional commissioner.Mandi divisional commissioner Vikas Labroo will also be the divisional commissioner for the Kangra Division.Rajeev Sharma is the Himachal secretary of education while Amitabh Avasthi is the secretary horticulture, youth services and sports and the Jal Shakti Vibhag. Rakesh Kanwar has been appointed managing director, HP Power Corporation Ltd. Kanwar will continue to hold additional charges as state project director and zero budget natural farming.Rohan Chand Thakur is now town and country planning director. Thakur will continue to hold additional charges of HP Kaushal Vikas Nigam managing director and HP Financial Corporation managing director.Dorje Chhering Negi will be special secretary excise and taxation, and agriculture. He will continue to hold the additional charge of HP State Electronics Development Corporation Ltd managing director.Debasweta Banik has been handed additional charge of HP Agro Industrial Packaging India Ltd managing director.Special Secretary (MPP and Power and NCES) Hemraj Bairwa has been given an additional charge of Youth Services and Sports director and Ashutosh Garg has been appointed HP Public Service Commission secretary and additional charge of director, information technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jagdish-chander-is-hp-principal-secy-while-ravindra-nath-batt-is-adviser-to-cm/story-zwSSBD66xQdFEasJqjgRnN.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||No crime against women should go undetected, unregistered and unpunished: Himachal DGP||Shimla: A day after taking charge as the Himachal Pradesh director general of police (DGP), Sanjay Kundu, 56, a 1989-batch Indian Police Service officer, listed out his priorities that include tackling crimes against women, containing drug trade, and improving the police’s image besides ensuring the welfare of police personnel. He said his motto will be: “No crime against women should go undetected, unregistered and unpunished.” Excerpts:What is your immediate priority as DGP?It’s addressing the public health crisis arising out of Covid-19 pandemic. Besides, the state police are committed to checking drug trafficking, consumption and addiction of narcotics and synthetic drugs. Traditionally, cannabis grown in Kullu and higher reaches has been trafficked out of Himachal Pradesh, but for the past few years, chitta (made from heroin) and other synthetic drugs are being smuggled into the state. This has led to increase in drug abuse, particularly among youngsters. This problem strikes at the root of society and must be tackled on priority.The image of the Himachal Pradesh Police took a beating after the Kotkhai gangrape and custodial death case in 2017.The key to improving the image of the police is to go back to fundamental policing. This involves strengthening the beat and patrol system, maintaining crime records, monitoring and reviewing crime cases, and senior officials inspecting police stations. There is no substitute for diligence. The force should concentrate on its professional work and results will speak for themselves.Drug trade in the state is worrying.It is a serious problem and strikes at the root of society. The focus will be on developing robust intelligence, crime mapping and network tracing besides undercover operations to catch the big fish and not just petty drug peddlers. Professional investigation is being conducted in drug crimes to ensure the traffickers are punished and their properties forfeited.National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) data shows crime against women is on the rise in Himachal Pradesh. What is your strategy to control it?I will work with the motto of no crime against women should go unregistered, undetected and unpunished. There are two reasons for this increase. One is that the physical numbers of these crimes are increasing and secondly, courts have enlarged the definition of such crimes so there is freer registration. But this situation can’t be allowed to prevail. Women form 50% of the population and it’s essential they feel safe for society to progress.Cyber crime is an emerging problem. How will it be dealt with?The common man needs to be educated about the pitfalls through information, education and communication (IEC). Cyber awareness and hygiene is needed for different age groups and organisations. Our cyber forensic lab needs to be upgraded. We will ensure that public wi-fi and websites have robust security features so that they are not compromised.Will the police commissionerate system be implemented, particularly in bigger districts?I see strong merit in the police commissionerate system as it is the answer to modern day real time crime and law and order. Most states follow this system. I will strongly recommend to the state government to introduce this system in Shimla and Dharamshala.The threat of terror activities looms along the state’s border in Chamba district with Jammu and Kashmir. What steps are being taken to tighten security?Terrorist activities in Jammu and Kashmir have in the last couple of years changed their genre. While the Jammu division, which borders Chamba has seen relative peace, Himachal Pradesh can’t lower its guard. I would like the inter-state intelligence meetings between J&K, Punjab and Himachal to be reinvigorated. We need to maintain close ties with the military intelligence and external intel agencies.What will you do to strengthen the state police, particularly investigation agencies?We need to make investigation in HP Police top rate. This is not an option but an imperative. I would like my investigators to be trained in the best institutes of India and abroad, improve forensic science and forensic medicine capabilities and bring them to state-of-the-art level.Do law and order and investigation wings need to be separate for better management?This talk has been around for a while. On paper, they have been separated but on the ground, the two wings are still together. There is merit in the separation of the wings and to make this happen, I’ll follow it up with the state government to support HP Police with resources in the form of finances, legislation, rules, infrastructure and training.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-crime-against-women-should-go-undetected-unregistered-and-unpunished-himachal-dgp/story-gsMgv2MzumXM9XwFn4HddN.html
01-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi borders sealed for one week, only essential services allowed||The Delhi borders will be shut for a week, said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday, adding that essential services will be allowed. The CM added that people having passes will be allowed to enter the national capital.“Delhi borders to be sealed for the next one week. Essential services are exempted. We will take a decision again in one week to open borders after suggestions from citizens,” said the CM.The order to shut borders comes hours after Haryana opened Gurgaon-Delhi borders in line with the Centre’s revised guidelines for Unlock 1.While announcing Unlock-1, the Union Home Ministry said there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods and no additional permission will be required for such travels.Watch l Delhi seals borders for a week, CM Kejriwal seeks suggestions for future It, however, said that if a state or union territory, based on reasons of public health and its assessment of the situation, proposes to regulate movement of persons, it will give wide publicity in advance regarding the restrictions to be placed on such movement, and the related procedures to be followed.The CM also gave out a number and email address for people to send in suggestions by Friday.“Delhiites can send suggestions on opening of borders to WhatsApp number 8800007722, delhicm.suggestions@gmail.com by Friday 5 pm,” said Kejriwal.On Sunday, the Gautam Buddh Nagar district administration in Uttar Pradesh had announced that the Noida-Delhi border will remain sealed for movement of people to and from the national capital. The administration had said that the source of infection in 42 per cent of coronavirus cases detected in the district in the last 20 days has been traced to Delhi. Kejriwal also assured that there is no shortage of beds in hospitals to treat Covid-19 positive patients in the city.The Delhi government will implement all the relaxations permitted by the Centre, the chief minister said.On Saturday, Kejriwal had emphasised “Delhi is four steps ahead of the coronavirus”, adding there can’t be a permanent state of lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-borders-sealed-for-one-week-only-essential-services-allowed/story-009tRIvBAs8u3sYFJ7I3AL.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Body of missing teenaged girl found in Pabbar river||The naked body of a teenaged girl, who had gone missing on May 30, was found floating in river Pabbar in Chirgaon tehsil of Rohru on Monday.The deceased’s mother had told the police that her 19-year-old daughter had gone missing from Sandasu village, which is situated on the banks of river Pabbar.The deceased went for a morning walk with her mother everyday but on May 30 the girl had ventured out alone.On Monday morning, locals out on a morning walk along the river spotted the dead girl floating on the river.The police fished out the body with the help of locals.“The body was sent for an autopsy to the civil hospital in Rohru,” said sub-divisional police officer Rohru, Sunil Negi.The police are going through the call logs of the girl before she went missing. A few youngsters have been questioned.20-YEAR-OLD NEPALESE WOMAN STILL MISSINGPolice have not been able to find a 20-year-old Nepalese woman who had gone missing from on May 26 from Sandasu village. The girl lived with her parents along the banks of river Pabbar.Police believe that she had been swept away in the river as a single shoe was found near the river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/body-of-missing-teenaged-girl-found-in-pabbar-river/story-foH4TvFYqFlqYe0EH8VP1L.html
01-06-2020||City||Ghats in Varanasi remain deserted on Ganga Dussehra||Ghats in Varanasi remained deserted on the occasion of Ganga Dussehra on Monday, as a gathering of devotees is restricted to prevent the spread of coronavirus.According to District Magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma, Section 144 (which prohibits assembly of four or more people in an area) of CrPc is currently in force in Varanasi.He said bathing in the river on the occasion of Ganga Dussehra or doing religious work anywhere in public is prohibited in Varanasi district. ‘If the prohibitory order is violated by anyone, it will be viewed with strictness and serious legal action will be taken against such people,” Sharma said. The festival is celebrated with a lot of enthusiasm and vigour in cities like Prayagraj and Varanasi where people from all across the globe come to seek blessings.Taking a dip in the river on this day is considered a means for devotees to get rid of their sins and also heal any physical ailments.Ganga Dussehra, which is celebrated on the tenth day (Dashami) of the waxing moon (Shukla Paksha) in the Hindu month Jyeshtha, also marks the day when Goddess Ganga is believed to have descended from the heavens to Earth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghats-in-varanasi-remain-deserted-on-ganga-dussehra/story-6DvhyHFPHHxL62bcbzguhM.html
01-06-2020||Lucknow||43 die due to thunderstorm, lightning in UP; CM announces Rs 4 lakh compensation for kin||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed his deepest condolences at the loss of life due to lightning and thunderstorm in various districts of the state on May 30. He has announced a compensation of Rs four lakh each for the kin of the deceased and proper treatment for the injured persons.The Chief Minister has directed the officers to provide relief and help the affected people with the utmost urgency.According to the latest report released by the Relief Commissioner’s Office, on May 30, a total of 43 people died in various districts of the state due to thunderstorm and lightning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/43-casualties-due-to-thunderstorm-lightning-in-up-cm-announces-rs-4-lakh-compensation-for-kin/story-8CAUpqJibiEuTD0AkbQMCM.html
01-06-2020||Jaipur||Drones used to kill locusts in Jaipur||A drone was used to spray pesticide and kill locusts in Jaipur district on the weekend after the voracious, crop-munching pests settled on a hilly road that was inaccessible to tractor-mounted sprayers, officials said on Sunday.The drone was pressed into service on Saturday night and Sunday morning to eliminate the swarms of pests in the Viratnagar area.“We got information about a 3km-by-1km swarm in three villages of Viratnagar on Saturday. We surveyed the area and found the pest present on 230 hectares, but the area was difficult to access so we decided to use the drone,” said BR Kadwa, deputy director of the Rajasthan agriculture department, in Jaipur. It’s the second time in a week that a drone had been deployed to spray pesticide on locust swarms in Jaipur district. A drone sent by the central government for locust control operations was used on swarms of the insect in Samode, about 40km north-west of Jaipur, on the night of May 26. Heavy rain that continued until 10.30 pm , in addition to the difficult terrain, impeded Saturday night’s operation. “We could launch the operation only around midnight,” he added. “ The locust swarms could be controlled only in 105 hectare; teams couldn’t reach the remaining areas. We managed to kill only half the swarm,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/drones-used-to-kill-locusts-in-jaipur/story-TaLIBd67dWrvDpWUrUwNNK.html
01-06-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM, two ministers to be put under quarantine||Uttarakhand chief minister and two other cabinet ministers will be put under quarantine after state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj tested positive for Covid-19, along with his two sons and daughters-in-law, on Sunday, officials said. As many as 17 members of Maharaj’s staff have also tested positive.The development has come a day after Maharaj’s wife tested positive for the infection. Maharaj had attended a cabinet meeting with CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, and senior bureaucrats including chief secretary and health secretary, at the state secretariat on Friday. Confirming the test results, Abhishek Sharma, officer on special duty to the tourism minister said, “Maharaj, his two sons and two daughters-in-law tested positive on Sunday along with 17 of his staff members. A total of 41 people including Maharaj and others who came in contact with his wife, were put in quarantine and tested for the viral infection as per the health norm on Saturday itself. The remaining have tested negative.”Government spokesperson Madan Kaushik, who is among the Cabinet members to be quarantined, said, “All the norms issued by the health department will be followed by us according to which CM Rawat, minister of forest Harak Singh Rawat and I will go in quarantine.”State Congress vice-president, Suryakant Dhasmana, said, “First of all it is a very unfortunate development... But the bigger threat of infection now looms over other Cabinet ministers and CM who were present in the Cabinet meeting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-cm-two-ministers-to-be-put-under-quarantine/story-7OL6wmItnc3o6MlPlzuLAN.html
01-06-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 Lockdown: Despite govt order, online studies still a struggle for EWS students||Malkeet Singh’s 12-year-old son, a Class 6 student at a private school in west Delhi, is worried ever since his school switched to online lessons and tests following the Covid-19 lockdown. As no one in his family owned a smartphone, he was unable to appear for the seven tests conducted by his school recently.“We had repeatedly conveyed our problem to the class teacher and the school but to no avail,” said Singh, a contractual driver who lost his job during the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19. Singh’s children are among the several hundred students admitted under the Economically Weaker Section quota in the 1,700 private schools in the capital every year and are entitled to free education. Parents with an annual income of less than ₹1 lakh can seek admission under the EWS quota.However, the switch from classroom teaching to online education has left them in the lurch.Earlier this month, Hindustan Times had reported that students enrolled in private schools under the Economically Weaker Section quota are struggling to attend online classes due to the lack of devices and high-speed Internet and have been unable to take their exams as well. A plea in this regard was also filed in the Delhi High Court by the NGO Justice For All which contended that over 50,000 such students would be affected by the decision of private schools to conduct online education.“Schools can make temporary provisions for students who are not able to access online education. Instead, they have been ignoring these children who are unable to catch up due to lack of access to devices or the Internet. An alternative mechanism should be arranged for such students so that their academic year is not under threat,” said advocate Shikha Sharma, secretary of Justice for All.Despite the Delhi government’s submission in the ongoing case—which said that under the Right to Education Act, schools should provide equipment if such children were unable to access online education—little has changed on the ground.Laxman, a resident of Nangloi who works as a carpenter, said that his family had no means of getting a smartphone with his meagre means. The family is currently struggling to ensure that their son finishes his holiday homework on time. “My son, who studies in Class 3, had his tests earlier this month. Since we have no high-end smartphone or computer, we had to borrow phones from our relatives or neighbours and all his submissions were delayed. While formulating plans of how to conduct studies during this pandemic, schools and authorities should think of alternative measures for families like ours as well,” he said.Families with multiple children also had their own share of struggles. “There is just one phone in the house and I have three children. They have all received tons of homework and we don’t know how to help them all. There are constant fights between them to attend classes,” Rakesh Thakur, a Kalyanpuri resident, whose children study in classes 5, 3, and 2, said.SK Bhattacharya, the president of Action Committee of Unaided Recognized Private Schools, said it wasn’t practically feasible for private schools to bear the additional burden of providing smartphones and laptops to children and wait for the reimbursement from the Centre.“We haven’t received any written complaint from EWS students on the matter so far. I don’t think there is anyone in Delhi who does not own a smartphone. Besides, they should also look at what is happening in government schools. Why this targeting of private schools? If they are so sympathetic to the cause, they should distribute laptops among all such students,” he said.“Government schools are conducting online classes for classes 9 to 12, which is outside the ambit of the Right to Education Act. Private schools are conducting online classes for everyone, including junior-level classes up to Class 8. The RTE Act clearly mandates that the educational material has to be provided by schools. So while during regular teaching, the books and materials were provided by private schools, the necessities of online education should also be provided by them,” a senior official from the Directorate of Education said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-lockdown-despite-govt-order-online-studies-still-a-struggle-for-ews-students/story-bSNaG0wUDT9eeFj29JyucI.html
01-06-2020||Gurugram||Unlock 1: Haryana likely to ease all border curbs today||The Haryana government has indicated that restrictions on movement through the state’s borders will be eased from Monday onwards, senior government officials said.This decision was taken in a meeting presided by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar with senior officers of the state government on Sunday.“The directions in this regard will be issued tomorrow but it has been decided that interstate movement will be allowed and restrictions eased,” a senior Haryana government official said. Meanwhile, border curbs between the Capital and Noida, Ghaziabad will continue, even as the Centre allowed inter-state movement in the fifth phase of the lockdown.While the Uttar Pradesh government had, on Sunday issued a set of guidelines relaxing restrictions in the state, it stated that the local administrations of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad districts could roll out their own directions in line with public interest.The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration on Sunday said restrictions on the movement of traffic between Noida and Delhi will continue till further orders. “The Noida-Delhi borders will continue to be sealed,” Gautam Budh Nagar police commissioner Alok Singh said on Sunday. “We are waiting for reports from the health department for evaluation. As of now, it will remain sealed till further decision is taken on it,” said Singh.The Ghaziabad district administration concurred with Gautam Budh Nagar.“We have decided to adopt all guidelines issued by the UP state government but have decided against opening our borders with Delhi till further instructions,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/lockdown-5-0-haryana-likely-to-ease-all-border-curbs-today/story-OhTqacYTFa7NWzn5mEIL9J.html
01-06-2020||City||Tent house owner booked for kidnapping, raping 14-year-old Ludhiana girl||A tent house owner was booked for allegedly kidnapping and raping a 14-year-old girl in Narangwal village on Saturday.The accused has been identified as Lucky of Dehlon.The victim, a Class-7 student and resident of Narangwal village, told the police that she was returning home after buying vegetables on May 28. Meanwhile, Lucky turned up there in a car and pushed her inside the vehicle.He took her to an isolated place, where he raped her and threatened her to stay mum. He then dropped her home.The victim narrated the matter to her mother, who took her to the police.Sub-inspector Manjit Kaur, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 376 (rape), 363 (kidnapping) and 366 (Kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage, etc) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act was registered against the accused. A hunt is on to arrest him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tent-house-owner-booked-for-kidnapping-raping-14-year-old-ludhiana-girl/story-z6cfQTbWsEmnwjy99loniP.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Applicants to get driving licences on same day in Jalandhar||The district authorities are all set to release driving licences on the same day of application stating June 1.Regional Transport Authority secretary (Jalandhar) Barjinder Singh said from June 1, the transport department would be resuming several services for the people, including issuing of learner’s licence, permanent driver’s licence, renewal and duplicate driving licences on the same day of application.In the first phase, learners’ licences would be issued in 30 slots to the applicants, just 15 minutes after they apply for them on the same day at the driving track, provided all their documents are complete. For permanent licences, 20 slots would be kept, the official said adding that after the perusal of documents and test, licence would be issued to the applicant the same day between 3pm to 5pm.The applicants can also avail the licence home delivery by paying the postal charges. Singh added that 30 slots have been kept for renewals/ duplicate licences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/applicants-to-get-driving-licences-on-same-day-in-jalandhar/story-vhiRRQamBZOEuUvK0XE2vJ.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: No curbs on interstate movement from today||All containment zones in Haryana will continue to be under lockdown till June 30, state government’s guidelines issued on Sunday night stated. There would be no restriction on interstate and inter-district movement of people and goods June 1 onwards, while shops will remain open from 9am to 7pm. Transport department will issue the time table of interstate and inter-district bus routes. Sports activities can be started from 5am instead of 7am now, the guidelines said. Cap on number of wedding guests and funeral attendees will be 50 and 20. Wearing of mask is compulsory in public places, work places and during travelling. Taxis and cabs will ply in accordance with existing standard operating procedures (SOPs). From June 8, activities will be allowed in religious places, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services and shopping malls in accordance with the SOPs, which will be decided later by the ministry of health and family welfare. The state government will open the restricted areas in a phased manner in accordance with the provisions of the National Disaster Management Act. District magistrate can impose restrictions in the areas in their jurisdiction under Section 144 of the CrPC on movement of individuals from 9pm to 5am, except for essential services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-no-curbs-on-interstate-movement-from-today/story-vEG1i9mdf4u84OOylooS4I.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Captain Amarinder Singh lauds wheat procurement of 128 lakh tonnes amid lockdown||As wheat purchase operations drew to an end in Punjab on Sunday, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh thanked the farmers, arhtiyas, labourers and all government agencies for the successful procurement of 128 lakh tonne crop despite Covid-19 challenges.CM complimented agriculture and food and civil supplies departments, along with agencies including Markfed, Punjab State Warehousing Corporation, PUNSUP, as well as the FCI, on this feat.Due to elaborate mandi arrangements and operational management of the staggered arrival of wheat, Covid-19 failed to put a spoke in the procurement operation, the CM said.Amarinder said patience and discipline, along with adherence of all involved in the operation with strict health and safety measures put in place for harvesting, procurement and storage of wheat, had ensured zero Covid-19 cases in the entire process.The Chief Minister also appreciated food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu for successfully accomplishing the massive task, besides prompt lifting and ensuring timely payment to the farmers for their produce. He lauded the concerted efforts of deputy commissioners, guardians of governance and police personnel, as well as other government staff involved in the procurement process.Additional chief secretary (development) Viswajeet Khanna said to facilitate the pre-harvesting necessities during lockdown, the agriculture department had successfully coordinated the tracking, screening and supervision of all combine operators entering Punjab borders, till the completion of the harvesting operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/capt-lauds-wheat-procurement-of-128-lakh-tonnes-amid-lockdown/story-L7474r7LVmWgGcZ08dNEJK.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Medical students urge CM to roll back MBBS fee hike in Punjab||AMRITSAR: The students of Government Medical College (GMC) here on Sunday wrote to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, medical education and research minister O P Soni and the ministry family and health welfare, urging them to reduce MBBS fee in the state.As per the cabinet decision of May 27, the fee for a full five-year course in government-run medical colleges from this session will be ₹7.8 lakh – a hike of around 80% from the previous ₹4.4 lakh.Amritsar medical students’ association president Dr Vaibhav Chawla said, “The decision of fee hike has aroused immense despair among the medical fraternity. The move will make medical education impossible for the middle class and economically weaker strata. We request the CM to roll back the MBBS fee in Punjab.”Other disgruntled members of the association claimed the government had earlier hiked the fee by 160% in 2015. “Now 5 years later, again a hike of 80% has been announced, which is a clear violation of the Supreme Court orders prohibiting any institution from increasing the fee beyond 15% in a minimum of three years. Punjab has hiked MBBS fee twice within 4 years,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/medical-students-urge-cm-to-roll-back-mbbs-fee-hike-in-punjab/story-Fce9Efi3biS91SxXRAfMML.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Residents oppose setting up of animal carcass incinerator in Chandigarh’s Sector 25 West||Residents of Sector 38 West, Dadumajra and Sector 25 have started protesting against the municipal corporation’s (MC’s) move to set up an animal carcass incinerator in Sector 25 (West).President of the Sector 38 West Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA) Pankaj Gupta said, “Already, the sector is plagued with foul smell due to its proximity to the garbage dumping ground in Dadumajra and the incinerator will further worsen the situation. Besides organising protests in front of the incinerator site in Sector 25, we have also started a campaign to collect signatures of residents to oppose the move.”A resident of Sector 38 West, Raman Sharma, said, “The ash emanating from the incinerator will lead to pollution of air and the rivulet, Patiala ki Rao, which passes through the area. The storing of carcasses will also lead to the spread of foul smell and diseases.” Sector 25 West councillor Sheela Devi said, “I have written letters to the UT adviser, the commissioner and the UT administrator against the decision. A meeting of residents of Sector 25 will be held to get their views on the issue on Monday.”Sector 38 West councillor Arun Sood said, “Earlier, the proposal in the agenda of the MC House meeting was for setting up the incinerator in the Industrial Area. But, councillors of that area protested and opposed it. However, I assured them that no foul smell will emanate from there. Later, the possibility of setting up the incinerator in Sector 25 was discussed. “Chandigarh Congress president Pradeep Chabbra also opposed the decision and said that party workers would stage protests if the plant is set up in Sector 25 West.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/residents-oppose-setting-up-of-animal-carcass-incinerator-in-chandigarh-s-sector-25-west/story-ndgEnM14zPeG0mNgde9RqK.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Big surge in Lockdown 4.0: Haryana sees 1,183 infections in 14 days||During the two-week long fourth phase of the lockdown that began on May 18 to further rein in the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the virus infected as many as 1,183 people in Haryana, revealed the data released till Sunday. This rise in fresh cases (1,183 in last 14 days) is over 56% of the total cases reported in the state so far. On Sunday, when the fourth phase of the lockdown ended, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state stood at 2,091 with 168 fresh cases reported from 10 districts.At least 20 people have succumbed to the infection in Haryana so far.Gurugram, which borders Delhi and is already in the grip of the virus, registered 97 cases on Sunday, raising the tally of cumulative cases in the district to 774. In Faridabad, another national capital region (NCR) district, 28 fresh Covid-19 cases surfaced on Sunday, followed by Bhiwani which saw 20 infections. Faridabad accounts for the second highest cumulative cases (367) followed by Sonepat, where the total Covid-19 positive cases are 199. In past 24 hours, the virus infected nine people in Hisar, four each in Kurukshetra and Ambala, two each in Narnaul and Karnal and one each in Palwal and Panipat, according to the state health bulletin.FROM 223 CASES ON APRIL 17 TO 910 ON MAY 17There were 223 Covid-19 cases on April 17 in Haryana when the phase three of the lockdown ended. The virus took one month to infect 687 new people, raising the count of corona patients to 910 by May 17. And when the lockdown 4.0 ended on May 31, the cumulative number of positive cases had risen to 2,091.The unrestrained spread of virus was noticed in last two weeks, especially in the NCR districts of Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat. These three districts account for more than 64% of the cumulative Covid-19 positive cases across the state.In the span of first seven days (May 18 to May 24) of the Lockdown 4.0, as many as 274 cases were reported from across the state. In next seven days — May 25 to May 31 — 909 new infections emerged in Haryana with most of them pertaining to Gurugram and Faridabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/big-surge-in-lockdown-4-0-haryana-sees-1-183-infections-in-14-days/story-nMgDaCjBX6G2ipkPnsTbcO.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Unable to target liquor baron, attackers open fire at his brother’s house in Chandigarh||Four to five unidentified men drove up to the Sector 33 bungalow of hotelier and businessman Rakesh Singla on Sunday evening, firing 17 shots from 9mm and 32 bore pistols, in what police suspect was a targeted attack on his brother, liquor baron Arvind Singla.No one, however, was injured in the incident.About four assailants in a sedan first drove to Rakesh Singla’s bungalow around 6.15pm and asked for Arvind’s address in the same sector. However, when they reached Arvind’s house they panicked after seeing policemen there as he had been provided security by Punjab police and returned to his brother’s bungalow where they opened fire, hitting the windows and his Land Rover SUV’s windshield, and fled.Taking stock of the situation with senior police officials, Chandigarh senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nilambari Jagadale said: “Seventeen shots were fired and it appears two pistols were used as the shells recovered were from 9mm and 32 bore pistols. There were no casualties and we have accessed the CCTV footage of the assailants. A message was flashed to the Punjab and Haryana control rooms as well to help nab the assailants who drove away.” A leading liquor dealer in Punjab, Arvind said in his complaint to the police that his mother Usha Singla had called him from Rakesh Singla’s house to tell him that some people had come to meet him. “But I was in the bathroom and couldn’t take her call. After seeing the police outside my house they drove back to my brother’s house where both my brother and mother were present and opened fire in what seems to be frustration.”Arvind’s family has been in the liquor retail business for generations. Rakesh Singla, who owns hotels and businesses in Chandigarh, denied any rivalries being the cause of the shootings. “We have been in the liquor business for many years and have no rivalries. No threats have been received before this,” he added.Three police teams with the SSP were present at the spot and questioned Rakesh Singla about any individuals he suspected were involved in the incidents.Police, who were screening CCTV footage from cameras in the area, said the faces of all four men were covered. A case has been registered at the Sector 34 police station under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/unable-to-target-liquor-baron-attackers-open-fire-at-his-brother-s-house-in-chandigarh/story-sPv3KeB6OdFADU7Y45YZIL.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Seed scam: Punjab Police nab Ludhiana firm owner, seal store||LUDHIANA: The Punjab Police on Sunday busted the alleged paddy seed scam with the arrest of a private firm owner found selling spurious seeds to farmers at exorbitant rates here.Confirming the development, chief agriculture officer Narinder Singh Benipal said, “The store was selling seeds at inflated rates by branding them as high-yielding varieties PR-128 and PR-129. The store owner’s licence has been cancelled.”Benipal added that raids were also conducted at other seed stores near Panjab Agriculture University on Sunday.Ludhiana-based Brar Seeds owner Harwinder Singh alias Kaka Brar (56) is being questioned by a special investigation team (SIT) of the Ludhiana Police, officials said.The probe is expected to lead more arrests in the case, said director general of police Dinkar Gupta.Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Kumar Agrawal said that during raids by the SIT, huge stock of seeds was seized from Brar’s store, and the samples were sent for testing. Their analysis confirmed that some of the seeds were spurious, said Aggarwal.Brar used to sell these to farmers on the pretext that the seeds were of some newly developed varieties which were yet to be certified by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/seed-scam-punjab-police-nab-ludhiana-firm-owner-seal-store/story-blfuotZ5NAaxLb1aSCeASO.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Spurious seed dealer’s licence cancelled in Jalandhar||JALANDHAR: The agriculture department on Sunday cancelled the license of a seed dealer and suspended that of another’s in Shahkot for selling spurious and uncertified varieties.The teams led by chief agriculture officer Surinder Singh and others conducted a raid in Shahkot over the reports of sale of PR-128, PR 129 paddy seeds, following which the team suspended the licence of Hindustan Seed Store and cancelled the licence of Mathura Dass Dina Nath Firms.The officer said despite a lockdown in the state government, the department continued its awareness drive and sensitised the farmers on buying only quality and certified seeds.He said the inspections were carried out earlier as well, but not a single case of spurious seeds was found.Stating that the inspection drive would continue in the coming days, Singh asked the farmers to immediately contact the agriculture department in case they suspect or spot the sale of spurious seeds in Jalandhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/spurious-seed-dealer-s-licence-cancelled-in-jalandhar/story-V6LwR9A3BhEETK7hvTj9jK.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Kaithal teen abducted, gangraped; three women among six booked||Six people, including three women, have been booked in the abduction and gangrape case of a 17-year-old girl from a village under Dhand police jurisdiction in Kaithal, police said on Sunday. As per the police, the victim had on April 19 gone to a shop in her village when three men from Pehowa abducted her. The girl told the police that they took her to a farm house where one of them raped her. She said the trio then took her to another place where, with the help of three women, she was forcibly married to one of the accused, whom she knew for past few months. They also took some photographs, she added. The girl claimed that later the accused took her to an isolated place where she was gangraped and tortured. On May 6, she managed to get out of the confinement and reached her home, the police said, adding that her family decided to file a complaint on May 29. Dhand police station in-charge Rajesh Kumar said on the basis of the girl’s complaint, a first information report (FIR) under sections 323, 342, 366-A, 376-D and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 6 of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act has been registered against six people, including three women, who are yet to be identified. Investigation officer Sunita Devi said a probe was on and efforts were being made to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kaithal-teen-abducted-gangraped-three-women-among-six-booked/story-LyCTwOD1z2s0khpOWSxmhP.html
01-06-2020||City||Padho Punjab, Padhao Punjab: Classes 1 to 4 endline test results improve in Ludhiana||According to a comparative analysis report of the endline tests, the quality of teaching being provided to students of Classes 1 to 4 at government schools here has improved by an average of about 15.81% going by the results of midterm examinations and endline tests, conducted in March, for Class 1 to 4 under the ‘Padho Punjab, Padhao Punjab’ project.The results, declared recently by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), show that the results of students in all the four classes improved from 72.29% to 88.10% (15.81%) over the midterm tests.The Class 1 result has improved from 70.64% in mid tests to 89.23% (an increase of 18.59%), the Class 2 result from 69.99% to 86.50% (16.51%) and that of Class 3 from 70.74% to 86.29% (15.55%). The result of Class 4 has also improved from 70.69% to 86.24% (15.55%).The district authorities said the students have been able to do better after the teaching staff made extra efforts to enhance the performance of students in endline tests.Head teacher of a government primary school, requesting anonymity, said, “Our teachers had conducted extra classes for students with the aim of improving results. Even during holidays and second Saturdays, teachers were seen taking classes for one to two hours in the morning so that their students’ performance can be improved.” District education officer, elementary, Rajinder Kaur, said, “The credit for better results goes to our teachers, head teachers who have made consistent efforts to improve results.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/padho-punjab-padhao-punjab-classes-1-to-4-endline-test-results-of-scert-improve-by-15-81-over-midterm-examinations-in-ludhiana/story-fjnbEFxD2QV6eTg0QozN4O.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Rape accused jumps before truck, dies in Jhajjar||A 28-year-old rape accused, who was being taken back to jail after a court hearing by Bahadurgarh police, allegedly jumped before a truck and died in Jhajjar on Sunday. The deceased is Ran Singh, a resident of Bhiwani’s Sagwan village. Bahadurgarh DSP Ajaib Singh said it happened when he was being brought back to Dulina jail. “He asked police to stop to relieve himself and as he got out of the vehicle, he jumped before the truck. We have arrested the truck driver, Shyam Sunder of Bihar,” he added.“We have launched a probe. We will question the cops, who were escorting the accused,” The DSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rape-accused-jumps-before-truck-dies-in-jhajjar/story-5TDPfwBddODFif2jl5nDhJ.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Power reforms to raise borrowing limit not OK: Bajwa to PM||Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa in a letter to the Prime Minister on Sunday raised apprehension over certain economic packages released by the Centre stating that these could negatively impact state governments and their fiscal situation.Though he welcomed the economic boost announced to make the nation self-reliant, Bajwa pointed out that Centre take on reforming power subsidies in the state would be perilous.“The central government has declared that power subsidies must be reformed in the state. This has forced the Punjab government to discuss direct benefit transfers of subsidies to farmers and other measures that could potentially affect their livelihood. By forcing the states to act in a certain manner, the centre is attempting to dictate their economic policy,” the MP stated in the letter.He added, “I caution that such moves will cause resentment among the citizens, especially in these economically distressing times. Rather than providing succour to our farmers, such reforms will only penalise them further.”He urged the PM to reconsider such a structural adjustment approach during this distressed economic situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/power-reforms-to-raise-borrowing-limit-not-ok-bajwa-to-pm/story-ZEr8Ksd50AmKrZpFpfA4wI.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||ITBP jawan among four killed in 3 Jind mishaps||Four persons were killed, including an ITBP jawan of 34 Battalion in three separate road accidents in Jind, police said on Sunday. In the first accident, 30-year-old ITBP jawan Rajender Mishra was killed when an unknown truck rammed into his Maruti Swift car near Kinana village. A resident of Jind city, he was returning home after completing training in the camp at Rajasthan’s Alwar. He was posted in Arunachal Pradesh.The police said they have registered a case against unidentified truck driver under sections 304-A (causing death due to negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).In the second mishap, two friends were killed and third got injured when their car skidded off a road and crashed into a stack of bricks in Jind’s Narwana. Those dead are Paramjeet Singh, 25, of MohalKhera village and Kuldeep Kumar, 21, of Prem Nagar area in Narwana. The injured, Sandeep, has been rushed to PGIMS, Rohtak, where his condition is stated to be out of danger. In the third case, a 35-year-old man, Bijender Kumar of Bhagkhera village, was killed when an unknown vehicle hit his car and fled.A spokesman of Jind police said they have registered a case against unknown persons under similar IPC sections and started investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/itbp-jawan-among-four-killed-in-3-jind-mishaps/story-tX6qk2bXXNLDlW4I02hDoI.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||80% units in Punjab resume ops, but demand dip, labour shortage a worry||As state prepares to enter the lockdown 5.0 on Monday, 80% of the registered industrial units in Punjab reeling under the impact of the global pandemic, are slowly lumbering back on track.Of the total 2.59 lakh registered units, 2.07 lakh have restarted their production lines at limited capacity with reduced workforce while adhering to social distancing norms. Though 80% industrial units have become operational, about two-thirds of the workers – 13.65 lakh – are back at work as per the data compiled by the state industries department. The registered units employed 20.29 lakh workers before the coronavirus-induced curfew forced them to down their shutters more than two months ago.Bulk of these units resumed production during the 15-day lockdown 4.0 period, which commenced on May 17, as restrictions were eased by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) whereas only 17,301, or say 6.6%, factories were working till then. The state government’s decision to permit all tiny and cottage units in non-containment zones and simplification of the process of granting permissions also helped the industrial units resume their operations.53% FACTORIES OPERATING WITH LESS THAN 10 WORKERSAbout 1.1 lakh, or say 53%, of the factories are operating currently with less than 10 workers, according to official data. Another 71,020 units are operating with 10 to 25 workers and the remaining 25,913 have more than 25 workers each. Industries director Sibin C said as per the feedback received from the industry, there are several issues related to labour deficiency, supply chain disruption and availability of raw material for several manufactures. “These are fallouts of lockdown and will take some time to stabilise. As for the units which are still to start their production, we have asked general managers of district industries centres to find out so that difficulties, if any, can be removed,” he said. In the state’s industrial hub of Ludhiana, which is home to 95,202 units, 74,271 have resumed productions and 40% of them are small and cottage factories running their operations with less than 10 workers each. In Jalandhar and Amritsar, the percentage of operational industrial units is higher at 94 and 82%, respectively.INDUSTRY REMAINS ON EDGEDespite the revival of business activity in most parts of the country, though slowly, the industry has worries on several fronts. PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI) chairman, Punjab, Karan Gilhotra said labour shortage, disruption in supply chain and decline in demand were a serious challenge for the industry even though their impact varies from sector to sector.“There are also issues related to the availability of raw material, orders are getting cancelled and stocks piling up. If demand does not up pick up soon, things are going to get tougher for the industry in days to come. It is a vicious circle,” said the member of a group of experts set up to develop post-Covid economic strategy for Punjab, citing the examples of automobile and textile sectors.Echoing similar sentiments, Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) president Gurmeet Singh Kular termed the drop in demand and labour availability as his biggest concerns. “There is hardly any market demand and the situation is bad. There is need to infuse liquidity to get the economy going and give a boost to market demand. The state government first announced relief in electricity bills, but then decided to recover the amount in a staggered manner every month from June 1,” said Kular who is in cycle parts manufacturing business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/80-units-in-punjab-resume-ops-but-demand-dip-labour-shortage-a-worry/story-v5uDox1vfgTQpkqc1lnK1N.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Man, 4 others booked for wife’s murder in Amritsar||AMRITSAR: The rural police have booked a man, his alleged lover and three others for the murder of his wife in Arjunmanga village on Sunday.The deceased has been identified as 52-year-old Daljit Kaur, while the accused are husband Palwinder Singh, his son and daughter-in-law Jatinder Singh and Sandeep Kaur, his sister Sarabjit Kaur, and Paramjit Kaur of the same village.According to the victim’s brother Gurmukh Singh of Gurdaspur, Daljit was strangulated to death by the accused as she had been resisting her husband’s illicit relationship with Paramjit.“My sister was married for around 30 years to Palwinder, and she had been resisting his extramarital affair with Paramjit. Around 10 days ago, Palwinder had even thrashed my sister for obstructing him from making advances towards Paramjit,” Gurmukh said.Based on his complaint, the police have registered a case against all the accused under sections 302 (murder) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.Mehta station house officer Satpal Singh said the preliminary investigation has revealed that Palwinder along with the others wanted to bring Paramjit home to which the victim had objected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-4-others-booked-for-wife-s-murder-in-amritsar/story-lwgbrFNsFRGjmthJqZZiIK.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||One killed, six injured in attack over canal water supply to fields||A 60-year-old man was killed while six others were injured in an attack by a group of 12 persons over the issue of supplying canal water to fields at Madar Mathura Bhagi village of Tarn Taran district’s Bhikhiwind sub-division, police said on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Joginder Singh while the injured are Balwinder Singh, Rashpal Singh, Bikar Singh, Sukhdev Singh, Balkar Singh and Tarsem Singh of the same village. Police have identified seven of the 12 accused as Manjit Singh, Sarwan Singh, Lovepreet Singh, Darshan Singh, Sheetal Singh, Gurbhej Singh and Jassa Singh of Madar Mathura Bhagi village. The identity of five others is yet to be ascertained, the police said. A case was registered against all the accused under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 326 (causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), etc of the Indian penal code (IPC) at the Khalra police station. The complainant, Rashpal Singh, 41, the deceased’s son, said, “Around 9:30 on Saturday, my father Joginder Singh and other victims were present at his house. The accused came and them with weapons. My father and six others were injured in the attack. They were taken to a government hospital in Khemkaran where my father succumbed to his injuries.”“We supplied water to our fields from a canal to which the accused had been objecting,” he added.Sub-inspector (SI) Jaswant Singh, who is investigating the case, said the injured are the relatives of the deceased. He said raids were on to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/one-killed-six-injured-in-attack-over-canal-water-supply-to-fields/story-lLwDaivbNa4Av12XK20LoM.html
01-06-2020||City||Eighth member of dead Covid patient’s family, 80-year-old ex-servicemen test positive in Ludhiana||A day after, seven family contacts of Pritpal Singh, 51, who died of Covid-19 on May 29, were also found infected, another member of his family also tested positive on Sunday.Besides, an 80-year-old ex-serviceman was also found positive. He was admitted at Mohan Dai Oswal Cancer Hospital due to a heart ailment and difficulty in breathing. As per protocol, he was sampled and the test returned positive results on Sunday.The eight person found infected in Pritpal’s family is his 33-year-old nephew, who visited the OPD at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) with flu symptoms three days ago. After his test results came out positive, he was admitted to the Ludhiana civil hospital.With the two new cases on Sunday the number of cases in the district has reached 195. Among them 149 patients have been discharged, a recovery rate of 76.4%, while eight patients have succumbed to the virus, a fatality rate of 4.1%. The district now has 38 active cases.CONTACT TRACING UNDERWAYMeanwhile, the health department has started extensive contact tracing with regards to Pritpal’s family, even as the source of his infection remains a mystery.Among those being traced are paramedical staff and other employees of a private hospital in Model Town.Pritpal Singh, 51, a resident of Chhawani Mohalla, had died of coronavirus at DMCH on Friday, following which samples of his nine family members were taken for testing.Out of the nine samples, seven had tested positive. These include his wife, 50, daughter, 29 and son, 26. Also infected are his brother, 63, sister-in-law, 60, nephew, 37, and an 11-year-old grandnephew. Health authorities said the family owned a wholesale cloth trading business. They had repeoned their shop in Salem Tabri since the curfew restrictions were lifted and had been attending to customers.The area around Pritpal’s house, located in the densely populated Chhawani Mohalla, has been sealed, while random samples are being collected to contain further spread of the virus, they said.Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “As per protocol, we have prepared a list of primary and secondary contacts of the positive persons. Pritpal Singh was admitted at a hospital in Model Town for two days. So, we are tracing people who came in contact with him and his other positive family members.”Dr Ashwani Chaudhary, in-charge of the Covid-19 cell at DMCH, said Pritpal, who was brought in on Thursday, a day before his death, had various comorbidities, including hypertension, diabetes and renal disease.TYRE FACTORY MANAGER BEATS VIRUS AFTER 25 DAYS IN HOSPITALThe 64-year-old manager of a tyre factory, who had tested positive on May 6, was discharged from Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), Ludhiana, on Sunday after 25 days in hospital and remaining on ventilator support for 10 days. As many as 19 people, including his colleagues and family members, had tested positive after coming in contact with him.A resident of Kabir Nagar, the patient also suffers from hypertension, diabetes and asthma. FINE FOR NOT WEARING MASKLudhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said in line the directions of the Punjab government, any person found not wearing a face mask in public will be fined Rs 500. If a bus owner, car owner or auto rickshaw/two-wheeler owner does not follow social distancing rules, they will be fined Rs 3,000, Rs 2,000 and Rs 500, respectively. Any person violating home quarantine will be fined Rs 2,000 and any person spitting in public place will have to pay a penalty of Rs 500.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eighth-member-of-dead-covid-patient-s-family-80-year-old-ex-servicemen-test-positive-in-ludhiana/story-N4q1sXPX9CNlExzfpkRJuM.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sangrur youth commits suicide, wife among 5 booked for abetment||A 25-year-old man allegedly ended his life by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his residence at Saroud village near Malerkotla town in Sangrur district. Police on Saturday booked his wife and four others for abetment of suicide. The accused are the deceased’s wife, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, all from Malerkotla, and Gurjiwan Singh and Maninder Singh of Saroud village.The couple got married four years back, it is learnt.The FIR states that the victim was allegedly beaten by his wife’s kin.The case was registered under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sadar Ahmedgarh police station. “The police are investigating the matter but no arrest has been made so far,” said SHO Sanjeev Kapoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sangrur-youth-commits-suicide-wife-among-5-booked-for-abetment/story-zQTVmY0e2zf2xtnq8n2Q2O.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Medical teams to screen devotees: Punjab health minister on opening of shrines||Punjab health and family welfare Balbir Singh Sidhu on Sunday said medical teams will be deployed to screen devotees when places of worship open in the state from June 8 onwards.Sidhu, who reviewed the situation after surge in Covid-19 cases in Amritsar, said, “All arrangements have been made for this. For instance, medical teams are stationed outside the Golden Temple and the Durgiana Temple to screen devotees.”The minister said there was no community spread in the city and asked the residents not to panic. This came a day after Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said there was community transmission of the virus in Amritsar.Sidhu held a meeting with the officials concerned and instructed them to make proper arrangements to prevent any further spread of the coronavirus.“The majority of patients have travel history or are contacts of those infected earlier. Amritsar has an international airport and a large railway junction. People stranded due to the lockdown are arriving here from other states and abroad and it is the main cause of the spread,” he said.Taking a dig at private hospitals, the minister said, “Private hospitals totally stayed away from contributing to the battle against the pandemic. It is the health department staff, police and other government functionaries who acted as frontline warriors. Private hospital doctors have joined the medical profession for earning money while those working with the government did it to serve people.” Sidhu paid obeisance at the Golden Temple and partook of langar in the community kitchen of the shrine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/medical-teams-to-screen-devotees-punjab-health-minister-on-opening-of-shrines/story-1Vpd3rKxSsqXppEVHnbAGK.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Phones seized from narco-terror module member, gangster in Amritsar jail||Three mobile phones were recovered from a member of a narco-terror module, a gangster and another inmate during a search at the Amritsar central jail on Saturday evening. The accused are Rahul Chauhan of Ambala, a former armyman and a key member of a narco-terror module busted by the Amritsar police in January this year, gangster Amanpreet Singh, alias Rinka of Amritsar, and Jagdeep Singh, alias Jaggu of Tarn Taran district.According to the police, the module members were involved in smuggling of narcotics and weapons from Pakistan by using drones. Two highly sophisticated China-made drones, two walkie-talkie sets, Rs 6.22 lakh, and a magazine of an Insas rifle were recovered from them.Chauhan was allegedly involved in procuring and supplying drones and providing training to the smugglers. Rinka, one of the accused in the murder of Congress councillor Gurdeep Singh Pehlwan in Amritsar, was arrested after an encounter in November 2018. He also faces a case for his alleged involvement in the robbery of Rs 6 crore jewellery from a shop in Guru Bazar locality in Amritsar. Assistant jail superintendent Sukhdev Singh said the phones were recovered from the jail’s barracks 1 and 3. The three, who were booked under the Prisons Act, will be taken on production warrant by the police with regards to the seizure. The recovery has once again exposed security chinks in the jail, one of high-security prisons of Punjab.Recently, the Tarn Taran police had said gangsters and smugglers were running a racket of weapons and heroin smuggling from inside the Amritsar jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/phones-seized-from-narco-terror-module-member-gangster-in-amritsar-jail/story-vk8cG6ACCNatwZoHUVz0AM.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Patiala Police nab 2 criminals using face recognition app||Patiala Local police nabbed two proclaimed offenders on Sunday by using a mobile phone application on face recognition technology, Punjab Artificial Intelligence System (PAIS), that the state’s intelligence wing has developed. The PAIS app allows Punjab Police to digitize criminal records and automate criminal search and various critical analysis at ground zero. With features like facial recognition, PAIS retrieves information of criminals from the records, in real-time. It further supports police personnel via innovative features like gang analysis, phonetic search and more.SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu said two proclaimed offenders, Shiva and Vishal Kumar, both wanted in NDPS act cases, were stopped at a checkpoint near Gagan Chowk for not wearing a mask. “Their behaviour aroused suspicion among policemen on duty, who clicked their pictures and uploaded these on the PAIS app. Data stored on the app revealed that both had a criminal record,” the SSP said, adding that through the app, data, if any, of the criminal background of the suspect is immediately sent to the officer concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/patiala-police-nab-2-criminals-using-face-recognition-app/story-ZiGYD3Bh0GzUbSPls5S2JJ.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Badals complicit in dismantling country’s federalism: Ministers||Punjab cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Gurpreet Singh Kangar and Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Sunday lashed out at the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Badal family for allegedly joining hands with those seeking to dismantle the country’s federal structure.In a joint statement, the ministers said SAD patron and former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, who kept harping on about federal structure all his life, is silent over his son and daughter-in-law being part of BJP-led government at the Centre which was against the spirit of federalism. “The people of Punjab will never forgive them for this. The National democratic Alliance (NDA) government is blatantly interfering with the rights of the states as far as fiscal borrowing is concerned. Did the SAD president (Sukhbir) not remember his own party’s Anandpur Sahib resolution?” they questioned. The party which calls itself the champion of the rights of the states is hand in glove with the NDA government, they claimed.“The Centre was interfering with the borrowing rights of the states. Instead of opposing this draconian decision, the Akali leaders, to cover up for the crime against the people of the nation, are hatching a conspiracy to mislead the masses by making baseless statements about electricity bills. CM Capt Amarinder Singh has already made it clear farmers will continue to get free electricity,” the ministers said. Parkash Singh Badal, they said, must break his silence on the issue and ask Sukhbir to resign from the post of the party president and recall Harsimrat from the Union ministry. “The Badals have abandoned the long cherished principles of the Akali Dal to further their personal interests,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/badals-complicit-in-dismantling-country-s-federalism-ministers/story-x3N0K3BWVXx5D4G5BU1M0I.html
01-06-2020||City||ICP van driver found dead in Amritsar||Police have unidentified persons for the murder of a van driver Satnam Singh, 55, a day after his body, with a hand chopped, was found near a drain in Attari village of Ajnala sub-division on Saturday. Satnam worked with the Integrated Check Post (ICP), Attari, which facilitates India’s trade with Pakistan and Afghanistan. The victim’s son, Nirmal Singh, said, “On May 30, my father went out of home, but did not return. We tried to find him, but to no avail. On Sunday, someone informed us that his body was lying near the defence drain. When we reached the spot, we found that left hand of my father was chopped off.” He added, “A cord made of cloth was tied to my father’s neck. It appears someone killed my father and threw his body near the drain.” A case has been registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC at Gharinda police station, said investigating officer SI Daljit Singh of Gharinda police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/icp-van-driver-found-dead-in-amritsar/story-t6jJ2luKdNILRLKwlWJF1O.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Night curfew timings changed to 9pm to 5am in Chandigarh||The UT administration on Sunday issued an order changing the night curfew timings. Effective from June 1, the night curfew timings will be from 9pm to 5am. Earlier it was 7pm to 7am. On Monday, the administration is expected to release the standard operating procedure for opening of salons and barber shops, besides taking a decision on staggered timings of markets, in its daily war room meeting.Though Punjab and Haryana had opened barber shops after relaxations in the fourth phase of the lockdown, UT had decided to not allow it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/night-curfew-timings-changed-to-9pm-to-5am-in-chandigarh/story-Zg1OmRt8osxb6kDzGQ017L.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||One death, 12 fresh infections in Punjab||One more person succumbed to coronavirus in Punjab, pushing the death toll to 45, while 12 fresh cases took the Covid-19 tally to 2,346‬, on Sunday.A 54-year-old resident of Pathankot died due to the disease at a civil hospital, a health official said. The patient had diabetes, an official said. Jalandhar and Amritsar reported five cases each and Ludhiana two. BSF MAN, 4 OTHERS TEST +VE IN JALANDHAR A Border Security Force (BSF) man and four others tested positive of the novel coronavirus in Jalandhar on Sunday, said nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr TPS Sandhu. A total of 251 persons tested positive of virus in the district so far, including eight deaths and 209 recoveries. Sandhu said that the BSF man belongs to Odisha and was admitted to the BSF hospital in Jalandhar. The others who tested positive include a 44-year-old man from the Defence Colony, a woman and a man from Dalla village and 24-year-old man from the Boparai Kalan village in the district. TWO MORE INFECTED IN LUDHIANAAnother family member of Pritpal Singh, 51, who died on coronavirus, tested positive of Covid-19 on Sunday. The 33-year-old man, who is nephew of the victim, is admitted to Mohan Dai Oswal Cancer Hospital for past three days. He was suffering from flu-like symptoms. Besides, an 80-year-old ex-serviceman, a resident of Fauji Mohalla near Miller Gunj, tested positive for virus. 5 INFECTED IN AMRITSARFive more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Amritsar on Sunday, civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said.“Two people had returned to Amritsar from UK, last week and were quarantined in a city hotel. They complained of fever and cough and health department took their samples for testing. They were tested positive for the disease on Sunday. Besides, a new case from Park Avenue area was also reported, who has no travel history. The husband and granddaughter of a woman of Hathi Gate, who was infected a few days back, were also tested positive”, said Dr Kishore.With 5 fresh cases, district’s total tally reached to 392, out of which 310 have recovered. The district has reported seven death to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/one-death-12-fresh-infections-in-punjab/story-pigJC0IvbwwXVX7RdyQowM.html
01-06-2020||City||Two trucks loaded with illicit liquor seized in Gurdaspur||The excise department on Sunday seized two trucks loaded with country-made liquor from the premises of Chadha Sugar Mills in Kiri Afghana village under Shri Hargobindpur police station in Batala.Batala senior superintendent of police Opinderjit Singh Ghuman said operation was carried by excise department officials in coordination with the police. After getting a specific tip-off, a team of excise department led by excise and taxation officer Lovejinder Singh Brar raided at sugar mill and sized the trucks.Police have registered a case under the Excise Act against unidentified persons.Gurdaspur assistant excise and taxation commissioner Rajwinder Kaur Bajwa said they had prior information that the trucks bearing registration number HP-12-A-6634 and HR-55-L3259, were impounded. The drivers, however, managed to flee.“The process of counting of liquor boxes and other investigation is still on,” said Bajwa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-trucks-loaded-with-illicit-liquor-seized-in-gurdaspur/story-FS38MxnyHEDe5AUCJI1g4K.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s ₹241-crore smart-meter project to see delay due to labour exodus||Large-scale labour exodus amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown is set to delay the start of the recently approved pan-city smart-meter project in Chandigarh.The Rs 241-crore central government project envisages installation of 2.5 lakh smart meters for electricity connections in the city.Currently, the UT engineering department is implementing a pilot project of installing 25,000 smart meters in a few localities.The city-wide project was approved by the central government in March just before the lockdown and curfew was imposed for the containment of Covid-19. All civic and developmental works came to a standstill after the imposition of the curfew orders.“After the lockdown relaxations were introduced, we had expected the work to start. But as soon as inter-state movement of migrant workers was allowed, most labourers left for their hometowns, leaving a labour shortage in the city. This will hit the start of ambitious smart-meter project,” said a senior UT official, requesting anonymity.ONLY 500 METERS INSTALLED SO FARThe department is already struggling to implement the pilot project of installing 26,000 smart meters in few selected pockets across the city.In the first phase of the Smart Grid Project, in October 2018, the department had allotted the work for installing smart meters in Sectors 29, 31, 47, and 48, six villages -- Faidan, Ram Darbar, Hallomajra, Raipur Kalan, Makhanmajra, and Daria-- and the Industrial Area.The pilot project was to be completed by June 2020, but, so far, only 500 smart meters have been installed. “Labour shortages are hampering of the pilot project too,” said the official.ESSENTIAL FOR LAUNCHING PRE-PAID SERVICESThe new system will be beneficial both for the department and consumers.The new meters will send immediate tamper alerts to the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) centre, and allow the department to keep a track of load, voltage, outages, peak demand and consumption across the city. Besides, the power control room will also receive immediate alerts in case of tripping in main lines. Residents will benefit as smart meters will allow prepaid services to be started. “Consumers will be able to opt for pre-paid services, such as in case of like a mobile services, for electricity consumption. Instead of paying bi-monthly bills, they can now pay only for what they expect to consume,” said the official. Significantly, in its latest report, the joint electricity regulatory commission (JERC) had directed the department to expedite the process of procurement and installation of smart meters. The department acquired 5,000 meters recently for the pilot project.Under the smart grid project, approved by National Smart Grid Mission (NSGM), the UT administration has planned to install smart electricity meters, which are part of power sector reforms. JERC had sought a progress report on Smart Grid project from the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-rs-241-crore-smart-meter-project-to-see-delay-due-to-labour-exodus/story-TJ9XYOC0KIQnB5z3mICgNO.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Pathankot differently abled man earns PM’s praise for contribution in Covid fight||A 37-year-old differently abled man, who was praised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’, on Sunday said he always tried to help the needy. Raju, a beggar, earned praise from the Prime Minister for distributing 3,000 masks and providing ration to 100 distressed families during the lockdown imposed to check the spread of the coronavirus.“I am happy to learn that Mr Modi showered praise on me. I always try to help needy people,” Raju, who resides near Dhangu road in the city, said.Raju, who uses a hand-powered tricycle, collected Rs 75,000 by begging and spent the entire amount on distributing masks and ration to the poor during the lockdown period.“I do not have family and home. I spent all of the money collected through begging during lockdown,” Raju, who is suffering from polio, said,.Once he spent ₹15,000 from his own pocket on the repair of a portion of a road over a drain here.“Despite complaints, the administration paid no heed but he did,” said Dinesh Beri, a shopkeeper at Dhangu road.A number of accidents used to take place because of the broken road, he said.Raju said he also provided financial assistance for wedding of women belonging to poor families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pathankot-differently-abled-man-earns-pm-s-praise-for-contribution-in-covid-fight/story-3Kt8qaZm81JoLQ4IYPIr9N.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||NRI couple murdered in Phagwara, tenant booked||A non-resident Indian (NRI) couple was found murdered at their house at Onkar Nagar in Phagwara on Saturday night.Canada-based Kirpal Singh and his wife Davinder Kaur, both in their 70s, had come to their ancestral house four months back.Superintendent of police Manvinder Singh said the couple were attacked with sharp-edged weapons. According to preliminary investigation, their tenant is missing from the house. No important document or ornament is missing from the house. Police have booked tenant Jagdev Singh under Section 302 (murder) and further investigation is on. He is yet to be arrested.The SP said bodies have been sent to civil hospital for post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nri-couple-murdered-in-phagwara-tenant-booked/story-loUl2RK09uEzCLzx3CF35I.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Capt clears appointments of 8 next of martyrs’ kin||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday cleared the appointments of eight next of kin of martyrs in recognition of their gallantry actions. A spokesperson of the chief minister’s office said the appointments were recommended by a high-powered committee headed by chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh.The government appointed Amritbir Singh as tehsildar in the revenue department for the sacrifice made by his father, CRPF inspector Raghbir Singh of village Sathiala in Amritsar. Singh died on April 24, 2017, fighting naxalites in Sukma district of Chhattisgarh. Recognizing sacrifice of Major Ravi Inder Singh Sandhu, who laid down life while serving in the UN Mission in Sudan, his wife Tanveer Kaur has been appointed as a tehsildar in the revenue department. Major Sandhu was awarded “Dag Hammarskjold Medal” by the United Nations for the sacrifice. Aastha Garg has been appointed excise and taxation officer. Her husband Flt Lt Mohit Garg who belonged to Samana in Patiala district died when the AN-32 aircraft which he was flying crashed in high altitude area of Arunachal Pradesh. Malkeet Kaur, wife of BSF constable Mukhtiar Singh has been appointed as a library restorer in state education department. Mukhtiar attained martyrdom on July 15, 2018, while fighting naxalites in Pakhanjure sub-division in Chhattisgarh.Gurpal Singh, brother of rifleman in the army Sukhwinder Singh, has been given appointment as a junior engineer public works department. Sukhwinder of Fatehpur village in Hoshiarpur died on December 16, 2019, fighting at the line of control in Sunderbani area of Jammu and Kashmir. Radha Rani, sister of grenadier Sanjay Kumar, has been appointed as inspector in office of registrar, co-operative societies. Sanjay belonged to Rajwal village in Hoshiarpur, and died on April 9, 2019, while he was carrying out field firing exercise with live ammunition. Recognising martyrdom of grenadier Lekh Raj, the government has appointed his brother Amandeep as a clerk in the department of defence services welfare. Lekh Raj of Shajrana village in Ferozepur district joined 332-medium regiment in the year 2011. He attained martyrdom on Aug 7, 2018 while he was on patrolling on the line of actual control in Arunachal Pradesh.Akwinder Kaur, wife of Naik Manwinder Singh, of Ghonewal in Amritsar has been appointed as naib-tehsildar in revenue department. Her husband of 3-Punjab attained martyrdom on November 18, 2019, when he was on an operational duty in Siachen Glacier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/capt-clears-appointments-of-8-next-of-martyrs-kin/story-VoOIkwbOt7dgehPs6ZD4VI.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||World Milk Day: Punjab’s dairy farmers in doldrums||Though its World Milk Day on Monday, there is no cheer for dairy farm owners in Punjab as their business has taken a huge hit amid the Covid-19 lockdown.They rue that first the lockdown, and then the migrant exodus broke the back of the dairy industry.Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU)’s extension education director Harsh Vema said that with a production of three crore litres of milk a day, the state is the highest producer of milk in the country.Milk-driven industries such as tea, coffee, sweets, chocolates and ice-creams also remained closed due to lockdown, which added to the losses.Haibowal Dairy Complex Association chairman Paramjit Singh Bobby said the migrant population and roadside tea sellers formed a significant chunk of milk consumers. Also, fewer wedding functions and closing of offices and shops hit the dairy sale badly.“This caused heavy losses to the dairy business. We demand that the rates should be revised from ₹6.50 to ₹7 per kg to revive the dairy farming industry. By June 11, the rates will be revised. There may be an increase of ₹2 per litre,” said Bobby.Butta Singh, a dairy farmer who is rearing 30 buffaloes, said that earlier, there was a huge demand for paneer at sweet shops.“Further, paneer and curd used to be sold in wedding functions. However, due to the lockdown, there was no sale for nearly two months. The government has given some relaxation, but the business has not picked up fully. Currently, I need to buy fodder but I have run out of cash. It is time that the government should do something to save the industry,” he said.DS Hans, deputy director, Dairy Development Board, said dairy products are in heavy demand during the wedding season. However, due to the lockdown, sales plummetted.The milk collection was increased from 4 lakh to 7 lakh litre per day to save the farmers from running into financial crisis. Further, eight milk processing units, which were closed, were also opened within 10 days of the lockdown.“We have enough stock of ghee and skimmed milk and are hoping that government agencies will pick it soon,” Hans said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/world-milk-day-punjab-s-dairy-farmers-in-doldrums/story-rrADoeMBqcv237TgClC6VP.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||After short lull, five new cases surface in Chandigarh||After a brief lull of two days, five new cases of Covid-19 were confirmed in Chandigarh on Sunday, increasing the city tally to 294.Among these are three cases from the epicentre Bapu Dham Colony, while one case each is from Khuda Ali Sher and Sector 9.The Sector-9 resident is a 27-year old woman, who returned from Toronto, Canada, on the intervening night of May 26 and 27. She is the first to test positive among the 116 people, who returned to Chandigarh from abroad recently after international flights resumed.The patient, a student at Canada, was under institutional quarantine at Hotel Mountview, Sector 10, and has now chosen to remain under home isolation. As many 29 other passengers have been allowed to return home after necessary testing.The Khuda Ali Sher resident, a 40-year-old man, had travelled to Delhi with his wife and stayed there for two days before returning to Chandigarh. His wife is a staffer with the UT health department and has tested negative. The patient’s mother had expired in New Delhi on May 26, but was not tested for the virus infection. However, her neighbour in Delhi, who was found Covid positive, died on May 26.In Bapu Dham Colony, three women, aged 20, 28 and 42, were found infected. All three are contacts of previously diagnosed positive cases.Meanwhile, the 91-year-old woman, who tested negative after being reported positive by a private hospital in Mohali, has not been excluded from UT’s tally, as the administration has taken up the matter with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the central government in line with protocol.Neighbouring Mohali and Panchkula reported no new cases on Sunday. Their count remains 114 and 26, respectively. While nine cases are active in Mohali, the number is just one in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-short-lull-five-new-cases-surface-in-chandigarh/story-VCjwsjPg8UZZcQ6s0RCkIJ.html
01-06-2020||City||Two-passenger policy costing Ambala auto drivers dear||After easing of lockdown restrictions, auto-rickshaws have been allowed to ply after more than one-and-a-half months on the roads of the twin cities here.Due to the coronavirus scare and scorching heat, there are already fewer people on the roads, and the two-passenger policy for auto drivers is making it much more difficult for them to cover even their fuel costs and, ultimately, passengers will be made to pay a higher fare.Anil Kumar, 37, who has been driving an auto for the past two decades in Ambala cantonment, said, “The meagre fare due to two-passenger policy for autos doesn’t even cover my fuel cost. I started driving my auto three days ago, but there are not many people out on the roads.” “Do hi allowed hain, lekin hum gap rakh ke teen log bitha lete hain, majboori hai,” Anil said, while negotiating with a customer of Shahabad.He said, “During the lockdown, I had to borrow money from a friend to survive with my family of five with parents living in Bihar. My parents were not well and I had to send some money for them too. I don’t know when I’ll be able to return the money to my friend.” Another driver said, “We used to charge minimum ₹10 and maximum ₹20 from passengers, but now I’ve to charge ₹150 for a one-side ride from two or three passengers.”A passenger, travelling from the cantonment to the city in an auto, said, “We understand auto drivers’ situation and that is why I have to pay ₹70 instead of normal fare of ₹10.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-passenger-policy-costing-dear-to-auto-drivers-in-ambala/story-lGLP9h9VxxMdhowVtbSn0H.html
01-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body starts therapy for 1,615 senior citizens with low oxygen levels||In a bid to reduce the Covid-19 mortality rate, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has screened 2,42,653 senior citizens since April 25 and identified 1,615 of them till Sunday, whose blood oxygen saturation level is below 95%. BMC has now started oxygen therapy for those with low oxygen levels at designated hospitals.The civic body’s data has revealed that of all Covid-19 deaths in the city, 67% cases had been of those suffering from comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart ailments and chronic respiratory diseases, and a majority of these cases are of those above the age of 60-70 years.To identify those in the high-risk category, BMC’s 400 teams of community health volunteers and Asha (accredited social health activist) workers have started door-to-door surveys, focusing on screening of senior citizens, using pulse oximeters.“This screening method is very important, as we have been able to identify more than 1,600 vulnerable senior citizens and successfully provide them medical treatment at the right time. Our teams have visited around 14,07,726 houses and screened 2.42 lakh senior citizens. Without this screening method, it would have been difficult to control the mortality rate in the age group of 60 years and above,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, BMC health department.The teams carrying out the survey are also creating awareness among locals on the outbreak, how to take care of senior citizens, and where to report if a resident develops symptoms.Of the 67% cases in which patients who died had comorbidities, 26% had diabetes, 24% hypertension, while 32% had both, diabetes and hypertension. Around 8% of these patients had heart ailments, while the remaining 10% had other comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-starts-therapy-for-1-615-senior-citizens-with-low-oxygen-levels/story-2OwtYyxDZgsphX9a1J8WrL.html
01-06-2020||City||23 long-distance train services to begin today from Maharashtra||The railways will resume operations of 23 pairs of passenger outstation trains that will depart and arrive in stations across Maharashtra every day from Monday onwards. Even as the country lifts lockdown in phases, the railway ministry has announced resuming the services of 200 outstation trains from Monday across India. Trains from Maharashtra will be operated on a daily, weekly and biweekly basis on the central, western and Konkan railway routes.However, the state government has not issued a standard operating protocol (SoP) yet over the quarantine procedure for passengers arriving in Maharashtra, once operations commence on Monday. “The quarantine protocol will be on the lines of the protocol for domestic passengers who travel by flights – those without any symptom will be asked to remain under home quarantine. The railways should ideally ensuring thermal screening and stamping of passengers,’’ said a senior official, privy to the development.However, the central and the Western Railway (WR) have chalked out the access plan and segregation of passenger traffic plans.“There will be only one entry and exit point to the railway stations in the city. On Monday, there will be four departures from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and four from Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT). Complete traffic management flow will be taken care of,” said KK Ashraf, senior divisional security commissioner, Central Railway. Some of the passenger trains that will operate on Monday are the Kushinagar Express, the Kamayani Express, Mahanagari Express, Bandra Terminus (BDTS)-Ghazhipur Express, Gorakhpur-LTT Express, BDTS-Gorakhpur Awadh Express, Pushpak Express, CSMT-Gadag Express, Udyan Express, Hussain Sagar Express and Nethravati Express.WR said it will also operate 17 pairs of passenger trains between Mumbai and Ahmedabad from Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/23-long-distance-train-services-to-begin-today-from-maharashtra/story-miKzWXWAtJqSVRx3wqgZ5I.html
01-06-2020||City||70 days after lockdown, Mumbaiites will be able to go for a walk, run from June 3||In a major respite to citizens after 70 days of lockdown, the state government has permitted outdoor activities such as walking, running, jogging and cycling in public open spaces from June 3.Much like major cities around the world, it has also encouraged cycling as a form of physical exercise “as it automatically ensures social distancing.” Cities like London, Dublin and Sydney are being reshaped to accommodate more cyclists and pedestrians.In its notification titled ‘Mission Begin Again’ released on Sunday, the state has permitted plumbers, electricians and pest-control services with masks, sanitisers and social-distancing norms to function between 5am and 7pm. While the notification is still not clear on allowing house help, a concern for many citizens in Mumbai, government officials said domestic help are allowed to be employed in red zones, if the housing societies allow. They are, however, not allowed to work in containment zones and they should not be coming from containment zones. In a text reply to HT, Bhushan Gagrani, a senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer who is also a member of the control room set up to deal with the outbreak, said, “We are silent on that [allowing domestic help]. Societies should take a call.” The state has permitted opening beaches, public and private playgrounds, however, it has advised citizens to only access nearby open spaces and avoid crowded spaces. “People are advised to stay outdoors only for purposes of physical activities for a limited duration,” the notification states.For phase 2 of the ‘Mission Begin Again’, which is effective from June 5, the state has asked citizens to walk or cycle to their neighbourhood markets. It has also discouraged citizens from taking out their vehicles for shopping.While transport experts said it is a positive step to encourage cycling, the state also needs to look at requisite infrastructure. “If cycling has to be looked at as a means of normal travel, the right infrastructure has to be provided and it has also to be incentivised. In case of open spaces, the number of cases in the city and state are still high, so people need to exercise caution,” said AV Shenory from the Mumbai Mobility Forum.Pranav Naik, a Mumbai-based architect, who mostly cycles to work, said the monsoon will prove to be a major difficulty for cyclists. “I had already kept my cycle away thinking I won’t use it now. It’s a good sign, but the monsoon will make it tough,” Naik said. Firoza Suresh, bicycle mayor of Mumbai, said, “It is the perfect time to encourage cycling in Indian cities as people might fear using shared mobility services. And now that we are talking about cycling, the state must look at the right infrastructure for it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/70-days-after-lockdown-mumbaiites-will-be-able-to-go-for-a-walk-run-from-june-3/story-Xbvql1wS1VaL9YCThibpAJ.html
01-06-2020||Lucknow||Revenue up, no proposal to levy new taxes: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said the state government’s revenue increased considerably in May vis-à-vis the poor earnings of April and there was no proposal to levy any new cess or tax to mobilise additional revenue in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.He made the assertion a day before the beginning of more phased relaxations, also known as Unlock 1, outside containment zones.“We have got good revenue this month with respect to the earnings of the last month (April 2020) and hence there is no proposal to levy any new tax or cess,” said Adityanath, while replying to a question at a video conference with journalists here on Sunday on the completion of one year of the Modi government’s second term.“Yes, the state government’s receipts will be over the Rs 5,000-crore mark by May 31, 2020 against Rs 2022 crore earned in April 2020. The state government spends a sum of Rs 12,000 crore to Rs 13,000 crore on salaries and pension. So, its earnings remain far behind the demand,” said a senior officer. “Hike in excise duty rates, opening of liquor shops and increase in VAT on petrol and diesel have added to the revenue this month,” the officer added. Yogi Adityanath, however, exuded confidence about bringing about an improvement in the situation following the beginning of Unlock-1. “After four stages of the lockdown, we will start unlock on Monday… We are going to start major activities in most of the areas barring the containment zones, where only doorstep delivery, medical screening and other essential services will be allowed. We have started the economic activities and will expedite the pace of work,” he said.“We have been able to get Rs 3 lakh crore investment in the past three years… We are making efforts to attract more investment. Teams have been formed. Desks for the US, South Korea and Japan have been set up to attract investment. Any company leaving China looks at UP as a potential destination. A German company did so recently,” he said.On the prime minister’s economic package, Yogi Adityanath said his government had been able to draw maximum advantage from the package owing to the state government’s expeditious work. “We are already getting maximum benefits from the PM’s package. The state will be able to get advantage on the basis of the pace of its work. We are satisfied with the benefits we have taken from the PM’s economic package and the Garib Kalyan package. We have derived maximum advantage, taken our existing welfare schemes forward and formulated new ones,” he said.“We are focusing on how to give concessions to the people. The state government has been making all efforts to start most of the industry and trading activities following social distancing norms. We will make efforts to break the chain of the coronavirus while giving a push to economic activities,” the chief minister said.He also said mass gathering would not be allowed under any circumstances while norms for various activities had been laid down. “Religious places will open from June 8. For social activities like marriages, norms have been laid down. We are giving relaxation and making efforts to make the people aware of the measures for protection. Protect yourself and help others protect themselves is the mantra to live with Covid-19,” the chief minister said.On the Opposition’s charge of the fudging of data, he said, “We have been able to provide 1.1 lakh beds in Covid hospitals in the state. This is the highest number in any state… We will take the testing capacity to 20,000 (samples) per day by June 30 against existing capacity of 10,000 tests per day. We have carried out 2.72 lakh tests up to now. I wish no leader of opposition parties needs to go to a Covid hospital to realise the facilities being provided there.”“But the opposition is indulging in negative politics and leaders who have not distributed even a food packet are making adverse comments on Twitter…. We have been provided fudged information about buses. We can’t play with the lives of people. We cannot accept this,” said Yogi Adityanath, without naming any party.Commenting on the move not to impose new taxes, Yashvir Tyagi, former professor of economics at Lucknow University, said, “I endorse the Yogi government’s decision not to impose any new taxes. Any new taxes will only bring down the purchasing power of the people. As the demand is low now, the government needs to give a boost to the economy. But the state government has to go a long way as its receipts are still lower than the expenditure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/revenue-up-no-proposal-to-levy-new-taxes-yogi/story-FYWiasii6guuefncspbELO.html
01-06-2020||City||Two days after fire at apartment, report shows no fire equipment installed in Banur’s Housefed society||A major tragedy was averted at a Housefed society in Banur after a fire broke out in a flat there on Friday late evening, but the authorities concerned have not learnt any lessons.It has been five years but no fire safety equipment has been made available in six of the Baba Zoravar Singh Cooperative House Building Society’s 40 towers. The apartments have not even procured a no-objection certificate (NOC) from Dera Bassi’s fire department since 2015.As per a report, on Friday late evening a fire broke out in block number 16 due to leakage in an LPG cylinder and the furniture was gutted. Luckily the family members escaped unhurt.Kuldeep Singh Walia, an apartment allottee said, despite lodging several complaints with deputy commissioner, sub-divisional magistrate, cabinet minister and financial corporation commissioner of Punjab, no action has been taken against Housefed, which itself is a government undertaking.The 912-apartment project, of which 812 have been allotted, was completed in 2014. But when the fire department conducted an inspection, they found no fire safety arrangements in six towers numbered 35 to 40. Moreover, the inspection report said towers number 1 to 34 had no fire safety accessories, including branch pipes, hosepipes and landing valves.The allottees of the three-bedroom, two-bedroom and one-bedroom flats are paying ₹750, ₹650 and ₹400 per month as maintenance charges, respectively.Kaur Singh, president, Baba Zoravar Singh Cooperative House Building Society Limited, said, “We have applied for NOC from the fire department, but due to the nationwide lockdown, it has been delayed.”“We have already issued them notices to install the fire equipment, but they have not done it so far. We can only issue them NOCs after they complete their installation of fire safety equipment in several towers. In case of any mishap, the society will be held responsible,” said Pardeep Kumar, fire officer, Dera Bassi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-days-after-fire-breaks-out-in-apartment-report-shows-no-fire-equipment-installed-in-6-towers-of-housefed-society-in-punjab-s-banur/story-UfpVYzZ6xB55797dVAoBoL.html
01-06-2020||Mumbai||Bengaluru-based firm produces two key enzymes for Covid-19 testing||As India has ramped up its Covid-19 testing capacities along with a push for domestic production of test kits, Bengaluru-based biotech company Richcore Lifesciences with help from scientists at the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, and Indian Institute of Science Education and Research at Pune and Chandigarh have produced two key enzymes which are the main components of the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) diagnostic kits.With the ongoing pandemic, availability of the two enzymes —Taq Polymerase and Reverse Transcriptase — has been an impediment towards the mass production of indigenous RT-PCR test kits both in India and across the globe. At present, these enzymes are imported and therefore very expensive. The ongoing lockdown has also proved to be an obstacle in their procurement.To detect the presence of the Sars-Cov2 virus that causes Covid-19, nasal and throat swab samples of symptomatic individuals are tested with RT-PCR method — considered the gold standard for Covid-19 diagnosis — and a positive or negative report is available within two hours or two days.“These two enzymes are very critical to the RT-PCR diagnostic kits because it allows conversion of the virus RNA to DNA. DNA is then amplified to make cDNA (copies of DNA) which confirms whether or not an individual is tested positive Covid-19,” said R Subramani, chairman and managing director, Richcore Lifesciences, which is part of the National Biomedical Resources Indigenisation Consortium (NBRIC) constituted by the department of biotechnology on May 5.“While the enzyme can be produced by small laboratories, but do so with standardised quality and USFDA approved cGMP certification is important. These enzymes form a key bottleneck in India’s efforts to mass-produce indigenous test kits,” said Subramani.Currently, samples of the enzymes are being supplied to diagnostic test kit manufacturers to confirm stability and consistency. “Once approved, we will able to mass-produce cGMP certified enzymes for millions of test kits in a few weeks,” said Subramani. Traditionally, reagents such as enzymes are the building block for any diagnostic kit. “We have always been dependent on importing reagents owing to lack of quality and scalability in India. Even if procurement took time, the situation didn’t call for panic,” said Taslimarif Saiyed, chief executive officer and director, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Platforms, Bengaluru. “But with the current situation, we are slowly and steadily realising that we need the reagents not only now but that going forward we also cannot rely on importing them,” said Saiyed.In addition to the high cost and increase in global demand for reagents, imports have also been hampered owing to the ongoing lockdown. “Therefore, even if start-ups or homegrown companies develop protocols for indigenous diagnostic kits, they need reagents to manufacture them. Domestically producing important enzymes as well as test kits can make us self-reliant in the future,” said Saiyed, who is also a convener of NBRIC governing council. NBRIC is a public-private partnership to boost indigenous innovations focused on developing reagents, diagnostics, vaccines and therapeutics for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bengaluru-based-firm-produces-two-key-enzymes-for-covid-19-testing/story-lrSWnaHuBY909I6vArH7lJ.html
01-06-2020||Mumbai||Final year exams cancelled, announces Maharashtra CM Uddhav||Calming nerves of lakhs of students in the state, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday clarified that universities in Maharashtra will not be holding any exams for those who are currently in the final year and will promote them based on their past performance.In his address to the state late on Sunday evening, Thackeray announced that with lockdown extended till June 30, the state will have no choice but to promote final-year students based on their performance of the previous semester and academic year. Details of this decision, however, are yet to be clarified by the state education department as well as universities.“Final-year results will be announced on the basis of aggregate marks scored by the student in the past semesters. Those students who feel they can perform better can do so by appearing for the exams that will be held in winter exam session [October-November 2020],” said Thackeray, in his speech on Sunday. This decision comes barely a day after Thackeray held a meeting with the state governor and chancellor of all state universities Bhagat Singh Koshyari, education minister and vice-chancellors of all state universities with the hope to find a solution to the problem of pending final-year examination. State minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant, in a separate online post, clarified that the state’s decision is clear and the same will be explained in detail to universities as well as students soon.In the first week of May, Samant held a Facebook live in order to announce the states decision to promote all first and second-year university students based on their current and previous semester performance whereas while final-year students will appear for exams in the month of July. He, however, had also clarified that in case the lockdown is extended till the end of June, the state government would have to rethink their plan to conduct exams for over eight lakh final-year students in Maharashtra.After Thackeray’s announcement, state cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray took to Twitter to laud the CM’s decision. “This decision brings huge relief to all students. I also thank the state education minister and VCs of all state universities for their participation in the decision to keep the balance between safeguarding life and academic excellence,” read his tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/final-year-exams-cancelled-says-cm-uddhav/story-jqMpOg2HUXrbQaiFyeDAEM.html
01-06-2020||City||Migrants from West Bengal assemble in Bhyander in hope of returning to hometown||Since the past few days, scores of migrants from West Bengal who are staying in Mira Road and Bhayander, have been assembling at the Jesal Park ground in Bhayander in the hope of getting a seat on a Shramik Special train to Kolkatta. So far, the migrants have been unlucky to get a train to West Bengal, unlike migrants from the other states. Earlier, the Jesal Park ground, famously knows as Chowpatty, was the assembling point for passengers to board buses to reach Bhayander railway station to board trains to various destinations. Taking this into consideration, migrants from West Bengal have been assembling there in anticipation, said Dhiraj Parab, a social activist.Parab is among activists and volunteers who, with the help of administration, are alerting migrants not to assemble at the ground until informed through individual SMS alerts.A Majority of the WB bound migrants are jobless due to the nationwide lockdown since 23 March and are desperate to go back home,said Parab. As Mira-Bhayander is in a containment zone, we have no option but to return home to our native place where at least we can die in front of our relatives rather than meeting a solitary death and then the civic department taking away our bodies and cremating at some desolate place, said Kajal Dutta, a goldsmith expert in polishing gold.“Applications continue to pour in daily and so far 1,653 people have approached me [over getting on a train to West Bengal] and it may increase to 3,000,” said Rathin Datha a social worker.“Thane district collector should line up special trains immediately,” said Datha. Last week, a bus driver in Mira Road had duped nearly 60 migrants of Rs 2 lakh by offering them a ride to their hometown in Kolkata. Thane collectorate office has said no migrant should reach the assembly point unless there is a confirmation from the railways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrants-from-west-bengal-assemble-in-bhyander-in-hope-of-returning-to-hometown/story-TE7uThAJFkSI7goj7RUlQM.html
01-06-2020||City||Kerala medical team to help Maharashtra battle Covid-19||A 100-member medical team from Kerala comprising doctors and critical care nurses is set to come to Mumbai to assist the Maharashtra government in its fight against the pandemic. Last week, the state had sought help from Kerala. Kerala was the first state to report Covid-19 case in the country in January, but has since managed it well with high recovery and lowest mortality rates.“An advance team has already reached SevenHills Hospital in Mumbai. Doctors without borders,” tweeted Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac. Kerala health minister KK Shailaja said a team led by deputy superintendent of Thiruvananthapuram medical college hospital Dr SS Santhosh Kumar has reached Mumbai and others would join him in a couple of days.Last month, a team led by Kumar was rushed to north Kerala’s Kasaragod which saw a rise in cases. The team helped set up a Covid hospital, and later cases came down drastically. Kerala had also dispatched 800 medical professionals to the UAE and Saudi Arabia two weeks ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kerala-medical-team-to-help-maharashtra-battle-covid-19/story-ZGYoDhCBi8Ib1PVL7ofOsL.html
01-06-2020||Mumbai||‘Mission Begin Again’ to unlock Maha in phases||The Maharashtra government on Sunday extended its coronavirus-enforced lockdown to June 30 even as it extended more relaxations, such as allowing outdoor activities like jogging, running and cycling from June 3 and private offices to operate from June 8 in red zones (excluding containment zones).Announcing the lifting of curbs that will be rolled out in three phases, the state issued a notification — Mission Begin Again — which aims to bring the state on track to routine life amid the Covid-19 outbreak. This comes a day after the Centre announced guidelines on lockdown 5.0, billed as ‘Unlock 1’, allowing for significant relaxations.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in his Facebook live address on Sunday night, said the lifting of curbs was being done very cautiously as the state was at a turning point. “We have either reached the peak of the curve or are about to reach. There will be a downward trend starting in the next eight-15 days. We are easing it out in a phased manner, so that we will not have to withdraw relaxations like how a few countries were forced to do so. In some countries, the lockdown curbs were reimposed because of the surge, while in some others, schools had to be shut down after they were opened,” he said.Thackeray also announced that newspapers will be allowed to be delivered at doorsteps from June 7. He said dealers have been directed to ensure that adequate measures are taken for the safety of delivery boys. Even as the state rolled out its ‘Mission Begin Again’, it reported 2,487 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total to 67,655. The toll rose to 2,286 cases with 89 more deaths. The state continued to improve its recovery rate, taking it to 45% as 29,329 patients recovered from the infection till Sunday. The doubling rate in Maharashtra reached 17.5%, as against the national rate of 15.7 days, while the mortality rate dropped to 3.37%. In Mumbai, 1,244 new cases and 52 deaths were reported, taking the tally to 39,686 and toll to 1,279. According to the state’s latest notification, physical activities, including walking, running, exercising, cycling, can begin from June 3 in sports complexes, stadia, playgrounds, beaches and open spaces. Shops, market places can be open (on odd-even basis) from June 5 and private offices (up to 10 per cent of staff) can start operating from June 8. These relaxations are applicable for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) [the areas governed by nine municipal corporations], Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad, Malegaon, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola, Amravati and Nagpur — the 19 corporations, which have been earmarked as red zones. All the containment zones within the red zones remain excluded from the relaxations. The non-red zone areas, which include the remaining eight municipal corporations and rest of Maharashra, mostly covering the rural areas, have already been given greater relaxations. The state has not given permission to hotels and religious places to open even though they have been allowed by the Centre.Private offices in all the red zones can now operate at 10% of their strength, with the remaining staff working from home. “The offices will have to take care of transportation facilities for its employees as public transport has not been allowed in red zones,” said a government official. Government offices have been allowed to operate at 15% of their strength, up from the current permission of 5%. “We are billing it as Mission Begin Again, as it a beginning of the lifting of curbs in a phased manner. Although we have extended the lockdown till June 30, there will be graded relaxations coming in the next four weeks. Industrial and commercial activities will see greater relaxations on the need-base criterion. Few more civic corporations may see exclusion from the red zones,” said an official from the state government. All markets, market areas and shops, except malls and market complexes, have now been allowed to open on a P1-P2 basis between 9am and 5pm. Shops on one lane will be allowed to open on odd dates, while another lane will be opened on even dates. The notification, however, warned that the violation of social-distancing norms by such shops, markets will result in their closure immediately. In a veiled attack on Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders in the state, Thackeray said that Maharashtra has done a fair job in the battle against Covid-19, but “some of our own people” are targeting the government. “People who have been criticising us and demanding for the military to be called (for the implementation of lockdown norms), should first look at the figures. Our recovery rate and the infrastructure, which has been set up in the last few weeks, is better than many other states and even countries. We are ready with the health infrastructure to face the challenge and have successfully fought it so far. More than 29,000 patients have recovered and the mortality rate has dropped to 3.37%, which will drop further in the near future,” he said.Thackeray said that the state has augmented the bed capacity to 25,000 for treating infection in 2,576 hospitals, while the isolation bed capacity has been ramped up to 2.5 lakh beds. The order also clarified that cycling, jogging, running at playgrounds, beaches, society premises and open spaces is now allowed by maintaining social distancing. It has also allowed self-employed commercial activities like plumber and electricians in red zones. The notification is silent on allowing maids or househelps in housing societies, with senior officials saying that has been left to housing societies and it is not prohibited.Domestic helps are allowed to be employed in red zones, if housing societies decide it. However, they are not allowed to work in containment zones and similarly, they should not be coming from containment zones, said government officials. The state government also issued a separate notification allowing shooting of films, television shows and series on OTT platforms by maintainingnorms of the lockdown. The notification has also warned that permission will be withdrawn if lockdown norms were not followed. The producers will have to apply with Films, Theatre and Cultural Development Corporation in Mumbai and collectors in other districts. Trains, metro, inter-state and inter-district transport, educational institutions, malls, multiplexes, place of worship, political-religious-social gatherings, barbar shops, spas, saloons remain banned across the state, be it in red or non-red zones. Forty-seven of the patients who died on Sunday were above 60 years of age, while 35 were in the age group of 40 to 59 years and the remaining seven were below the age of 40 years. 56 of them had high-risk comorbidities, including diabetes, hypertension and heart ailments.The testing rate in the state is 3,585 per million, against the national average of 2,722 tests a million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mission-begin-again-to-unlock-maha-in-phases/story-s1sw8IqDPNgbx7Co8sgEIP.html
01-06-2020||Mumbai||BMC gears up for more sero-surveillance in city||In a bid to ascertain the spread of the coronavirus in Mumbai, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has decided to widen the scope of sero-surveillance in the city.Sero-surveillance is done through a blood test to get an estimate of anti-body levels against vaccine preventable diseases. The surveillance can give an idea of the spread of Covid-19 in general population and immunity against it and help authorities strengthen contact-tracing and containment strategies. The survey is done by collection of blood samples from individuals in randomly selected households. The presence of antibodies in the blood is a sign of exposure to the virus. It is done after taking patients’ consent and their detailed history.BMC officials said the first round of collecting 500 samples from areas such as Dharavi, Kurla, Kandivli, Govandi etc has been completed and its test results are now awaited.“Sero-surveillance of 500 samples from areas such as Dharavi, Kurla, Kandivli and Govandi has been completed. However, the reports from the ICMR are awaited. The ICMR has informed us that more samples will be collected after the results of these 500 are out,” said Daksha Shah, deputy executive officer of BMC. According to BMC officials, the modalities of sample size, collection locations are yet to be workedout, but deliberation is going on to select samples of high-risk and low-risk contacts from all 24 wards in the city. “We are yet to work out the modalities of what could be the sample size and which areas will be included. Nothing is finalised yet. There will be a scientific method for deciding these parameters,” Shah said.Meanwhile, the case count in city touched 39,686 on Sunday. Of the total 38,442 cases reported, as of Saturday, 30,630 cases were reported in May. The number is slightly lower than the projection of 45,000 by May 31. The total number of deaths in the city stands at 1279. “We had projected around 45,000 cases earlier considering we contain the spread, the revised estimate was of around 40,000 cases by May 31,’’ said Shah. On Sunday, 38 new cases were reported in Dharavi taking the total to 1,771. Dharavi falls in G North ward which has the highest number of positive cases in the city. As of Sunday, G North ward reported 2,900 cases.The BMC’s discharge rate is 46% against national average of 42.8 %, followed by death rate at 3.2% whereas the national average is 3 %. The doubling rate of positive cases in Mumbai is 16 days, as of Saturday.The BMC is yet to decide on the manner in which the new relaxations will be implemented in the city. A BMC official said, “On Monday, there is a meeting with the municipal commissioner to decide the operating guidelines on opening up the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-gears-up-for-more-sero-surveillance-in-city/story-p0pPZymGmNrSuxzo3zu0jL.html
01-06-2020||Mumbai||Scientists use AI to find drug to fight Covid||As the world races to find a cure for Covid-19, a Mumbai-based data scientist along with his team have with the help of artificial intelligence (AI) found three molecular compounds, which they claim can be synthesised and tested further to find a novel drug to fight the Covid-19 pandemic .Vikram Jha, 31, founder and chief executive officer of Pucho Technology Information Limited, along with his team has developed virtual drug molecules that can act as a potential drug for Covid-19. The team, comprising deep learning engineers Madhusudan Verma and Deepanshu Bansal, has generated three molecular structures that may help inhibit the virus’s growth. “In fact, one of the generated drugs is functionally similar to the three medicines that are approved by the US FDA (Food and Drugs Administration) as emergency drugs — Remdesivir, Umifenovir and Elbasvir,” said Jha. In a bid to come up with possible drugs to fight Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, the scientists first trained the AI model to learn the grammar of the subject language—in this case, medicinal chemistry — which led the AI to suggest possible solutions to neutralise different viruses. Following this, the super computers generated around 200 chemical structures. Of these, three were found to have drug likeness properties which can help in inhibiting the growth of Sars-CoV-2.However, considering the virus keeps mutating, it is important to find target protein that doesn’t alter much after mutation to neutralise the virus. During their research, the team found out about a critical enzyme of the virus called 3CLpro which helps for the growth of virus. If this enzyme gets inhibited, it can help to stop the growth of the virus. They used a process called docking to predict the inhibition. This is being done with the help of supercomputers to fasten the process by almost 1,000 times as the process depends on the computing power of the respective supercomputers. “We started working on it in around mid-March and it took us almost 45 days to find the lead molecules. If one had not done this by computer-aided design, it would have taken more than three years, further delaying the process,” said Jha. Now, the team is working to convert the virtual drug molecules into drugs by using active pharmaceutical ingredients as feedstock. “Then, we will run the test on cellular level as in vitro. With its success, we will go the next level— in vivo assays,” said Verma.Once the drug passes the tests and clinical trials, it can be submitted for emergency user authorisation approval to drug regulatory authorities. Verma and Bansal made the pre-print of the paper, which is not peer-reviewed yet, available online on ChemRxiv. They are in talks with two research and development labs for synthesising and testing these compounds to find the perfect drug.AI may hold the key to Covid-19AI in the healthcare industry is expected to become a whopping $36.1 billion market by the end of 2025. According to engineers across the country, AI may hold the key to solve the Covid-19 pandemic. Many pharma and IT companies – including TCS – have been involved in creating such molecules through AI. “The use of AI has considerably shortened the initial drug design process from several months to only a few days,” said Dr Gopalakrishnan Bulusu, principal scientist involved in producing 31 molecules for Covid drugs through AI. Kavi Arya, a professor at Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay’s computer science and engineering unit, said, “In Covid pandemic, AI may become critical in finding prospective drug molecules. Many AI-based apps are already helping in identifying and maintaining data of Covid patients.” He, however, refused to comment on TCS and Pucho’s molecular projects without the data in hand. In India, the government has already launched an AI-enabled smartphone application called Aarogya Setu which helps users check if they have crossed paths with patients who have tested positive for Covid-19.“The virus is spreading fast and we don’t have much time. Through the usage of AI and machine learning (ML) we can boost the process by identifying drugs having efficacy against Covid-19 faster,” said Jha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/scientists-use-ai-to-find-drug-to-fight-covid/story-lkIuHE142nalEs2s6EK0dM.html
01-06-2020||Mumbai||Thane municipal employee dies of Covid-19, Rs 1 crore for kin, probe sought||A labour union has demanded Rs 1 crore in compensation for the kin of a Thane municipal employee deployed at a quarantine centre who died of Covid-19 on retirement day on Saturday.The man, deployed to provide food and water at Bhayander Pada quarantine centre, had tested positive on May 18, and was under treatment, and died at around 1:30 pm on Saturday, hours before he would have superannuated at the end of his shift under normal circumstances.In a letter to Thane Municipal Commissioner Vijay Singhal, chief of Municipal Labour Union Ravi Rao questioned why a man above the age of 55 years was given frontline duty.“At the age of 58, when he should have been spending time with his family after retirement, unfortunately, he has died of Covid-19. His family must get Rs 1 crore compensation and a legal heir should get a job. The TMC must probe the circumstances that led his death,” Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-municipal-employee-dies-of-covid-19-rs-1-crore-for-kin-probe-sought/story-bkfPoEHlNOoCJEB9DTVjWP.html
01-06-2020||Delhi||Two more Delhi Police officers succumb to Covid-19||Two Delhi Police officers posted in central and outer districts died of Covid-19 between Saturday and Sunday morning, taking the total number of deaths in the police force to three since May 5, when the first death of a constable was reported.Senior police officers said the two, both assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs), died while being treated for the virus at the Army Base Hospital in Delhi Cantonment. More than 500 police personnel in Delhi, including two Indian Police Service (IPS) officers, have tested positive for Covid-19 so far.The Capital has so far registered 19,844 cases of Covid-19, and 473 deaths. As many as 1,295 people tested positive for the disease on Sunday alone, the largest single-day spike in the city yet.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said 54-year-old Shesh Mani Pandey, posted as a fingerprints expert in the central district’s mobile crime scene inspection team, died on Saturday evening.Bhatia said Pandey, a former Army jawan who joined the Delhi Police in 2014, was tested for the virus at Lady Hardinge hospital on May 26 after he complained of fever and cough.“On May 28, the report confirmed he had been infected with the virus. Pandey was admitted to the Army Base hospital the same day. He died while being treated, on Saturday evening,” Bhatia said.Four police personnel from the mobile crime team and two of his family members have been tested and quarantined, Bhatia said.Officers said the mobile crime team’s central Delhi office has been disinfected and sanitised.“We are trying to ascertain who Pandey contracted the virus from. The visits of the crime scene investigation team over the past few days are being examined,” said a senior police officer associated with the contact tracing procedure.Pandey is survived by his wife and two sons. The family hailed from Rewa in Madhya Pradesh, and were living in west Delhi’s Naraina.In Sunday’s death, Vikram, posted at the Sultanpuri police station in outer district died of Covid-19 at the hospital, where he was admitted on May 26. He was on highway patrol duty in the police station’s jurisdiction since May 1, a statement released by the Delhi Police said.According to the statement, Vikram had tested negative in two earlier Covid-19 tests, conducted on May 11 and May 22. On May 25, he felt unwell and a doctor at Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital advised him a week’s rest.“On May 26 morning, Vikram started facing difficulty in breathing at his Kirari Suleman Nagar home. He got himself admitted to the hospital and the same evening he was shifted to Army Base Hospital. In the third Covid-19 test, his report came positive. Around 11.30 am on Sunday, he died during treatment,” the police statement read.Police officers said they have started tracing Vikram’s contacts.Delhi Police chief SN Shrivastava on Sunday afternoon tweeted his condolences. “Delhi Police family mourns the loss of 2 brave police officers in our fight against Corona pandemic despite best efforts to save them. We pay homage to ASIs Vikram and Shesh Mani Pandey and may their souls rest in peace. We are committed to providing all help to their families,” he tweeted.On May 5, a 31-year-old constable posted at Bharat Nagar police station in northwest Delhi had died of Covid-19. Later, his wife and son were also tested positive.Meanwhile, five more police personnel of the Moti Nagar police station tested positive on Sunday, taking the number of Covid-19 cases in the police station to 16. Earlier, the station house officer and his operator were also tested positive. “We have planned to carry out a disinfection drive at the police station for a few days, starting Monday,” said Deepak Purohit, deputy commissioner of police (west).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-more-delhi-police-officers-succumb-to-covid-19/story-t0IN80wUAOJTKSUggqsolJ.html
01-06-2020||Delhi||10k Covid-19 beds to see Delhi through for 30 days: Govt||The government has earmarked 10,000 beds for patients with serious symptoms, projecting that these will see Delhi through for at least the next 30 days, given that Covid-19 cases are increasing at the rate of 5.9% a day in the Capital.For the next phase, when Delhi is closer to its peak of Covid-19 cases as predicted by the government, between July-end and mid-August, the administration will take over banquet halls, community centres, stadiums and more hotels - all of which will be in addition to the 10,000 beds, senior health department officials said on Sunday.Additionally, with cases emerging in slums and unauthorised colonies, the Delhi government is now going to increase the number of beds at Covid Care Centres to 10,000, from around 6,000 currently. This is to ensure that asymptomatic patients, or those with mild symptoms who cannot isolate themselves at home, are able to use government facilities for free, a senior official said.On Sunday, Delhi recorded its highest ever single-day spike, with 1,295 new cases, taking the total cases of infections in the city to 19,844. Of these, 10,893 are active infections.Covid-19 cases in Delhi are doubling every 12.8 days, compared to the national average of 16.8 days. At the same time, Delhi had one of the highest testing rates with 10,881 tests per million population, as against the national average of 2,675 tests per million.Government reports showed that as on Sunday, 1,870 of 4,456 beds — across government and private hospitals — were vacant.When asked whether Delhi’s health infrastructure is prepared to take the load, chief secretary Vijay Dev said: “In the last few days, we have arranged for at least 5,390 new beds in hotels, and government and private hospitals — most of which will be ready by Tuesday. The total Covid beds for serious patients will then be 10,000, which will set us off for at least the next 30 days, even if daily cases increase a bit. This will also give us time to plan for the next one month and beyond.”For the next phase (in July), when Covid-19 cases in Delhi are close to reaching their projected peak, the government is identifying banquet halls, community centres, stadiums and more hotels to be converted into extended hospitals, and Covid Health or Care centres. “In a day or two, we will issue an order for a banquet hall to be converted into an extended Covid hospital. This will be a trial, of sorts, for the coming days,” the health department official said.Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal reviewed the city administration’s bed augmentation plan on Sunday, during which he was informed that the government’s Burari hospital will be ready with 450 Covid-19 beds by June 15.Similarly, the number of beds equipped with oxygen facilities will be increased from the current 3,233 to 5,513 by June 15. By June 2, there will be 90 additional ICU beds taking the total to 521 and the number of ventilators will be increased to 433 from 343, government reports accessed by HT revealed.Besides, the Centre on Sunday told the Delhi government that hospitals under the railways have earmarked 100 beds for the state and that the Army Base hospital has kept 70 beds aside.Three dedicated Covid-19 hospitals - GTB hospital (1,500 beds), Satyavadi Raja Harish Chandra hospital in Narela (200 beds) and Deep Chand Bandhu hospital in Ashok Vihar (200 beds) - will be ready by June 2. Another 1,170 beds are being readied in five hotels in Delhi, which government officials said was the first-ever initiative in India where hotels are being turned into “extended Covid hospitals”.A senior government official said that around 1,700 beds — against the target of 2,000 — have been confirmed by a majority of the 117 private hospitals that were asked to reserve 20% of their total beds for Covid-19 patients. With this, the government had 9,846 beds in place, as of Sunday. The remaining 154 beds will be covered once more private hospitals from the private hospital pool send their confirmations, the official added.Additional chief secretary (home), Satya Gopal, who is also the Delhi government’s nodal officer for Covid-19 management, said: “Of the total Covid-19 cases in Delhi, 55% are asymptomatic, who as per Centre’s guidelines should be under home quarantine. So, if we take 45% (around 4,900 cases) of the 10,893 active cases in Delhi, only 2,586 have required hospitalisation as they are serious cases. Patients with mild and moderate symptoms are kept in Covid Health Centre, Covid Care Centres and some are even in home quarantine,” he said. Government reports showed that as on Sunday, only 624 beds — of a total of at least 6,000— were occupied in Care Centres. Similarly, 158 patients were admitted in Health Centres, which have a capacity of 400 beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10k-covid-beds-to-see-delhi-through-for-30-days-govt/story-9631ax97SDkle1bpXtagLK.html
01-06-2020||Mumbai||Despite Bombay HC’s order, licence for mining in Maharashtra’s green zone renewed: RTI||The Kolhapur regional office of the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has renewed an iron ore mining licence at Kalne village in the contentious Dodamarg-Sawantwadi belt, a Right to Information (RTI) Act response received by environmental group Vanashakti has revealed.The Bombay high court (HC) in 2013, based on 2011 petition by Awaaz Foundation, had directed the Union environment ministry and state government to ensure that the corridor is protected as an ecologically-sensitive area (ESA), where mining and red-category industries are prohibited and need to be phased out. The HC had reiterated its order in 2018, based on Vanashakti’s petition in 2016, declaring the entire belt as a ‘no tree-felling zone’. Based on the HC order, the forest department had recently approved a study worth ₹83 lakh, directing the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, to assess the exact boundaries of the ESA and analyse the presence of tiger and elephant movements.According to the RTI response, MPCB has issued the consent to renew operations to handle 7.5 lakh metric tonnes of iron ore for a year till March 31, 2021, across the 32.25-hectare (ha) area at Kalne, falling in Dodamarg taluka of Sindhudurg district.The area forms a part of the corridor that connects the Radhanagari Wildlife Sanctuary in Kolhapur to Bhimgad Wildlife Sanctuary in Karnataka.Based on the RTI response, Vanashakti collated satellite images, accessed photographs of the site and filed a complaint on Saturday with various state bodies, including the environment department, urging them to revoke the permissions given, as it risks the safety of the corridor, which is home to a large biodiversity.“The entire 32.2-ha green cover has been destroyed due to mining operations. The change in topography shows the extent of destruction to this crucial wildlife corridor caused by the mining body, with the blessing of MPCB. Satellite imagery shows tree felling at the Kalne mine area, even as MPCB’s renewal for mining operations is in defiance of the prohibitory order imposed by the HC,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti.MPCB said the mining body had begun operations in 2009 after acquiring environment clearance, following which the first license to operate was issued.“This was an existing mine before the petition in the HC. Renewal consent was approved by the previous regional officer as there is no stay on existing industries. However, following the moratorium issued for Dodamarg taluka based on the HC directive, no new red-category units or project expansions have been approved by us,” said Ravindra Andhale, regional officer (Kolhapur), MPCBA senior officer from the state forest department said, “Prohibited activities at any area proposed as an ESA includes complete ban on mining, quarrying and sand mining. The phasing out of existing mines within five years of ESA proposal, and all other red category industries including thermal power plants are to be banned.”Though the entire Dodamarg taluka was left out of the Western Ghats draft ESA, forest minister Sanjay Rathod said the state was examining the details of the HC order and the matter was yet to be considered by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.Biodiversity at stakeAs per petitions submitted before the HC, the corridor is home to tigers, leopards, elephants, sloth bears, civets, pangolins, several resident and migratory bird species, and the Indian giant squirrel, which is Maharashtra’s state animal. The forest department confirmed that over the past five years, transient movement of around 25 tigers has been observed at the corridor, while an elephant family of five reside there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/despite-hc-s-order-licence-for-mining-in-green-zone-renewed-rti/story-22UBSKqEQyAwZKwhoFpZRM.html
01-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt seeks immediate financial aid of Rs 5,000 crore from Centre to pay salaries||The Delhi government has sought immediate assistance of Rs 5,000 crore from the Centre to pay salaries to its employees because revenues dried up during the lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Sunday.Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, said he has written to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for help and added that the Delhi government has not received money sanctioned to states under the Disaster Relief Fund. According to Sisodia, Delhi’s tax revenue has declined by 78% since the national lockdown came into force on March 25. “At this juncture, paying salaries to government employees is our biggest concern. They include doctors, healthcare workers, teachers, etc, who have been leading the fight against the virus. We immediately need Rs. 5,000 crore to pay their salary,” Sisodia said in a video press briefing.He added “Recently, the Union finance ministry announced a relief package (of Rs 20 lakh crore) but there is nothing in it for Delhi... Other states have received financial assistance from the Disaster Relief Fund, but the Delhi government has not received any such aid yet... So, I have written to the Union finance minister to grant a one-time relief package of Rs 5,000 crore for Delhi.”The letter, Sisodia’s office said, was sent to the Union minister’s office on May 26.“Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, there is a valid need for immediate help from the Centre. The one-time grant of Rs 5,000 crore will, thereby, help Delhi tide over the immediate crisis. This will also facilitate the Delhi government in releasing the grants to the (three) municipal corporations in the city which largely depend on the city government to pay salary,” said Sisodia.The Delhi government’s expenditure towards salaries of its employees alone is around Rs 3,500 crore per month, said a senior official in Delhi government’s finance department, requesting anonymity. The official said that for now, the government was primarily spending on two things – salaries and Covid-19 related expenses ranging from healthcare-related spending to arranging food and shelter for the poor.All government projects that demand capital expenditure have been halted, the official said.“The Centre should be granting funds to states, especially those with high Covid caseloads,” Jayati Ghosh, a professor of economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University, said. “Most states have been seeking funds since the lockdown was imposed. Most states have recorded around 90% drop in revenue and they are in a helpless state. The need immediate funds to pay salaries, especially those who are leading the fight against Covid – from doctors and nurses to teachers and anganwadi workers.” In the previous financial year, the Delhi government earned around Rs 7,799 crore of revenue in the months of April and May, another senior government official said on condition of anonymity. In the same months this financial year, the Delhi government has only collected Rs 1,735 crore, which includes Rs 500 crore in Goods and Services Tax (GST).In April, the government received revenue of around Rs 420 crore. May was relatively better in terms of revenue – the collection was recorded at around 1,315 crore – after the city witnessed a phased revival of business and commerce from May 4, and after further lockdown relaxations on May 17.In May, the major sources of revenue for the government was a “special corona fee” levied at 70% on the maximum retail price (MRP) of alcohol, other than the usual excise element, and revision of value added tax (VAT) to 30% on both petrol and diesel from the earlier rates of 27% and 16.75% respectively, said the official. “The government has earned more than Rs 250 crore through special corona fee alone,” the official said.The Union finance ministry spokesperson did not respond to an email query specific to Delhi and about the city government’s request for the financial aid.A finance ministry official, who requested anonymity, said, “The Union government is continuously providing revenues due to the states despite a sharp decline in revenues. Devolution of taxes are happening as per the budget estimate (BE) even though actual revenue shows unprecedented decline from the BE. Last week, the Centre issued sanction orders worth Rs 46,038.70 crore for the May instalment of devolution of states’ share in central taxes and duties.”“Besides, the union government has provided more fiscal space to them as per their demand. On May 17, the Union government acceded to the request of states and increased their borrowing limits from 3% to 5%,{of state gross domestic product} for 2020-21 only in the light of the unprecedented situation due to Covid-19, which will give them extra resources of Rs 4.28 lakh crore. States should also mobilise these resources,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-seeks-immediate-financial-aid-of-rs5-000-crore-from-centre-to-pay-salaries/story-r7klW67Qf34VkzeTWjfcnI.html
01-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclonic storm Nisarga to develop in Arabian Sea, IMD issues heavy rain alert||In view of a developing cyclonic storm over Arabian Sea, heavy to very heavy rain with gusty winds have been predicted for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) between Wednesday and Thursday. While the weather bureau’s national bulletin on Sunday issued a ‘red alert’ for the entire Konkan coast for June 3 and 4, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) Mumbai on Sunday issued orange alert (be prepared for heavy to very heavy rain) for Mumbai and Thane, and a red alert (take action as there will be extremely heavy rain) for Palghar district for June 3 and 4. Rain and thundershowers (no alert) have been predicted for all three districts for Monday and Tuesday, according to IMD Mumbai’s district rainfall forecast.Several areas in south Konkan (Raigad, Ratnagiri, and Sindhudurg) reported thundershowers on Sunday, while rain forecast has also been issued for central Maharashtra and Marathwada.IMD issued a bulletin - pre-cyclone watch for south Gujarat and north Maharashtra coast - on Sunday that said a low-pressure area (weather system) over southeast and adjoining eastcentral Arabian Sea is very likely to concentrate into a weather depression by Monday.“The system is likely to intensify further by Tuesday into a cyclonic storm and recurve northeastwards and reach closer to north Maharashtra, including Mumbai and surrounding areas, as well as south Gujarat coast, by Wednesday (June 3) morning,” said Sunita Devi, in-charge of cyclones at IMD.Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD, said, “Isolated areas across Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad can expect very heavy rain with extremely heavy rain in some areas during this period, along with high speed winds ranging from 90-100 km/h gusting to maximum 110 km/h on June 3 and 4.”The landfall of the cyclone is yet to be declared by IMD. “We will give landfall point of the cyclone after the weather system intensifies into a depression. All necessary warnings have already been communicated to the Maharashtra and Gujarat governments,” said Mohapatra.Warnings for the Maharashtra fishing community not to venture into sea have been in place since last Thursday. IMD said sea conditions are likely to be rough to very rough over till Thursday.Meanwhile, the suburbs recorded its highest day temperature of the season so far on Sunday at 35.8 degrees Celsius, 2.2 degrees above normal. It was 35.7 degrees Celsius on Saturday. South Mumbai recorded 35.7 degrees Celsius, 1.8 degrees above normal on Sunday. Moisture levels were high as south Mumbai recorded 84% humidity during the day and 72% during the evening while the suburbs recorded 69% and 54% during the day and evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclonic-storm-nisarga-to-develop-in-arabian-sea-imd-issues-heavy-rain-alert/story-vTB2usHblEInma46Ht4tAM.html
01-06-2020||Delhi||Concerns raised over Delhi University’s online admission process||As Delhi University gears up to move its entire admission process online, several concerns have been raised over the process, including the verification of documents, over-centralisation of processes and the end of student-teacher counselling.Last week, the university shared a tentative schedule of the admission process with the standing committee of the academic council, along with a list of agenda items. The agenda items included “online verification of the documents to approve provisional admission” and “physical verification of the original documents of the applicants once the session commences.”Several teachers and principals have raised questions about the move, stating that it leaves room for fraudulent admissions and makes the entire admission process “impersonal.” The stakeholders point towards the challenges of verifying documents like mark sheets, birth certificates, and caste and income certificates online.Former academic council member Pankaj Garg, who teaches at Rajdhani College and has been on the college’s admission committee, said, “Generally after Class 12, several students are confused about what to do. That can only be resolved through direct interaction and counselling by teachers. The interpersonal interaction among parents, teachers and students will end because of this online process. Till now, students would visit the college for admission, take a look at the various facilities, and even talk to teachers of the admission committee for counselling.”Following the 2018 controversy over former Delhi University Students’ Union president Ankiv Baisoya, who had been charged with producing fake degrees and mark sheets for admission, the varsity had asked colleges to take steps towards a forensic examination of degrees and mark sheets by experts.A principal of a south Delhi DU college, requesting anonymity, said, “One year, the varsity asks us to arrange for forensic experts and check the documents of all students. Just the next year, it calls for provisional admission without even the physical verification of mark sheets. If these weren’t necessary, why the push for forensic examination of the documents last year?”The principal added that checking documents once colleges reopen will lead to a “chaotic” situation. “Under the previous system, we would finish these processes earlier. Now, they will spill over to the academic session. We won’t even know if students cancel their admission and go to other colleges.”Dean (Admissions), DU, Shobha Bagai said it was still too early to comment on this process since all statutory bodies are yet to be consulted. “As far as counselling is concerned, we are mentoring volunteers for the online counselling of prospective applicants. Under the present situation, it won’t be appropriate to ask students to travel from other states and visit different colleges with different cutoffs. Such physical interaction won’t be feasible or safe for students amid this pandemic,” she said.Meanwhile, a group of the varsity’s executive and academic council members has also written to the vice-chancellor regarding the online open book examination mode, pointing out the drawbacks of the system. “The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology says 12,000 village panchayats are yet to be covered by the Common Service Centre,” the members wrote. This was in reference to DU’s proposal of tying up with government CSC’s to ensure students have access to the Internet and devices to appear for their papers. “A village Pradhan in Sonepat district told us that there was no CSC in his village. During a telephonic survey of two panchayats of Madhubani District in Bihar, we found that only one of them has a CSC, but that too functions infrequently with no proper sitting arrangement. In Brahmauli Kunda village of Pratapgarh district of UP, CSC is 8 to 10 KMs away from that village [sic],” the teachers’ group Academics for Action and Development wrote, stating that students could not depend upon CSC infrastructure for exams. Despite calls and messages, DU vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi did not respond to requests for comments on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/concerns-over-online-du-admissions/story-FG79mHbsW9dwRNQQetpviK.html
01-06-2020||Delhi||SDMC sanitation staffer dies of Covid-19||A sanitation employee of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), who was deployed in Badarpur, has died of Covid-19, a SDMC official said on Sunday.Officials said the deceased employee had been suffering from diabetes and kidney ailments and was also tested Covid-19 positive.“The sanitation employee was 53-years-old and diabetic, and was admitted to LNJP hospital for dialysis. He was cremated today (Sunday) at Nigambodh Ghat but hospital authorities said he died two or three days ago. The SDMC will extend all possible help for the family of the deceased sanitation employee,” a SDMC spokesperson said.However, municipality officials were not immediately able to provide further details of the circumstances of the death.This is the second case of death of a sanitation employee due to Covid-19 in SDMC. As of Sunday evening, nine employees of the three municipal corporations in Delhi have died of the contagious disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sdmc-sanitation-staffer-dies-of-covid-19/story-n1Yc8mDPSYQ8bWWUKZq76I.html
01-06-2020||Delhi||Over 9 lakh govt school students in Delhi benefitted from digital learning during lockdown, says Manish Sisodia||The five digital learning interventions — that had been started by the Delhi government over the past two months to help children continue learning even during the lockdown — concluded on Sunday, with deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia saying that more than nine lakh students of Delhi government schools had benefitted from the initiative.The five programmes initiated by the Delhi government included live online classes for students of class 12, English and personality development for Class 10 and 12 students, online mathematics for Class 9 students, digital entrepreneurship mindset classes for students of classes 9 to 12, text and interactive voice response (IVR) enabled activity classes for classes KG to 8 through parents. In addition to these, 15 sessions of happiness classes were also conducted online, which were open to all and were attended by families.On Sunday, Sisodia conducted a review meeting with parents, teachers, and students in the presence of senior education department officials. “I am glad to see that we could minimise academic damage due to loss of learning time, thanks to the exemplary efforts of our teachers, parents and children who embraced this new way of learning,” he said. Director of Education Binay Bhushan said the department plans to track the students on a weekly basis, till they join schools completely.Principal advisor to director education, Shailendra Sharma, said the online classes for Class 12 students were attended by over 1,40,000 students. Launched in partnership with Career Launcher on April 6, the maximum attendance recorded was for English classes with 60,500 students logging in. “Earlier in our regular classes, we did not have the option to go back to topics already covered, but now in online classes, these topics are recorded and can be watched over and over again,” said Diya Jain, a student of a government school in Gandhi Nagar during the review meeting with Sisodia.Around 1,75,000 students of Class 9 accessed the Mathematics lessons, which were assisted by 1,015 teachers oriented by Khan Academy, the government said. The 90-minute class spread over three days a week for a month and covered seven topics on foundational maths for a new batch and 4 topics of practice for the old batch.The government’s flagship entrepreneurship classes also continued during the lockdown and around 45,000 students participated in the digital activities. “Around 25 IVR based activities and 52 inputs to parents were shared with nearly 570,000 students. These activities ranged from building reading, writing and numeracy skills to self-reflection, critical thinking and responding to lockdown situation,” the government said in a statement.During the 30 sessions of the English and personality development classes conducted by the Delhi government in partnership with British Council and MacMillian Education, maximum attendance stood at 83,545.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/over-9-lakh-govt-school-students-continued-their-learning-digitally-during-lockdown-says-manish-sisodia/story-LdpllHFJ0eZ60HJlGV6V7O.html
01-06-2020||Delhi||Man who ran ‘robbery training school’ held after shootout||A 22-year-old man who ran a “robbery training school” from his house in outer Delhi’s Bawana was arrested after an encounter with the police on Sunday. The police said the suspect, Manish, started the “school” in his house in the area’s JJ Colony after being bailed from prison in a snatching case earlier this year.“He has 17 known snatching cases registered against him. After his release from jail in February he decided he would not be directly involved in robberies and would instead make money by training young snatchers and robbers, and from taking a cut on their earnings,” said Gaurav Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (outer-north). So, Manish allegedly scouted for youngsters — minors and adults — who were keen to enter the trade. “He would bring them to his house in Bawana’s JJ Colony and train them to identity targets like pedestrians and cyclists and snatch from them without getting caught. He also trained them on what neighbourhoods to choose and getaway routes strategically,” Sharma said. Sharma said Manish would also train them on how to cover their faces and avoid having any signs on themselves and their motorcycles that could lead to them being identified. “He would also provide them motorcycles to carry out the robberies and take care of their legal needs in case anyone got caught,” the officer said. In return, his apprentices would pay him a share of their earnings. Another investigator not authorised to speak to the media said Manish charged between 20% and 50% as commission on the after-sale value of the robbed items. It remained unclear how many robberies were allegedly carried out by Manish’s trainees, but the police said they were alerted of the presence of Manish’s school by one of his trainees, Kuldeep, who was arrested on May 24 for a snatching in Bawana.“In the early hours of Friday, on the basis of a tip-off, we set up a trap in Bawana. When Manish and his two associates driving a van were signalled to stop, they rammed the police barricades and tried to get away,” Sharma said. Once intercepted, Manish allegedly fired at the police team, who fired back in response. No one was hurt in the brief exchange. “While we caught Manish’s associates, Hazibul Sheikh and a minor, Manish ran down a drain to escape. But he hurt his foot in the process, and we caught him,” said the other investigator. The police went on to recover two guns and 20 allegedly stolen mobile phones from the gang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-who-ran-robbery-training-school-held-after-shootout/story-NKNGeX9w1ARRKwoDkmgGNI.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||For class of 2020, all higher study plans put on the back-burner because of Covid-19||It has not been easy for Natasha Sharma, a Class-12 student. Preparing for admission to an undergraduate course at a university in the United States (US), she’s worried about the impact of the Covid-19 lockdown on the class of 2020 .“If not a year, this is a setback for at least the next six months. There is no clarity on the academic calendar to be followed,” says Sharma. “I had planned everything meticulously. If not the US, then I would have applied for Indian universities. Everything is so chaotic now.”With two exams still pending for the board exams, she feels “two years of planning for studies abroad have gone waste.”The student community moving to colleges and universities has been hit hard by the pandemic, with no clarity on competitive exams and admission schedules to institutes of higher education.Most of them are unsure of future plans with the postponement of the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) to engineering and architecture colleges, National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) to medical colleges and Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) to law institutes.Popular institutes such as Delhi and Panjab universities have also postponed admissions.The home ministry’s fresh guidelines for lockdown 5.0 to reopen schools and colleges after consultations with states and union territories in July has added to the confusion.“Students sitting at home are battling with anxiety as they are uncertain about what the future holds for them. Parents are concerned about the pending exams, college admissions and safety of their children,” says Sharma’s father Vishnu Sharma. Changing education destinations Sidharth Chopra, founder of Samarthya, an organisation working with parents of students in government schools, empowering them to have a voice in how schools function and improve, says: “The months of lockdown will impact how the students choose their education destination. Many of come to study in Chandigarh from the neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. I am expecting that we might see a shift in this trend.”Seconding the thought, GS Bakshi, administrator of Kabir High School in the city says , “Parents might want to send their wards to places nearby within a two to four hour distance. At this moment, however, many of them might not want to send their children abroad or to distant places.”About his daughter, Bakshi says she has changed plans to enrol in a university abroad and is thinking of joining a six-month online class at home and apply again next year.No concrete plan to reopen institutes Even though the fresh MHA guidelines say that consultations for reopening of colleges and universities will start in July, this does not mean that residential colleges like ours will reopen anytime soon,” says Dheeraj Sanghi, director, Punjab Engineering College.“For the semester other than incoming and outgoing classes, we are hopeful that we will resume classes online so they won’t be affected. However, the situation will be severely impacted if the JEE is not held on July 18 and is delayed. As of now the expected timing of incoming batch is October 2020,” he adds.Situation more complicated for government institutesBecause of greater autonomy, private colleges/universities might not wait for the Central Board of Secondary Education results and start admissions to keep up with the schedule, says Chopra. “However, the government institutions have a rulebook to follow. Moreover, they are also prone to litigations, so that can further affect the academic year,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/for-class-of-2020-all-higher-study-plans-put-on-the-back-burner-because-of-covid-19/story-J6aYgWJJkjND2nCH1gmC1K.html
01-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai then and now: City’s encounter with epidemics||Disturbing scenes of migrants leaving the city in large numbers, creation of makeshift hospitals to accommodate hundreds of patients, and door-to-door testing in high-density areas have a sense of déjà vu, given that Mumbai has faced its fair share of epidemics in the past.In a pictorial presentation on Saturday, organised by the Mumbai-based Khaki Lab, Manjiri Kamat, history professor and associate dean, faculty of humanities, University of Mumbai, talked about the bubonic plague, Spanish flu, cholera and smallpox epidemics that caused devastation in the city.“Much like today, several people left the city in huge numbers after the outbreak of the bubonic plague of 1896 in Bombay. The city was caught unawares and there was no cure for it then,” said Kamat. The city’s mortality rate was very high. It is said to have originated in Hong Kong from where it spread via trade ships to Bombay.The then municipal corporation with police teams conducted door-to-door testing in high-density areas. The outbreak resulted in the formation of the Bombay City Improvement Trust to create affordable housing and improve east-west connectivity in the city.Following an international conference on sanitation in 1866, held in Istanbul, the then British government in India reportedly made quarantining more rigorous and cancelled several pilgrimages to contain the spread of diseases like cholera and smallpox. In 1892, the Bombay Compulsory Vaccination Act was introduced to contain the spread of smallpox.“In her essay on the outbreak of the Spanish flu or influenza pandemic of 1918, Dr Mridula Ramanna states that space was made available at Sir JJ Hospital, Gokuldas Tejpal (GT) Hospital, and the Infectious Diseases Hospital (Kasturba Gandhi Hospital), and the government encouraged isolation of infected patients,” Kamat said. In her talk, she described how many institutions like the Prince of Wales Museum (Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya) and the Royal Institute of Science in Fort were converted into makeshift arrangements to accommodate patients and soldiers of the First World War. “Looking at history, we are in a better position now to handle a crisis than we were ever before, thanks to technology. We must learn from history and be well-prepared for the future,” said Bharat Gothoskar, founder of Khaki Lab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-then-and-now-city-s-encounter-with-epidemics/story-4dluDD7spOr3Ti57VSdDLI.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Beopar Mandal demands shop timings be relaxed||As the Centre’s instructions to shorten curfew hours from 9pm to 5am will come into effect from Monday, the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) has written to the administration, demanding that they take a cue from this and relax working hours for shopkeepers.Charanjiv Singh, CBM chairman said, “When shops were allowed to reopen in the beginning of May, the temperatures were relatively lower. But now that temperatures going above 40 °C has become normal, the Chandigarh administration must ensure that shop timings are further extended as people will stay home in the afternoons and only come out in the evenings.”He added that since curfew will be imposed from 9pm onwards, the shops should be allowed to open till 8pm, instead of current 7pm. Singh added that since there was some confusion regarding the opening of shops on Sunday, he asked the administration to allow shopkeepers to open their shops on Sunday if they wish and issue an order for the same.CBM president Anil Vohra added that letters had been sent to all officials, including UT adviser Manoj Parida, UT deputy commissioner (DC) Mandip Singh Brar and municipal commissioner KK Yadav. “We have been assured that the issue will be discussed in the war room briefing held by UT administrator VPS Badnore on Monday,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-beopar-mandal-demands-shop-timings-be-relaxed/story-LPOtenJ80bPp58vz4s1xKP.html
01-06-2020||Mumbai||Island lockdown: Stuck in Philippines, duo returns to Mumbai after 2 months||A three-month planned sabbatical, which was meant to be used for a multi-continent trip for two Mumbai women, turned into an experience of a lifetime after they ended up spending almost two months stranded in a country under lockdown. Andheri residents Mitalee Chandwani, 33, and Aditi Khosla, 33, spent 53 days on an island of the Philippines and another few days in the capital of Manila before they could finally board a flight back to Mumbai.“Our original plan was to chill on the beaches of the Philippines for three weeks, then hop on a flight to Italy where we were supposed to volunteer on a farm for two weeks and end the trip in Germany. However, Manila went into lockdown a day after we reached the city and with air travel restricted, we chose to move to an island to ensure social distancing,” said Chandwani. She and Khosla both work in the experiential marketing industry.While Chandwani was already in Indonesia since February 26, Khosla flew from Mumbai to Manila on March 12. “That evening we heard that Manila was going into a one-month lockdown within a day. Since we knew there were air travel restrictions and too many tourists were stranded in Manila, we decided to extend our visas and move to the island of Palawan, knowing that there would be fewer people there,” said Khosla.On reaching Puerto Princesa after a 24-hour journey by ship, Chandwani started showing Covid-19 symptoms. “We immediately found a hospital in the port city and managed to get a basic test done after a few hours of waiting. Only once the test results came back negative did we head to Palawan,” said Chandwani.The first few days on the island went well, but things changed as the Covid-19 situation around the world became graver by the day. “One by one everyone started leaving the island as their respective countries sent sweeper flights to rescue them. We stayed in touch with the Indian embassy and the local tourism board daily, seeking clarity on our return status,” said Khosla.While they got their first chance to come back to mainland Manila on March 23, the women turned it down knowing that entry to India was restricted due to the lockdown. Instead, the duo chose to continue living on the island even as all the other tourists left.“We spent 53 days in Palawan because we didn’t want to be restricted to a hotel room in Manila for weeks together. At least on the island, we had access to the beach,” said Chandwani.As the only Indian tourists left on the island by the end of March, the women quickly started adapting. “We would spend the morning making calls to the embassy and local authorities, and then finish whatever reading and writing we could as there was no internet on the island. We even used the resort’s kitchen and taught the staff how to make naans,” said Chandwani.While on the island, the women also met with an accident while riding a bike. “There was no medical facility on the island and we had to take a boat to another island to get a tetanus shot, which was also not available. By this time we were getting more anxious to return home,” said Khosla.Finally, on May 2, a ship was arranged to take the last Indian tourists off the island. “Once we were in Manila, we received emails from the Indian embassy and on May 10, six days after reaching Manila, we boarded a flight for Mumbai operated as part of the Vande Bharat mission,” said Chandwani.Once in Mumbai, both the women were quarantined at a hotel for 14 days before being allowed to return home. “I had left home on February 26 and got back only on May 25. The three-month sabbatical did not go as planned but we couldn’t be happier to be back home with our families,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/island-lockdown-stuck-in-philippines-duo-returns-to-mumbai-after-2-months/story-qup0sJYuFfeDEnZ35usS0K.html
01-06-2020||Noida||Man, friend, booked for rape and criminal intimidation||A 30-year-old woman tweeted that she was raped by a person on the pretext of marriage in Greater Noida West, which prompted police to take action on Sunday. Based on the complaint, the cops registered an FIR against Yashpal Yadav and his accomplice Rahul Yadav, residents of Bisrakh. The suspects are absconding.The woman, a resident of Noida Sector 21, said that in March 2019, she had come in contact with Yashpal through social media. “He befriended me and took me for dinner to a restaurant. He had physical relations with me on pretext of marriage, several times,” she said in the complaint.The woman said she became pregnant and later aborted the child under pressure from the suspect. “Later, I came to know that the suspect was married and had two children. When I asked him why he hid the matter, he told me keep quiet or that he would leak some objectionable videos captured on his mobile phone,” the woman said. The victim said that later Yashpal’s friend Rahul also started threatening her. R K Singh, Station House Officer, Sector 20 police station, said that the woman and Yashpal had been living-in since March 2019. “The woman said that Yashpal had promised to marry her. Recently their relations turned sour and they separated,” he said. “Based on the complaint, we have registered a case against the two persons under section 376 (rape) and section 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC. A police team conducted a search at their residences and found them absconding. The suspects will be arrested soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-friend-booked-for-rape-and-criminal-intimidation/story-PajkLb2bpGjuLwVX0YzIRK.html
01-06-2020||City||Security beefed up in Ludhiana ahead of Operation Bluestar anniversary||Police have beefed up security in the city ahead of the Operation Bluestar anniversary. The operation was conducted by the army from June 1 to 8, 1984 to flush out armed militants from the Golden Temple premises and the gurdwara itself was stormed on the night of June 6, 1984 to restore its sanctity. The police have deputed additional 1,000 police personnel in the city to avoid any untoward incident. Besides, the police have also intensified patrolling in the city. At least 4,000 police personnel are already on lockdown duty.The cyber cell of the police has been keeping a tab on social networking sites to check if anyone is trying to provoke emotions of people by posting provocative content.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary said the police have identified some sensitive points and extra force has been deployed there.The police will establish 50 check points in different parts of the city, where clashes were reported in the past few years from June 1 to June 7.“The police have planned security duty in two shifts, from 5am to 1pm and from 1pm to 9pm. After 9am, the police teams on lockdown duty will take over,” said the DCP.“The police have also planned surprise raids and will round up the radicals, who will try to provoke people,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/security-beefed-up-in-ludhiana-ahead-of-operation-bluestar-anniversary/story-fLnL99AdsWpg2m4qCpM6QM.html
01-06-2020||Noida||Containment zone rules for societies changed; shops allowed to open from 9am to 9pm||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration on Sunday announced more relaxations for the fifth phase of the lockdown. Now, the shops in the district can remain open from 9am to 9pm, although odd-even system will continue, officials said. Besides, the district administration has also changed the containment zone rules for the group housing societies, a move that will give relief to the residents in Noida and Greater Noida. It has also opened parks for visitors with some riders. The district magistrate’s order comes after the Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday issued new guidelines that will come into effect from June 1As per the new guidelines, if there is one or more active positive cases on a floor of a multi-storey tower, then only that particular tower will be declared a containment zone and not the entire housing society. And if there is one or more than one case in more than one towers in a housing society, then all these towers in question will be in containment zones and all common facilities that include swimming pool, club, park and banquet halls will be sealed to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infection. However, containment rules for ‘mohalla’ or clusters will remain unchanged, the guidelines said.The UP government has revised rules after the a group of residents demanded from the government to make changes in the rules. Recently, Greater Noida West’s Ecovillage I society residents had also protested against old rules because all 61 towers were part of containment zone after one family in a tower was found positive. Apartment owners have welcomed the new containment rules for group housing societies.“This step will ease out stress of high-rise dwellers. New definition of containment zone is indeed going to benefit a large segment of people. The new guidelines strike a balance between the health, convenience and ease in streamlining residents’ professional requirements,” said Rajiva Singh, president, Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Association (NOFAA), a flat owners’ group.The district has 51 category I containment zones, while 31 containment zones fall into category II as defined by the UP government. “We will deal with the containment zones as per the new guidelines of the state government. Residents’ demands with regard to containment zones for towers have been looked into. And now only a tower will be made a containment zone with one or more positive cases are found. And more than one towers will be part of containment zone if one or more cases are found in these towers in question in a society,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.Meanwhile, the district administration said that the restrictions on movement of traffic between Noida and Delhi will continue till further orders. The Noida-Delhi borders will continue to be ‘sealed’, said Alok Singh, GB Nagar police commissioner, on Sunday. “We are waiting for reports from the health department for evaluation. As of now, it will remain sealed till further decision is taken on it,” said Singh.Regarding relaxing the odd-even formula of opening of shops in the markets, the district magistrate said, “We are discussing all issues with stakeholders and soon issue guidelines on the same. We have only decided on timings of shops after discussions with traders.”Shops in non-containment zones will be opened from 9am to 9pm, the officials said.Sushil Kumar Jain, president of Sector 18 market association, said, “We wanted relaxation in timings, which has been accepted. Apart from this, we expect that inter-state transport facilities will be started so that our staff can travel easily to work.” The district officials said that all government offices are allowed to resume operations with 100% attendance. However, the departments can change the shift timings of employees, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-containment-zone-rules-for-societies-changed-shops-allowed-to-open-from-9am-to-9pm/story-rQTWxVCjDK7Y8d1bgmjgrO.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Agricultural University gives warm send-off to actor-satirist Jaswinder Bhalla||Observing lockdown norms, the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) fraternity bade an e-farewell to noted Punjabi film star and head, department of extension education, Jaswinder Bhalla, which was live-streamed on the Facebook page of the legendary artist. The farewell ceremony was led by vice-chancellor (V-C) BS Dhillon.Dhillon, while wishing for Bhalla’s long and healthy life, lauded his hard work and dedication due to which he proved himself as a perfect blend of an artist and agricultural scientist. The V-C said the university will always look for Bhalla’s support and hoped the latter will stay in touch with the institution.Highlighting the role played by artists in helping Punjab tide over various kinds of challenges, Dhillon called upon the film, music and stage artists as well as writers to lead from the front in the social reconstruction of the state.Former V-Cs KS Aulakh and MS Kang were also present online and appreciated Bhalla’s impeccable management of his dual professions.In his address, Bhalla gave credit to the university for giving him a conducive platform and professional guidance to realise his personal and professional dreams. Bhalla’s journey to stardom started as a student from the stage of PAU in the I980s. He joined the university as a lecturer in the department of extension education in 1989.For more than 30 years, Dr Bhalla not only ruled the Punjabi film industry as a fine artist, he was the ambassador and face of PAU in the eyes of public. On stage, he could keep audiences entertained for hours with his wit and humour during the university’s kisan melas. Notable works among his film career are Punjabi movie series “Jatt and Juliet” and “Carry On Jatta”, and “Sardaar Ji”. Apart from senior officers of the university, executive members of the teachers and non-teachers’ associations and Bhalla’s fans from around the world came online to wish him on day of his retirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pau-gives-warm-send-off-to-retiring-dr-bhalla/story-N6bzfDF2IuaMsLuTgRXonJ.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Second wettest May since 1971 as downpour cools Chandigarh||About 120.5 mm rain, including a heavy 50mm downpour in just a span of one-and-a-half-hours hours on Sunday evening made this the second wettest May since 1951 (the year from which weather records were maintained in India) and the wettest since 1971 when 130.7mm rain was recorded, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said.Temperatures dipped from Saturday’s 32.8 degrees (maximum) and 24.4 degrees (minimum) to 31.9 degrees (maximum) and 22.3 degrees (minimum) on Sunday.Even 50mm rain in one day on the last day of the month, classified as ‘rather heavy rain’ by IMD, was the highest ever recorded for this month since 2014 when 57.1mm of rain was recorded on May 4. Rainfall of 64.5mm onwards is categorised as heavy rain.‘Freak weather occurrence’Calling this a freak weather occurrence, the second this month after 31.2mm rain was recorded on May 10, IMD Chandigarh director Surender Paul said, “This May has been exceptionally rainy because of the confluence of low level easterly winds with strong western disturbances. Usually in May, only western disturbances are present in the city, but the confluence of low level winds coming in from the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal has led to excessive rain this year.”Apart from the city, Ambala and Narnaul too had rain while the rest of the region had short spells in some areas. “Topographically also, Chandigarh is at the foothills of the Himalayas, due to this more rain was recorded in Chandigarh and Ambala, while little to no rain occurred in the rest of the region,” Paul explained.Since the rain clouds came in from the western side of the city, the Sector 39 IMD observatory recorded 50mm rain, while the airport observatory which is just a few kilometres away recorded only trace rainfall. “It was highly localised and the concentration of clouds was towards the west,” said Paul.Light rain forecast for MondayThe western disturbance the region is on its way out, Paul said, adding, “Chances of light to moderate rain will continue on Monday, but rain is unlikely from Tuesday onwards. The sky will remain cloudy for a few days and the maximum temperature will start to rise, with a dry spell pushing up temperatures to 40 degrees Celsius.”For the next three days maximum temperature will range between 33 degrees and 35 degrees and the minimum temperature between 23 degrees and 24 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/second-wettest-may-since-1971-as-downpour-cools-chandigarh/story-e2SVoZdldP2MoNGEKq7GfL.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Despite ICMR’s advisory, Chandigarh administration has no plans for antibody testing||Even though the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Saturday advised all states and union territories to start conducting sero-survey, a test of the blood serum, to check the levels of exposure to the coronavirus using antibody testing method, the Chandigarh administration has no plans to follow through. Earlier, a report by experts on the outbreak of Covid-19 in Bapu Dham Colony had also suggested a similar exercise after seeking permission from ICMR. The recommendation has not been implemented so far.Besides testing individuals in containment zones like Bapu Dham, ICMR had advised conducting a survey of high-risk or vulnerable populations (health-care workers, frontline workers, immune-compromised individuals, security staff, prisoners) to know who was infected in the past and has now recovered.The Bapu Dham containment zone has recorded more than 220 infections accounting for most of the total cases in the UT. The authorities here have been utilising real time reverse transcription–polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method of testing. Mostly high-risk individuals, contacts of the positive persons and patients with symptoms have been tested.In this type of test, the blood samples are analysed for antibodies using the Elisa method, which is an enzyme-based laboratory test that detects and quantifies antibodies in blood that will determine a past infection due to the virus.Director health services, UT, Dr G Dewan said they were awaiting guidelines from the ministry of health and family welfare.When contacted, health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said, “We do not have kits and such exercises can only be undertaken after we receive the required material from ICMR,” adding that they would like to follow what bigger states were doing in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/despite-icmr-s-advisory-chandigarh-administration-has-no-plans-for-antibody-testing/story-wrqgFZIvtOLvTJ4I7buybI.html
01-06-2020||City||Two months on, 144 Indian nationals stuck in Ukraine land at Chandigarh airport||As many as 144 Indian nationals from the region, who were stuck in Ukraine following the outbreak of coronavirus, landed at the Chandigarh International Airport on an Air India flight early on Sunday.The evacuation was part of the second phase of the Vande Bharat Mission of the Government of India.As per the spokesperson of the airport, the aircraft landed at 3:12am with 144 passengers from various adjoining states — 54 from Himachal Pradesh, 53 from Haryana, 34 from Punjab, two from Chandigarh, and one from Rajasthan.All passengers were screened by Punjab health department and were subsequently handed over to respective states after immigration and customs clearances.Afterwards, all passengers were sent for quarantine as per protocol issued by their respective states who had arranged for their transportation.District nodal officer Dr Harmandeep Kaur Brar said the passengers will not be sent home yet and will instead be quarantined at government facilities for 14 days. All passengers were asymptomatic, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-144-indian-nationals-stuck-in-ukraine-land-at-city-airport/story-AHUiUUvfh1tiOSlH0IIvNO.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Rail overbridge in Ludhiana develops cracks a week after it opens||The railway overbridge connecting Sherpur Chowk with Oswal Cancer Hospital Chowk on National Highway 44 (previously known as NH-I) has developed cracks barely a week after its inauguration. Confirming that cracks had appeared close to the retaining walls of the bridge, Yogesh Chandra, project director NH-44, said the construction company was carrying out repairs and had been asked to explain the damage.The cracks were spotted on Sunday morning by commuters and the traffic police diverted vehicles from the spot to prevent further damage.Construction workers reached the spot to start repairs after national highway authorities were informed. One of the men working at the site who did not wish to be named said the cracks could have been caused by seepage leading to soil erosion of reinforced earth retaining wall.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal had inaugurated the flyover on May 25.The three flyover projects in the city – Basti Jodhewal, Sherpur Chowk and the one near Mohan Dai Oswal Cancer hospital – took over 10 years to be completed. Work on the railway overbridge, which commenced in September 9, 2009, and was to be completed by November, 2011, halted in 2010 due to design issues between the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the construction company. It restarted last year after Congress leaders, including member of Parliament (MP) Ravneet Singh Bittu, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, mayor Balkar Sandhu, members of the legislative assembly (MLAs) Sanjay Talwar, Surinder Dawar and others staged a two-day protest at the Laddowal toll plaza in March, ahead of the Lok Sabha elections.The projects were to be completed by March 31, 2020, but work was delayed due to the nationwide lockdown. The Basti Jodhewal bridge was opened for traffic in November last year, while both sides of Sherpur Chowk and Cancer Hospital flyover were opened this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rail-overbridge-in-ludhiana-develops-cracks-a-week-after-it-opens/story-FStPQfG5KHldRwbGSDni6M.html
01-06-2020||City||Gangster, accomplices assault Ludhiana man, open fire at his father||Gangster Jinder Singh, alias Jindi, and his accomplices allegedly opened fire at a man and assaulted his son over a monetary dispute in Mayapuri, Tibba, on late Saturday night.The Tibba police have registered an attempt to murder case against Jindi and his accomplices, Pamma of Meharban, Jindi’s nephew Sunny of Rahon Road, Mani Bains of Ghora Colony and Gaurav Dang of Kailash Nagar.The victim, Jaspreet Singh, 23, of Mayapuri, told the police that he went to a dairy on Saturday night to fetch milk. Jindi arrived there in a car with some men. Armed with guns and sharp-edged weapons, the men attacked him. When he ran inside the dairy for safety, they dragged him out and beat him up more.Hearing his cries for help, his father, Kuldeep Singh, and passers-by rushed to his aid. Noticing the swelling crowd, the assailants opened fire at Kuldeep and fled the scene. Kuldeep managed to escape unhurt.Onlookers informed the Tibba police, who reached the spot and initiated investigation.Kuldeep claimed that as per his neighbours, the attackers had been recceing the area since the afternoon in search of his son. Inspector Sukhdev Raj, SHO, Tibba station, said they had recovered a bullet shell from the spot. A case under Sections of 307 (attempt to murder), 452 (trespassing), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) and 188 (disobedience of orders duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused.A manhunt has been launched to arrest the accused, the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gangster-accomplices-assault-ludhiana-man-open-fire-at-his-father/story-XVK1bhcpyANcFwcgNXTJHP.html
01-06-2020||Delhi||His dream shattered in four months, he waits for a way home||When 26-year-old physically disabled wheelchair-bound Mohammad Wahab came to Delhi from his hometown Motihari in Bihar this February, he planned to earn some money to ensure that his then yet-to-be-born child survived, unlike his two sons who, he claimed, died of improper nourishment.Wahab started selling vegetables near Jama Masjid in the Walled City. But the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) followed by the lockdown destroyed his business and shattered his dreams. Having exhausted almost all his savings in the last two months, Wahab reached Anand Vihar railway station on Sunday morning but could not find a train departing for his hometown. He spent the last of his savings (₹500) to buy a ticket for a Motihari-bound train scheduled to depart on June 2 and was wait-listed.Determined to board the train, and not die a homeless migrant in Delhi, Wahab has made his wheelchair his home and a spot below the foot overbridge in the railway station’s compound his temporary shelter.“Delhi mein roz log mar rahe hain corona se. Yahan marunga to koi dekhne wale bhi nahi hoga. Gaon mein marengen to kum se kum apne gharwalon ki di hui mitti to naseeb hogi. (People are dying every day in Delhi because of the virus. If I die in Delhi, nobody will be around me. If I die in my village, at least my family will bury me with dignity,” Wahab said.“My wheelchair is my home now. Whatever clothes, food and water I own, I have tied all of it to my wheelchair. I cannot live in shelter homes because using the mobile public toilets there isn’t possible for me,” Wahab said while eating rotis and an omelette on a footpath near the station’s exit lane.Wahab got married to Rabhujan, who is also physically disabled, in his hometown around seven years ago. Three years ago, the couple lost their first son Irfan at the age of two.“Doctor bole Irfan khoon ki kami se mar gaye kyonki usko pura khana nahi mil raha tha (the doctor told us that Irfan died of anaemia because he was not getting proper diet and nutrition). Mera dusra beta janam k kuch hafton mein mar gaya. Usko bhi khoon ki kami thi aur wo bahut kamjor bhi tha (Our second son also died within a few weeks after birth. He was also weak and had anaemia),” Wahab said.Wahab said that when he learnt that his wife was pregnant for the third time sometime in December, he decided he wouldn’t let their third child meet the same fate. When his efforts to earn a livelihood in their hometown failed, Wahab contacted his childhood friend Zubair, who promised to help him if he came to Delhi.“In the last week of February, I boarded a Delhi-bound train. I travelled without a ticket as I had no money to buy one. I pretended I was a beggar when the train ticket examiner came by and somehow reached Delhi,” he said.Combining the money he borrowed from Zubair and his earnings through begging, Wahab started selling vegetables on the roadside near Jama Masjid. He rented a room for ₹1,000 per month. But before his business could increase, the pandemic hit the city and the government’s lockdown announcement forced him to shut it down.Being physically disabled, he could not travel around like other vegetable sellers to buy and sell vegetables. Soon, his savings started dwindling and he began fearing he would die of Covid-19.“Someone told me about the Shramik train and I reached Anand Vihar railway station, only to find that the trains are only for migrants who have registered themselves. A policeman helped me buy a ticket for the special train on June 2. I will stay put here till I board the train,” Wahab added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/his-dream-shattered-in-four-months-he-waits-for-a-way-home/story-hM1ACspobUCS4R4WeQSyAK.html
01-06-2020||Pune||Pune to see additional relaxations, PMC order expected today||The Maharashtra government is relaxing certain curbs as the state enters phase 5 of the lockdown and Pune is also set to see easing of restrictions and changes in the containment zone map which will, henceforth, be implemented on a micro-level. A detailed order of what will be open and what will continue to be shut was issued by the state government on Sunday, but the Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, as per powers conferred to him by Maharashtra’s chief secretary, will issue the detailed order for the city on Monday.“We will issue the order on Monday which will have clear guidelines on what all additional restrictions will be relaxed. As per state guidelines some more shops, private cabs and autorickshaws for essential services can be allowed to operate.”Gaikwad will also redraw the containment zone map, adding a few more areas and removing those where cases have reduced. “Instead of sealing the entire area, we will rather adopt a micro-containment strategy and seal few houses, a society or a building from where Covid-19 cases are being reported,” said the municipal chief. As per the government’s latest order, cycling, jogging, running in playgrounds, beaches, society premises, gardens and open spaces are now allowed by maintaining social distancing. The shops have also been allowed to open on odd-even basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-to-see-additional-relaxations-pmc-order-expected-today/story-jWinBS8p3v8IfgW2qVW3HM.html
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Thieves break into PNB bank in Kishangarh, leave with nothing||Thieves broke into the Kishangarh branch of Punjab and National Bank (PNB) past Saturday midnight, but left empty handed.Police said two masked men broke the shutter lock and stepped inside around 2.30am. For 30 minutes, the two men tried to remove money from the deposit machines, but left after finding no success. A passer-by noticed the broken lock of the shutter and alerted the police. Though the bank was closed on Sunday, staff was called in to verify if anything had been stolen. The bank reported no loss.A case under Section 511 (attempting to commit offences) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the IT Park police station against the unidentified men. Police are scanning the CCTV footage of the bank to trace the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/thieves-break-into-pnb-bank-in-kishangarh-leave-with-nothing/story-X10w4uLcUuK1LaBw3FIXHM.html
01-06-2020||City||Shiv Sena (Punjab) leader who escaped murderous attack in March gets threat call||Over two months after escaping an attack by armed assailants, Shiv Sena (Punjab)’s national promoter Kashmir Giri on Sunday alleged that he has received a threat call from an unknown person.In his complaint to the Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP), Giri said he got the call around noon and the caller, who was speaking in Hindi, told him to give up politics or face the consequences. “The caller told me to keep myself busy with prayers and yajnas and not get involved in politics. When I told him I am not afraid of death, he said he will gun me down in a month,” said Giri.The Shiv Sena leader added that he suspected the hand of pro-Khalistani groups behind the 48-second call. Following the complaint, Khanna deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Khanna) Rajan Parminder Singh, inspector Harvinder Singh Khaira, who is the station house officer of Khanna City-2 police station, reached the leader’s residence and reviewed his security cover.  The DSP said that police had initiated investigation and were trying to trace the call. It is suspected that the call has been made using online calling applications.The attack on Giri had taken place on March 9. Two motorcycle-borne miscreants had opened fire at Giri, however, he escaped unhurt. The men, one of who was a wearing a helmet and the other whose face was covered with piece of cloth, were captured in closed-circuit television cameras installed near his house. One of them had a weapon and had opened fire at him but the bullet hit the gate of his house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shiv-sena-punjab-leader-who-escaped-armed-attack-in-march-gets-threat-calls/story-717AoOouahTNkTBCPXp51H.html
01-06-2020||Pune||Left stranded at Pune station West Bengal-bound migrants finally board train home||A group of migrants from West Bengal who were ferried to Pune station on Saturday, could not board the Shramik special train due to lack of space. After spending the night at the railway station, these migrants were finally provided seats and left for their hometown at 4pm on Sunday.“On Saturday, hundreds of us were left stranded at the station, despite having the chits as token. We kept waiting till late in the night, but the police dispersed us stating that our train was cancelled. However, we saw some of the people who were with us board the train at 2pm,” said Saiful Islam, 22, who wanted to go Kolkata. “We live in Kamshet and had signed up at multiple places in hope of getting a call from at least one place. We filed applications at Talegaon and Wadgaon,” said Saiful Haq, 20 who was travelling to Kolkata.Rajeev Ghosh, 21, who was in the same group as Haq said, “We got a call from Talegaon tehsil office on Friday. We were given chits and asked to board the bus. We were made to wait at the station and were taken back in the buses. On Saturday, we got a call from Wadgaon and were ferried to the station again. Most people told us that the train was cancelled as we watched the people who had travelled with us here, get on trains and leave. The buses had left and we were to fend for ourselves at the station,” said Rajeev Ghosh, 21, who was to travel to his village after reaching Kolkata.The problem arose when the labourers were left stranded at the station without clear instructions about whether a train was going to be arranged for them or not. They were provided with food and water for the night but left with no other choice but to sleep on the street or at the empty bus stop.A train was finally arranged for them at 4pm on Sunday.“We provide trains as per the requirement cited by the state and only those many people can board the train. These passengers must have been beyond the capacity of the train. So, as per the new requirement cited by the state, on Sunday, we merged them with passengers from Ahmednagar and made one train available,” said a railway official requesting anonymity.So far, 2,04,695 people have left on 154 Shramik Special trains from Pune division, according to the office of divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar. Of the 154 trains, 61 were for labourers from Uttar Pradesh, 36 for Bihar, 15 for Madhya Pradesh, 13 for West Bengal, eight for Jharkhand, five for Chattisgarh, five for Rajasthan, two each for Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu and Odisha, and one each for Himachal Pradesh, Jammu-Kashmir, Manipur and Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/left-stranded-at-pune-station-west-bengal-bound-migrants-finally-board-train-home/story-bYttYLLs9UBPDQtno7eqWJ.html
01-06-2020||Pune||Covid-19 positive man booked in Pune for travelling without permit||PUNE A 29-year-old Covid-19 (coronavirus) patient was booked for travelling to Pune without required permits.The man had travelled to Wadebolai village of Haveli, Pune from Thane on May 25 without seeking the required permits from Thane police, according to the police.As he reached Wadebolahi, the man underwent a Covid-19 test at a private laboratory as he started showing symptoms of the virus. The next day, he had tested positive for the virus.“A person is required to have permission to travel from any region. Especially if the person is coming from any place near Mumbai which is a hotspot. After reaching here as well, the person is required to go to the local public health centre, get checked and get a home quarantine stamp,” said police inspector Pratap Mankar of Lonikand police station.The village authorities learned about the man and reported the matter to the police.“The man was taken to Navale hospital and is undergoing treatment there. People should behave responsibly and not put others life at risk,” said PI Mankar.A case was registered at Lonikand police station against the man under Section 188, 269, and 270 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act as well as Maharashtra Covid-19 Regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-positive-man-who-travelled-without-permit-booked/story-pTZc9gokGghGysDCVIJV7I.html
01-06-2020||City||Monsoon at doorstep, but gullies in Mohali still clogged||Though pre-monsoon showers are likely to hit the region in two weeks, Mohali, like every year, is still not rain ready. Authorities are yet start cleaning of city’s road gullies, stated to be around 13,000 in number. A majority of these gullies are blocked, Hindustan Times has found.While 7,000 road gullies are under the jurisdiction of the public health department, 3,000 are under the municipal corporation, while 3,000 fall under the purview of Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA). None of the authorities has started cleaning the gullies.Every year, a budget of ₹1 crore is allocated for cleaning of gullies before the onset of monsoon. Yet every year, life goes out of gear as roads get inundated after just few hours of rain. On Sunday also, roads in Phase 4 were flooded just after two hours of showers.Among the worst-hit areas in Mohali are Mataur village in Sector 70, Phase 4, 5, 11, 3B1 and 3B2. Monsoon is especially a nightmare at Mataur village due to congested streets, choked drains and lack of space to construct additional drains.When contacted, public health department’s executive engineer Kamal Kishore said, “We have already floated the tender and work will hopefully begin next week. We are expecting the cleaning of gullies to be complete in a month’s time.” GMADA executive engineer Pankaj Mahmi said, “We have just started the cleaning work and we are sure we will finish it on time.”Punjab’s former town planning director MS Aujla, who is a resident of Mohali, said, “It’s the same story every year. Our drainage system cannot handle increased intensity of rain spells. Authorities should think of a long-term solution and increase the carrying capacity of drainage system. It is time we conduct an audit of the drainage system, keeping the climate change and extreme events in mind.”CL Garg, president of the Confederation of Greater Mohali Residents’ Welfare Associations (RWA), the apex body of the 65 RWAs, said, “It is strange that every year, they start cleaning work at the eleventh hour. The officers concerned should be held responsible for the mess. There used to be no waterlogging about 20 years ago as the roads were not above the plinth level. Now, roads dividing sectors are above the plinth level of houses, resulting in rainwater flowing into houses.” He added, “Authorities have been flouting the norms by laying pre-mix without digging up the roads. Consequently, the height of the roads keeps increasing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/monsoon-at-the-doorstep-but-gullies-in-mohali-yet-to-be-cleaned/story-52WXnrLU1oe9vPdYNxXBRN.html
01-06-2020||Pune||Pune’s Market Yard vegetable market resumes operations||After two months of shut down, the agricultural produce market committee (APMC) vegetable market at Market Yard resumed operations on May 31. The market was shut down as a precautionary measure on April 10, due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.The market has resumed services with several new rules, restrictions, and taking all the precautionary and safety measures. It is the biggest vegetable market in Pune through which daily vegetables and fruits are being supplied to all parts of Pune.According to Pune APMC chairman Balasaheb Deshmukh, the decision to reopen the market was taken after instructions were given by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and minister Balasaheb Patil.“From 9pm Saturday night, a total of 200 trucks carrying 11,000 quintals of vegetable goods arrived at the main Market Yard vegetable market. Then on Sunday morning from 4.30am the actual trading of goods started, while doing this we made various changes in the operations. Accordingly, every day only 50 per cent of traders and agents will keep their shops open. On every alternate day, each trader will get a chance to do business. Every shop can unload only one truck goods at his shop. The number of vehicle entry is being reduced to 200 daily and while entering into the market premises thermal checking of each person is being done. The entire market was completely sanitised before it was started. We will operate daily, so that citizens will get adequate and low price vegetables from now,” Deshmukh said.While traders are happy to resume business, Ramesh Vaychal one of the traders said, “It is good that vegetable market at Market Yard is started and with all precautions. It is a big challenge for everyone now, as at such market places avoiding crowds and monitoring vehicles is a tough task. If citizens cooperate with the APMC management then the market will run smoothly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/market-yard-vegetable-market-resumes-operations/story-5uadQvPqH7DUkrLKeor9zI.html
01-06-2020||Pune||Intense spells of rain forecast for Pune between June 1 and 3||PUNE The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast intense spells of rain with thunder and lightning between June 1 and June 3 for Pune.Anupam Kashyapi, IMD director, said, “There is a likelihood of intense spells of rain with thunder and lightning, wherein the wind speed would be 30-40kmph. The said weather condition will continue till June 3, when heavy rainfall is likely to take place.”The Pune forecast comes in the light of the cyclonic storm ‘Nisarga’ forecast to hit coasts of Maharashtra and Gujarat by June 3.According to the IMD, wind speeds reaching 65 kmph were likely to prevail over southeast and the adjoining east-central Arabian Sea, Lakshadweep and the Kerala coast during the next 48 hours.It will gradually increase, reaching 75 kmph to 85 kmph over the east-central Arabian Sea and off the Karnataka- south Maharashtra coasts from June 2, and further reaching 90 kmph-110 kmph over east-central and northeast Arabian Sea, off Maharashtra and Gujarat from June 3.Heavy and extremely heavy rainfall is likely over south Gujarat, north Konkan, central Maharashtra, Daman, Diu, Dadra & Nagar Haveli on June 3 and 4.The IMD has forecast the sea condition to be rough to very rough over the southeast and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep during the next 24 hours. It would become very rough off Karnataka- south Maharashtra coasts from June 2 to very rough over east central and northeast Arabian Sea off Maharashtra and Gujarat coasts from June 3.Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the southeast Arabian Sea, Lakshadweep and along and off the Kerala coast till June 2; east central Arabian Sea and off the Karnataka coast till June 3, east central Arabian Sea along, and off, Maharashtra coast and northeast Arabian Sea along and off the Gujarat coast on June 3– 4.The IMD has also forecast light to moderate rainfall at most places in the state, with isolated rainfall very likely over the Lakshadweep area, Kerala and coastal Karnataka on May 31 and June 1.Light to moderate rainfall with isolated heavy rainfall is also forecast over south Konkan and Goa on May 31, with isolated heavy to heavy rainfall on June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/intense-spells-of-rain-forecast-for-pune-between-june-1-and-3/story-F7ATai8Uw44pwgTzF0F5QP.html
01-06-2020||Pune||Pune’s sports equipment industry locked down, but not locked out||The months of March, April, and May are peak season for the sports equipment industry, however, businesses in the city may have incurred massive losses due to the Covid-19 pandemic, according to Champion Sports shop owner Amit Madan. There are around 150 specialised sports equipment shops in Pune, PCMC area and over 500-600 shops that keep specific sports items.“I think looking at the number of shops around Pune, our industry has suffered a loss of around Rs 1 crore,” Madan said. “Sports shops will still take time to witness normal customer footfall. Currently, we don’t have any plans on how we will increase our sales. First, let things become normal, then only can we decide. Right now generally people are buying yoga mats, skipping ropes and few weights for fitness,” added Madan.With businesses opening up last week, sports shops continue to be deserted since sporting activities are yet to resume in the city.“When lockdown was announced it was the start of the swimming season, summer camps, visit to aqua parks and regular swimmers. All these add to a lot of sale of swimming equipment which adds good amount of money but unfortunately it did not happen,” explains Nitin Khurana of Maharashtra Sales and Cooperations who has a wholesale business of sports equipment in Raviwar peth.During summer, swimming and cricket equipment has the most demand. “Cricket camps across the city almost double up the sale of cricket equipment. And now with rainy season approaching, the focus shifts on football, but I think football season will also be dull this time,” added Khurana.Demand for carrom boardsIn the ongoing lockdown, there has been a big demand for carrom boards but they are not easily available in the market.“Carrom boards are not made in machines, it is a hand-made product. Since workers are not available or are in lesser number, there has been a shortage of boards. The sale of other boards like ludo, chess, snake ladder have also gone up across the city,” said Khurana.Shortage of customersWith businesses opening up last week, sports shops continue to be deserted since sporting activities are yet to resume in the city.“Generally, there are 10 customers at a time keep on asking for different sports equipment but now there is only one customer. Sports shops will still take time to get their normal number of customers back,” said Amit Madan owner of Champion Sports, Deccan Gymkhana.“Currently we don’t have any plans on how we will increase our sales. First let things become normal then only we can decide. Right now generally people are buying yoga mats, skipping ropes and few weights for fitness” added Madan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-s-sports-equipment-industry-locked-down-but-not-locked-out/story-Jwvf9QGO7TotE9SvVqQXAL.html
01-06-2020||City||Infant twins recover from Covid-19 in Mehsana dist of Gujarat||Twin brother and sister from Mehsana district of Gujarat, who had tested positive for Covid-19 within few days of birth, have recovered from the deadly infection, an official said on Friday.The twins, who were the youngest Covid-19 patients in Gujarat, will be discharged from the hospital by Saturday, Mehsana district development officer Manoj Daxini said.“The paediatrician and physician overseeing the treatment said that the babies have recovered, as they did not show any symptoms of the viral infection since several days.They will be discharged by Saturday,” the official said. The mother of the infants, who had tested positive for Covid-19 when she gave birth, has already recovered from the infection. A resident of Molipur village in Mehsana district, the woman gave birth to the twins at Vadnagar Civil Hospital on May 16.While the infant boy tested positive on May 18, the baby girl’s reports came on May 22.Gujarat has so far recorded 15,572 Covid-19 cases, of which 960 patients have died of the infection and 8,001 have recovered from it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/infant-twins-recover-from-covid-19-in-mehsana-dist-of-gujarat/story-eW2pFTkqlGixxp1wDFfrIP.html
01-06-2020||World||US House panel chair slams Chinese ‘aggression’ in border dispute with India||Eliot Engel, chairman of the powerful US House foreign relations committee, on Monday, slammed Chinese “aggression” for continuing tensions along the border with India, adding to growing US support for India in this dispute.“I am extremely concerned by the ongoing Chinese aggression along the Line of Actual Control on the India-China border.,” Engel, a Democrat, said in a statement. “China is demonstrating once again that it is willing to bully its neighbours rather than resolve conflicts according to international law.”He added: “I strongly urge China to respect norms and use diplomacy and existing mechanisms to resolve its border questions with India.”The chairman of the committee, which has oversight over the state department, is the latest US official to weigh in on India’s side in this border dispute with China.Alice Wells, the outgoing head of the state department’s South and Central Asia department, had earlier said the border flare-ups were a “reminder that Chinese aggression is not always just rhetorical”.“Whether it’s in the South China Sea or whether it’s along the border with India, we continue to see provocations and disturbing behaviour by China that raises questions about how China seeks to use its growing power,” she had added.Also on the India-China dispute, President Donald Trump made an unsolicited offer of mediation which has been turned down by both India and China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-house-panel-chair-slams-chinese-aggression-in-border-dispute-with-india/story-lvhtyuGWKnEWfNNCEY9PqK.html
01-06-2020||World||Taliban retain ties with Al-Qaeda, says UN report||The Taliban have not only retained their ties with Al-Qaeda but have also assured its leaders personally that their ties will remain unaffected by their peace agreement with the United States, says a UN report released Monday, casting serious doubt on the future of the Trump administration’s key foreign policy achievement.The report also details the presence of 1,020 Lashkar-e-Taiba fighters in Afghanistan working with the Taliban forces and 230 belonging to the Jaish-e-Mohammed. The two Pakistan-based terrorist outfits have carried out multiple attacks in India. There are in all 6,500 foreign terrorists from Pakistan in Afghanistan.In an agreement signed by US and Taliban representatives in Doha on February 29, the Americans have undertaken to draw down their troops in Afghanistan in exchange for the Taliban committing to certain anti-terrorism measures, chiefly cutting ties with terrorist groups threatening the security of the United States or its allies, and not allow them to operate from Afghanistan. Exchange of prisoners, removal of sanctions on the Taliban and the launch of intra-Afghan talks were the other elements.“The Taliban regularly consulted with Al-Qaida during negotiations with the United States and offered guarantees that it would honour their historical ties,” a UN-appointed Monitoring Team said in its annual report to the UN Security Council.It added: “Al-Qaida has reacted positively to the agreement, with statements from its acolytes celebrating it as a victory for the Taliban’s cause and thus for global militancy.”The report refers, as evidence, to a reported meeting that took place in the spring of 2019 between senior Taliban officials and Hamza bin Laden, son and successor of Osama bin Laden, “to reassure him personally that the Islamic Emirate would not break its historical ties with Al-Qaida for any price”. The Al-Qaeda leader’s death was announced by President Trump in September.The monitoring team cited Afghan officials to detail the continued presence of LeT and JeM, who, the report said, had 1,020 and 230 fighters in Afghanistan respectively, “co-located” with Taliban forces. JeM did not figure int he team’s 2019 report. These groups, the repot added, “facilitate the trafficking of terrorist fighters into Afghanistan, who act as advisers, trainers and specialists in improvised explosive devices”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-retain-ties-with-al-qaeda-says-un-report/story-BddfirTh7fod63ZtMMizfJ.html
01-06-2020||World||Donald Trump slams governors as ‘weak,’ urges crackdown on protests||President Donald Trump on Monday derided the nation’s governors as “weak” and demanded tougher crackdowns on protesters in the aftermath of another night of violent protests in dozens of American cities.Trump spoke to governors on a video teleconference with law enforcement and national security officials, telling the local leaders they “have to get much tougher” amid nationwide protests and criticizing their responses.“Most of you are weak,” Trump said. “You have to arrest people.”The days of protests were triggered by the death of George Floyd, a black man who died after he was pinned at the neck by a white Minneapolis police officer. They turned violent in several cities, with looting and mayhem, and fires ignited in the historic park across from the White House.The president urged the governors to deploy the National Guard, which he credited for helping calm the situation Sunday night in Minneapolis. He demanded that similarly tough measures be taken in cities that also experienced a spasm of violence, like New York, Philadelphia and Los Angeles.“You’ve got to arrest people, you have to track people, you have to put them in jail for 10 years and you’ll never see this stuff again,” said Trump. “We’re doing it in Washington, D.C. We’re going to do something that people haven’t seen before.”The president told the governors they were making themselves “look like fools” for not calling up more of the National Guard as a show for force on city streets.Attorney General Bill Barr, who was also on the call, told governors that a joint terrorist task force would be used to track the agitators and urged local officials to “dominate” the streets and control, not react to crowds, and urged them to “go after troublemakers.”Trump’s angry exhortations at the nation’s governors came after a night of escalating violence, images of fires and looting and clashes with police filling the nation’s airwaves and overshadowing the largely peaceful protests. The protests grew so heated Friday night that the Secret Service rushed the president to an underground bunker previously used during terrorist attacks.Trump continued his effort to project strength, using a series of inflammatory tweets and delivering partisan attacks during a time of national crisis.As cities burned night after night and images of violence dominated television coverage, Trump’s advisers discussed the prospect of an Oval Office address in an attempt to ease tensions. The notion was quickly scrapped for lack of policy proposals and the president’s own seeming disinterest in delivering a message of unity.Trump did not appear in public on Sunday and was not scheduled to so Monday either.Secret Service agents rushed Trump to a White House bunker on Friday night as hundreds of protesters gathered outside the executive mansion, some of them throwing rocks and tugging at police barricades.Trump spent nearly an hour in the bunker, which was designed for use in emergencies like terrorist attacks, according to a Republican close to the White House who was not authorized to publicly discuss private matters and spoke on the condition of anonymity. The account was confirmed by an administration official who also spoke on the condition of anonymity.The protests were triggered by the death of George Floyd, a black man who died after he was pinned at the neck by a white Minneapolis police officer. The demonstrations in Washington turned violent and appeared to catch officers by surprise. They sparked one of the highest alerts on the White House complex since the Sept. 11 attacks in 2001.“The White House does not comment on security protocols and decisions,” said White House spokesman Judd Deere. The Secret Service said it does not discuss the means and methods of its protective operations. The president’s move to the bunker was first reported by The New York Times.The president and his family have been shaken by the size and venom of the crowds, according to the Republican. It was not immediately clear if first lady Melania Trump and the couple’s 14-year-old son, Barron, joined the president in the bunker. Secret Service protocol would have called for all those under the agency’s protection to be in the underground shelter.Trump has told advisers he worries about his safety, while both privately and publicly praising the work of the Secret Service.Demonstrators returned Sunday afternoon, facing off against police at Lafayette Park into the evening.Trump continued his effort to project strength, using a series of inflammatory tweets and delivering partisan attacks during a time of national crisis.On Sunday, Trump retweeted a message from a conservative commentator encouraging authorities to respond with greater force.“This isn’t going to stop until the good guys are willing to use overwhelming force against the bad guys,” Buck Sexton wrote in a message amplified by the president.In recent days security at the White House has been reinforced by the National Guard and additional personnel from the Secret Service and the U.S. Park Police.The Justice Department deployed members of the U.S. Marshals Service and agents from the Drug Enforcement Administration to supplement National Guard troops outside the White House, according to a senior Justice Department official. The official could not discuss the matter publicly and spoke on the condition of anonymity.___Lemire reported from New York. Associated Press writer Michael Balsamo contributed to this report._______||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-slams-governors-as-weak-urges-crackdown-on-protests/story-JpZZBtGyqSqaArSA6ToJHP.html
01-06-2020||World||Donald Trump, family sheltered in WH bunker first night of protests||As protests against the death of George Floyd, an African American man, in police custody continued countrywide for the sixth day, it has been reported that President Donald Trump and his family were briefly taken into an underground bunker at the White House last Friday as demonstrators had surged outside.The Secret Service escorted Trump, his wife Melania Trump and their son Barron to the Presidential Emergency Operations Centre — as the bunker is called — as officials seemed to have been taken off guard by the number of protestors, the New York Times reported Sunday.The last time the bunker is publicly known to have been used was on September 11, 2001, when Vice-President Dick Cheney was taken there as a plane was feared to be headed for the White House. President George W Bush, who was out of town at the time, was taken there later in the day over false alarm about another plane.Friday night was the first time protestors had converged around the White House. They had clashed with Secret Service and other law enforcement personnel, defaced buildings in the vicinity with expletive-laden graffiti about the president. The next morning, Trump had tweeted about “vicious dogs” and “ominous weapons” that awaited the protestors is any of them breached the security and entered the White House premises.Trump has threatened to designate Antifa, who he has blamed for the violence and looting that has accompanied protests in some parts of the country, as a terrorist organization. Antifa, short for anti-fascism, is a movement and not an organization. Besides, it was been noted, only foreign bodies can be labeled terrorist organization under current US law.Security around the White House has been stepped up extensively with barricades all around to prevent protestors from getting close. But protestors continued undeterred for the third night Sunday. They with clashed with the police — chanting “You’re the threat” and other slogans — and vandalized and defaced of public and private properties around the area.Among those destroyed was the Oval Room, an iconic restaurant a short distance from the White House, across Lafayette Park, which has been a frequent venue for protests.“I got a call around midnight Saturday asking me two switch on the TV,” said Ashok Bajaj, its Indian-descent owner. Protestors had smashed the windows and were setting tables on fire. He reached there around 1:00 am (Sunday morning) helplessly watched the restaurant burn. His second restaurant on the same street, Bombay Club, just across the road, was left untouched.“I have been here for more than 30 years and have never seen anything like this,” Bajaj said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-family-sheltered-in-wh-bunker-first-night-of-protests/story-rGHR1mhtnCg5re5DW2zOTI.html
01-06-2020||World||New test method offers safer dosages of hydroxychloroquine||Researchers have developed a new method to measure levels of the medication hydroxychloroquine in patients with the rheumatic disease systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). The method developed by researchers at Uppsala University and Uppsala University Hospital in Sweden may also be useful in other areas, such as in the treatment of Covid-19. Hydroxychloroquine was originally used to treat malaria but has also proven effective with SLE and rheumatoid arthritis (RA), the researchers said. Today it is recommended to all SLE patients since it protects against flares of the disease. Tests are now being conducted to see if it can also be used to treat Covid-19, they said. A disadvantage of hydroxychloroquine is its side effects which can be avoided, however, if the dosage is adjusted for each patient. To achieve the protective effect against flares in SLE while also minimising the risk of side effects, researchers developed a method that can be used in the medical care system to measure hydroxychloroquine levels in the blood of SLE patients. The method, described in the journal Arthritis Research and Therapy, is based on high-resolution mass spectrometry. The researchers went through available data on hydroxychloroquine measurements. They saw that results from measurements on whole blood, plasma and serum were not comparable with each other. “It was shown that there were major differences between different reports, and there seemed to be very large individual differences,” said Kim Kultima, Associate Professor at Uppsala University. The team compared the levels of hydroxychloroquine in plasma, serum and whole blood in SLE patients. They concluded that the levels in whole blood were about twice as high as in serum and plasma. Whole blood analyses were also the most dependable. “One striking result, and a very important insight, was that levels in whole blood for patients prescribed the same dosage could differ by up to 15 times between individuals. This indicates a large individual variation in how the medication is metabolised,” the researchers said. One problem pointed out by the study is that the services for electronic information on medicinal products in Sweden (FASS) provides concentrations of hydroxychloroquine in plasma. The researchers judge that these values provide an inaccurate and inappropriate picture for monitoring medication levels in patients. “We also have to be very careful about drawing hasty conclusions about whether hydroxychloroquine is effective with Covid-19. “What we know today is that the analysis method will hopefully lead to better data for providing the right dosages to SLE patients who are prescribed the medication,” the researchers said. They are planning to measure the levels of the medication in the blood of Covid-19 patients if the substance proves effective.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-test-method-offers-safer-dosages-of-hydroxychloroquine/story-XkpcR35L0d1uqhbQSzlpLN.html
01-06-2020||World||Covid-19 pandemic disrupted treatments for non-communicable diseases like cancer: WHO||The World Health Organisation says that about half of countries surveyed in a new analysis have had partial or complete disruption of services for people with high blood pressure and diabetes treatment during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.In a survey of 155 countries last month, the UN health agency found worrying problems in the provision of health care for people with non-communicable diseases, many of whom are at higher risk of severe complications from COVID-19.“Many people who need treatment for diseases like cancer, cardiovascular disease and diabetes have not been receiving the health services and medicines they need since the COVID-19 pandemic began,” said WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus in a statement.  “It’s vital that countries find innovative ways to ensure that essential services...continue even as they fight COVID-19.” The survey also found that 42% of countries had interrupted services for cancer patients and 31% for heart emergencies. In more than 90% of countries, health care staff had been partially or fully reassigned to pandemic duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-pandemic-disrupted-treatments-for-non-communicable-diseases-like-cancer-who/story-BBnAgVSEGOW27m7V3p9CIO.html
01-06-2020||World||China fires a salvo of criticism at US on HK, protests, wanting to quit WHO||China on Monday fired a salvo of criticism against the US, threatening Washington with “firm countermeasures” if it harms Chinese interests in Hong Kong and saying America is “addicted to quitting” because of President Donald Trump’s decision to leave the World Health Organisation (WHO). Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian, referring to the largescale protests and riots following the death of African-American George Floyd, added that racial discrimination is a long-standing problem in the US and Beijing hoped the US government would take all necessary measures to deal with the violent law enforcement of police, so as to protect and safeguard the legitimate interests of racial minorities.Black lives matter and their human rights should be protected, he said.Current ties between the two countries have increasingly soured in recent months over several issues including on the origins of the coronavirus, arms sales Taiwan and ongoing disputes over trade.On Hong Kong, Zhao said any move by the US to harm Chinese interests will be met with firm countermeasures, questioning Washington’s decision to begin ending special treatment for Hong Kong as well as actions against Chinese students and companies.Trump ordered his administration to begin the process of eliminating special US treatment for Hong Kong in response to China’s parliament last week voting to implement a new national security legislation on Hong Kong, which, critics say, could impact the “one country, two systems” mechanism.The US President, however, hasn’t mentioned a timeline for the withdrawal of the special status.“The announced measures severely interfere with China’s internal affairs, damage U.S.-China relations, and will harm both sides. China is firmly opposed to this,” Zhao said at the regular ministry briefing on Monday.“Any words or actions by the U.S. that harm China’s interests will meet with China’s firm counterattack,” he said.Earlier, Hong Kong’s Beijing-backed government was quoted in news reports as telling the US to keep out of the national security debate, warning that withdrawal of the financial hub’s special status could backfire on the US economy.On Trump’s announcement that the US would leave the WHO, Zhao said the “…US has become addicted to quitting groups and scrapping treaties”.Trump announced on Friday the US would cut ties with the WHO, accusing the UN agency of becoming China’s puppet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-fires-a-salvo-of-criticism-at-us-on-hk-protests-wanting-to-quit-who/story-nIJ7UVsdL3lUJJZ2tZRGaK.html
01-06-2020||World||Over 60,000 tested in Wuhan on Sunday, no silent spreaders of Covid-19 found||Wuhan, the central Chinese city where the coronavirus emerged late last year, reported no asymptomatic cases on Sunday, health authorities said as the city tests millions of its residents to look for silent spreaders who do not show symptoms for Covid-19 but could infect others.Overall, China reported the highest daily increase in coronavirus cases in nearly three weeks with 16 new infections discovered on May 31 as the number of imported cases jumped in southwestern Sichuan province; another 16 asymptomatic cases were also reported.Wuhan, the capital of Hubei province, conducted more than 60,000 nucleic acid tests on Sunday, finding no new asymptomatic cases, according to a statement issued Monday by the municipal health commission.According to data released by the official news agency, Xinhua, Wuhan had conducted 6,574,093 nucleic acid tests to screen novel coronavirus infections between May 14 and 23.More than 200 asymptomatic patients were diagnosed during the mass testing, which was ordered after a cluster infection broke out in Wuhan a month after the strict lockdown imposed on it on January 23 was eased.The aim of the testing was to identify asymptomatic patients, quarantine and treat them, and break the infection chain.According to health authorities, the decision to expand the tests to cover all those who have not been tested before was made as Wuhan continued to report asymptomatic infections.This raised public concerns as Wuhan reopens its factories, businesses and schools. The city, of some 11 million residents, had completed testing over 3 million before the mass testing began in the middle of May.No new asymptomatic cases reported for the first time indicates the campaign has seen apparent effects, said a statement from the local health authorities. The total number of confirmed cases in mainland China now stands at 83,017, while the death toll remains at 4,634.The National Health Commission (NHC) said in a statement on Monday that all the 16 confirmed cases involved travellers from overseas.They came on a flight from Egypt, and another six asymptomatic cases were found on the same flight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-60-000-tested-in-wuhan-on-sunday-no-silent-spreaders-of-covid-19-found/story-1NsrFcoiZ1F66xIGlFi8xO.html
01-06-2020||World||Coronavirus update: Greece lifts its lockdown on hotels, pools, golf courses||Greece lifted lockdown restrictions Monday for hotels, open-air cinemas, golf courses and public swimming pools as the country ramped up preparations for the crucial summer tourism season to start in two weeks. Primary school children also returned to class. Strict public safety measures have kept Greece’s Covid-19 infection rate low. The country has seen only 175 virus-related deaths, according to Health Ministry. International flights with screening procedures will return to Athens and Greece’s second-largest city of Thessaloniki starting on June 15, and will be expanded to the rest of the country on July 1. Screening for arriving passengers will be based on an assessment by a European Union flight safety authority, with arrivals from low-infection countries being subjected only to random testing. Year-round hotels were allowed to reopen Monday but many chose to remain closed until closer to the start of the tourism season, citing low bookings. Other businesses were allowed to restart Monday, including campsites, wedding reception services, tattoo parlors and dating agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-greece-lifts-its-lockdown-on-hotels-pools-golf-courses/story-DQyXVM9fcVWYQ2Sf5V40BJ.html
01-06-2020||World||‘Saudi game of thrones’: Pressure grows to release jailed prince Salman bin Abdulaziz||A $2 million US lobbying effort and petitions from European lawmakers are piling pressure on Saudi Arabia to release a philanthropist prince jailed for two years without charge amid an intensifying royal crackdown.The detention of Prince Salman bin Abdulaziz and his father since January 2018 is part of a clampdown under de facto ruler Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman that has ensnared not just potential rivals but also figures posing no visible challenge to his hold on power.The dangerous power plays have also swept up family members of Saad Aljabri, a former aide to another detained prince and top intelligence official, who fled to Canada and holds key state secrets.The most unlikely target is Prince Salman, a multilingual 37-year-old educated at Paris’s Sorbonne University, who apparently espoused no political ambitions and earned a reputation of being a “walking blank check” for funding development projects in poor countries.“This is not just an unlawful arrest,” an associate of the prince told AFP. “This is daylight kidnapping. This is a forced disappearance.”After being detained for around a year in the high-security Al-Ha’ir prison near Riyadh and later in a private villa with his father Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman, the prince was moved to a secret detention site in March, multiple sources told AFP.He was mysteriously returned to the villa last week to be reunited with his father, three of those sources said.It remains unclear why he was moved to the secret site. His telephone calls to his family are monitored by Saudi intelligence, the sources said.But his return may be a tentative sign that international pressure for his release is working. Saudi authorities did not respond to a request for comment on the case.- Pressure campaign -A delegation from the European Parliament implored Saudi authorities to release detained royals including Prince Salman during a visit to Riyadh in February, according to a source and an internal report of the tour seen by AFP.“The European Parliament already asked for information about the case in a letter addressed... to the Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, which (remains) unanswered,” Marc Tarabella, a vice chairman of the parliament’s delegation for relations with the Arab peninsula, wrote to the European Commission.“I would like to ask you to raise this issue... with the highest relevant authorities in Saudi Arabia appealing for Prince Salman’s release.“I remain confident that the release would positively impact the relations of the European Parliament with Saudi Arabia,” he wrote.Separately, leading Washington lobbyist Robert Stryk’s Sonoran Policy Group signed a $2 million contract in May to advocate for the prince’s release “with the governments of the United States, United Kingdom, France, and the European Union”, according to a US justice department filing seen by AFP.Stryk, known to have close connections with the administration of US President Donald Trump -- an ally of Prince Mohammed -- was recruited by Hashim Mughal, a Paris-based confidant of Prince Salman, according to the filing.A source described Mughal, a Pakistani national, as the prince’s former financial advisor who raised $2 million from his personal wealth and by tapping the influential royal’s friends.The international effort is a gamble that could backfire in a kingdom whose authoritarian rulers are strongly averse to public criticism.But as private appeals to the rulers go unheeded, the campaign may be the only hope at a time when the kingdom is grappling with a coronavirus-led economic slump and amid unease in Washington with Prince Mohammed’s aggressive policies.- ‘Game of thrones’ -Prince Salman is among a wave of royals detained as Prince Mohammed, known as MBS, eliminates potential rivals to amass power unseen by previous rulers.In March, authorities arrested the Saudi king’s brother Prince Ahmed and nephew Prince Mohammed bin Nayef, who was edged out as heir to the throne by MBS in 2017.Two adult children and a brother of Saad Aljabri, once a senior aide to Prince Nayef, were also detained in March, with a source close to the family calling them “victims of a Saudi game of thrones”.Aljabri, exiled in Canada, earlier attempted to get his children to leave Saudi Arabia but authorities had placed them under a travel ban, the source told AFP.Princess Basmah bint Saud, another royal perceived to be close to Prince Nayef, has been jailed in Al-Ha’ir for a year without charge along with her daughter.Her family lost all contact with the princess after they posted a desperate Twitter appeal for her release in April, a source has told AFP.More baffling is the detention of Prince Salman, whose non-political philanthropic work makes him an unlikely rival to MBS.What may have rankled the royal court is the prince’s meeting with Congressman Adam Schiff, a Democrat and Trump critic, just before US elections in 2016.His associates say “nothing political” was discussed.Schiff’s office told AFP he does not recall specifics of the discussion but they may have talked about “Saudi Arabia generally”.“Those who pushed for this arrest gravely misread US politics,” Kirsten Fontenrose, a former White House official responsible for policy towards Saudi Arabia and now with the Atlantic Council, told AFP.“Jailing someone for meeting with a vocal Democrat will only make it more difficult for Trump to maintain close ties to the Saudi ruling family leading up to the US election. “And it will certainly come back to bite the kingdom if the next administration is led by Democrats.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-game-of-thrones-pressure-grows-to-release-jailed-prince-salman-bin-abdulaziz/story-f8jEpvdJXhekjJ4iLP4OEK.html
01-06-2020||World||George Floyd’s death: World’s reaction to protests in US weaves solidarity, calls to change||Several thousand people marched in New Zealand’s largest city on Monday to protest the killing of George Floyd in the U.S. as well as to stand up against police violence and racism in their own country.Many people around the world have watched with growing unease at the civil unrest in the U.S. after the latest in a series of police killings of black men and women. Floyd died on May 25 in Minneapolis after a white police officer pressed his knee on Floyd’s neck until he stopped breathing. The officer was fired and charged with murder.The protesters in Auckland marched to the U.S. Consulate, where they kneeled. They held banners with slogans like “I can’t breathe” and “The real virus is racism.” Hundreds more joined the peaceful protests and vigils elsewhere in New Zealand, where Monday was a public holiday.In Iran, which has in the recent past violently put down nationwide demonstrations by killing hundreds, arresting thousands and disrupting internet access to the outside world, state television has repeatedly aired images of the U.S. unrest.Also read | Double whammy: After Covid-19, the US now grapples with protestsIranian foreign ministry spokesman Abbas Mousavi urged the U.S. government and police to stop the violence.“To American officials and police: Stop violence against your people and let them breathe,” Mousavi said at a news conference in Tehran on Monday. He also told the American people that “the world is standing with you.” He added that Iran is saddened to see “the violence the U.S. police have recently” set off.At a gathering in central London on Sunday, thousands offered support for American demonstrators, chanting “No justice! No peace!” and waving placards with the words “How many more?”In other places, too, demonstrators wove solidarity with the U.S. protesters with messages aimed at local authorities.In Brazil, hundreds of people protested crimes committed by the police against black people in Rio de Janeiro’s working-class neighborhoods, known as favelas. Police used tear gas to disperse them, with some demonstrators saying “I can’t breathe,” repeating Floyd’s own words.In Canada, an anti-racism protest degenerated into clashes between Montreal police and some demonstrators. Police declared the gathering illegal after they say projectiles were thrown at officers who responded with pepper spray and tear gas. Some windows were smashed and some fires were set.In authoritarian nations, the unrest became a chance to undermine U.S. criticism of their own situations. Iranian state television repeatedly aired images of the U.S. unrest. Russia said the United States had systemic human rights problems.And state-controlled media in China saw the protests through the prism of American views on Hong Kong’s anti-government demonstrations, which China has long said the U.S. encouraged. In a commentary, the ruling Communist Party newspaper Global Times said Chinese experts had noted that U.S. politicians might think twice before commenting again on Hong Kong, knowing “their words might backfire.”Also read | George Floyd protests: Flames engulf 200-year-old historic church near White HouseNorth Korea’s official Rodong Sinmun newspaper on Monday reported about the demonstrations, saying that protesters “harshly condemned” a white policeman’s “lawless and brutal murder” of a black citizen. Three large photos from the Minneapolis Star Tribune, Reuters news agency and Agence France-Presse showed protest scenes from recent days in the city where Floyd was killed.The article said hundreds of protesters gathered in front of the White House chanting “No justice, no peace,” and that demonstrations were occurring in other cities and were expected to grow. It did not make any direct comments about the Trump administration.___Follow the AP’s latest news about the protests in the U.S. at https://apnews.com/GeorgeFloyd||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/george-floyd-death-world-s-reaction-to-protests-in-us-weaves-solidarity-calls-to-change/story-HKKt39Kc6I12WuszW4GXtL.html
01-06-2020||World||‘US addicted to quitting’, says China on move to terminate ties with WHO||China said on Monday the United States was “addicted to quitting” following a US decision to leave the World Health Organization (WHO) and said the withdrawal reveals a pursuit of power politics and unilateralism. Foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told reporters during a daily briefing that the international community disagreed with what he described as the selfish behaviour of the United States.“The U.S. has become addicted to quitting groups and scrapping treaties,” said Zhao. President Donald Trump announced on Friday the United States would cut ties with the WHO, accusing the UN. agency of becoming a puppet of China.The WHO has denied Trump’s assertions that it promoted Chinese “disinformation” about the virus.Trump’s decision came after a pledge by Chinese President Xi Jinping to give $2 billion to the WHO over the next two years to help combat the novel coronavirus, which emerged in China late last year.The EU on Saturday urged the United States to reconsider its decision.China calls on the international community to provide more political support and funding for the WHO, said Zhao. The US decision to quit the Geneva-based agency comes amid growing tension between the United States and China over the coronavirus outbreak.Since taking office, Trump has questioned the value of the United Nations and scorned the importance of multilateralism as he focuses on an “America First” agenda.He has quit the UN Human Rights Council, the UN cultural agency UNESCO, a global accord to tackle climate change, the Iran nuclear deal and opposed a UN migration pact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-addicted-to-quitting-says-china-on-move-to-terminate-ties-with-who/story-ZFVsuxMfXPv47Itc94p8KL.html
01-06-2020||World||Russia to roll out its first approved Covid-19 drug next week||Russia will start giving its first drug approved to treat Covid-19 to patients next week, its state financial backer told Reuters, a move it hopes will ease strains on the health system and speed a return to normal economic life.Russian hospitals can begin giving the antiviral drug, which is registered under the name Avifavir, to patients from June 11, the head of Russia’s RDIF sovereign wealth fund told Reuters in an interview. He said the company behind the drug would manufacture enough to treat around 60,000 people a month.There is currently no vaccine for Covid-19, the disease caused by the new coronavirus, and human trials of several existing antiviral drugs have yet to show efficacy.A new antiviral drug from Gilead called remdesivir has shown some promise in small efficacy trials against Covid-19 and is being given to patients by some countries under compassionate or emergency use rules.Avifavir, known generically as favipiravir, was first developed in the late 1990s by a Japanese company later bought by Fujifilm as it moved into healthcare.RDIF head Kirill Dmitriev said Russian scientists had modified the drug to enhance it, and said Moscow would be ready to share the details of those modifications within two weeks.Also read | India’s Covid-19 tally surges beyond 190,500 with highest single-day spike of 8,392 casesJapan has been trialling the same drug, known there as Avigan. It has won plaudits from Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and $128 million in government funding, but has yet to be approved for use.Avifavir appeared on a Russian government list of approved drugs on Saturday.ACCELERATED PROCESSDmitriev said clinical trials of the drug had been conducted involving 330 people, and had shown that it successfully treated the virus in most cases within four days.The trials were due to be concluded in around a week, he said, but the health ministry had given its approval for the drug’s use under a special accelerated process and manufacturing had begun in March.Clinical trials to test efficacy drugs usually take many months, even when expedited, and involve large numbers of patients randomly assigned who receive either the drug being trialled or a control or placebo.Success in small small-scale, early-stage trials is no guarantee of success in later, more comprehensive trials.A study published this month, for example, tied the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine, which U.S. President Donald Trump says he has been taking and has urged others to use, to an increased risk of death in hospitalised Covid-19 patients.Also read | Coronavirus pandemic: Will it feel safe to fly this Summer?Dmitriev said Russia was able to cut testing timescales because the Japanese generic drug which Avifavir is based on was first registered in 2014 and had undergone significant testing before Russian specialists modified it.“We believe this is a game changer. It will reduce strain on the healthcare system, we’ll have fewer people getting into a critical condition,” said Dmitriev. “We believe that the drug is key to resuming full economic activity in Russia.”With 414,878 cases, Russia has the third highest number of infections in the world after Brazil and the United States, but has a relatively low official death toll of 4,855 - something that has been the focus of debate.RDIF, which has a 50% share in the drug’s manufacturer ChemRar, funded the trials and other work with its partners, to the tune of around 300 million roubles ($4.3 million), said Dmitriev, who explained that the costs to Russia were much lower because of previous development work conducted in Japan.Also read | Bodies left on hospital beds as coronavirus overwhelms Mumbai||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-russia-to-roll-out-its-first-approved-covid-19-drug-next-week/story-9V422benmGih9byWzPoC1O.html
01-06-2020||World||US will consider rejoining WHO if it ends corruption, reliance on China: White House||The US will consider rejoining the World Health Organization if it ends corruption and reliance on China, the White House has said.President Donald Trump on Friday terminated America’s relationship with the WHO and accused the global health body of being hand in glove with China in sharing inaccurate information to the world about the coronavirus pandemic that has killed more than 370,000 people globally.“The WHO needs to reform. What the president said, if the WHO reforms and ends the corruption and ends the reliance on China, the US will very seriously consider coming back,” US National Security Advisor Robert O’Brien told ABC News on Sunday.Also read | China says US action on Hong Kong ‘doomed to fail’The US has said that it will spend the money, over USD 400 million which it gives to the WHO, on other international public health bodies.“In the meantime, we’re going to take that USD 400 million that the US spends, compared to the USD 40 million that the Chinese spends on the WHO. And we’re going to make sure it gets to front-line health care workers, just like we’re doing with PEPFAR in Africa,” O’Brien said.“The WHO isn’t saving lives for AIDS and HIV victims in Africa. It’s the United States and our generous taxpayers who are saving those lives in Africa. We’re not doing it through the WHO. We’re doing it as the United States of America,” he said.“We’re going to take that same money and make sure it gets to the Doctors Without Borders and the Red Cross and the hospitals all over the world that need it, and doesn’t go through a corrupt international organisation that’s controlled by the Chinese Communist Party. That’s for sure,” O’Brien said.Appearing on the CNN on another Sunday talk show, O’Brien said that the US has got a series of measures to deal with China and the way they’ve choked out freedom in Hong Kong.“The president made a very important announcement on that front on Friday and the US government is looking at all of our relations with Hong Kong and China. So there will be a response and it will be proportional, but this is not something that our adversaries are going to get away with for free,” he added. Also read | Donald Trump announced US is cutting ties with WHO. Here’s why||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-will-consider-rejoining-who-if-it-ends-corruption-reliance-on-china-white-house/story-Du5JyHSylGaOlPmpnEpzdL.html
01-06-2020||World||Ashwini Bhatia recommended for post of SBI MD by Banks Board Bureau||The Banks Board Bureau (BBB) on Saturday recommended names of Ashwini Bhatia, M V Rao and P P Sengupta for the post of managing director of three state-owned lenders -- State Bank of India, Central Bank of India and Indian Overseas Bank, respectively.Bhatia is currently serving as deputy managing director (DMD) at SBI, while Rao is executive director with Canara Bank.The bureau members interfaced with 20 candidates from nationalised banks on May 30 for the position of managing director in State Bank of India and the position of MD and CEO of Indian Overseas Bank and Central Bank of India, an official statement said.Bhatia will be appointed in place of P K Gupta who superannuated on March 31, while Rao will replace Central Bank of India MD Pallav Mohapatra who will retire in February next year.Sengupta, currently DMD SBI, will replace Indian Overseas Bank MD and CEO Karnam Sekar, who retires on June 30.With this exercise, the government has completed the process of appointment of head of PSU banks for the current fiscal.The decision on the appointment will be taken by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.BBB, the headhunter for state-owned banks and financial institutions, is headed by former Department of Personnel and Training Secretary B P Sharma.The Prime Minister, in 2016, approved the constitution of BBB as a body of eminent professionals and officials to make recommendations for appointment of whole-time directors as well as non-executive chairpersons of public sector banks (PSBs).It was also entrusted with the task of engaging with the board of directors of all PSBs to formulate appropriate strategies for their growth and development.Besides, it was asked to frame strategy discussion on consolidation based on requirement. The government wanted to encourage bank boards to restructure their business strategy and also suggest ways for their consolidation and merger with other banks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ashwini-bhatia-recommended-for-post-of-sbi-md-by-banks-board-bureau/story-DEmf0lQxSt3TeLjN56ehiO.html
01-06-2020||World||With 2,964 new cases, over 72,000 infected with Covid-19 in Pakistan||Pakistan’s coronavirus cases on Monday crossed 72,000-mark with 2,964 new patients while the death toll climbed to 1,543 after 60 people lost their lives in the last 24 hours, health officials said.According to the Ministry of National Health Services, 2,964 new infections surfaced over the last 24 hours, taking the nationwide tally of coronavirus to 72,460.The death toll reached 1,543 after 60 more deaths were reported during the last 24 hours.According to the ministry, 28,245 cases have been diagnosed in Sindh, 26,240 in Punjab, 10,027 in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, 4,393 in Balochistan, 2,589 in Islamabad, 711 in Gilgit-Baltistan, and 255 in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.The ministry showed that 26,083 patients have been recovered so far from the virus. The authorities have conducted 561,136 tests, including 14,398 in the last 24 hours.The month of May registered nearly 52,000 new coronavirus cases as the tally surged from 69,474 to 17,699 cases, while the death toll rose from 408 to 1,483. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Imran Khan will chair a crucial meeting of the National Coordination Committee (NCC) which is expected to decide the future strategy to deal with the increasing threat of the pandemic on Monday.The meeting will discuss different options, including lockdown which was eased about two weeks ago. However, a minister said that increasing restrictions on people was not under active consideration.“Lockdown option is always on the table, but it is not under active consideration,” Minister for Planning Asad Umar said on Sunday.Umar heads the National Command and Operation Centre (NCOC) which recommends measures for consideration of NCC and also implements its decisions. On May 9, Pakistan began easing the month-long lockdown despite a steady rise in the number of the coronavirus cases. Prime Minister Khan had said that Pakistan would begin easing its nationwide lockdown in a phase-wise manner by allowing various businesses to open up, citing the economic crisis due to the shutdown, which was enforced in the country in March end.Pakistan on Friday announced the resumption of outbound international flights from Saturday, over two months after the services were suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic. PTI SH AMS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/with-2-964-new-cases-over-72-000-infected-with-covid-19-in-pakistan/story-rCDGyTD1WCZCxzqQ2sSn4N.html
01-06-2020||World||Protests form across US demanding end to police violence||Protests formed across America again Sunday, even as glass and graffiti from the previous night’s unrest were still being cleaned up, with some violence and crime flaring in pockets of largely peaceful demonstrations fueled by the killings of black people at the hands of police.From Boston to San Francisco, protesters took to the streets once more, and some signs of trouble emerged in cities that have closed streets and imposed curfews after days of turmoil. People robbed stores in broad daylight in Philadelphia and Santa Monica, California, and a semitruck drove into a massive crowd of people that took over a portion of a highway in Minneapolis.It’s unclear if there were injuries. Protesters crawled on the truck, and police came in force to clear the highway in the city where the turbulence emerged after the death last week of George Floyd — a black man who pleaded that he couldn’t breathe after a white Minneapolis police officer pressed a knee into his neck for several minutes. The protests quickly became national, spreading to dozens of cities large and small.The officer who pressed his knee onto Floyd’s neck has been arrested and charged with murder, but protesters are demanding charges against all four officers at the scene. All four were fired.In neighboring St. Paul, thousands gathered peacefully in front of the state Capitol, pledging to keep up the protests.“We’re Minnesota nice, but we’re not Minnesota dumb, and we’re not done,” St. Paul Black Lives Matter organizer Darnella Wade said. “They sent us the military and we only asked them for arrests.”Minnesota’s governor brought in thousands of National Guard soldiers to help quell violence that had damaged or destroyed hundreds of buildings in Minneapolis over days of protests. The immense deployment appeared to have worked Saturday night, when there was comparatively little destruction.On Sunday, in a display of force, long lines of state patrolmen and National Guard soldiers were lined up in front of the Capitol, facing the demonstrators, with perhaps a dozen military-style armored vehicles behind them.Across America, demonstrators called again for an end to police violence.“They keep killing our people,” said Mahira Louis, 15, who marched with her mother and several hundred others through downtown Boston. “I’m so sick and tired of it.”Many also joined police in pleading for a stop to violence, saying it weakened calls for justice and reform.“It only hurts the cause,” said Danielle Outlaw, head of the police force in Philadelphia, where more than 200 people were arrested as fires and looting engulfed the heart of the city.Disgust over generations of racism in a country founded by slaveholders combined with a string of recent racially charged killings to stoke the anger. Adding to that was angst from months of lockdowns brought on by the coronavirus pandemic, which has disproportionately hurt communities of color, not only in terms of infections but in job losses and economic stress.The droves of people congregating for demonstrations threatened to trigger new outbreaks, a fact overshadowed by the boiling tensions.“Maybe this country will get the memo that we are sick of police murdering unarmed black men,” said Lex Scott, founder of Black Lives Matter Utah. “Maybe the next time a white police officer decides to pull the trigger, he will picture cities burning.”The scale of the protests, sweeping from coast to coast and unfolding on a single night, rivaled the historic demonstrations of the civil rights and Vietnam War eras.Curfews were imposed in major cities around the U.S., including Atlanta, Chicago, Denver, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Seattle. About 5,000 National Guard soldiers and airmen were activated in 15 states and Washington, D.C.At the Minneapolis intersection where Floyd was killed, people gathered with brooms and flowers, saying it was important to protect what they called a “sacred space.” The intersection was blocked with the traffic cones while a ring of flowers was laid out.Among those descending on Minneapolis was Michael Brown Sr., the father of Michael Brown, whose killing by a police officer in Ferguson, Missouri, set off unrest in 2014.“I understand what this family is feeling. I understand what this community is feeling,” he said.County Commissioner Angela Conley said the demonstrations and confrontations with police would continue until the other three officers who were at the scene when Floyd was pinned down are arrested and prosecuted. The officer who held his knee on Floyd’s neck, Derek Chauvin, was charged last week with murder. All four officers have been fired.“We’ll continue to have this militarized presence in our community until justice is done,” Conley said.In tweets Sunday, President Donald Trump blamed anarchists and the media for fueling the violence. Attorney General William Barr pointed a finger at “far left extremist” groups. Police chiefs and politicians accused outsiders of coming in and causing the problems.The fury also spread to Europe, where thousands gathered in London’s Trafalgar Square, clapping and waving placards despite government rules barring crowds because of the COVID-19 pandemic.In Indianapolis, two people were reported dead in bursts of downtown violence, adding to deaths reported in Detroit and Minneapolis in recent days.Buildings around the U.S. were defaced with spray-painted messages, from the facade of St. Patrick’s Cathedral in New York to the historic Hay-Adams hotel near the White House. Some of Floyd’s gasped last words — “I can’t breathe” — were repeated, alongside anti-police messages.Crews near the White House worked to replace windows that had been shattered with large pieces of wood. Buildings for blocks were marked with graffiti, including curses about Trump. Shattered glass still covered the sidewalks. The damaged buildings included the Department of Veterans Affairs, directly across the street from the White House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/protests-form-across-us-demanding-end-to-police-violence/story-5b8EVhnYCe7jMI8cwDXYOO.html
01-06-2020||World||Trump rushed into White House bunker by Secret Service as protests raged: Report||Secret Service agents rushed President Donald Trump to a White House bunker on Friday night as hundreds of protesters gathered outside the executive mansion, some of them throwing rocks and tugging at police barricades.Trump spent nearly an hour in the bunker, which was designed for use in emergencies like terrorist attacks, according to a Republican close to the White House who was not authorized to publicly discuss private matters and spoke on condition of anonymity. The account was confirmed by an administration official who also spoke on condition of anonymity.The abrupt decision by the agents underscored the rattled mood inside the White House, where the chants from protesters in Lafayette Park could be heard all weekend and Secret Service agents and law enforcement officers struggled to contain the crowds.Friday’s protests were triggered by the death of George Floyd, a black man who died after he was pinned at the neck by a white Minneapolis police officer. The demonstrations in Washington turned violent and appeared to catch officers by surprise. They sparked one of the highest alerts on the White House complex since the Sept. 11 attacks in 2001 .“The White House does not comment on security protocols and decisions,” said White House spokesman Judd Deere. The Secret Service said it does not discuss the means and methods of its protective operations. The president’s move to the bunker was first reported by The New York Times.The president and his family have been shaken by the size and venom of the crowds, according to the Republican. It was not immediately clear if first lady Melania Trump and the couple’s 14-year-old son, Barron, joined the president in the bunker. Secret Service protocol would have called for all those under the agency’s protection to be in the underground shelter.Trump has told advisers he worries about his safety, while both privately and publicly praising the work of the Secret Service.Trump traveled to Florida on Saturday to view the first manned space launch from the U.S. in nearly a decade. He returned to a White House under virtual siege, with protesters — some violent — gathered just a few hundred yards away through much of the night.Demonstrators returned Sunday afternoon, facing off against police at Lafayette Park into the evening.Trump continued his effort to project strength, using a series of inflammatory tweets and delivering partisan attacks during a time of national crisis.As cities burned night after night and images of violence dominated television coverage, Trump’s advisers discussed the prospect of an Oval Office address in an attempt to ease tensions. The notion was quickly scrapped for lack of policy proposals and the president’s own seeming disinterest in delivering a message of unity.Trump did not appear in public on Sunday. Instead, a White House official who was not authorized to discuss the plans ahead of time said Trump was expected in the coming days to draw distinctions between the legitimate anger of peaceful protesters and the unacceptable actions of violent agitators.On Sunday, Trump retweeted a message from a conservative commentator encouraging authorities to respond with greater force.“This isn’t going to stop until the good guys are willing to use overwhelming force against the bad guys,” Buck Sexton wrote in a message amplified by the president.In recent days security at the White House has been reinforced by the National Guard and additional personnel from the Secret Service and the U.S. Park Police.On Sunday, the Justice Department deployed members of the U.S. Marshals Service and agents from the Drug Enforcement Administration to supplement National Guard troops outside the White House, according to a senior Justice Department official. The official could not discuss the matter publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-rushed-into-white-house-bunker-by-secret-service-as-protests-raged-report/story-EolKzmlQZPbxwS1amcKuPM.html
01-06-2020||World||George Floyd protests: Flames engulf 200-year-old historic church near White House||An over 200-year-old historic St John’s church near White House has been vandalised and set on fire as protests over the death of George Floyd escalated into rioting and multiple fires seen in Washington and other US cities.“This church has been standing in our city since the early 1800s. Please avoid the area,” the Metropolitan Police Department (MPD) of the District of Columbia said on Twitter.Firefighters quickly extinguished the basement fire, which police said was intentionally set. The MPD said it is currently responding to multiple fires intentionally set in Washington D.C and its suburban neighbourhoods.Protestors were also seen pulling down a flag from the landmark that opened in the year 1816 and popularly nicknamed the “Church of the Presidents” as beginning with James Madison, every president has been an occasional attendee of services.In Washington, Fox News cameras were rolling as flames erupted in the newly renovated basement of the St. John’s Church parish house; it was unclear exactly how the fire started or how much damage had been done to the church.A senior official said more than 50 Secret Service officers have been injured so far Sunday night, with the numbers expected to worsen, as rioters hurled bottles and Molotov cocktails.There were protests in the area all day, and protesters set several fires on Sunday evening.According to the Washington Post, in Georgetown and elsewhere in America’s capital city, people spent the afternoon hammering plywood boards outside retail shops and restaurants in the hopes their businesses would escape the attacks that others a day earlier did not. American flags and parked cars and buildings were lit ablaze.The city is now under curfew, which went into effect at 11 p.m. (local time) and will be active until 6 a.m. on Monday.The scale of the protests spanned from San Francisco to Boston and unfolding on a single night.More than two dozen mayors and governors have imposed curfews, a level not seen the unrest following the 1968 assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., The New York Times reported.In Indianapolis, two people were reported dead in bursts of downtown violence, adding to deaths reported in Detroit and Minneapolis in recent days.Earlier Sunday, people robbed stores in broad daylight in Philadelphia and Santa Monica, California, and a driver sped a semitrailer toward a massive crowd of people assembled on a highway in Minneapolis -- but remarkably, there were no initial reports of anyone hurt aside from that driver.In neighbouring St. Paul, thousands gathered peacefully in front of the state Capitol, pledging to keep up the protests.The National Guard’s top general on Sunday said Guard units in nearly half of US states have been mobilized to help major cities deal with the riots. Gen. Joseph Lengyel said some 16,000 additional Guard troops have been deployed to 24 states and the District of Columbia in response to civil disturbances.Floyd died Monday after a Derek Chauvin, a white Minneapolis police officer, pressed his knee on Floyd’s neck. The officer has been charged with third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter; he and three other officers were fired from the force after a video of Floyd’s death emerged.Riots erupted from demonstrations in cities from San Francisco to Boston protesting the death of Floyd.The latest deployment brought the total number of deployed National Guard members to about 62,000 across the country. Other Guard members already had been deployed to assist with their governments’ COVID-19 relief efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/george-floyd-protests-flames-engulf-200-year-old-historic-church-near-white-house/story-tBavOiPI7Mu4yUsphhx4EM.html
01-06-2020||World||Trump’s prospect for re-election slips over negative Covid ratings, poll suggests||Donald Trump’s prospect for re-election expected to be held in November seems to be eroding as Americans give negative ratings to the US President for his handling of the coronavirus pandemic, the blowback of which continues to persist on the economy as well as on the daily lives of the people, in comparison to his rival and former vice president Joe Biden who now enjoys a clear lead nationally, according to a Washington Post-ABC News poll.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOverall, Americans offer mixed assessments of Trump and Biden, and although the presumptive Democratic nominee is viewed less favourably overall today than he was last fall, he fares better than the president on several personal attributes.At the same time, Trump’s supporters are notably more enthusiastic and committed to voting for him in the fall than are those who currently back Biden, said the Post-ABC poll, conducted between May 25-28 over phone among a random national sample of 1,001 adults.Biden leads Trump with 53 per cent to 43 per cent among registered voters nationally. That 10 percentage-point margin compares with what was a virtual dead heat between the two candidates two months ago when Biden was at 49 per cent and Trump 47 per cent. Among all adults, Biden’s margin widens to 13 points (53 per cent to 40 per cent).Against a rapidly changing backdrop -- with the coronavirus far from contained, the prospects for the economy remaining rocky as many businesses begin to reopen and violence convulsing cities across the nation -- the poll captures the moment. But it is not predictive as to the political fallout and implications for November, especially given the possible disparity between the popular vote and the electoral college results as was the case in 2016.Two months ago, Trump reached his highest approval rating in Post-ABC polls and for the first time he was in narrowly positive territory with 48 per cent approving to 46 per cent disapproving.The decline this time is also evident in assessments of Trump’s handling of the coronavirus crisis. Two months ago, as the nation was beginning to shutter itself to halt the spread of the virus, he was in positive territory, 51 per cent to 45 per cent. Today he has slipped to 46 per cent approving and 53 per cent disapproving.Trump’s stronger ratings in March were fueled in part by improved standing among some Democratic-leaning groups, some swing voters and also among women, signs of a rally effect that past presidents have experienced during national crises.That support has now receded, both on his handling of the pandemic and his overall rating. Among women, for example, approval on Trump’s handling of the virus has moved from an even split in March (48 per cent to 48 per cent disapproval) to significantly negative now (39 per cent positive to 59 per cent negative).On the economy, the president’s ratings are still in positive territory, at 52 per cent of Americans approving and 44 per cent disapproving. But that also reflects slippage since March, when he was net positive by 19 points.At a time when more than 40 million people have applied for unemployment insurance, the jobless rate in April was 14.7 per cent and some small businesses have been closed permanently, assessments of the economy have understandably turned sour.The poll also found that 34 per cent of Americans gave the economy a positive rating while 65 per cent offered a negative rating, including 24 per cent who offer the harshest verdict by saying the current state is “poor.”The Trump campaign has a huge financial advantage over Biden and is expected to use it to further sully his image in an attempt to re-create the circumstances that helped lead to Trump’s election in 2016.Democrats are counting on strong support from suburban voters, especially women, to help fuel a possible victory in November. Currently, suburbanites are more favourable toward Biden than they were toward Clinton in May 2016, with Biden at 50 per cent favourable compared with 38 per cent who were favourable toward Clinton then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-s-prospect-for-re-election-slips-over-negative-covid-ratings-poll-suggests/story-Y0sn6BwkHuE0PnWP8E5qHJ.html
01-06-2020||World||China rapidly expanded high-altitude weapon systems after Doklam standoff, says report||China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has expanded its specialised high-altitude arsenal of weapons since the 2017 Doklam standoff with India to prepare for future conflicts, a state media report said.“Since the Doklam standoff with India in 2017, the Chinese military has expanded its arsenal with weapons like the Type 15 tank, Z-20 helicopter and GJ-2 drone that should give China the advantage in high-altitude conflicts should they arise,” the nationalistic tabloid Global Times reported, quoting anonymous military experts.The listing of new weapons, which could be specifically used against Indian troops by the Communist Party of China (CPC)-controlled news outlet comes in the backdrop of new tensions at the border.Also Watch | On China tension, India reacts to Donald Trump’s offer; standoff continues Soldiers of the two countries are eyeball-to-eyeball at four locations along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.Another group of border troops had clashed at Naku La in Sikkim last month as well.Several rounds of talks between local military commanders have failed to end the standoff that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols on May 5-6 near Pangong Tso that left scores of soldiers from both sides injured.China’s state-run media has described the latest tensions as the worst since the 2017 Doklam (Donglang in Chinese) standoff that lasted 73 days.The Global Times report didn’t mention whether the new tanks and helicopters have already been deployed at the border but indicated that they could be swiftly operationalised.The report said that both the Type 15 tank and the PCL-181 howitzer - China’s most advanced vehicle-mounted howitzer, as per the report - were displayed in the high-elevation plateau region of Southwest China’s Tibet Autonomous Region in a China Central Television report on military exercises in January.The Type 15 tank is the world’s only modern lightweight tank in service, Chinese military magazine Weapon had earlier reported, noting it is equipped with a 105-millimetre gun and advanced sensors that can “devastate enemy light armoured vehicles in regions not suitable for heavy main battle tank deployment”.“At Airshow China 2018, the Chinese Air Force unveiled the GJ-2 armed reconnaissance drone, which has a higher ceiling and can carry more payload than the previous GJ-1. Reports said it can be used to patrol the long border in high-altitude areas like Tibet.”The analysts said that the “...specially designed weapons have boosted the Chinese military’s combat capabilities in high-altitude regions, enabling it to better safeguard national sovereignty and territorial integrity”.For its first military exercise for 2020, which was held in January, the PLA’s Tibet military command had “...deployed helicopters, armoured vehicles, heavy artillery and anti-aircraft missiles across the region from Lhasa, capital of Tibet, with an elevation of 3,700 meters to border defense frontlines with elevations of more than 4,000 meters,” China Central Television had reported.Most of the disputed boundary between India and China falls in the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR), whose international borders include Nepal and Bhutan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-rapidly-expanded-high-altitude-weapon-systems-after-doklam-standoff-says-report/story-4QudqVxXY2BCEf7NnRcbSK.html
01-06-2020||World||Double whammy: After Covid-19, the US now grapples with protests||The United States has been hardest hit by the coronavirus pandemic which started from Wuhan in China and quickly spread across the world. It has the highest number of Covid-19 cases - nearly 18 lakh - as well as the death toll.Many cities in the United States has seen the number of Covid-19 cases spike.And now, it is being singed by the protests against the killing of a black man. George Floyd was killed last Monday in Minneapolis when a police officer pinned him down and knelt on his neck; the man died gasping for breath.Since then, a wave of ‘I can’t breathe’ protests have swept across US cities with thousands coming on the streets and clashing with the police. These protests are once again resonating with the message ‘Black Lives Matter’.In Washington, protesters started fires near the White House as tensions with police mounted during a third straight night of demonstrations. They piled up road signs and plastic barriers and lit the raging fire in the middle of H Street. Others added branches pulled from trees.Enraged protesters screamed, “Who do you serve? Who do you protect?” Police shot pepper powders point black at several protesters.The accused police officer Derek Chauvin was first fired and then charged with third-degree murder in Floyd’s death.Nations around the world have watched in horror at the civil unrest in the United States. Burning cars and riot police in the US featured on newspaper front pages around the globe Sunday - bumping news of the Covid-19 pandemic to second-tier status in some places.Thousands gathered in central London on Sunday to offer support for American demonstrators. Chanting “No justice! No peace!” and waving placards with the words “How many more?” at Trafalgar Square, the protesters ignored UK government rules banning crowds because of the pandemic. Police didn’t stop them.Demonstrators then marched to the US Embassy, where a long line of officers surrounded the building. Several hundred milled around in the street and waved placards.Protesters in Denmark also converged on the US Embassy on Sunday. Participants carried placards with messages such as “Stop Killing Black People”.With 1,789,364 confirmed cases and 1,04,358 deaths, the US accounts for the highest number of infections and fatalities in the world, according to Johns Hopkins University’s Centre for Systems Science and Engineering (CSSE).The total number of global coronavirus cases, meanwhile, has increased to over 6.1 million, while the deaths have surged to more than 3,71,000.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/double-whammy-after-covid-19-the-us-now-grapples-with-protests/story-OthKejetfceUYOQTiFsloO.html
01-06-2020||World||Spain PM to extend Coronavirus lockdown to June 21||Spain’s prime minister said on Sunday the country needed 15 more days of lockdown until June 21 “to finish with the pandemic once and for all”, and will ask parliament to approve a final two-week extension to the stay-home rule.“We have almost set out what we set out to do,” Pedro Sanchez told a press conference, as he expressed his intense relief that the number of new cases of Covid-19 in Spain, one of the nations hardest-hit by the virus, had fallen dramatically.From June 21, a national state of emergency will end and with it the lockdown, allowing citizens to move freely in their regions.From July 1, citizens will be able to move throughout the country. Spain’s death toll rose by two on Sunday to 27,127, the health ministry said, while the number of COVID-19 infections rose by 96 overnight to 239,429.Spain imposed a state of emergency on 14 March which involved a strict lockdown under which people could only leave their homes to buy food, seek medical care or for jobs where they could not work from home. Children were initially confined inside all day. Restrictions are being gradually eased. Despite opposition to the most recent lockdown extension from parties on the right and demonstrations across Spain, Sanchez has struck a deal with a Catalan separatist party Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya (ERC) which should guarantee his minority government secures enough support to extend the lockdown. The current state of emergency is set to expire on June 7. Sanchez says this final stretch of the lockdown will include the handing back of control over health care to the regions that have shown the most progress in containing the virus.“We have almost reached safe harbour,” Sanchez said.The central government is slowing rolling back confinement measures depending on which areas have fewer infections and are better prepared for a possible second outbreak. The focus is now on maintaining the virus in check while reactivating an economy that Sanchez’s said will shrink by over 9% this year and take two years to recover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spain-pm-to-extend-coronavirus-lockdown-to-june-21/story-NZIihASEcdG3vpTFhlAiMJ.html
01-06-2020||World||Canadian soldiers on Covid-19 duty to get benefits like soldiers serving abroad||Canadians soldiers, who have been pressed into service to tackle the coronavirus crisis in long-term care homes in the country, will receive benefits on par with those for troops on overseas missions, given the hazardous nature of their duty.These homes, particularly in the hardest hit provinces of Quebec and Ontario, have accounted for the majority of deaths related to the Covid-19 pandemic in Canada, and 40 soldiers have already tested positive since being stationed at such facilities.Canadian Armed Forces personnel were called in at these homes after they proved to be the epicentre of Covid-19 related fatalities, numbering more than 60 per cent of the 7,295 deaths recorded in the country so far. They were inserted into the homes after public health authorities, especially in Quebec, were unable to cope with the emergency.Such homes house those most vulnerable to the disease, like the elderly or those with chronic conditions and debilities. In a letter posted online, Canada’s Chief of the Defence Staff General Jonathan Vance noted that this deployment has been designated a “special duty operation.” Canadian outlet CBC reported that it was expected that these soldiers will be eligible for “hazard pay.”Canadian Armed Forces or CAF realised the danger when they were first called in “given that our personnel would be operating in high risk environments and working in close proximity to residents who have tested positive or are exhibiting Covid-19 related symptoms”, a statement noted. There are 1,760 troops deployed at these facilities, of whom 1,475 are deployed at 23 homes in Quebec, beginning in April.Recent reports from the armed forces about the deplorable state of these homes has been in the headlines in the country.Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has maintained that these troops will keep assisting in these nursing homes, though he also described this as a “stopgap” measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadian-soldiers-on-covid-19-duty-to-get-benefits-like-soldiers-serving-abroad/story-MA7CKdLSRVj9CuuqHTnv6M.html
01-06-2020||World||Global Covid cases top 6 million as Brazil fatalities surge past that of France||The number of coronavirus cases worldwide has topped six million as the disease spread rapidly across Latin America and political leaders feuded over how to deal with the pandemic.Much of the world is moving at varying speeds to lift lockdowns that have wrecked economies and stripped millions of their jobs while Muslims in Jerusalem and other cities flocked to newly reopened mosques on Sunday.But in Brazil -- the epicenter of South America’s outbreak with nearly 500,000 confirmed cases, lagging only behind the US -- disagreement among its leaders over lockdown measures has hampered efforts to slow the outbreak.President Jair Bolsonaro, who says the economic fallout from stay-at-home orders will be worse than the virus, has berated governors and mayors for imposing quarantines. Even as his country surpassed France to have the world’s fourth-highest toll with nearly 30,000 deaths, he called for Brazil football season to resume.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-covid-cases-top-6-million-as-brazil-fatalities-surge-past-that-of-france/story-pnGlZfeQdxrzPFPiZx4sPN.html
01-06-2020||World||Tear gas fired at protestors as clashes erupt outside White House||Police fired tear gas outside the White House late Sunday as major US cities were put under curfew to suppress rioting as anti-racism protestors again took to the streets to voice fury at police brutality.With the Trump administration branding instigators of six nights of rioting as domestic terrorists, there were more confrontations between protestors and police and fresh outbreaks of looting.Violent clashes erupted repeatedly in a small park next to the White House, with authorities using tear gas, pepper spray and flash bang grenades to disperse crowds who lit several large fires and damaged property.Local US leaders appealed to citizens to give constructive outlet to their rage over the death of an unarmed black man in Minneapolis, while night-time curfews were imposed in cities including Washington, Los Angeles and Houston.One closely watched protest was outside the state capitol in Minneapolis’ twin city of St. Paul, where several thousand people gathered before marching down a highway.“We have black sons, black brothers, black friends, we don’t want them to die. We are tired of this happening, this generation is not having it, we are tired of oppression,” said Muna Abdi, a 31-year-old black woman who joined the protest.“I want to make sure he stays alive,” she added in reference to her son, aged three. Hundreds of police and National Guard troops were deployed ahead of the protest.At one point, some of the protestors who had reached a bridge were forced to scramble for cover when a truck drove at speed after having apparently breached a barricade.The driver was later taken to hospital after the protestors hauled him from the vehicle, although there were no immediate reports of other casualties.There were other large-scale protests in cities including New York and Miami.Washington’s mayor ordered a curfew from 11:00 pm until 6:00 am, as a report in the New York Times said that President Donald Trump had been rushed by Secret Service agents into an underground bunker at the White House on Friday night during an earlier protest.Stores ransacked Large-scale violence has rocked many US cities in recent days, and looters ransacked stores in a neighborhood of Philadelphia on Sunday.In the Los Angeles suburb of Santa Monica, looting was reported at stores in a popular beachside shopping center.Officials in LA -- a city scarred by the 1992 riots over the police beating of Rodney King, an African-American man -- imposed a curfew from 4:00 pm Sunday until dawn.“Please, use your discretion and go early, go home, stay home and help us make sure that those who want to change this conversation from being about racial justice to be about burning things and looting things, don’t win the day,” the city’s mayor Eric Garcetti said on CNN.The shocking videotaped death last Monday of an unarmed black man, George Floyd, at the hands of police in Minneapolis ignited the nationwide wave of outrage over law enforcement’s repeated use of lethal force against unarmed African Americans.Floyd stopped breathing after Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin knelt on his neck for nearly nine minutes.Chauvin has been charged with third-degree murder and is due to make his first appearance in court on Monday. Three other officers with him have been fired but for now face no charges.Governor Tim Walz has mobilized all of Minnesota’s National Guard troops -- the state guard’s biggest mobilization ever -- to help restore order.Police fired tear gas and stun grenades to clear streets of curfew violators Saturday night in Minneapolis.Walz extended a curfew for a third night Sunday and praised police and guardsmen for holding down violence. “They did so in a professional manner. They did so without a single loss of life and minimal property damage,” he said.“Congratulations to our National Guard for the great job they did immediately upon arriving in Minneapolis, Minnesota, last night,” President Donald Trump tweeted, adding that they “should be used in other States before it is too late!”The Department of Defense said that around 5,000 National Guard troops had been mobilized in 15 states as well as the capital Washington, with another 2,000 on standby.The widespread resort to uniformed National Guards units is rare, and it evoked disturbing memories of the rioting in US cities in 1967 and 1968 in a turbulent time of protest over racial and economic disparities. Trump blamed the extreme left for the violence, saying he planned to designate a group known as Antifa as a terrorist organization.“The violence instigated and carried out by Antifa and other similar groups in connection with the rioting is domestic terrorism and will be treated accordingly,” added Attorney General Bill Barr.-A nation in pain’Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms said Trump, who has often urged police to use tough tactics, was not helping matters.“We are beyond a tipping point in this country, and his rhetoric only enflames that,” she said on CBS.Joe Biden, Trump’s likely Democratic opponent in November’s presidential election, visited the scene of one anti-racism protest.“We are a nation in pain right now, but we must not allow this pain to destroy us,” Biden tweeted, posting a picture of him speaking with an African-American family at the site where protesters had gathered in Delaware late Saturday.Floyd’s death has triggered protests beyond the United States, with hundreds rallying outside the US embassy in London in solidarity.“I’m here because I’m tired, I’m fed up with it. When does this stop?” Doreen Pierre told AFP at the protest.In Germany, England football international Jadon Sancho marked one of his three goals for Borussia Dortmund against Paderborn by lifting his jersey to reveal a T-shirt bearing the words “Justice for George Floyd”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tear-gas-fired-as-clashes-erupt-outside-white-house/story-dz30JkxDVwPXSNTnATQK7N.html
01-06-2020||World||Covid-19 impact: Canada’s GDP fell a record 11% in April||Canada’s national statistical agency has warned the country may have suffered a record decline in real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) as the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic is being felt across all sectors.Statistics Canada, or StatCan as its popularly known, has estimated an 11 per cent fall in real GDP for April, following a 7.2 per cent drop in March. Real GDP is the gross domestic product corrected for inflation.While the April figure is based on preliminary information and will be revised once the final data is available, StatCan stated, “Nonetheless, the March and April decreases are likely to be the largest consecutive monthly declines on record.”It pointed out that out of 20 industrial sectors, 19 had decline and the only sector to show growth was non-durable manufacturing thanks largely to surges in food, beverage and tobacco products.“After the World Health Organization declared Covid-19 a pandemic on March 11, all levels of government in Canada put measures in place to slow its spread. Measures such as mandatory closures of non-essential businesses, schools and public institutions, and travel restrictions and physical distancing, combined with the closure of Canada’s international borders, affected all segments of the Canadian economy,” StatCan noted in a release.Canada will invest C$30 million ($21.8 million) to enable its provinces and territories to promote holidays in their “own back yard” because of the closure of the country’s borders due to the coronavirus pandemic.Canada, which has had more than 7,000 deaths due to COVID-19, has closed its borders to non-essential travel since March, and it is unclear when they will be opened again. Many provinces have also shut down domestic non-essential travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-impact-canada-s-gdp-fell-a-record-11-in-april/story-CDbc6ABxF8SLMtjsBvqxgK.html
01-06-2020||World||Trump took shelter in White House bunker as protests raged||Secret Service agents rushed President Donald Trump to a White House bunker on Friday night as hundreds of protesters gathered outside the executive mansion, some of them throwing rocks and tugging at police barricades.Trump spent nearly an hour in the bunker, which was designed for use in emergencies like terrorist attacks, according to a Republican close to the White House who was not authorized to publicly discuss private matters and spoke on condition of anonymity. The account was confirmed by an administration official who also on condition of anonymity.The abrupt decision by the agents underscored the rattled mood inside the White House, where the chants from protesters in Lafayette Park could be heard all weekend and Secret Service agents and law enforcement officers struggled to contain the crowds.Friday’s protests were triggered by the death of George Floyd, a black man who died after he was pinned at the neck by a white Minneapolis police officer. The demonstrations in Washington turned violent and appeared to catch officers by surprise. They sparked one of the highest alerts on the White House complex since the Sept. 11 attacks in 2001 .“The White House does not comment on security protocols and decisions,” said White House spokesman Judd Deere. The Secret Service said it does not discuss the means and methods of its protective operations. The president’s move to the bunker was first reported by The New York Times.The president and his family have been shaken by the size and venom of the crowds, according to the Republican. It was not immediately clear if first lady Melania Trump and the couple’s 14-year-old son, Barron, joined the president in the bunker. Secret Service protocol would have called for all those under the agency’s protection to be in the underground shelter.Trump has told advisers he worries about his safety, while both privately and publicly praising the work of the Secret Service.Trump traveled to Florida on Saturday to view the first manned space launch from the US in nearly a decade. He returned to a White House under virtual siege, with protesters — some violent — gathered just a few hundred yards away through much of the night.Demonstrators returned Sunday afternoon, facing off against police at Lafayette Park into the evening.Trump continued his effort to project strength, using a series of inflammatory tweets and delivering partisan attacks during a time of national crisis.As cities burned night after night and images of violence dominated television coverage, Trump’s advisers discussed the prospect of an Oval Office address in an attempt to ease tensions. The notion was quickly scrapped for lack of policy proposals and the president’s own seeming disinterest in delivering a message of unity.Trump did not appear in public on Sunday. Instead, a White House official who was not authorized to discuss the plans ahead of time said Trump was expected in the coming days to draw distinctions between the legitimate anger of peaceful protesters and the unacceptable actions of violent agitators.On Sunday, Trump retweeted a message from a conservative commentator encouraging authorities to respond with greater force.“This isn’t going to stop until the good guys are willing to use overwhelming force against the bad guys,” Buck Sexton wrote in a message amplified by the president.In recent days security at the White House has been reinforced by the National Guard and additional personnel from the Secret Service and the US Park Police.On Sunday, the Justice Department deployed members of the US Marshals Service and agents from the Drug Enforcement Administration to supplement National Guard troops outside the White House, according to a senior Justice Department official. The official could not discuss the matter publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-took-shelter-in-white-house-bunker-as-protests-raged/story-uHK2zpfDRSx7TIGP5JtAbP.html
01-06-2020||World||Washington under curfew after protests near White House: Mayor||A nighttime curfew will be imposed across the United States’ capital Washington on Sunday evening, the mayor of the District of Columbia said, after protestors again gathered near the White House.Mayor Muriel Bowser said in a statement that the curfew would last from 11:00 pm until 6:00 am on Monday, adding she had mobilized the National Guard to support the police after nationwide protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/washington-under-curfew-after-protests-near-white-house-mayor/story-nyWfau2vgUfZucfRRuoQAO.html
01-06-2020||World||In photos: Rage and anguish from George Floyd protests spreading across US cities||The United States is burning. Violence is rapidly spreading over the killing of a black man last week by the US police official in Minneapolis. A video of the man, George Floyd, has been circulating which shows a US police officer kneeling on his neck and he gasping for breath. The protests have been hence been named ‘I can’t breathe’. Four police officials have been suspended but as Floyd’s video is spreading, so are the protests.Also read: Trump took shelter in White House bunker as protests ragedThe protests have prompted major cities to impose curfews.Civil unrest has swelled following Monday’s death of George Floyd. The National Guard said on Sunday that 5,000 soldiers and airmen had been activated in 15 states and Washington, DC, but that “state and local law enforcement agencies remain responsible for security.”California Governor Gavin Newsom declared a state of emergency and deployed National Guard troops to Los Angeles after overnight protests that evoked memories of the 1992 riots over the police beating of Rodney King.Also read: Journalists covering US protests find themselves under attackThe governors of Virginia and New York said on Sunday they were placing their National Guards on standby amid protests in their states.Major US cities feared another night of violent protests on Sunday over the death of George Floyd in police custody, cleaning up broken glass and burned out cars after curfews failed to stop confrontations between activists and law enforcement.What began as peaceful demonstrations over the death of Floyd, who died as a white Minneapolis police officer knelt on his neck, have become a wave of outrage sweeping a politically and racially divided nation.Protesters have flooded streets after weeks of lockdowns during the coronavirus pandemic that threw millions out of work and hit minority communities especially hard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-photos-rage-and-anguish-from-george-floyd-protests-spreading-across-us-cities/story-II69bgSXTtzuqNdHr3giUK.html
01-06-2020||World||Trump invokes law-and-order to put protests against police brutality over Covid-19||President Donald Trump has seized on destructive nationwide protests against police brutality to portray himself as an icon of law and order, eschewing the soothing role past presidents have adopted in similar moments as he seeks to turn the election-year conversation from his widely panned handling of the coronavirus outbreak.The president on Sunday blamed the protests on Antifa, a loosely organized leftist movement that is a frequent target of conservative critics, and said he would declare the group to be terrorists. His political advisers believe the move pressures his re-election challenger, former Vice President Joe Biden, to either agree with the president -- splitting with the demonstrators -- or side with people that some White House officials regard as rioters.But in choosing to seize on calm the political and racial divisions inflamed by the death of an unarmed black man in Minneapolis police custody last week, the president risks alienating those U.S. voters looking for a leader who will console and unify. The coronavirus outbreak that Trump has sought to relegate to a back burner, meanwhile, continues to infect upwards of 1,000 Americans daily.By painting himself as a purveyor of law-and-order confronting political enemies he’s depicted as incompetent or crazed radicals, the president seeks to recreate the 2016 formula that put him in the White House, when the enthusiasm of Trump’s “forgotten Americans” overwhelmed a dispirited and divided center and left.But even some in Trump’s camp worry this may be one crisis too many for a president who has seemed to thrive on them. Even as the protests rage, voters are also enduring a coronavirus death toll that’s exceeded 100,000 and a U.S. economy in tatters.And people willing to take to the streets in the middle of a pandemic will surely show up to vote in November, one person close to Trump’s campaign fretted.Midnight StatementYet Biden has so far struggled to find his own footing on the protests that followed the death of George Floyd. His first substantive response to the demonstrations was a statement e-mailed to reporters after midnight Sunday morning.”It took two days of rioting across the country until Joe Biden finally released a statement, published after midnight this morning, to urge for an end to the violence,” Steve Guest, spokesman for the Republican National Committee, said in a statement on Sunday.Trump opted over the weekend against his own national address – a venue where he’s struggled before to demonstrate empathy. He instead limited his public remarks on the demonstrations that roiled cities across the nation to the preface of a speech in Florida celebrating the first launch of U.S. astronauts from U.S. soil since 2011.Rather than reaching for unity, Trump vowed to end “mob violence” and confront “radical left criminals.”On Twitter, the president declared he’d name demonstrators as members of a terrorist organization and threatened protesters near the White House with “vicious dogs” and “ominous weapons.” His critics said he was purposely evoking racist imagery from the civil rights protests of the last century, when police set dogs on African Americans and their allies.Trump said he would deploy the National Guard to communities where violence erupted and encouraged his supporters to convene for a counter-protest at the White House, all the while blaming the media and Democratic leaders for the strife.While the president offered public condolences and the promise of a targeted federal investigation into Floyd’s death -- the latest member of a tragic fraternity of unarmed black Americans who have died in interactions with police – the president signaled little appetite for the systemic changes demanded by protesters.He egged on law enforcement to react even more forcefully to violent protests and discounted alarm over images of police officers ramming demonstrators with vehicles. Trump defended the “overwhelming majority” of police on Saturday, saying they were “incredible in every way” – a sentiment echoed by his national security adviser on Sunday.“I don’t think there’s systemic racism,” Robert O’Brien told CNN. “I think 99.9% of our law enforcement officers are great Americans.”‘Not Constructive’But Floyd’s own brother criticized the president for not listening to his pleas for reforms in a phone call earlier in the week, telling MSNBC that Trump “didn’t give me an opportunity to even speak.”And Trump’s response drew concern from at least one ally, Senator Tim Scott, a South Carolina Republican. He said he had told Trump that some of his tweets on the protests were “not constructive.”“We talked about the fact that there is a constructive way to have a dialogue with a nation,” Scott, the only black Republican in the Senate, said in an interview with Fox News. He said the tenor of the conversation was similar to concerns he expressed to Trump in the aftermath of a 2017 white supremacist protest in Charlottesville, Virginia.But the president has shown throughout his political career – from his grievance-laden campaign to his reaction to Charlottesville, when he famously said there were “very fine people on both sides” – that he sees more advantage in voicing the sentiments of his narrow but electorally potent base of supporters than attempting national unity and healing.And the protests offer Trump another opportunity to try to shift focus from the coronavirus pandemic, which most Americans believe he has handled poorly, according to public polling. A majority of Americans – 53% - said in an ABC News/Washington Post poll released Sunday that they disapproved of Trump’s performanceSince the politically disastrous moment in April when Trump suggested Covid-19 might be treated with light or by injecting disinfectant into patients, Trump has looked to escalate tensions with China -- accusing the country of misleading the world over the pandemic. He’s also publicly sparred with MSNBC host Joe Scarborough, baselessly accusing him of murder while he was a congressman, and with Twitter after the social media company appended two of his tweets with fact-checking links.Trump EnthusiasmThere’s some evidence that Trump’s strategy may work. While the president trailed Biden by 10 percentage points in the same ABC News/Washington Post poll, the margin was halved when participants were limited to those who say they are certain to vote in November.And while 31% of Biden supporters say they are very enthusiastic about backing the Democrat, more than twice as many Trump supporters -- 64% -- say the same about the president. Those margins suggest Trump remains competitive despite disillusionment with his coronavirus response.And Trump’s allies believe Biden is poorly situated to exploit the Floyd protests.Less than two weeks ago, the former vice president was forced to apologize for his remark to a radio host that African Americans who haven’t decided to vote for him “ain’t black.” While Biden largely follows federal health authorities’ advice and remains home during the coronavirus pandemic, he has only been able to address civil unrest following Floyd’s death via a video message distributed by Twitter, prior to his Sunday morning statement.The president’s campaign on Sunday said Biden should be asked whether he supported Trump’s largely symbolic move to label Antifa a terrorist organization, suggesting the president hopes to either force the vice president to support his move -- or denounce protesters and risk further alienation with left-wing voters.But the president’s decision to increasingly align himself with police and against protesters carries risk as well. Trump’s re-election strategy relies on again winning at least one of Michigan, Ohio, or Pennsylvania. Major cities in each of those states saw significant anti-police brutality protests following Floyd’s death.And the president’s attacks on the Democratic leadership of Minnesota, as well as tweets seen as inflaming tensions on the streets of Minneapolis, may hurt him in a state his campaign had seen as a prime pick-up opportunity. Before the Floyd killing and unrest, Biden held a 5 percentage-point lead in the state, according to a May 25 poll published by the Minneapolis Star-Tribune, Minnesota Public Radio and the local NBC affiliate, KARE 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-invokes-law-and-order-to-put-protests-against-police-brutality-over-pandemic/story-F9ITzw8Wg2RDyPrLiA2sOI.html
01-06-2020||World||Donald Trump says US designating Antifa as terrorist organisation for role in violence||US President Donald Trump on Sunday said that America is designating far-left extremist group Antifa as a terrorist organisation in view of its role in violence across the country after the killing of a black man by a white police officer in Minnesota.Antifa, regarded as a militant, left-wing, anti-fascist political activist movement in the US, comprises autonomous activist groups that aim to achieve their political objectives through the use of direct action rather than through policy reforms.“The United States of America will be designating Antifa as a terrorist organisation,” Trump said in a tweet.The Trump administration is blaming this far-left extremist group for the sudden spike in violent protests across the country after the brutal killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis.“The violence instigated and carried out by Antifa and other similar groups in connection with the rioting is domestic terrorism and will be treated accordingly,” Attorney General William P Barr said in a statement.The Trump administration alleges that it appears the violence is planned, organized and driven by anarchistic and far left extremists using Antifa-like tactics, many of whom travel from out of state to promote the violence.To identify criminal organisers and instigators, and to coordinate federal resources with state and local partners, federal law enforcement is using the existing network of 56 regional FBI Joint Terrorism Task Forces (JTTF), the Attorney General said.“With the rioting that is occurring in many of our cities around the country, the voices of peaceful and legitimate protests have been hijacked by violent radical elements. Groups of outside radicals and agitators are exploiting the situation to pursue their own separate, violent and extremist agenda.“It is time to stop watching the violence and to confront and stop it. The continued violence and destruction of property endangers the lives and livelihoods of others, and interferes with the rights of peaceful protestors, as well as all other citizens,” Barr said.It also undercuts the urgent work that needs to be done – through constructive engagement between affected communities and law enforcement leaders – to address legitimate grievances, he said.“Preventing reconciliation and driving us apart is the goal of these radical groups, and we cannot let them succeed,” Barr said.Appearing on a Sunday talk show, National Security Advisor Robert O’Brien told CNN that the president and the attorney general want to know from the FBI what they have been doing to track, dismantle, surveil and prosecute Antifa.“And if that hasn’t been happening, we want to know what the plan is going forward. These Antifa militant radicals who come into our cities and cross state lines, and they’re organised, and use Molotov cocktails and fireworks, and gas to burn down our cities, especially businesses in minority neighbourhoods, it’s got to be stopped,” he said.The violence, he alleged, has been driven by Antifa.“They did it in Seattle. They have done it in Portland. They have done it in Berkeley. This is a destructive force of radicals -- I don’t even know if we want to call them leftists. Whatever they are, they’re militants who are coming in and burning our cities, and we’re going to get to the bottom of it,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-says-us-designating-antifa-as-terrorist-organisation-for-role-in-violence/story-PkafkBFrCjSZRU43O2wT5H.html
01-06-2020||World||Journalists covering US protests find themselves under attack||Journalists covering nationwide protests over the death of a black man at police hands in Minneapolis have found themselves under attack, by police and at times by protesters.The arrest and handcuffing Friday of a black CNN journalist by police in Minneapolis -- even as he was reporting live on camera following the death of George Floyd -- may have drawn the widest coverage. The journalist, Omar Jimenez, was released an hour later after the Minnesota governor personally intervened.But there have been several other serious incidents across the country, notably in Louisville, Kentucky, where a riot-squad policeman fired what appeared to be pepper-spray pellets at a local TV crew filming the scene.“I’m getting shot!” Kaitlin Rust, a reporter with local TV channel WAVE-3, cried out on camera. And in Minneapolis, freelance journalist Linda Tirado was struck in the left eye by a rubber bullet fired by police, and said later on Twitter that she had permanently lost vision in that eye.“Authorities in cities across the US need to instruct police not to target journalists and ensure they can report safely on the protests without fear of injury or retaliation,” said a statement from the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ).Members of the media have also come under attack by protesters. In Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, photographer Ian Smith said he was subjected to a beating until other demonstrators came to his defense.In Atlanta, the headquarters of news network CNN was attacked Friday by several dozen people. Someone in the crowd lobbed a flash grenade into the building’s lobby as police stood guard there.And on Saturday morning, a Fox News journalist who was reporting from a position in front of the White House was pummeled and chased by demonstrators until police intervened. “If you are a protester, do what you feel is right, but don’t stop us from doing what we know is the job we have to do for the public. Please do not target, intimidate, humiliate or block our efforts,” said a statement from the Society of Professional Journalists (SPJ). President Donald Trump has frequently targeted the news media as a source of what he calls “fake news,” claiming without evidence that the media invent stories intended to harm him.Following the attack on the CNN building in Atlanta, the president retweeted a supporter’s post that seemed to gloat about the incident: “In an ironic twist of fate, CNN HQ is being attacked by the very riots they promoted as noble & just. Oops.”He has regularly denounced the press as “enemies of the people,” and has often singled out CNN as a favorite target.Media critics and commentators say such language can have the effect, at least among fringe elements, of encouraging violence against journalists.tu/bbk/jm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/journalists-covering-us-protests-find-themselves-under-attack/story-9xfAs4lfi8DwZHba2bx7WP.html
01-06-2020||World||Islamic State claims responsibility for Afghan bus attack||The Islamic State group took responsibility Sunday for a deadly roadside bombing against a bus belonging to a local TV station in the Afghan capital, while renewed fighting in nearby provinces killed at least seven civilians, including a woman and several children.In a statement on an IS-affiliated website, the group said Saturday’s attack in Kabul targeted a bus carrying employees of Khurshid TV, a station it described as “loyal to the Afghan apostate government.”Two employees were killed and four wounded, said Marwa Amini, the Interior Ministry deputy spokeswoman. Two of the wounded were in critical condition Sunday, said Mohammad Rafi Sediqi, an official at the station.Both the Taliban and the Islamic State are active in Kabul. IS has claimed recent attacks on civilian targets, while the Taliban has taken responsibility for attacking military targets. IS has been increasingly active in Afghanistan after suffering battlefield losses in recent months to government and US forces, as well as its Taliban rivals.Another roadside bomb exploded in Kabul on Sunday as a police patrol was passing by, wounding three civilians, said Tariq Arian, the Interior Ministry spokesman. No one immediately claimed responsibly for the blast.The attacks come after a truce expired between the Taliban and Afghan security forces for the three-day Muslim holiday of Eid al-Fitr, which ended Tuesday. The Taliban have claimed only one attack since then, and neither the Taliban insurgents nor the government appear to want a return to all-out fighting.However, renewed violence elsewhere in the country killed at least seven civilians on Saturday, officials said.A mortar shell fired by Afghan forces killed at least four civilians when it hit a home in Maidan Wardak province, said Wahidullah Akberzia, a provincial council member. He said the Afghan convoy had come under attack from the village late Saturday and fired back, resulting in the civilian deaths, which included a woman and three children.Local civilians protested the killings by carrying the bodies to the governor’s office on Sunday “to demand justice from the government,” Akberzia said, adding that two children had also been wounded. Maidan Wardak province borders Kabul to the west.Separately, at least three small children were killed Saturday when a mortar shell hit their home in Parwan province, said Wahida Shahkar, a spokeswoman for the provincial governor.Shahkar blamed the Taliban for the attack, but the Taliban denied involvement. Parwan province lies just north of the capital.In an apparent effort to resuscitate the flagging peace agreement signed between the US and Taliban in February, hundreds of Taliban prisoners were released by the government last week, and the Taliban made a reciprocal release of government personnel. The exchange of prisoners was seen as a goodwill gesture before the start of intra-Afghan negotiations between the Taliban and Kabul’s political leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/islamic-state-claims-responsibility-for-afghan-bus-attack/story-lXM87HLJWLsvQ1J92NHpJN.html
01-06-2020||World||‘I can’t breathe’ protests heat up as curfews imposed in several US cities||Civil unrest flared and curfews were imposed in several major US cities on Saturday as demonstrators took to the streets to vent outrage at the death of a black man shown on video gasping for breath as a white Minneapolis policeman knelt on his neck.From Los Angeles to Miami to Chicago, protests marked by chants of “I can’t breathe” - a rallying cry echoing the dying words of George Floyd - began peacefully before turning unruly as demonstrators blocked traffic, set fires and clashed with riot police, some firing tear gas and plastic bullets in an effort to restore order.The sight of protesters flooding streets fueled a sense of crisis in the United States after weeks of lockdowns due to the coronavirus pandemic, which has seen millions thrown out of work and has disproportionately affected minority communities. Also Watch | Trump calls George Floyd’s death ‘grave tragedy’, vows to stop mob violenceIn the nation’s capital, hundreds of demonstrators assembled near the Justice Department headquarters shouting, “black lives matter.” Many later moved to the White House, where they faced off with shield-carrying police, some mounted on horseback.President Donald Trump said on Saturday that if protesters who gathered the night before in Lafayette Square, across from the White House, had breached the fence, “they would have been greeted with the most vicious dogs, and most ominous weapons, I have ever seen.”The full Minnesota National Guard was activated for the first time since World War Two after four nights of arson, looting and vandalism in parts of Minneapolis, the state’s largest city, and its adjacent capital, St. Paul.Minnesota Governor Tim Walz said the deployment was necessary because outside agitators were using protests over Floyd’s death to sow chaos.“We are under assault,” Walz, a first-term governor elected from Minnesota’s Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party, told a briefing on Saturday. “Order needs to be restored.”Separately, US Attorney General William Barr also pointed the finger at extremist instigators, though he and Walz - neither offering evidence to support their assertions - suggested opposite ends of the political fringe were to blame. NATIONAL DISCONTENT REFLECTEDCivil rights activists said video of Floyd’s arrest on Monday - captured by an onlooker’s cellphone as he repeatedly groaned, “please, I can’t breathe” before he died - triggered an outpouring of rage long simmering over persistent racial bias in the US criminal justice system. But the rapidly spreading protests also coincided with a deep-seated national discontent over the social claustrophobia and economic carnage wrought by the coronavirus pandemic.In a surreal moment for Miami on Saturday, police sirens and lights flooded downtown neighborhoods as fireworks began crackling and booming over Biscayne Bay to honor healthcare workers fighting the pandemic. Hundreds of police in riot gear swarmed the area, threatening to arrest anyone, including media, who ventured onto the streets.Curfews were imposed in several major cities rocked by civil disturbances in recent days, including Atlanta, Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Denver, Cincinnati, Portland, Oregon, and Louisville, Kentucky. Protests also flared on Saturday in Dallas, Chicago, Seattle, Salt Lake City and Cleveland.In an extraordinary move, the Pentagon said it put military units on a four-hour alert to be ready if requested by the Minnesota governor to help keep the peace.National Guard units also were mobilized by the governors of Ohio, Missouri, Wisconsin and Tennessee.The streets of Minneapolis were largely quiet during the day on Saturday. Several armored National Guard vehicles were seen rolling through town and authorities later closed major highways leading in and out of Minneapolis-St. Paul.At dusk, as the curfew went into effect, police confronted some 500 protesters milling around a burned-out bank and opened fire with tear gas and plastic bullets, sending the crowd scurrying. Tina Harrison, 32, gasping and coughing as she and two companions poured milk over their faces after being pepper-sprayed, insisted they were present to voice legitimate grievances as protesters, not to incite lawlessness.“We came here as white women ... to protect people of color,” Harrison said while they took cover inside an apartment lobby. It marked the fifth night of such clashes, the second since Friday’s announcement that Derek Chauvin, the policeman seen kneeling on Floyd’s neck, had been arrested on murder charges in Floyd’s death.Floyd, who had worked security for Minneapolis nightclubs, had been suspected of trying to pass counterfeit money to buy cigarettes on Monday evening. Police said he was unarmed. A store employee who had called for help had told a police dispatcher that the suspect appeared to be intoxicated. Three other officers dismissed on Tuesday from the police department with Chauvin, who was known to have worked off-duty security at one of the same nightclubs as Floyd, are also under criminal investigation in the case, prosecutors said. ‘COULD’VE KILLED THEM’Anger stoked by Floyd’s death was widespread. Thousands flooded Chicago streets for a second day of protests. Cellphone footage shared with Reuters showed an overturned SUV, a patrol car on fire, a person burning the American flag and a skirmish between demonstrators and police.In the Brooklyn borough of New York City, video footage recorded by onlookers showed a police squad car driving into a crowd of protesters during a second day of violence after more than 200 arrests were made on Friday.“They could’ve killed them, & we don’t know how many they injured,” US Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez wrote on Twitter, demanding the NYPD officers be brought to justice.At a late-night news conference, New York Mayor Bill de Blasio suggested protesters were to blame.“The video was upsetting, and I wish the officers hadn’t done that,” de Blasio said. “But I also understood that they didn’t start the situation. The situation was started by a group of protesters converging on a police vehicle, attacking that vehicle.”The mayor said flare-ups of violence were primarily instigated by small numbers of outsiders determined to goad police into confrontations, a phenomenon authorities said was playing out across the country.Protesters in Los Angeles clashed with police in the city’s Fairfax district, where crowds tried to force their way into the CBS Television City studios but were repulsed by law enforcement and security officers, the Los Angeles Times said.Looters broke into stores at The Grove shopping center in Fairfax, TV reported, as well as into shops along the famed Rodeo Drive of wealthy Beverly Hills.Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garnett told reporters, “This is no longer a protest. This is vandalism ... this is destruction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/i-can-t-breathe-protests-heat-up-as-curfews-imposed-in-several-us-cities/story-4dD7qjNMo3Jc0I6Q2YriaI.html
01-06-2020||World||Trump calls for expanding G-7 to include India, 3 others; postpones next meet||President Donald Trump on Saturday called for expanding the G-7, which he described as a “very outdated group”, to include India, Australia, South Korea and Russia, suggesting it could be called the “G-10 or G-11”. He also said he is postponing its next meet, which the US is hosting, to September or November,.“I’m postponing it because I don’t feel that as a G7 it properly represents what’s going on in the world,” Trump told reporters on Air Force One on the way back from the historic launch of the first manned mission into space by a private company, SpaceX. “It’s a very outdated group of countries.”“We want Australia, we want India, we want South Korea. And what do we have? That’s a nice group of countries right there,” he said, skipping Russia. But he appeared to have suggested inviting Russia as well, according to a report from a pool of reporters that traveled with him.The president went on to describe the expanded group as the “G-10 or G-11”, and added, he had “roughly” discussed the idea with the leaders of the four countries he’d like to add. The Group of Seven, as the G-7 expands to, is an intergovernmental organization of some of the world’s largest economies, the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, Canada and Japan. India is a member of the larger version of the body that is called the G-20.An aide to the president said the plan is to bring together all traditional allies to discuss how to deal with the future of China.Trump has called before for Russia to be readmitted to the group, arguing, as he did before the 2019 summit in Biarritz, “because a lot of the things we talk about have to do with Russia”. But this is probably the first time any of the G-7 member countries has called for including India or the other three named by Trump.The US president had pressed the G-7 heads of state and government at a dinner during the Biarritz summit to readmit Russia. Only Italy had backed him, according to The Guardian. Japan was neutral. France, Germany, the United Kingdom and Canada had pushed back forcefully.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had attended the Biarritz at the invitation of the host, French President Emmanuel Macro. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had attended a meeting of the body in Gleneagles, Scotland in 2005 at the invitation of then British Prime Minister Tony Blair.The group was then called the G-8 with Russia as the eighth member. Russia was expelled by the group in 2014 for annexing Crimea.There was no clarity on the timing of the summit though. The American leader suggested it could take place in the weekend before or after the annual UN General Assembly meetings, which are scheduled to start on September 15 and end on September 22.But Trump indicated he was toying with other options as well. “Maybe I’ll do it after the election.,” he said. “Think a good time would be before the election.” US elections are due in November and he is running for a second term.“So it might be a G10, G11, and it could be after the election is over,” he added, leaving the question of dates wide open at the time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-plans-to-invite-india-to-g-7-meet-possibly-in-september/story-i84Le9m4hCgvknmjjMssyL.html
01-06-2020||World||With Kim Jong Un’s health status unclear, his uncle suddenly relevant after 40 yrs abroad||For about as long as North Korea has existed, Kim Pyong Il has been considered a possible successor to the throne. And now, with his nephew Kim Jong Un’s health status unclear, his name is being bandied about again.Kim Pyong Il, 65, is the last known surviving son of North Korea’s founder, Kim Il Sung. After losing out in the 1970s to his half-brother, Kim Jong Il -- who ended up running the country from 1994 to 2011 -- Kim Pyong Il spent about four decades overseas in diplomatic posts including in Hungary, Bulgaria, Finland, Poland and the Czech Republic before returning to Pyongyang last year.Although Kim Pyong Il has been effectively sidelined -- he was largely purged from state media and never developed enough power back home to mount a serious challenge for leadership -- some North Korea watchers say he could end up taking over from the 36-year-old Kim Jong Un, who hasn’t named a successor. This is mainly because he has Kim blood, and he’s a man. Also Watch | Donald Trump on Kim Jong Un’s health: ‘Have a very good idea but can’t talk about it’The conservative male leaders in Pyongyang would resist giving power to Kim Yo Jong -- Kim Jong Un’s younger sister who has been by his side helping to make policy the past few years -- according to Thae Yong Ho, who was North Korea’s deputy ambassador to the U.K. before he defected to South Korea in 2016. That’s due to her gender and relatively young age of 30.“The problem is that a Kim Yo Jong-led North Korea is unlikely to be sustainable,” Thae said, warning that collective leadership with her as the figurehead could lead to chaos. “To avoid this, some in the leadership would try to bring back Kim Pyong Il, who’s now under house arrest, to the center of the power.”Others don’t think Kim Pyong Il has a chance. South Korean ruling party lawmaker Kim Byeong-ki, a member of parliament’s intelligence committee, said Sunday on social media that there was no indication he could possibly succeed Kim Jong Un if the leader were incapacitated: “I laugh off these theories.”North Korea has often exiled those who fall out of favor, sending them aboard in attempts to erase their influence, but also providing a financial lifeline that keeps them dependent on Pyongyang’s rulers.If Kim Pyong Il took power, it could put a great number of the current top leadership in jeopardy after they spent decades working to suppress his influence. When Kim Jong Un took power after his father’s death in 2011, he soon eliminated potential rivals: He executed his uncle and one-time deputy, Jang Song Thaek, and was suspected to have ordered the assassination of his exiled older half-brother, Kim Jong Nam, in Malaysia.The fact that Kim Pyong Il survived the purges in the ruling family may indicate that Kim Jong Un never saw him as a credible rival, keeping him in the foreign service and at arm’s length for years. In 2015, he was named North Korea’s ambassador to the Czech Republic and was given extra protection in 2017 when Kim Jong Nam was murdered.‘A Much Freer Life’Kim Pyong Il kept a low profile while he was in Europe, though he still made an impression. Lubomir Zaoralek, who was the Czech Republic’s foreign affairs minister from 2014 through 2017, said “his style and manner were as if he had come from South Korea.”“You could see that he was established in Europe and that he has lived his life here,” Zaoralek said. “He was always careful in what he had to say, but it always made perfect sense. And it seemed that he lived a much freer life here than other North Koreans.”Kim Pyong Il returned to Pyongyang last November, so that Kim Jong Un could keep a closer watch on him, the JoongAng Ilbo newspaper reported, citing intelligence sources.He has been the subject of speculation for decades in South Korea in unverified reports about family intrigue, often including house arrests and attempted assassinations. Before his years abroad, he served in the army, commanding an elite body guard unit, and also was appointed to posts in the ruling party, according to the South Korean Unification Ministry.Gender QuestionHis mother Kim Song Ae -- the second wife of the state founder -- was influential in the 1970s and pushed for Kim Pyong Il to take power. But she soon fell out of favor after Kim Jong Il was named successor.Kim Pyong Il is largely seen as a contender this time by those who discount Kim Yo Jong due to her age and gender, according to Rachel Minyoung Lee, a former North Korea analyst with the U.S. government.“It is highly unlikely that he has the connections or the support base he needs to be the next North Korean leader,” she said. “Kim Yo Jong has a special status in the regime, and I think in this case, her connection to the Kim family trumps her gender.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/with-kim-jong-un-s-health-status-unclear-his-uncle-suddenly-relevant-after-40-yrs-abroad/story-XeHq2W1dCrZ3nG4kBZ1EGM.html
01-06-2020||India||Cash-strapped Odisha asks departments to plough back money in bank accounts to treasury||Facing huge shortfall in revenue collection, Odisha has asked government departments to route their money parked in bank accounts back to the government treasury to improve the cash balance to meet Covid-19 related emergent expenditure and other committed expenditure .In a letter to the drawing and disbursing officers of different departments last month, the finance department said government money parked in bank accounts without authorization has to he ploughed back to the state government account. It said money in respect of closed schemes or schemes no more in operation for more than two years should be considered for this.“As the tax and non-tax revenue is adversely affected, any parking of the state government money in bank accounts is not only affecting the cash balance of the State, but also having a negative carry on the interest accrued against such idle government money when compared to the cost of borrowing. The Covid-I9 related lockdown has affected the activities across all the sectors of the economy resulting in limited resource flow to the state exchequer. The state will have to discharge its committed liabilities and also finance Covid-19 management activities,” the letter said.Odisha finance secretary AKK Meena said the departments were still in the process of compiling the money kept in bank accounts in respect of several schemes and the final amount would be known in next fortnight. “In case there would be requirement for expenditure in respect of any of the existing schemes in future, funds would be made available through rebudgeting under those schemes,” he said.Meena said in the first two months of the current fiscal, Odisha has been able to garner only 45 per cent of the revenue collection compared to same period of last fiscal due to Covid-19 lockdown. In the two months, Odisha has managed to collect about Rs 1,700 crore revenue through mining royalty, GST and Inter-State GST. Even the mining revenue collection has gone down by almost 65 per cent compared to same period last fiscal.“We expect the situation to improve from June onwards as industries have started operating. But we have to undertake austerity measures in the coming months as revenue collection is likely to go down,” he said. Compared to other States, Odisha was in a fiscally better position as it reported a fiscal surplus of Rs 9,509 crore in 2020-21 Budget.In its 2020-21 Budget, Odisha had estimate total revenue receipts at Rs 1,24,300 crore, of which Rs 56,000 crore were to be raised through state’s own resources while the rest has to come from central transfers. But with the national economy facing contraction, officials said the central transfer will also take a major hit.Finance department officials said the State may have to go for borrowings to fund its budgeted expenditures as well as committed liabilities like salary and pension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cash-strapped-odisha-asks-departments-to-plough-back-money-in-bank-accounts-to-treasury/story-Xg192X3dGhyzGEkmI2UjGK.html
01-06-2020||India||OIL sends show cause notice to Gujarat firm for gas well blowout in Assam||Six days since blow out took place in a natural gas well in Assam’s Tinsukia district, Oil India Limited (OIL) on Monday sent show cause notice to a Gujarat based company involved in the drilling operations. Addressing media persons in Assam’s Duliajan on Monday, OIL chairman-cum-managing director Sushil Chandra Mishra said show cause notice has been issued to John Energy Private Limited.He also assured that action would be initiated on employees of OIL if there is any prima facie evidence of human error. A five-member inquiry committee has been formed to probe the blow out.Meanwhile, gas and condensate continued to flow “uncontrollably” from the well in Baghjan area, which witnessed a blow out on Wednesday. Nearly 2,500 persons from 650 families residing near the well have been evacuated as a safety measure and are now residing in three camps.A blow out is uncontrolled release of crude oil or gas from a well when pressure control systems fail. Condensate is a low density high gravity hydrocarbon phase that is generally found along with natural gas.In a release issued on Monday, OIL said that a crisis management team was able to reach the well and started pumping water continuously into the well head by opening a casing valve.Water is pumped into the well and nearby areas to ensure there is no breakout of fire. A pipeline is being laid from a nearby river to ensure continuous supply of water and a big pond is being excavated to store water.“OIL has also contacted global experts to control the blow out. Offers with action plan and time line received from Boots and Coots, Alert Disaster Control and Wild Well Control. The offers are being examined and are under consideration,” OIL said in a press release.According to local residents, condensate from the well has covered nearby trees and houses with a layer of oil.An oil-like layer was also witnessed in the water bodies of the Maguri wetland close to the well. Carcass of a Gangetic dolphin was found in the wetland on Friday which led to fears that it might have died from oil contamination.The OIL well in Baghjan is close to the Dibru Saikhowa national park. According to Tinsukia district officials, though there is not much threat from the blow out to the park, it could impact the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) near it.On Monday OIL CMD Mishra said that they were also concerned about reported impact on bio diversity of the area and are awaiting findings of district administration, forest department and pollution control board to take necessary action.Mishra reaffirmed that OIL is not carrying out any exploration inside the ESZ.Last month, the union forest, environment and climate change ministry had given environmental clearance for extension drilling and testing of hydrocarbons at seven locations by OIL under Dibru-Saikhowa national park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oil-sends-show-cause-notice-to-gujarat-firm-for-gas-well-blowout-in-assam/story-JFZirw7nxxlfMLErKBwyDI.html
01-06-2020||India||Paid quarantine for returnees helps Sikkim hotels recover lockdown losses||Sikkim’s hotel industry has suffered huge losses due to the lockdown and the state’s decision to ban the entry of foreigners and Indian citizens before other states did so, has also led to financial loss for hotel owners. But, hotel owners now are a happy lot since local people are paying for rooms to stay in quarantine. Many of these are star hotels but the Sikkim government has fixed the rate at Rs 1000 a day plus taxes including all food.According to the hotel owners, there has been a huge response from local people returning from other states as they are barred from staying at home but have the option of staying in paid quarantine at hotels. For those who cannot afford hotels, the Sikkim government offers institutional quarantine. Returnees have to stay in free or paid quarantine facilities for 14 days before going for home quarantine for another 14 days. Sikkim so far has only one Covid-19 positive case.In sharp contrast, hotels in Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Siliguri in adjoining West Bengal, where the Trinamool Congress government offers a similar option, have practically done no business because staying at home is an option in the state. Also, the hotels in Bengal’s hill districts are more expensive. Raj Yadav, District Collector of east Sikkim district, said, “30 to 40 per cent returnees are going for paid quarantine in hotels where we have fixed the rate at Rs 1000 a day plus taxes including breakfast, lunch, snacks and dinner. Most of the hotels requisitioned by the government belong to star category.”Arun Tamang, front office manager of Royal Plaza Hotel in Gangtok said, “Most of our 55 rooms are occupied for paid quarantine.”Bishnu Acharyay, front office manager of the Lemon Tree Hotel, a four-star property, said, “We have hosted 127 people living in paid quarantine.”“In Siliguri, where the Bengal government has earmarked 21 hotels for paid quarantine, there are hardly any takers,” said Ujjal Ghosh, joint secretary, Greater Siliguri Hoteliers Welfare Association.Biplab Ghosh, owner of Swastik Hotel in Siliguri, said, “I have only two guests staying in paid quarantine.”“There are not even 21 people in 21 hotels in Siliguri,” said a hotel owner who requested anonymity. “The Bengal government has not made free or paid quarantine mandatory for returnees. It has allowed returnees to stay at home. Who will come to stay in a hotel?” he asked.Though they did not speak on record, hoteliers in Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Siliguri said guests have to pay more than their counterparts in Sikkim despite a 40 per cent discount being offered. Moreover, guests have to pay for food separately. The room rates vary from Rs 960 to Rs 3000 per person exclusive of taxes.Samden Dukpa, executive director and nodal officer for Covid-19, Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) in Darjeeling, said hotels expressed their regret that they could not offer their services for free.“Only three hotels in Darjeeling are hosting returnees for free while meals are being provided by GTA,” said Suraj Sharma, assistant director, tourism department, GTA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paid-quarantine-for-returnees-help-sikkim-hotels-recover-lockdown-losses/story-fczqOGMyRGqJNooxJdViuM.html
01-06-2020||India||J&K exempts armed, paramilitary personnel from mandatory Covid-19 test||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Monday exempted defence and paramilitary personnel returning to UT for joining duties from compulsory rapid tests for Covid-19 and subsequent administrative quarantine.“Armed Forces and CAPF personnel returning to join their duties in J&K are exempted from RTPCY and administrative quarantine. They will be sent to their respective battalions and units,” said an official spokesperson.He, however, informed that travellers from red districts to orange districts within the UT will undergo Covid-19 test followed by 14-day quarantine.“If tested negative, they will go home for quarantine and in case tested positive, they will go to hospital,” he said.The government, however, has exempted certain categories from mandatory administrative quarantine of 14 days and they include pregnant women, cancer patients, chronically ill and dialysis patients, mothers with infants below one year old child, children below 10 years travelling alone, government of India personnel on duty and passengers with negative RTPCR test results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-exempts-armed-paramilitary-personnel-from-mandatory-covid-19-test/story-niqTTLRoheYPikoi88ch3M.html
01-06-2020||India||Should Delhi hospitals be reserved for city residents only? Govt seeks suggestions||New Delhi: With cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on the rise, the Delhi government announced a week-long border closure to ensure that beds in Delhi hospitals are utilised for the treatment of Delhi residents. The government has sought opinion from citizens as to whether the health services in Delhi should be restricted for Delhi residents during Covid-19 pandemic.Delhi recorded 990 cases of Covid-19 on Monday with the total cases breaching the 20,000 mark at 20,834.“The moment we open the borders people from across the country will come to Delhi for treatment. There are about 9,500 beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in Delhi; currently, there are only 2,300 patients. The beds will fill up in just two days if patients from across the country come for treatment to Delhi. Should we open the borders? Some say, borders should be opened but the hospitals services should be reserved for those living in Delhi till Covid-19 pandemic,” Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in a press briefing.The CM has asked for people’s suggestions till Friday 5pm on WhatsApp (8800007722), email (delhicm.suggestion@gmail.com), or voice message (1031). A decision will be taken next week, he said.So far, Delhi has 3,755 beds in government hospitals – including central government-run hospitals All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Safdarjung, Ram Manohar Lohia, and Lady Hardinge Medical College. Among the 5,390 beds the government plans to add by June 15 are 100 beds in the railway hospital and 70 beds in the Army Base hospital.These hospitals cannot refuse any patients.“RML has a no refusal policy. We treat whoever comes to our hospital,” said Dr Minakshi Bhardwaj, medical superintendent of the hospital. Similarly, at AIIMS – an autonomous institute under the central government – patients cannot be restricted based on where they stay as per hospital policy.“As far as AIIMS is concerned, we treat patients from across the country – almost 50% of our patients are not Delhi residents. Being a central government-run hospital, we will continue to do so,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent, AIIMS.Experts, however, say the Delhi government can restrict the services under such unusual circumstances. “The (state) government can choose to close the border and restrict health services. Currently, the state has the right to requisition each and every bed in the city irrespective of the ownership. Every state has a capacity and it is naturally justified that they want to utilise it for the treatment of their own patients,” said K Sujatha Rao, former union health secretary.Legally, however, advocates say that such a move will be violative of the right to life.“The government is seeking public opinion to justify an action it wants to take. However, all citizens in this country are equal and should have equal access to healthcare services. Plus, all healthcare facilities in Delhi are not run by the Delhi government – there are centre-run hospitals, MCD-run hospitals. Plus, in private hospitals that received subsidised land from the government, the guidelines say anybody from anywhere in India is eligible for free treatment under the economically weaker section category,” said advocate Ashok Agarwal, who works on cases of access to healthcare.He had filed a petition in the high court when the Delhi government had restricted certain services – such as free medicines and diagnostics – to Delhi residents in its Guru Teg Bahadur hospital in the trans-Yamuna region, which receives about 70% of the patients from outside Delhi.“The high court had ruled against the Delhi government decision then. In that matter, the high court had said that it was violative of right to life,” said Aggarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-delhi-hospitals-be-reserved-for-city-residents-only-govt-seeks-suggestions/story-y1KLrP0u7GjLDey61lY25M.html
01-06-2020||India||Tripura CM says Covid-19 spread among BSF for violating social distancing and quarantine norms||Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb said on Monday that Covid -19 spread among Border Security Force (BSF) personnel and their families in the state because they violated social distancing.. Out of the 319 Covid-19 cases in the state till Monday, as many as 166 were found among BSF personnel and their families in the 138th and 86th battalions in Tripura. Soon after the outbreak of the virus in the two BSF battalions, Tripura asked BSF inspector general Solomon Kumar Minz to submit a report regarding reason for spreading of the disease in a week. But they are yet to submit the report. Later, the state government requested the National Centre for Disease Control ( NCDC) to investigate the matter. Accordingly, a three-member central team from North Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health & Medical Sciences (NEIGRIHMS), Shillong visited the state to investigate the source of the outbreak among the BSF personnel. After visiting the affected areas including the BSF camps in the state, the team submitted the report to the state government on Sunday. “ We got the report and forwarded the same to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. During investigation, the central team observed that many BSF personnel had travel history and they returned to the state after their leave in February and March. Still, they didn’t maintain social distancing and quarantine norms. Even their samples should have been collected and tested on the basis of 1:10 ratio, if it was not possible on the basis of 1:5 ratio. If this was done that time, the disease would not have spread among the BSF and their families at such high rate,” Deb told reporters at his official residence.Out of the tally of 319 Covid-19 cases, 173 have recovered. Many of the BSF jawans were also released from isolation wards. “ We are taking initiatives to test all people who are returning to the state. I have visited certain villages to see the situation at the quarantine facilities. I have seen people are much aware of the quarantine and social distancing norms ,especially in villages,” the CM.After spread of the disease, the BSF suspended all physical activities and other gatherings. They even stopped interaction between the BSF and the civilians outside their camps, said one senior BSF official on the condition of anonymity.However, he did not comment on the Chief Minister’s statement that the BSF was yet to submit a report on how the disease spread so fast among the force..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-cm-says-covid-19-spread-among-bsf-for-violating-social-distancing-and-quarantine-norms/story-xVF9941i4Rra3JAYHfLawO.html
01-06-2020||India||BSF DG visits Indo-Pak international border in Jammu to review security scenario||Amid spike in ceasefire violations and intrusion bids along the Line of Control, the director general of Border Security Force (BSF) SS Deswal visited the Indo-Pak international border in Jammu sector to review the security scenario on the strategic frontier.“Director General BSF SS Deswal visited the area of Jammu frontier on Saturday and Sunday He was accompanied by Additional DG S Panwar, IG BSF Jammu Frontier NS Jamwal and other officers,” said a BSF spokesman.Jamwal briefed the DG about complexities of management of Jammu border under prevailing security scenario.“DG BSF also reviewed the border domination plan. He visited the critical areas of entire border stretch and held discussions with various field commanders and senior police officers regarding border domination and other security measures being adopted,” said the spokesman.The BSF field commanders apprised Deswal about various ongoing construction works on the border and constraints being faced during their implementation. DG BSF also interacted with jawans and patiently attended to their issues.He stressed about the importance of physical fitness and exhorted the border troops to engage themselves in regular fitness exercises and games.He also planted various saplings in the border posts of the BSF to give it a look of green border. Deswal also stressed upon the idea of cultivation of land ahead of fencing with the help of BSF, which can provide security to the farmers.Amid stiff resistance by Pakistan, the BSF recently restored Ranbir canal in RS Pura and Arnia sectors on international border.Much to the glee of farmers, BSF stood guard to workers, who desilted the canal.Ranbir canal is the major source of irrigation for farmers in Jammu region. Constructed in 1905, it is considered to be the lifeline of Jammu. Total length of canal is 59.55 kms and it was the game changing project, which laid the foundation of rapid transformation of rural agricultural economy in Jammu. The famous Basmati rice of RS Pura owes its cultivation primarily to Ranbir canal.DG BSF also reviewed the prevailing Covid-19 situation and precautions being taken and advised the troops to indulge in physical activities and increased immunity to deal with this pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-dg-visits-indo-pak-international-border-in-jammu-to-review-security-scenario/story-n05m3pNvVSrEBZYoBK2Q1L.html
01-06-2020||India||With 23 new Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand, state tally reaches 929||With 23 fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Monday, Uttarakhand’s tally reached to 929 on Monday, whereas 98 people were declared successfully recovered by the state health department.In a bulletin issued on Monday afternoon, the state health department stated that 23 new cases were detected from Haridwar (8) and Champawat (15) on Sunday. All the 23 patients who tested positive had returned to the state from Maharashtra.On Monday, 98 Covid-19 patients recovered from the virus and were discharged from different districts. The patients had recovered from districts like Udham Singh Nagar (8), Champawat (7), Nainital (71), Bageshwar (5) Uttarkashi (6) and Pauri Garhwal (1).With this, the recovery percentage of Covid-19 patients in the state now stands at 21.53 %. On Sunday, the rate of recovery was recorded to be 12.72%. The rate of infection stands at 3.82% in Uttarakhand.As of now, districts like Nainital (260), Dehradun (233), Udham Singh Nagar (82), Tehri Garhwal (77), Haridwar (76) and Almora (63) have the highest number of cases. Rudraprayag district with six cases has the least number of positive cases reported so far.Till May 30, over 1.83 lakh migrants had returned to the state, while over 2.64 lakh migrants had registered to come back to the state from different parts of the country.On Sunday, a 20-year-old Covid-19 positive man had died at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh, two days after he tested positive.The health department on Monday clarified that the cause of death was severe sepsis and septic shock.Harish Mohan Thapliyal, public relations officer of AIIMS Rishikesh, on Sunday had said that the 20-year-old boy had been admitted to the hospital on May 27 for a procedure and he had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 29.“The boy who was a resident of Shyampur area had been electrocuted last month when a part of his body had to be amputated. On May 27, he was admitted to the hospital again as he developed an infection. Before the procedure, his samples were taken for Covid-19 testing and he tested positive on May 29 and he died on Sunday morning,” said Thapliyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-23-new-covid-19-cases-in-uttarakhand-state-tally-reaches-929/story-veOdcudV0wndAk5LFV5qWL.html
01-06-2020||India||Focus on industry and agriculture to revive economy hit by Covid-19, panel tells Assam govt||A high-level committee constituted by Assam government to suggest measures to revive the state’s economy hit by the Covid-19 pandemic has recommended focus on industries, agriculture and skill development.The seven-member advisory committee for revitalization of Assam’s economy headed by retired IAS officer Subhash Das submitted its report to Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal at the latter’s official residence on Monday. The government had constituted the committee on May 3.Among others, the committee has recommended formation of a farmers’ commission, notification of the state’s agriculture policy, interest subsidy to industry on loans for working capital and a social security scheme for workers in unorganized sector and industry.“The recommendations of the committee will go a long in reviving Assam’s economy. Industry and agriculture will be the priority sectors,” Sonowal told journalists after receiving the report.In order to study the report and implement its recommendations, a three-member committee headed by health and finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has been formed by the state government. Industries minister Chandra Mohan Patowary and agriculture minister Atul Bora will be the other members.“The advisory committee had focused on industry, agriculture as well as skill development. We will study the report and inform what steps need to be taken to implement it,” Sarma told journalists.As with other states, the Covid-19 pandemic has badly hit Assam’s revenues. On Sunday, Sarma said that in April , the state’s GST collection was Rs 147 cr and in May the figure was Rs 360 cr. In comparison, in 2019, the state’s average GST collection per month was Rs 693 cr.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-industry-and-agriculture-to-revive-economy-hit-by-covid-19-panel-tells-assam-govt/story-FzPLAaAvFAaewVJAkC7mPP.html
01-06-2020||India||Bengal BJP enters poll mode, Amit Shah to kick-start virtual meetings on June 8||The West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has entered poll mode with about a year to go for the Assembly elections, announcing a series of ‘virtual meetings’, the first of which will be addressed by union home minister Amit Shah on June 8. The party also named its new state executive that would lead the party to the elections.Monday’s announcements came barely four days after the party released a 9-point charge-sheet against Mamata Banerjee’s nine-year rule and called for toppling the state government in 2021. That day, they also launched a campaign branded as ‘Aar Noi Mamata’, which literally means ‘no more Mamata’.“In these virtual meetings, there will be a dais, with two-three speakers. 1,000 party workers would be able to directly participate and ask questions. Another 1,000 would be able to watch the proceedings using a link,” BJP state unit president Dilip Ghosh said. Amit Shah will be the main speaker in the first such meeting, scheduled at 11 am on June 8. This event is slated to be aired live on social media. There will be four other such meetings, to be addressed by other national and state-level leaders. Ghosh said that they had to make this move because political meetings had come to a halt due to the lockdown and social distancing norms. While party workers will be the attendees at such events, the proceedings would later be shared on social media.“We will highlight the achievements of the Modi government in the past one year and also during this unprecedented crisis over coronavirus. Besides, the Mamata Banerjee government’s failures in dealing with the pandemic, the ration scam, the apathy towards migrant workers, and the lack of preparation in handling the post-cyclone situation would also be highlighted,” Ghosh said. TMC secretary-general and state education minister Partha Chatterjee said that the party was not going to indulge in politics at this hour, as it was busy with relief work. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said a few days ago, “We’ll fight the political battle later.” BJP, however, has accused the government of playing politics by disallowing BJP leaders from carrying out relief work. BJP’s new state leadership, comprising 12 vice-presidents, 5 general secretaries, and 10 secretaries has several of those who switched over from the state’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Left, which has been a weaker opponent of TMC than the BJP.Former TMC MP-cum-youth wing chief Saumitra Khan, who switched over to BJP in January 2019 and got elected to the Lok Sabha, has become BJP’s new youth wing chief.Former Left MLA Mahfuza Khatun, who joined BJP in 2018, has been made one of the vice-presidents, along with Arjun Singh, a former four-time TMC MLA-turned BJP MP. Former three-time Left MLA-turned-BJP MP Khagen Murmu has been made head of the Scheduled Tribes morcha of the party. Former TMC-MLA Sabyasachi Dutta has been made a secretary.BJP emerged as TMC’s principal opponent in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, bagging 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats, against 22 won by TMC. In the 2016 Assembly elections, TMC won 211 of the state’s 294 seats, while BJP won only 3. The rest were won by the Left-Congress informal alliance. Political analysts said that the timing of the launch of the campaign was wrong. Psephologist Biswanath Chakraborty said, “Open indulgence in general political activities at this hour may backfire and turn some people’s sympathy towards Mamata Banerjee.”Political scientist Amal Mukhopadhyay, former principal of Presidency College, called BJP’s move unfortunate. “They should have waited for the situation to improve and should have focussed on dealing with the people’s distress. This may boomerang,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-bjp-enters-poll-mode-amit-shah-to-kick-start-virtual-meetings-on-june-8/story-RVpzZc5US65HOinLlHSuOM.html
01-06-2020||India||30 who returned from Kuwait test positive for Covid-19, Assam’s tally crosses 1,400||Thirty people who returned to Assam from Kuwait by air on Friday were among the 124 new Covid-19 cases reported from the state on Monday taking its tally to 1,464 with the numbers more than tripling in a week.Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted about the 30 passengers from Kuwait testing positive for Covid-19. Assam now has 1,179 active cases while 278 have recovered and four have died. Three patients migrated to their own states before recovery.As part of Vande Bharat mission to bring back Indians stranded abroad, a Jazeera Airways flight carrying 155 passengers from Kuwait had landed at Guwahati’s Lokapriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport on May 29. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.This was the first international commercial flight which landed in Guwahati since the lockdown started on March 25. Nearly 100 of the passengers from that flight were quarantined in hostels of Gauhati University.Seven more flights from foreign countries including Philippines, Ukraine, Russia, Singapore, UK, USA and Kyrgyzstan carrying Indians are expected to land in Guwahati by June 14, according to Assam chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna.Over 2.3 lakh people have returned to Assam since ban on inter-state movement was lifted on May 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30-who-returned-from-kuwait-test-positive-for-covid-19-assam-s-tally-crosses-1-400/story-HOM1LjjlnbdFGeqvTKKZNO.html
01-06-2020||India||CBI reports first coronavirus cases as 2 junior officials test positive||Two officials posted at the CBI headquarters here have tested positive for Covid-19, in first cases of the infection in the investigative agencies, sources said Monday.  The junior-level officials have been sent on leave and asked to remain in quarantine till they are in perfect health to join duty, they said.  The senior officers refused to disclose the identity of their two affected colleagues.The agency is likely to carry out a contact-tracing exercise and advise those who came in their contacts to start work from home and follow quarantine protocol, they said.The CBI had initiated strict social-distancing and sanitisation norms from the third week of March with every visitor being checked for temperature and asked to wear face masks mandatorily.  The agency had installed two new handwashing systems on its campus outside its building, besides deputing dedicated staff to ensure hands and feet are sanitised at every level of the 11 storey building, they said.The agency enforced strict social distancing norms when Janata Curfew was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 22, followed by lockdowns announced by the Delhi government and the Centre, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-reports-first-coronavirus-cases-as-2-junior-officials-test-positive/story-LmLvbHZ9e0ZtKq5HLyXHMM.html
01-06-2020||India||Over 3,400 infected with Covid-19 in Karnataka, Bengaluru tops list||Karnataka reported 187 fresh positive Covid-19 cases and a related fatality, taking the total number of infections in the state to 3,408 and the death toll to 52, the health department said on Monday.It said 117 out of 187 cases are returnees from other states, mostly from neighboring Maharashtra, while three returned from the UAE.As of June 1 evening, cumulatively 3,408 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 52 deaths and 1,328 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin.It said that out of 2,026 active cases, 2,014 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 12 are in Intensive Care Units.On Monday, 110 patients were discharged.A 90-year-old man from Bengaluru Urban became the 52nd Covid-19 related fatality in the state.The elderly patient was secondary contact of a patient earlier tested positive.He was admitted on May 24, in view of de-saturation. On May 24 the sepsis worsened along with multi-organ failure and he died on May 31 at a designated hospital, the bulletin said.Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Udupi accounted for 73, followed by Bengaluru urban 28, Kalaburagi 24, Hassan 16, Mandya 15, Shivamogga 9, Chikkaballapura 5, Dakshina Kannada 4, Ballari 3, two each from Bidar, Bagalkote and Dharwad, and one each from Vijayapura, Kolar, Haveri and Ramanagara.Bengaluru urban district still tops the list of positive cases with a total of 385 infections, followed by Kalaburagi 305 and Yadgir and Mandya 285.Among discharges too Bengaluru urban tops the list with total of 237, followed by Kalauragi 128 and Davangere 121.A total of 3,04,816 samples have been tested so far, out of which 11,241 were tested on Monday alone.So far 2,97,052 samples reported as negative and out of them 10,807 reported negative on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-3-400-infected-with-covid-19-in-karnataka-bengaluru-tops-list/story-ZLUrEQbQABSCipWE2BfzIO.html
01-06-2020||India||Social distancing norms flouted across Bengal on first day of Unlock 1||Overcrowded buses, long queues of office goers at bus stands and thousands of private cars choking traffic at crucial junctions marked the first day of Unlock 1 in West Bengal, and in Kolkata too, even as the state reported 271 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, including 54 in the capital city.Mostly government buses operated in Kolkata but in the districts some private buses hit the roads as well. While the government has allowed buses to operate only with passengers up to its seating capacity, reports of crowded buses emerged from different districts, and even Kolkata. Most private buses stayed off the roads, however, because the government did not agree to their proposal for increasing the fare. In public transport, though masks and gloves have been made mandatory for taking a bus ride, virtually no one wore gloves, but most people wore masks. Ferry services also started from Monday but were less crowded. ALSO READ | Unlock 1: Bengal prepares for new normal with restrictions, less public transportAuto-rickshaws mostly complied with the guidelines and plied with two passengers, instead of four as was usual, and charged double the previous fare. Private buses were often seen carrying many more passengers than allowed. Some government buses too carried more passengers after commuters deliberately boarded them.“The seats are getting filled up at the starting point. People waiting at the next stoppages are getting impatient as all buses are coming with full capacity. They are forcefully boarding the buses. How could I alone stop them?” said a conductor of a bus of S5 route that plies between Garia in South Kolkata and Howrah Station. A conductor of a bus of AC39 route that plies between Esplanade in the heart of Kolkata to the NSCB Airport area echoed his views. “I am helpless. You control these people,” said the conductor. ALSO READ | Amid Centre’s Unlock 1.0, these states will have their own lockdown rules“I waited for an hour in vain but no bus came with a vacant seat,” said Shantpriya Chowdhury, whose office at Esplanade area asked him to join on Monday. Chowdhury commutes from Sulekha area in South Kolkata, a distance of about 14 km. Private offices have been allowed to choose their staff strength in office from June 8 but can now operate with 50% of the workforce. A number of private offices in the city and the state started operations from Monday after a gap of two months.On social media, too, people shared their experience of going to their office for the first time after more than two months. “First day back in office today. The situation on the roads is absolutely frightening… Traffic in full force, buses crowded, autos and cabs full... Kids on bikes, most of them without helmets and/or masks,” Stephanie Sweeney, who works at a private firm in south Kolkata, wrote on Facebook.Sougata Bali, a writer based in Serampore, Hooghly district, shared a similar experience. “While travelling from Serampore to Hind Motor by motorbike, I saw all private buses crowded, people even hanging from the door. There was absolutely no social distancing.”The business districts in central Kolkata, such as Burrabazar, Posta, Canning Street and Rabindra Sarani saw packed crowds on streets and wholesale markets.Kolkata’s famous book market of College Street also opened on Monday. However, due to lack of transport, all shops will not be getting all their employees, especially those who travel from distant areas by local train.“I will keep my shop open for three days a week, from 11 am to 4 pm, for the time being,” said Subrata Das, owner of Setu Publishing.Even though religious places have been allowed to open, major religious places such as the Kalighat temple and Belur Math remained closed. Several restaurants opened, while some of those with bars have not opened yet because there is no clarity on whether liquor can be served and bars operated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-distancing-norms-flouted-across-bengal-on-first-day-of-unlock-1/story-JDC54WNBhw5ouhCfVNJTmI.html
01-06-2020||India||Five of family killed as truck rams into car in Rajasthan’s Churu||Five members of a family were killed when a truck rammed into a car in Rajasthan’s Churu district on Monday. Senior district administration and police officials reached the spot as soon as they received information. The accident in Lodhsar village on NH-52 was so severe that the district administration had to use cranes to take out the bodies from the damaged car.Police officials said three people died on the spot while two died while undergoing treatment.The deceased, natives of Khetri town of Jhunjhunu district, have been identified as Rajpal Singh (43), Sada Kanwar (55), Nishu Kanwar (30), Bhoomi Singh (2) and Mahipal Singh (29).“The family had gone for treatment of Nishu Kanwar in Churu from Jhunjhunu,” the police official added.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot expressed grief over the incident. “The news of a road accident in Churu is very tragic in which five people have lost lives. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families. May God give them strength to bear the loss. Prayers for speedy recovery of those injured,” he said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-of-family-killed-as-truck-rams-into-car-in-rajasthan-s-churu/story-XWoIvaxkacMUBoAm4QATdP.html
01-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand CM, 2 ministers quarantine themselves despite DM’s clean chit||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and two of his cabinet ministers have decided to quarantine  themselves despite the  Dehradun district magistrate on Monday saying  that all three were ‘low risk contacts’ and  they just need to follow May 18 guidelines issued by the Centre, one of the ministers said.On May 18, union health ministry had issued guidelines on preventive measures to contain the spread of Covid-19  in workplace settings, including maintaining physical distancing of at least one meter, using  masks, frequent hand washing, following respiratory etiquettes, self-monitoring, reporting any illness, whether in self or office staff.After tourism minister Satpal Maharaj, four of his family members and  17 staffers tested positive for the deadly virus on Saturday, chief minister Trivendra Singh  Rawat and two Cabinet ministers Madan Kaushik and Harak Singh Rawat  were facing a  quarantine as Maharaj had attended a Cabinet meeting on Friday in which all three were present. On Saturday,  Mahaaraj’s wife tested positive for Covid-19. Minister Madan Kaushik who is also the government spokesperson said, “On Monday, the Dehradun district magistrate in a written communication to the CM and two ministers, including me informed us that none of us will need to be quarantined as we were all low-risk contacts of Maharaj.”“The administration has said that we can carry on with our work without being quarantined. However, as a precautionary measure all three of us have decided to go for  self-quarantine in our homes,” he said.According to the DM’s  letter, the CM and the ministers are low-risk contacts  and they need to follow the directions and protocol issued by the Union health ministry on May 18 regarding the workplace.Earlier on Sunday night, health secretary Amit Singh Negi had said that the department had sent a report of all those present in the Cabinet meeting under categories of high-risk contacts and low-risk contacts of the tourism minister to  the Dehradun district administration. “As per the evaluation, all the ministers in that meeting fall under low-risk contacts which means they didn’t come in direct physical contact with the infected person and were at a distance of one metre. Under such conditions, they don’t need to be put under quarantine but CM has voluntarily put himself in self-quarantine as a precautionary measure,” said Negi. Meanwhile, the Opposition Congress on Monday demanded that a case of attempt to murder be registered against Maharaj while accusing him of gross negligence and posing health risk to others. Garima Dasauni, party state spokesperson said, “Maharaj being in such a responsible position, has shown gross negligence. Even after a notice was out on his house for quarantine, he continued to meet people and even attended the Cabinet meeting where CM, other ministers and top officials were present.”“All these people are responsible to handle the pandemic in the state but he has now put them at grave health risk. We demand him to be booked for attempt to murder case like the jamaatis were booked by government,” said Dasauni. On May 20, the Dehradun district administration had pasted a notice on  Maharaj’s personal residence to put it in quarantine after two of his guests had come from Delhi. Maharaj had then said that the portion of his house which has been quarantined is not the one where he lives with his family but includes his office and guest room.Government spokesperson Kaushik however, refuted Congress’s demands by saying that it should not pass such a statement when “Maharaj acted with full responsibility after knowing that he and his family members tested positive a day after his wife tested positive.”“In political life, one has to go among the public to solve their problems or meet his staff members. In that one may get infected, which is unfortunate. But that cannot be termed as gross negligence as the Congress is saying,” said Kaushik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-2-ministers-quarantine-themselves-despite-dm-s-clean-chit/story-v83Q7IRXzjEIPeXDHosXYJ.html
01-06-2020||India||Goa designates its first Covid-19 containment zone as Unlock 1 gets underway||The Goa government  on Monday designated the first state’s  containment zone in Mangor Hill -- a locality in the port town of Vasco da Gama after a man and his wife tested positive for Covid-19 on the first day of Unlock 1 Health Secretary Nila Mohanan told reporters that  the process of investigating the travel history and contact tracing was on. “These are two residents members of a family from Mangor Hill in Vasco. They have confirmed positive in our RT-PCR test as well so we are now doing very concentrated contact tracing and taking all efforts to see what are the links and what are the possible contacts. Our investigations are going on ,“  Mohanan said. “We are still trying to trace their contacts but as of now we have not been able to establish a clear travel history link,” she said. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Their three sons, a daughter-in-law and the doctor who referred the patients to the Goa Medical College and Hospital who have been identified as primary contacts, are under focus. . The duo were admitted to hospital complaining of breathlessness following which  tests were carried out.“Because Mangor Hills is a very tightly packed area we have also taken a decision to declare Mangor Hill in Vasco as a containment zone. We will ensure that we do comprehensive testing of the residents of Mangor Hill and we want to ensure that we do that very comprehensively putting in all our efforts that is why we have decided to declare Mangor Hill in Vasco as a containment zone,” Mohanan added. As per protocol, the State Health Department has set up a containment zone at Mangor Hill with the residence of the family as the centre of the zone. “We will have the most extensive and immediate testing (in areas) next to their residence -- then slowly we will be expanding that circle outwards. So our target is to test as quickly as possible as many as possible in that containment zone. But our primary focus will be the immediate vicinity of where this family resides,” Mohanan said.Prior to Monday, all persons found positive in the state were those who had travelled from outside the state. This is the first instance of a person without a clear travel history who has been found positive. Health authorities have, however, sought to assuage fears. “There is no need for fear in the minds of any members of the public, even those who are residing in Mangor Hill. We have taken this step as declaring Mangor Hill as a containment zone as a measure of abundant caution,” Mohanan said. The two new cases  came at a time when Goa was gearing up to grant further relaxations as part of the reopening of economic activity including the reopening of restaurants, malls and gymnasia and allowing of religious services. Goa’s Covid-19 tally has now climbed to 73  with 29 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-designates-its-first-covid-19-containment-zone-as-unlock-1-gets-underway/story-FP7e0H2gcX3eFcz6DzjXZL.html
01-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Kerala eases norms but curfew in containment areas till June 30 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kerala eases norms but curfew in containment areas till June 30The Kerala government on Monday announced a series of measures to ease lockdown 5.0 but decided to enforce curfew in containment areas and made entry passes mandatory for all inter-state travels. Read moreOn resuming international flight ops, minister Hardeep Puri cites ‘several factors’Domestic passenger flight services resumed in the country from May 25 after a break of two months since the first lockdown was announced on March 25. Read moreWith 2,361 new Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra crosses 70,000-markMaharashtra on Monday breached the 70,000-mark with 2,361 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state coronavirus positive patients’ tally to 70,013. Read more‘They are the most defining pair of modern era,’ Sri Lanka legend in awe of India’s batting stalwartsFormer Sri Lanka captain Kumar Sangakkara has weighed in on two of India’s most prolific batsmen – Rohit Sharma and Virat Kohli – calling them the most defining pair of the modern era. Read moreIIT Delhi lays down policy for graduating batch, offers ‘early graduation’ optionThe Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) here has laid down a policy for the graduating batch to ensure future plans of students do not get impacted due to the lockdown and is offering them an “early graduation” option, officials said. Read moreVivo launches its new flagship X50 series: Here’s all we know so farVivo has announced three phones under its new flagship X50 series - the Vivo X50, the Vivo X50 Pro and the Vivo X50 Pro+. Read moreScreening your pages, the #bookstagram wayWith dazzling pictures, simple-to-understand book reviews and all things books, bookstagrammers have formed a niche that helps out readers, one at a time. Read moreWatch | Aaditya Thackeray on unlocking Maharashtra | On The RecordAfter Centre announced Unlock 1, Thackeray talks about starting colleges and schools in the state. Thackeray also answers why shops, markets are allowed to open but not malls. Watch the video for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-kerala-eases-norms-but-curfew-in-containment-areas-till-june-30-and-all-the-latest-news/story-VV0bGguHKwkxhu4pmvkk8J.html
01-06-2020||India||Telangana allows inter-state travel, but Andhra stops people at borders, says restrictions still on||The decision of the Andhra Pradesh government not to open its borders yet for inter-state movement of vehicles and people created confusion for the commuters at the Andhra-Telangana borders on Monday, when Unlock 1, aimed at containing spread of Covid-19 came into force all over the country.As the Telangana government issued orders on Sunday lifting restrictions on the inter-state transport and travel in line with the Centre’s latest guidelines, hundreds of people from Hyderabad and parts of Telangana left for Andhra Pradesh but were stopped by the AP police at the border check posts.It was only at around 11 am that Andhra Pradesh’s Director General of Police Gautam Sawang issued a statement that restrictions on inter-state movement of people and goods would remain in force “till a further decision is taken by the government.”The statement said all those who were seeking to come to Andhra from other states in private vehicles should obtain an e-pass through the government’s ‘Spandana’ web portal and undergo medical tests.“Those seeking to come from less coronavirus-affected states will be sent to home quarantine. Those from highly-affected states will be sent to institutional quarantine for seven days and they have to undergo tests for Covid-19. If they test positive, they should be sent to hospital and if they test negative, they would have to be home quarantined for another seven days,” the DGP said, adding that these restrictions would continue till specific instructions were issued by the government.However, even before the orders came from the DGP office, the Andhra residents held up in Hyderabad had already started for their respective places. There was a huge rush of vehicles on Hyderabad-Vijayawada highway, but the AP police stopped them at the Garikapadu check-post and allowed only those who had valid passes. Those who did not have passes were sent back to Hyderabad.For people arriving by rail and air, the Andhra government made it mandatory to undergo tests either at the railway station or district reception centre near the respective station. “The seven-day institutional quarantine, followed by seven-day home quarantine, is mandatory for all those coming to AP,” state nodal officer for Covid-19 Arja Sreekanth said.Those who were coming from abroad will have to undergo quarantine either at the state-run quarantine centres or paid quarantine facilities at hotels, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-allows-inter-state-travel-but-andhra-stops-people-at-borders-says-restrictions-still-on/story-JrA0vMlaUboEQbLDaUufBL.html
01-06-2020||India||Up to India and China to resolve border standoff, says Australian envoy||Against the backdrop of a standoff between border troops of India and China, Australia on Monday said it was for the two countries to resolve the face-off as no third country could interfere in the matter.In an online media briefing ahead of the June 4 virtual summit between Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi, Australian high commissioner Barry O’Farrell said his country’s foreign policy is set by its national interests, including a desire for stability in the South China Sea.O’Farrell reiterated Australia’s support for India’s call for the reform of multilateral bodies such as the World Health Organization (WHO) so that they are better placed to deal with future challenges and crises.Asked specifically about the India-China standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and whether such issues would figure in the upcoming summit, the envoy replied: “In relation to the border issue, that’s a matter for China and India to resolve and not a matter for Australia to interfere with.”In an apparent reference to the US president’s attempts to mediate in the matter, which have already been rebuffed by India, O’Farrell added: “That’s reflected by what we’ve seen over the past week, when others have sought to suggest that they could step in and provide some advice. Clearly it’s going to be a matter that India and China will resolve.”Australia, he said, has a “substantial interest in stability and adherence to international law” in the South China Sea, where it is “concerned about the militarisation of disputed features” and has urged all parties to take meaningful steps to ease tensions.While Australian vessels and aircraft will continue to exercise their rights to freedom of navigation in the South China Sea, all claims in that region should be resolved according to international law, and the “most sensible place” to resolve such matters is the UN, he said.The virtual summit, organised after Morrison called off a visit to India in January because of bushfires in Australia and also due to the impact on the Covid-19 crisis, is expected to see the signing of several agreements, including the Mutual Logistics Support Agreement (MLSA) for reciprocal access to military logistics facilities.O’Farrell said the summit is also expected to advance an ambitious agenda that will include working together to improve regional and multilateral institutions, including on Covid-19 and public health, boosting science and tech cooperation, stronger collaboration on cyber-security and critical technology, maritime issues in the Indo-Pacific, critical mineral supply chains, education, and water resource management.“It’s as crucial as ever for like-minded democracies and important partners like Australia and India, at this time, to work together to shape the type of region and type of world in which we want to live presently but importantly, post-Covid,” he said.India and Australia are committed to a free, open, inclusive and secure Indo-Pacific and strengthening and making their economies more resilient, have a shared goal of strengthening international institutions, he added.“I think there are many opportunities for India and Australia to assist each other’s supply chains. We support India’s policy of Make in India…but we have elements and resources that can strengthen and make more resilient the supply chain here in India,” O’Farrell said.The MLSA will make it easier for the militaries of both countries to conduct complex exercises and facilitate access to each other’s bases. Asked if Australia still hopes to be part of the Malabar naval exercise conducted by India, the US and Japan, the envoy replied: “Would we like to join Malabar? Yes, but we recognise that’s a matter for the partners who run the exercise to decide.”Defence ties between Australia and India, he said, are at a historic peak and activities have quadrupled in the past six years. The two sides also have a shared commitment as Indian Ocean powers and an obligation to secure a free and inclusive Indo-Pacific, he added.“That alone is going to ensure that our defence relationship in this part of the world is maintained,” O’Farrell said, adding last year’s edition of AusIndex, a bilateral naval exercise, witnessed Australia’s largest ever military deployment to India and MLSA will assist in future submarine patrols in the Bay of Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-to-india-and-china-to-resolve-border-standoff-says-australian-envoy/story-x38tDy3QQJhpQ1IvFwpTgP.html
01-06-2020||India||Personal data of over 7 mn Indians collected for BHIM sign-ups exposed online: Researcher||Sensitive information of at least seven million Indians, including scans of their Aadhaar cards and snapshots of their banking transactions, was exposed online, according to Israel-based cybersecurity researchers who said they flagged the issue to government agencies which took nearly a month to plug the leak.The researchers said that the database ran into 409 GB and included data and images collected by the CSC BHIM website. A review of the website by HT showed that this data was collected by government-employed volunteers who were tasked with getting merchants and shopkeepers in small towns and villages to use BHIM, a state-supported payments application promoted during a drive to promote cashless transactions. Such data is a source of profit for cyber criminals who can either sell it on the dark web or use it for identity theft, which can then be help gain access to a person’s bank accounts. “The scale of the exposed data is extraordinary, affecting millions of people all over India and exposing them to potentially devastating fraud, theft, and attack from hackers and cybercriminals,” the researchers said in their blog post on vpnmentor.com.The data was stored without security safeguards on an Amazon Web Services (AWS) server “S3 bucket”, the researchers said. “S3 buckets are a popular form of cloud storage across the world but require developers to set up security protocols on their accounts. The exposed S3 bucket was labelled ‘csc-bhim’, and our team was quickly able to identify the developers behind the website ‘www.cscbhim.in’ as the owners of the data,” they said. CSC is a government agency that helps e-governance projects. According to the CSC BHIM website, it sends village-level entrepreneurs (VLE) – people who sign up to help with grassroots volunteer work, to train “merchants on BHIM App and will tell them the benefits of the BHIM App. After training the merchants, VLEs will install BHIM App on their mobiles and will link their respective bank account with BHIM App”.The data appears to be Know Your Customer (KYC) documentation for this purpose. Snapshots of such information uploaded by the Israeli researchers with sensitive details redacted showed Aadhaar cards, caste certificates and a database of UPI payment IDs along with the name and the type of business of merchants.In a statement, CSC e-Governance Services India Ltd denied that personal information was exposed by the server and said that it does not collect Aadhaar data. “Static pages of the portal including e-text content, pdf files, pictures, awareness videos etc was kept public. The project did not involve taking Aadhaar data of any merchant, therefore there is no question of personal identifiable information such as Aadhaar data to be made public,” it said.The researcher, however, said that Aadhaar card information was part of the database. “We sampled files from the bucket, trying to determine the sensitivity of the data, and its owners; we confirmed the existence of personally identifiable information (Aadhaar cards, caste certificates, photos of electricity poles - probably to determine address),” said Ran Locar, one of the two researchers who found the data. According to the blog, the leak was first found on April 23 and not fixed till at least May 22. “We reached out to the website’s developers to notify them of the misconfiguration in their S3 bucket and to offer our assistance. After not receiving a reply, we contacted India’s Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), which deals with cybersecurity in the country. Many weeks later, we contacted CERT-In a second time. Shortly thereafter, the breach was closed,” Locar said, adding that it was eventually Cert-In that appears to have acted.Cert-In did not respond to requests for a comment on the incident. The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) said no BHIM data had been breached, but did not reply to a specific question about the information that appears to have been collected in order to sign-up traders for the app.According to Locar, it was unclear how long the 409GB of data sat on the internet unsecured. “We cannot know for how long it was open, or who accessed it. There is a good chance it has been accessed by parties with criminal intentions. The only ones who can know that are CSC-BHIM themselves - the owners of the data - by conducting a thorough investigation and publishing a forensic report,” the researcher, who is based in Tel Aviv, said.Cyber security researchers and intelligence experts have warned that such mass data leaks can additionally be used to create citizen profiles that can be used by more sophisticated adversaries, such as state-backed hackers, for national security threats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/personal-data-of-over-7-mn-indians-collected-for-bhim-sign-ups-exposed-online-researcher/story-NZ8zhAyZootAjeEjsNe6vL.html
01-06-2020||India||Man, 32, killed in clash between two groups over land dispute in Andhra||A man was killed in a clash between two groups over a land dispute in Andhra Pradesh’s Vijayawada on Saturday evening, the police said. Thota Sandeep, who was attacked with a knife, succumbed to his injuries at a private hospital on Sunday night. He was 32. The deceased’s rival, Manikantha alias Pandu, is battling for his life in another hospital. Another six people also sustained injuries in the fight, which took place in an open ground at Patamata in the city.Sandeep’s body was cremated on Monday amidst tight police security.The incident was initially believed to be a petty clash between two student groups, but subsequent investigations by the police revealed that it was a battle between two gangs involved in land settlements.Videos of the two gangs attacking each other with sticks, swords and boulders went viral on social media, creating a tense atmosphere in the city.According to deputy commissioner of police (law and order) V Harshavardhan Raju, Sandeep and Manikanta were involved in a dispute over settlement of a residential apartment at Yanamalakuduru. Both of them had warned each other over the phone on Friday.On Saturday evening, both came to Patamata to settle the matter. What began as an argument between the two, soon led to a clash and youth belonging to both the groups started attacking each other, the DCP said.Soon, policemen from the Patamata police station rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. While members of both the groups fled the spot, the police shifted the injured to the local hospitals. “We have formed six teams to launch a manhunt for those who indulged in the fight. Such incidents have not taken place in the city in the recent past. Stringent action would be initiated against those involved in such group clashes,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-32-killed-in-clash-between-two-groups-over-land-dispute-in-andhra/story-1T3y2a6yTZq1pYQ1vw0lyH.html
01-06-2020||India||PM Modi launches one-stop platform to help MSMEs grow, solve problems||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched the technology platform CHAMPIONS, a one-stop-shop solution of the MSME Ministry that would attempt to make smaller entrepreneurships evolve and grow by solving their grievances.The acronym CHAMPIONS stands for Creation and Harmonious Application of Modern Processes for Increasing the Output and National Strength.This ICT-based system has been set up to help the MSMEs in the present difficult situation and also to handhold them to become national and international champions, an official statement said.It would work to resolve the problems of MSMEs including those of finance, raw material, labour, regulatory permissions etc particularly in the Covid-19 created difficult situation. It would also help them capture new opportunities including manufacturing of medical equipment and accessories like PPEs, masks, etc and supply them in national and international markets.It would also identify the potential MSMEs who are able to withstand the current situation and can become national and international champions.It is a technology packed control room-cum-management information system. In addition to ICT tools including telephone, internet and video conference, the system is enabled by Artificial Intelligence, Data Analytics and Machine Learning. It is also fully integrated on real time basis with GOI’s main grievances portal CPGRAMS and MSME Ministry’s own other web based mechanisms.The entire ICT architecture has been created in-house with the help of NIC with no cost. Similarly, the physical infrastructure has been created in one of the ministry’s dumping rooms in record time, the official statement said.As part of the system, a network of control rooms has been created in a Hub and Spoke Model. The hub is situated in New Delhi in the Secretary MSME’s office. The spokes are in the states in various offices and institutions of the MSME Ministry. As of now, 66 state-level control rooms have been created and made functional. They are connected through video conference also in addition to the portal of Champions. A detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) has been issued to the officers and staff have been deployed and training has been conducted for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-one-stop-platform-to-help-msmes-grow-solve-problems/story-llgV9U3ByYGq4Vr9Y9smnN.html
01-06-2020||India||Under Unlock 1, Assam to open religious places, malls, restaurants||The Assam government on Monday issued fresh  guidelines on relaxations and restrictions to be followed in the state during Unlock 1 to control the spread of Covid-19.Chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna directed government departments and district administrations to implement the guidelines while ensuring strict compliance of social distancing, hygiene and other safety protocols.Religious places have been allowed to open from June 8 subject to a gathering of a maximum of 20 people  per hour. Disposable paper tokens should be given to regulate the number of visitors.Hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services have been allowed to function from June 8 while restricting customers/guests to 50% of total capacity and ensuring adherence to social distancing. Shopping malls have also been allowed to operate from June 8.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Open spaces, public parks can be used for jogging, morning walk, yoga etc from June 1. Film and video shooting has also been allowed from June 1 in open spaces and studios while adhering to social distancing.Barber shops and beauty parlours have been allowed to open from June 1 only for the purpose of hair trimming. Social distance, use of masks and gloves and frequent sanitization should be maintained, said the order.Similar to guidelines issued by the Centre, night curfew will remain in force in Assam too from 9 pm till 5 am.Persons above 65 years, those with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below 10 years have been asked not to step out of their homes except for essential and health related reasons.Cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and other such places where large numbers of people can gather will remain closed.Schools, colleges, universities and coaching centres will also remain closed and social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural, academic, religious functions and other large gatherings will not be allowed.No activity would be allowed in containment zones. All other restrictions given is previous order on May 18, like not more than 50 attendees in marriages and 20 in funerals, will remain in force.Assam has recorded a total of 1391 Covid-19 cases out of which 278 have recovered and four have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-unlock-1-religious-places-malls-restaurants-to-open-assam/story-P8ZLEnodlXSwdJBXpsl7yJ.html
01-06-2020||India||On resuming international flight ops, minister Hardeep Puri cites ‘several factors’||As the airlines inch toward the critical mass of 50 to 60 percent operations in the domestic circuit, aviation minister Hardeep Puri underscored on Monday that it will help in their ability to resume international flights also. He added he will help “facilitate a calibrated reopening of the sector”.International flights have been banned in the country since March 22. Soon after the Centre’s Unlock 1 guidelines, with an “economic focus”, allowed for reopening of the economy in a phased manner, the aviation regulator DGCA on Saturday said the suspension of scheduled international commercial passenger flights will continue till June 30.Domestic passenger flight services resumed in the country from May 25 after a break of two months since the first lockdown was announced on March 25.“MHA guidelines for lockdown 5.0 have further opened up inter & intra-state travel, will facilitate calibrated reopening of the sector. As we move towards the critical mass of 50-60% operation of domestic flights, our ability to resume international operations will also improve,” said Hardeep Puri. Numerous citizens have been approaching us to restart international flights. Several factors need to be addressed. Many international destinations are not allowing incoming passenger traffic, except for their own citizens or diplomats.The minister cited the lockdown situation in many metros and how they are still in varying stages of opening up thus proving to be an impediment in resuming international flight operations. “Within India, most international flights operate from the metros where travellers arrive from neighbouring cities & states. Our metro cities were under various degrees of lockdown which are beginning to be lifted. Some of them are still allowing only limited flights to operate,” said Puri.International air travel, metro rail services, cinema halls, gyms, swimming pools, bars, entertainment parks, and auditoriums will remain closed and open only in the third phase. Large gatherings, including social, political, religious, and sporting events are also banned for now. The third phase of the un-lockdown plan will focus on the resumption of these activities. No date, however, has been set for this.Another problem, as pointed out by the minister, is that many foreign destinations are not taking in incoming passengers. “Numerous citizens have been approaching us to restart international flights. Several factors need to be addressed. Many international destinations are not allowing incoming passenger traffic, except for their own citizens or diplomats,” said he.Earlier last month, the minister said if the situation improves and the “virus behaves in a predictable manner”, then the commercial international flight operations could start as early as the middle of June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-resuming-international-flight-ops-minister-hardeep-puri-cites-several-factors/story-HgHKDGyOXbZUN9MVQqTfNL.html
01-06-2020||India||Amid pandemic, vector-borne diseases worry Kerala as monsoon breaks||Monsoon clouds have made Johnson, a cobbler who also repairs umbrellas sitting outside the Kerala secretariat, happy. Usually he works till 8 pm but he leaves his makeshift tent by afternoon these days for lack of customers. But his hopes have soared as the monsoon  hit Kerala on Monday.“Usually people flood me with old umbrellas, school bags and shoes. I used to repair 40-50 umbrellas a day. With no children or school around I hardly get five to six a day. But these clouds come with a silver lining,” he said. Farmers are also happy at the monsoon arriving on time. “It heralds a fresh beginning,” said a farmer tilling a leased  agricultural plot  for plantain cultivation in Vellayani on the outskirts of Thiruvananthapuram.  The build-up was quite visible on Sunday itself as thunder and  lightning accompanied early drizzles. Usually people come out in large numbers to drench themselves in the first monsoon rain but the Covid-19 pandemic  kept most people indoors. While the monsoon’s timely arrival has been welcome,  it has also added to the worries of  the  government  which is busy fighting the pandemic. Usually monsoon brings in a lot of diseases like dengue, leptospirosis, H1N1, chikungunya and other ailments. The government has revised the fever protocol and made covid-19 tests mandatory for all cold-related diseases.“We know the situation is tricky. That is why we started cleanliness drive much early this time. What we need is care, not panic. Since people are really conscious this time we are not expecting much load of the monsoon-related viral ailments,” said State health minister K K Shailaja. She also said the ongoing pandemic fight will not affect the state’s preparedness to tackle other diseases. Every year vector-borne diseases claim many lives in the state.Fearing covid-infection many people dread to frequent hospitals these days and some resort to self-treatment also. But medical experts have warned not to take  medicines without advice. Like online education, tele-medicine has also become active these days.The state is doubly cautious this time as it witnessed two consecutive floods in the last two years.In 2018 , torrential rains had filled 40-odd dams forcing authorities to open sluice gates of many that submerged many areas in the flood of the century.  In the last two years the state had received at least 40 % more rain than usual. State Dam Safety Authority chairman Justice R Ramachandran Nair said water level in all major dams was in control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-pandemic-vector-borne-diseases-worry-kerala-as-monsoon-breaks/story-O347wmeNnFAFYI4A9uTabP.html
01-06-2020||India||Home Minister Amit Shah holds meeting to review preparations to deal with Cyclone Nisarga||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday held a meeting to review preparations for dealing with Cyclone Nisarga brewing over the Arabian Sea that is expected to hit parts of Maharashtra and Gujarat on June 3.Senior officials of concerned agencies NDMA, NDRF, IMD and the Indian Coast Guard attended the meeting with the home minister, according to a statement released by the Home Minister’s Office (HMO).  Union Home Minister @AmitShah held review meeting with senior officials of NDMA, NDRF, IMD & Indian Coast Guard on preparedness for dealing with Cyclone brewing in Arabian sea which is expected to hit some parts of Maharashtra & Gujarat. MoS @nityanandraibjp was also present. pic.twitter.com/qxmeKkUUqtAccording to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), the depression in south-west Arabian Sea is likely to intensify in the next 12 hours and will turn into Cyclone Nisarga in the next 24 hours.Maharashtra and Gujarat are on pre-cyclone alert as the Met department has predicted very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall in parts of these states on June 3 and 4. Cyclone Nisarga is likely to make landfall over Palghar district, around 100 km north of Mumbai by Wednesday evening or at night. In preparation to deal with Cyclone Nisarga, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) on Monday deployed nine teams in Maharashtra. Of these, three are on standby in Mumbai, two in Palghar, one each in Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, NDRF officials said.In Gujarat, the NDRF has deployed 11 teams besides one team each in Daman&Diu and Dadra&Nagar Haveli.The looming threat of Cyclone Nisarga comes just days after super cyclonic storm Amphan wreaked havoc in parts of coastal West Bengal and Odisha on May 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-minister-amit-shah-holds-meeting-to-review-preparations-for-cyclone-nisarga/story-NBW79BvTMfC0znBKermSPL.html
01-06-2020||India||AirAsia India offers 50,000 seats without charging base fare to doctors amid pandemic||No-frills airline AirAsia India on Monday said it is offering 50,000 seats without charging base fare to the doctor community who, along with other frontline workers, are working to save lives amid the coronavirus pandemic. “As a mark of respect to our doctors and in recognition of the admirable values they have displayed through the last few months, we at AirAsia India wanted to express our gratitude for their tireless efforts in keeping the nation safe and healthy,” Air Asia India Chief Commercial Officer Ankur Garg said.Under the RedPass initiative, AirAsia India will give away 50,000 seats without any base fare on flights across its domestic sectors to doctors as a gesture of gratitude for their commendable efforts in support of the nation, the airline said in release. However, airport fees, charges and statutory taxes will be borne by the traveller, it said. To avail the offer, doctors can submit their contact details and desired sector and date of travel between July 1 and September 30 with their registration number or ID as proof on its website, the airline said adding that the applications can be submitted by June 12. Besides these base free passes, they would also be given special privileges like priority boarding at the airport. The RedPass would be valid for a one way flight for the successful applicant doctors on the AirAsia India domestic network, the airline said in the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/airasia-india-offers-50-000-seats-without-charging-base-fare-to-doctors-amid-pandemic/story-NntS8VRzsR3WS2xh00udNK.html
01-06-2020||India||Cooking gas price hiked by Rs11.50 per cylinder as India starts to lose advantage of low oil prices||India is losing the advantage of substantially low international oil prices as its cost of crude imports in rupee terms has surged 69% in just two months, forcing state-run companies to raise the cooking gas price for the first time since February by Rs 11.50 a cylinder.State-run Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), the country’s largest fuel retailer, issued a notification at midnight on Sunday raising the price of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) used as cooking fuel from June 1.“For the month of June 2020, there has been an increase in international prices of LPG. Due to increase in the prices in international market, the RSP [retail selling price] of LPG in Delhi market will be increased by Rs 11.50 per cylinder,” it said.A 14.2-kg cooking gas cylinder in Delhi is now priced at Rs 593. Prices of the fuel in other cities vary, depending on local levies, according to the company’s website.IOC said the retail price of cooking gas in Delhi had been slashed by Rs 162.5 a cylinder last month to Rs 581.50 because of a steep decline in global oil prices.India’s average crude oil import price (Indian basket) surged about 69% to Rs 2,516.77 a barrel in just two months, up from Rs 1,491.57 a barrel on April 1, according to the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC), the oil ministry’s official data-keeper.Benchmark Brent crude, which plunged from more than $51.9 a barrel on March 2 to below $20 a barrel by April 21 due to slack demand and oversupply, is now hovering around $38 a barrel, amid hope of a prolonged supply cut by the producers’ cartel and demand revival due to lifting of the Covid-19 lockdown in many countries, including India.There are indications international oil prices may move further north as the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and its allies, particularly Russia (together OPEC+), are expected to meet on June 4 to discuss extending production cuts beyond this month.In a historic decision on April 12, OPEC+ decided to cut its overall crude oil production by 9.7 million barrels per day (bpd), or a 10th of global output, from May 1 for an initial period of two months ending on June 30. The producers’ cartel decided to shun the price war among them and agreed on a synchronised supply cut to stabilise crude prices after they plunged.“Although rising prices of oil in the international market is always a matter of concern for an importer like India, current prices are well within our comfort levels. It is likely that prices will remain in the range of $40 to $45 a barrel for quite some time due to subdued demand, overflowing global oil storage facilities and tension between the US and China,” a government official said, requesting anonymity.Experts, however, said rising global oil prices are a matter of concern for import-dependent India, especially at a time when demand is expected to surge as the country opens its economy from June, after a prolonged lockdown since March 25 to check the spread of Covid-19.SC Sharma, former officer on special duty at the erstwhile Planning Commission, said two signs of international oil prices firming up are that global demand is picking up fast, and OPEC+ could further extend production cuts.“That may lead to oil prices going beyond $40 a barrel. In that situation, oil companies may have to hike petrol and diesel prices by Rs 5 and Rs 6.5 a litre [respectively] or the government may have to reduce additional excise. As the prices have not been revised by OMCs [oil marketing companies] for a month, any increase in import price beyond $30 a barrel may adversely impact OMCs,” he said.The Union government could raise excise duties on petrol and diesel twice without affecting retail prices of the two fuels because of low prices of crude in the international market. On May 6, it raised the central excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 10 a litre and Rs 13 per litre, respectively. On March 14, it raised the levy on the two fuels by Rs 3 a litre each. An additional rupee that comes to the exchequer by way of excise duty on petrol and diesel means an additional Rs.14,500 crore in revenue.Nilaya Varma, co-founder and CEO of consultancy firm Primus Partners, said, “International crude oil prices are still on the lower side, which is favourable for India. The country needs fund to revive economic activities that were disrupted due to the prolonged lockdown because of Covid-19. Low international oil prices will reduce the country’s import bill and help the exchequer to raise additional funds through increased excise duty.”India is the third largest importer of energy after the US and China. It imports more than 80% of the crude it processes. It imported crude oil worth $ 101.4 billion in 2019-20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cooking-gas-price-hiked-by-rs11-50-per-cylinder-as-india-starts-to-lose-advantage-of-low-oil-prices/story-vqmB1WfnTlJjjfAP7ocS8J.html
01-06-2020||India||Odisha orders complete weekend shutdown in 11 districts as state posts highest single-day surge||The Odisha government on Monday announced a complete shutdown on weekends all through June in 11 of its 30 districts, where coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases are rising, as the state posted the highest single-day spike of 156 cases and the overall tally stood at 2,104.Odisha chief secretary Asit Tripathy said all services in these 11 districts would remain shut on Saturdays and Sundays in June except for hospitals, nursing homes, medicine stores, and petrol pumps.Of the 11 districts, the state capital Bhubaneswar, Khurda, and coastal districts of Ganjam and Kendrapara account for 75% of the 2,104 Covid-19 positive cases. Cuttack, Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Nayagarh, Jajpur, Bhadrak, Balasore, and Bolangir are the other districts, where the weekend shutdown will be enforced.Tripathy attributed the spike in Covid-19 positive cases to the return of the stranded migrant people to the state amid the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were introduced from March 25 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak.So far, around 4.26 lakh migrant workers have returned to Odisha of whom 2.49 lakh are still lodged in quarantine centres. Over 95% of the Covid-19 positive cases have been reported among migrant returnees.On Monday, of the 156 Covid-19 positive cases, 50 were reported from Kendrapara district, and a day before another 129 cases were recorded, largely among the migrants who have come back home. Odisha reported the first 1,000 Covid-19 positive cases in 67 days, and the next 1,100 were recorded in only 11 days because of the influx of migrant workers.The state government has also tweaked the Union Ministry of Home Affairs’ order, issued on Saturday evening, on the opening of the places of worship, as it plans to keep them closed till June 30.The state authorities plan to conduct the annual Rathaytra of Lord Jagannath and his siblings in Puri without the participation of any devotees, and the doors of the Lord Jagannath shrine would remain closed till the first week of July, when the chariot festival concludes.The government said schools, colleges, and coaching centres would remain closed till July 31. Similarly, shopping malls, cinema halls, gymnasiums, and swimming pools would remain closed till June 30. However, hotels can function with 30% of their capacity, while restaurants would be open to in-house guests and also allowed to operate their takeaway services.Odisha has decided not to ease the lockdown restrictions on night curfew, which will continue to be enforced between 7pm and 5am.The government also raised the penalty for people not wearing face masks and spitting in public places.“People, who’re found not wearing face masks in public places, will be fined Rs 500 for the first two offences and the fine will be increased to Rs 1,000 for the subsequent violation. Spitting in public places will lead to arrest,” said Abhay, director-general of police (DGP), Odisha. “We have been observing that people have become carefree as if we’ve developed an immunity to SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19. However, we need to be extremely cautious all through June. We’ll strictly enforce the guidelines to prevent the spread of the viral outbreak,” the DGP added.So far, 1,245 Covid-19 positive patients have recovered, and another 850 are still undergoing treatment.Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president Niranjan Patnaik has accused both the state and the central governments of the spike in Covid-19 positive cases and singled out the state authorities for putting more curbs on the movement of the general public, causing inconvenience in earning their daily livelihood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-odisha-orders-complete-weekend-shutdown-in-11-districts-as-state-posts-highest-single-day-surge/story-ZBn9R9JquTAx4n3jvBLmiK.html
01-06-2020||India||Eye on Cyclone Nisarga, NDRF deploys 9 teams in Maharashtra, Amit Shah chairs review meet||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) on Monday deployed nine teams in Maharashtra to prepare for Cyclone Nisarga which is brewing in the Arabian Sea and is likely to reach the Northern Maharashtra coast by the evening of June 3.Of the nine NDRF teams deployed in Maharashtra-- three are on standby in Mumbai, two in Palghar, one each in Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, NDRF officials said.Home Minister Amit Shah too on Monday held a review meeting with officials of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) for on preparedness for dealing with Cyclone Nisarga.ALSO READ | Cyclone Nisarga will cross close to Mumbai, shows IMD trackCyclone Nisarga is likely to make landfall over Palghar district, located around 100 km north of capital city Mumbai by Wednesday evening or at night, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. The cyclonic storm is likely to hit Maharashtra barely days after severe cyclonic storm Amphan battered parts of Gangetic West Bengal, the Sunderbans and four districts of Odisha on May 20. Cyclone Amphan is believed to have destroyed about one-third of the Sunderbans—the world’s largest mangrove forests.The IMD has predicted damage in a few districts of Maharashtra lining the west coast of the country.The intensity of the approaching storm was scaled up from a cyclonic storm to a severe cyclonic storm with maximum wind speed expected to climb to 105-115 km per hour (kmph) gusting to 125 kmph at the time of landfall, the IMD said.ALSO READ | Cyclone Nisarga may make landfall over Palghar district, near Mumbai, on June 3“Palghar, Thane, Mumbai, and Raigad districts are likely to be the most affected by this severe cyclonic storm. We are expecting damages in the form of uprooting of trees and the collapse of kutcha and pucca buildings. A more detailed list of likely damages will be shared soon. State governments are being updated constantly, as the weather system develops,” Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, Director-General, IMD said.Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, a severe cyclonic storm like Nisarga will pose a fresh challenge for Maharashtra already grappling with the highest number of coronavirus positive patients in the country with the number of cases increasing daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-cyclone-nisarga-ndrf-deploys-9-teams-in-maharashtra-amit-shah-chairs-review-meet/story-1X7oT9UhYGCNisIHIDjXxJ.html
01-06-2020||India||Summer crop prices hiked 50-80% for farmers in big Cabinet decision||The Union Cabinet on Monday approved federally fixed minimum support prices (MSP) for 14 kharif or summer-sown crops, which will offer 50-83% profit over cultivation cost, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said.The announcement came as the June-to-September monsoon for 2020, predicted by the India Meteorological Bureau to be normal, made its onset over Kerala, its first port of call in the Indian mainland, on June 1, as predicted.A normal monsoon will likely lessen the strain on the agriculture economy from widespread disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The summer rains are critical because nearly 60% of India’s net arable land lacks irrigation and nearly half the population depends on a farm-based livelihood.The MSP for paddy, the main summer staple, has been raised by Rs 53 to Rs 1,868 per quintal for the 2020-21 crop year, which will give a return of 50% over cost of cultivation, according to an official statement. “(The) government has increased the MSP of Kharif crops for marketing season 2020-21, to ensure remunerative prices to the growers for their produce,” a Cabinet statement said.The highest increases in MSP are for nigerseed (Rs 755 per quintal) followed by sesamum (Rs 370 per quintal), urad (Rs 300 per quintal) and cotton (Rs 275 per quintal). “The differential remuneration is aimed at encouraging crop diversification,” the official statement said.For cotton, the MSP has been increased by Rs 260 to Rs 5,515 per quintal, Tomar said. The support prices of arhar or tur, a type of lentil, has been fixed at Rs 6,000, which represents a 58% return over cost of cultivation.The increase in MSP for kharif crops is in line with the Union Budget 2018-19 announcement of fixing the MSPs at a level of at least 1.5 times of the countrywide weighted average cost of production, which aims to give at least 50% returns for each crop.According to official calculations, the returns to farmers over cost of production are estimated to be highest in case of the coarse cereal, bajra (83%), followed by urad (64%), tur (58%) and maize (53%). “To correct demand-supply imbalances, the government has realigned the MSPs more in favour of oilseeds, pulses and coarse cereals to encourage farmers to shift to these crops,” said Abhishek Agrawal, an analyst with Comtrade, a commodities trading firm.Fresh indicators show the country’s farm sector, which employs nearly half the population, has coped well with the Covid-19 crisis, with a larger summer crop area than last year, higher sales of fertilisers and seeds, and better prices, leading Reserve Bank Governor Shaktikanta Das to last month call it a “beacon of hope”.The farm sector is poised to grow at least 3% in 2020-21, despite disruption in the economy due to the coronavirus pandemic. According to government think tank Niti Aayog’s assessment in April, agriculture will aid overall growth.There are other indicators too, ranging from sowing to input sales, which show the agriculture economy is heading into the summer-sown or kharif operations in decent shape.Farmers have planted rice in about 3.48 million hectares (1 hectare equals 2.4 acre) compared to 2.52 million hectares during the corresponding period of last year, an increase of nearly 37%, official data as on May 21 show.The area under pulses -- a major summer crop with up to 70% share in farm incomes in some states – stands at nearly 1.28 million hectares against 0.96 million hectares during the same period of last year, which is higher by one-third (33%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/summer-crop-prices-hiked-between-50-80-for-farmers-in-big-cabinet-decision/story-djDKt1eN44jXrR8H3ka7fO.html
01-06-2020||India||Elections to pending 18 Rajya Sabha seats on June 19: EC||Elections to fill 18 vacancies in the Rajya Sabha will be held on June 19, said a person aware of details.The Election Commission, which had earlier deferred the elections scheduled for March 26, has decided to give its nod for filling the 18 seats.According to the person aware of details, polling will be conducted for filling four seats each in Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat, three seats each in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, two seats in Jharkhand, and one seat each in Manipur and Meghalaya.The counting of votes will be conducted on the same day. The commission also decided that the chief secretaries will depute a senior officer from each of the states to ensure that extant instructions regarding Covid-19 containment measures are complied with while making arrangements for conducting the elections.Earlier this year, 55 vacancies has arisen in the upper house of Parliament, and 37 members were elected unopposed. The oath-taking ceremony of these 37 is yet to take place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elections-to-pending-18-rajya-sabha-seats-on-june-19-ec/story-VHLF5rxvx45Uh6uAJkfseK.html
01-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga: Mumbai to get extremely heavy rains and face inundation in parts||The depression over the south-east and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep area, which is likely to intensify into cyclone Nisarga by Tuesday, will largely impact Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg districts and neighbouring areas in Konkan, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities.Very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall is predicted on Tuesday and the following day, the IMD said on Monday.Nisarga, which is likely to make landfall on Wednesday afternoon as a severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 90 to 105 kilometres per hour (kmph) gusting to 125 kmph, can inundate the low-lying areas, especially in Mumbai and its adjoining areas, and can cause severe structural damages, IMD scientists said at a press briefing on Monday afternoon.“Central and state government agencies are trying to take all possible steps to prevent damage. We’re advising fishermen in Maharashtra, Kerala, coastal Karnataka, Gujarat, Goa, and Lakshadweep to avoid venturing out to the sea till Thursday. Those out should return immediately, as the sea can be very rough for the next three days,” said Dr. Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD.“We can expect very heavy to extremely heavy rains (more than 20 centimetres) in all these districts of Maharashtra. Inundation is also expected in low-lying areas,” he added.It is very unusual for a cyclone to make landfall in or near Mumbai or even on the Maharashtra coast. The storms that form during the onset of monsoon over the Arabian Sea usually move towards Oman in the Persian Gulf.Cyclone Phyan in 2009 had last impacted these districts and even Mumbai had recorded extremely heavy rains. “It’s very rare that a cyclone hits Mumbai. Even Nisarga may not hit Mumbai directly but may cause damage. We’re trying to get the exact track of the cyclone. Last year Vayu had skirted the Gujarat coast, when it re-curved and later weakened,” said Sunita Devi, head of cyclones at IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-mumbai-to-get-extremely-heavy-rains-and-face-inundation-in-parts/story-VtqbxTvdUv8jk6Lz4vlWwN.html
01-06-2020||India||Roosting site with rare vultures found near Madhya Pradesh’s Panna Tiger Reserve||While out on lockdown duty in April, a forest officer in Madhya Pradesh’s Panna stumbled upon one of the very few roosting sites for vultures in India. The officer’s rare spotting included 150 to 160 vultures of four species, along with the critically-endangered white-rumped vulture and endangered Egyptian vulture, roosting off the Katni-Panna highway, about 60 km from the Panna Tiger Reserve.Hemant Yadav, deputy conservator of forests, Panna south division, came across this roosting site on his surveillance duty. “I saw four species of vultures—white rumped vulture; Egyptian vulture; King vulture and the Indian vulture or the Long-billed vulture. I also saw several juveniles there. It’s possibly a habitat favourable for their breeding,” said Yadav. A cowshed (gaushala) nearby, which usually disposes dead cattle in a perennial stream (nallah), provides the food and water needed.Yadav says, the state forest department had found close to 6,000 vultures during an estimation exercise of the bird’s numbers in protected areas, including national parks and wildlife sanctuaries in 2016. However the department didn’t conduct any estimation of vultures outside of the protected areas. The forest officer says has pointed to two factors that could have led to this newly developed suitable habitat for vultures. “I found that the ravines in this roosting site and the availability of food has led to development of a suitable habitat,” Yadav added.Vultures disappeared in large numbers in the mid-’90s largely due to ingestion of residues of the veterinary non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug diclofenac in cattle carcasses. According to a study published in Journal of Bombay Natural History Society in 2007, the decline of vultures was first documented at Keoladeo National Park, Bharatpur, Rajasthan. Subsequently, their numbers declined across the country. Surveys were conducted in 2007 on the same tracks as surveys conducted in the 90’s and early 2000’s. Repeated surveys conducted from March to June 2007 found three species of vultures — White rumped vultures, Long billed and Slender billed vultures — continued to decline at an alarming rate. Numbers of White-rumped Vulture, for example, declined by 99.9 per cent between 1992 and 2007. Another survey was conducted and published by Bird Conservation International in 2017 which found that populations of all three species continued to remain very low but the rapid decline of White-rumped vulture has slowed and may have even reversed to an extent since ban of diclofenac in 2006. The numbers of Long billed vultures continued to decline while the trends for Slender billed vultures cannot be determined.Experts have suggested strict discontinuation in usage of diclofenac can bring vultures back in India’s biodiversity. “There were millions of vultures in the open countryside and even in cities 30 years ago. More than protecting the sites, its important the use of diclofenac is stopped completely. Its use is banned but it is available and people give it to cattle. Vultures will be back. We are seeing that their decline is not as rapid now as it used to be in the 90’s and early 2000’s,” said Asad Rahmani, former director of BNHS and veteran ornithologist.“The discovery of a yet-unrecorded roosting site for critically endangered vultures is heartening news and only underlines the importance of stepping up protection of forests outside of protected areas, which are wildlife rich. This area also has other important species-tigers, bears, leopards among others, and must be managed and conserved from the wildlife perspective as part of the Greater Panna landscape,” said Prerna Singh Bindra, conservationist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/roosting-site-with-rare-vultures-found-near-madhya-pradesh-s-panna-tiger-reserve/story-d1IT6jogxnvOI3kkvmt2WI.html
01-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Railways first isolation coach deployed in Delhi to aid treatment of Covid-19 patients and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Railways first isolation coach deployed in Delhi to aid treatment of Covid-19 patients’: OfficialIndian Railways’ first isolation coach has been deployed to aid the treatment of coronavirus patients in Delhi, a ministry official was quoted by news agency PTI.Read more. Airlines urged to keep middle seats empty or give ‘wrap-around gowns’The aviation regulator DGCA on Monday urged airlines to try and keep the middle seats vacant. In case it cannot be done, it added, the passengers should be provided with “wrap-around gowns”.Read more. Govt withdraws order to stop sale of 1,026 ‘imported’ goods at paramilitary canteensBarely an hour after delisting 1,026 foreign products, including chocolates, shoes and gadgets from being sold at all central paramilitary force canteens across the country, the Centre on Monday withdrew the order and said a revised one would be issued soon.Read more. Delhi borders sealed for one week, only essential services allowedThe Delhi borders will be shut for a week, said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday, adding that essential services will be allowed. The CM added that people having passes will be allowed to enter the national capital.Read more. Russia to roll out its first approved Covid-19 drug next weekRussian hospitals can begin giving the antiviral drug, which is registered under the name Avifavir, to patients from June 11, the head of Russia’s RDIF sovereign wealth fund told Reuters in an interview.Read more.Warning for Android users in India: CERT-In issues advisoryCERT-In (the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, has issued an advisory for Android users in India and this ‘warning’ comes with a ‘high’ severity rating.Read more. ‘Will still do my job as a professional’: Sandesh Jhingan on football behind closed doorsThe 2019-20 season of Bundesliga saw a restart last month after a forced break of nearly two months due to coronavirus pandemic. But as fans turned on their television sets to witness the return of football - there was a significant change. While Bundesliga matches are always jam-packed with crowds - singing, dancing, and cheering their teams - this time around, the seats were empty.Read more. Global Day of Parents 2020: Significance, best wishes, quotes to share with your parentsGlobal Day of Parents: According to the United Nations observances, June 1 is observed as the Global Day for Parents and emphasizes the critical role that parents play in nurturing and rearing their children.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-railways-first-isolation-coach-deployed-in-delhi-to-aid-treatment-of-covid-19-patients-and-all-the-latest-news/story-rEOLAWPXH4qvcGCHn0CBkO.html
01-06-2020||India||Should hospitals be reserved for Delhi residents amid Covid-19 crisis? CM Kejriwal seeks public vote||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has sought public suggestion on whether hospitals across the national capital should be reserved only for residents amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The chief minister’s office (CMO), in a tweet, stated that the suggestions can be sent by June 5, 5pm.  Also read: Delhi to open hair salons, all shops, announces CM Arvind KejriwalHon'ble CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal has sought suggestions from the people of Delhi on whether Delhi hospitals should be reserved for Delhi residents during the Corona pandemic. Send in your suggestions by 5th June, 5 PM. #DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/FW3E7MkA9OPeople can share their suggestions by dialling 1031 or dropping in their messages via WhatsApp or an email.“Hon’ble CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal has sought suggestions from the people of Delhi on whether Delhi hospitals should be reserved for Delhi residents during the Corona pandemic. Send in your suggestions by 5th June, 5 PM,” the tweet read. Watch l Delhi seals borders for a week, CM Kejriwal seeks suggestions for futurePeople can send their suggestions by dropping a WhatsApp text to 8800007722 or emailing at delhicm.suggestions@gmail.Earlier in the day, the chief minister held an online address on the Covid-19 situation in the national capital and the fifth phase of the lockdown. Kejriwal announced that Delhi’s borders will be sealed for the next week with an exemption to essential services. “We will take a decision again in one week to open borders after suggestions from citizens,” he said. “In autos, e-rickshaws and other vehicles, as per earlier orders, the number of passengers was fixed. But now we are lifting the restrictions on the number of passengers travelling in auto, e-rickshaws and other vehicles,” Kejriwal said today. Covid-19 cases in the national capital now near the 20,000-mark. On Monday, as per the data shared by the Ministry of Health, Delhi’s Covid-19 tally stood at 19,844. There have been 473 fatalities while 8,478 have recovered from the deadly contagion in the national capital till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-hospitals-be-reserved-for-delhi-residents-amid-covid-19-crisis-cm-kejriwal-seeks-public-vote/story-POuc1tBFHtFcHNhLBYqqvN.html
01-06-2020||India||How the lockdown impacted our tiger reserves | Analysis||Nadia, a four-year-old Malayan tiger, inhabitant of Bronx Zoo (New York, USA), tested positive for Covid-19 in early April this year and soon six other feline zoo inhabitants showed similar symptoms. These animals had got the virus during a lockdown from a zoo employee, a human.It seems that no species is safe from the clutches of this deadly virus.The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) in India responded to the situation with specific guidelines on how to protect the wild animals from Covid-19 in the Indian subcontinent. But what will be the impact of this lockdown on the tigers and tiger reserves across the country?No tiger reserve in the country has reported any case of wildlife being infected by this Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes the coronavirus disease.There were reports that the camp elephants in Uttarakhand’s Rajaji Tiger Reserve were showing symptoms of Covid-19. But these reports were wrong and many senior veterinarians confirmed that elephants cannot be infected by Sars-CoV-2.Also, the Sariska Tiger Reserve in Rajasthan has reported that two tigresses have given birth to four cubs during this lockdown and the total tiger population of the reserve has risen to 20. This is a cause for celebration as the tigers had become locally extinct in Sariska around 2005 and the species had to be re-introduced from the Ranthambore Tiger Reserve. Initially, a few cubs were born to these tigers but then for a long period, no new births were recorded.Now there is less plastic and pollutants in the clear water of the rivers that originate from outside the boundaries of the tiger reserves. Because of the lockdown, incidents of illegal collection of honey have not been reported. This activity, along with the presence of tourists in the buffer zones of the reserves, contributed immensely to the incidents of forest fires. As a result, there has been a drastic reduction in the number of forest fires this year as a result of the lockdown.Another way in which this lockdown may have had a positive impact on the wildlife is by the reduced levels of glucocorticoids, a stress hormone in tigers. There are some scientific studies that indicate lower levels of glucocorticoids in tigers during the closed season when tourists are not permitted inside national parks.A higher level of this stress hormone has been linked to an adverse impact on the reproduction of the tiger, and consequently, the very survival of this creature. Therefore, these studies would suggest that this lockdown has been a boon in disguise for the tigers in India. But I would like to point out that in the last four estimates of tiger population in India, a constant rise in tiger numbers proves that tourism is not as lethal for tigers as concluded in these studies. If tourism, and the presence of humans around, did lead to a much higher production of stress hormones in tigers, then zoos all over the world would not have had any tiger in their enclosures. Because tigers in zoos are generally more stressed due to limited space and constant flow of the visitors throughout the year. But tigers are breeding well, producing litters, and surviving more in zoos than in the wild.So this takes us to the next part, the humans (officers and front line staff) involved in conservation work to figure out how this lockdown is affecting the tigers and tiger reserves? One has to take into consideration the impact on these people to get a complete picture of the impact of the lockdown on the wildlife.A discussion with them has revealed more about the ground situation in these areas.As per the guidelines of NTCA, tourism is permitted only in 20 percent area of a tiger reserve and most of our tiger reserves are open either for five or six months in a year. As per the policy of the government of India, tourism in Protected Areas (PAs) is permitted to educate people to elicit public support for conservation. I agree that unregulated tourism should not be permitted, where encircling tigers by tourist vehicles becomes a common sight and the management should come up with strict regulations to save the animal from such behavior by the tourists.Such regulations could include a ban on the driver of the vehicle and accompanying guide for a duration which should give them a chance to realise their mistake (but such scenarios are confined to only a few tiger reserves in India). Therefore, the lockdown is a big relief to the management of tiger reserves as the inflow of tourists has stopped and such untoward incidents are not happening.The constant phone calls to officers with requests to facilitate trips that are out of the usual routine have stopped completely. As a result, they are able to spend more time protecting the tigers. There is also more time available to the management of the reserves to contain poaching of animals, illicit felling of trees and land encroachment.Villagers within the vicinity or in the enclaves of the tiger reserves have limited access to resources for livelihood and food. Initially the lockdown aggravated the situation. To combat the issues of unemployment and lack of supply of essential commodities, the management of these reserves have come up with innovative initiatives to provide employment, health care and supply of rations from their own resources during this lockdown. The frontline staff in remote posts of the tiger reserves had it worse. They were not prepared for the lockdown and could not store food items, medicines and other essentials as they do during the monsoon when the tiger reserve is closed to tourists. Their regular supply of food, medicine and other essentials items are either delivered by vehicles involved in tourism or departmental vehicles every six to ten days. That supply chain got disrupted for staffers living inside the reserves.Let us take the example of Corbett Tiger Reserve to understand the initial impact of the lockdown on the frontline staff, where these frontline staffers live 40 to 65 km from the nearest habitation. The staff is totally dependent on camp elephants or boats for supply of essential items. But these vehicles weren’t coming. On many days, they slept without proper food, surviving by eating boiled potatoes, wild fruits or rice with salted water. That ended only after the nationwide lockdown was eased and the supply chain was restored.It was a difficult time for the frontline staffers on the personal front too. Their families live either in small neighboring towns for the education of the children or in their native villages. They visit them at the beginning of the month after getting their salaries and make payments to shop keepers for groceries and other items purchased on credit.But they are putting in extra efforts. Some of them described their own problems as miniscule, comparing their plight with that of villagers in the forest enclaves. The villagers, they told me, neither have a permanent source of income nor a steady supply of essential items. The staffers called it their duty and privilege that they were able to help the villagers during the lockdown despite their limited means. And for this, I salute the zeal and spirit of the frontline forest staff of the tiger reserves.Now focusing on the people who work in the area around the reserve and are a part of the tourism sector. The nature guides, vehicle drivers, lower staff in resorts are helpless and many have lost their livelihoods. Resort owners, vehicle owners, and suppliers of goods and services have not been able to repay their loans because of the lockdown. With the closure period of the tiger reserves just round the corner, the recovery will take some more time. They need an alternate source of income and employment to sustain themselves.Overall, this means that the tiger reserves benefited from the lockdown because the managers had more time to focus on the protection and preservation of the wildlife. The animals were also positively affected because of the reduced human presence in their territories. And the frontline staff, in spite of the hardships, had been very effective in maintaining their areas and in performing their duties. Of course, the situation is not perfect but things are under control and the majestic beast with black stripes is safe.(Digvijay Singh Khati is a former Indian Forest Service officer and retired as principal chief conservator of forests and chief wildlife warden, Uttarakhand)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-the-lockdown-impacted-our-tiger-reserves-analysis/story-tpof0sKjh7kK5oYIQ9ffwO.html
01-06-2020||India||‘Virtual interview between 2 friends’: Australian envoy on PM Modi’s meeting with Scott Morrison||Relations between India and Australia will scale greater heights following the summit-level meeting between the two countries, the Australian high commissioner said on Monday.Barry O’Farrell’s comment came ahead of a virtual meeting on June 4 between Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Soctt Morrison.Calling both the prime ministers ‘people person’, the high commissioner also said that the two Premiers will discuss how to work together to improve people’s lives.“Both (Prime Minister Modi and PM Morrison) are people person; they’ll be talking about how to work together to improve the lives of people. Both believe that the government is not about the number of agreements signed but improving the lives of citizens and generating jobs,” news agency ANI quoted O’Farrell as saying. Apart from bilateral ties, the two leaders are expected to discuss the prevailing situation due to the coronavirus pandemic.The Australian PM told reporters on Sunday that he was looking forward to discussing the countries’ responses to the Covid-19 pandemic, said PTI quoting a report in Australian Associated Press. “Prime Minister Modi and I will also discuss new opportunities in defence, trade, maritime safety and security, science and technology, and education,” Morrison said.“As like-minded democracies and natural strategic partners, Australia and India are in full agreement that our strong bilateral relationship is key to a more open, prosperous and inclusive Indo-Pacific,” he said.Thursday’s meeting will be Prime Minister Modi’s first bilateral summit to take place virtually given the embargos on travel due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The Australian High Commissioner said it will be “like a virtual interview between two friends”.“The virtual summit meet will be like a virtual interview between two friends, discussing how each country is dealing with Covid-19. They may share commentary on the hard task of how to ease restrictions,” ANI quoted Barry O’Farrell as saying.Australia has reported a total of 7,193 confirmed Covid-19 cases along with 103 deaths so far, according to PTI. India’s Covid-19 tally, on the other hand, is inching towards the two lakh-mark. With more than 8,000 new cases and 230 deaths between Sunday and Monday morning, India’s tally rose to 190,535 on Monday.On Sunday, the two Premiers indulged in some light-hearted banter on Twitter when Scott Morrison shared images of ‘ScoMosas’ and mango chutney made by him on his Twitter feed. “Sunday ScoMosas with mango chutney, all made from scratch - including the chutney! A pity my meeting with @narendramodi this week is by videolink. They’re vegetarian, I would have liked to share them with him,” Morrison posted on Twitter and tagged PM Modi.Prime Minister Narendra Modi responded to his Australian counterpart’s offer, saying they look delicious.“Connected by the Indian Ocean, united by the Indian Samosa! Looks delicious, PM @ScottMorrisonMP! Once we achieve a decisive victory against COVID-19, we will enjoy the Samosas together. Looking forward to our video meet on the 4th,” PM Modi tweeted.Morrison, who was due to visit India in January this year, had to cancel his trip following the bushfire crisis in south-eastern Australia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virtual-interview-between-2-friends-australian-envo-on-pm-modi-s-meeting-with-scott-morrison/story-lfPHdw3x3C6w3sJjKciR4J.html
01-06-2020||India||OTT releases set to get big boost||Film and TV producer Pradeep Kumar feels that OTT releases will increase big time seeing the current scenario. “Coronavirus has changed the world. The lockdown has distressed the globe. Since the GDP has been affected, companies will need to re-examine their budget. See, it’s a chain -- the show makers depend on the broadcasters who in turn depend on sponsors and so on. We don’t know where we will stand once the lockdown opens.”Giving his take on the recent announcements of a number of Bollywood biggies among others releasing on, Over The Top (OTT) platforms, instead of the age-old practice of releasing movies in a cinema hall, he said, “There will be almost no takers for films for the time being as it will be difficult to bring in audience to theatres. That is why many producers have decided to give their films an OTT release. At least this way it will reach the audience and also all the people involved will be able to survive the ongoing crisis. We all know that TV and digital space will limp back since the audience for these two will remain. Even at home, people want entertainment and working for these platforms does not require expansive techniques. So shooting for shows and series is still doable with all the norms intact.”Pradeep co-produced a recent OTT release ‘Bamfaad’ that was extensively shot in Kanpur and Lucknow, “See even our even our film was made for 70 mm release. Because when we started the film it was planned in a different manner, but when it was set for release, things changed completely. We were stuck in COVID crisis and a lockdown. So to save us and our team from any kind of losses, we decided to give it an OTT release. And today our decision stands absolutely accurate for all departments of film making.”Starting as a production assistant for TV show ‘Kagaar’ way back in 2000, Pradeep believes that patience pays, “I came to Mumbai with different plans but got associated with TV and today I am thoroughly enjoying my job. I am glad to have produced TV shows like ‘Meri Durga’ and the ongoing daily ‘Chhoti Sarrdaarni’. I and Shaika Parween from Shaika Films collaborated with Ajay Rai for this film that was presented by Anurag Kashyap and saw the debut of Aditya Rawal, who happens to be veteran actor Paresh Rawal’s son.”Pradeep is glad with the response he got from the state government and public during the shoot of his film, “Our story was completely set up in Kanpur and partially in Lucknow so to bring in the exact flavours of UP, we decided to shoot it there itself. And we are glad we made the decision as there were numerous unexplored locations and situations, so real that you just love being there. Soon another of project can be set up there again. But through your newspaper I would like to request the state government to come with something on the lines of Ramoji Film City as UP is the next big shooting hub of the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ott-releases-set-to-get-big-boost/story-LOmWcOH0uI3ctjVL9OVUJN.html
01-06-2020||India||‘Railways first isolation coach deployed in Delhi to aid treatment of Covid-19 patients’: Official||Indian Railways’ first isolation coach has been deployed to aid the treatment of coronavirus patients in Delhi, a ministry official was quoted by news agency PTI. As per the official, the Railway isolation facility, which has been deployed on Delhi government’s request, has 10 non-AC coaches with 160 beds, one AC coach for healthcare staff. Last week, in an online address, Delhi Chief Minister shared details of the state of healthcare infrastructure in the national capital in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Also read: Delhi borders sealed for one week, only essential services allowedKejriwal said that 117 private hospitals across Delhi have been asked to reserve 20% of beds for Covid-19 patients. The chief minister added that the administration is getting ready to tackle a sudden spike in severe cases of coronavirus for which over 5,000 hospital beds will be made available.“This will lead to the availability of 2,000 more beds for Covid-19 patients. Delhi’s Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital will provide another 1,500 hospital beds for Covid-19 patients. In total, more than 5,000 beds will be available for fresh Covid-19 patients,” Kejriwal said last Monday. Also read: Hospitals only for Delhiites amid Covid-19 crisis? CM seeks public voteAs the country enters the fifth phase of Covid-19 lockdown billed as ‘Unlock 1’, the chief minister, in an online address today, said that Delhi’s borders will be sealed for a week. The chief minister said hair salons can resume service in the national capital, spas cannot. “In autos, e-rickshaws and other vehicles, as per earlier orders, the number of passengers was fixed. But now we are lifting the restrictions on the number of passengers travelling in auto, e-rickshaws and other vehicles,” Kejriwal stated today.The national capital has been struggling with a surge in coronavirus cases. Delhi’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 19,844 cases, as per the Ministry of Health. There have been 473 fatalities while 8,478 have recovered from the deadly contagion in the national capital till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-first-isolation-coach-deployed-in-delhi-to-aid-treatment-of-covid-19-patients-official/story-HAlcuvIAC9M0Cjl5QB1kvO.html
01-06-2020||India||MLAs, MPs and journalists are bosses in Bhind, says cop in leaked audio clip||A 16-minute audio clip purportedly  of a  senior police officer in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhind district  telling another officer how the  police is working on directions of some politicians and journalists and how sub-inspectors have become “businessmen”  may point towards some serious trouble in the force.The audio clip went viral during transfers of inspector general of police, Morena zone, DP Gupta, and superintendent of police and collector of Bhind district Nagendra Singh and Chhote Singh on Saturday night.Bhind has been in news in the last fortnight after deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Rajesh Hingankar  twice raided  illegal sand mines and seized machines used for illegal mining. After the raids, he suspended in-charges of five police stations and two constables. The constables were posted in Sheopur and were allegedly patronising  the sand mafia in the district. One of the constables, who belongs to Bhind, allegedly ran an office from his native place to facilitate illegal sand mining. The then SP of Bhind, Nagendra Singh, who was shifted to Bhopal on Saturday, defended the constables saying they were stranded in Bhind because of the lockdown and charges against them were unfounded.The audio clip, the authenticity of which HT cannot vouch for, features a senior police officer  trying to motivate the police personnel by saying that they should speak to their senior officials and public representatives about right or wrong in the district.Another officer talks about how police were working on directions of some politicians and journalists.  “Don’t get demotivated by what is happening. Let all senior officers and public representatives’ phones ring with your calls about what is going on here. Do talk to them. Tell them what is correct. If I am wrong tell them that too,” the first  officer is heard saying.Appreciating the police force’s work in containing the spread of Coronavirus in the district the officer says, “I receive many phone calls for (postings) in two police stations. Such sub-inspectors should be asked if Madhya Pradesh police has stopped paying salary to them. Why this craving? Why go to these places? How many criminals were arrested by you?....Many inspectors call me up to make a request to let them spend their time in police lines instead of sending them to Dehat and Kotwali police station. I feel ashamed of them.”On being asked by the officer during the conversation to express their opinions another police officer is heard saying, “Sir, you should have come here 20 years back. Then you and myself would have worked together to improve the situation in Bhind. But the sub-inspectors and police stations in charge of the new generation are thoroughly corrupt. You are not their boss. Their bosses are MLA, MP and journalists. They have pledged their police uniform. They have become businessmen.”The conversation ends with the first officer  saying he didn’t expect that everyone would become honest overnight but they should work hard while keeping the priorities of the police department in their mind. “No goonda even if he is a politician should have courage to sit in the chair in front of a police station in charge,” he said. When contacted Nagendra Singh said, “I have been transferred now. I would not like to make any comment on this.”Deputy inspector general of police, Morena range Rajesh Hingankar said, “I have not received any complaint regarding any such audio clip.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mlas-mps-and-journalists-are-bosses-in-bhind-says-cop-in-leaked-audio-clip/story-WBrxlpC7yYhPO3kRbcDb3O.html
01-06-2020||India||78-year-old cancer patient recovers from Covid-19 in Jharkhand’s Dhanbad||Paramjit Kaur, a 78-year-old resident of Jharkhand’s Dhanbad district, has recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has affected lakhs of people and claimed thousands of lives across the country.Kaur is among the more than 250 people who have been cured of the highly-infectious disease in the eastern state.However, as a cancer patient, Kaur from Jharia stands out in that list.Kaur and her 39-year-old son, Manjit Singh, were discharged from the dedicated Covid-19 hospital in Dhanbad on Sunday evening following 23 days’ of treatment after they tested positive for Sars-Cov-2.“Trauma of being infected from Covid-19 was more horrifying than cancer as everyone including doctors said there is no treatment for this disease,” Kaur said. She added, even after being released from the hospital, it yet to sink in that she has recovered from the coronavirus infection.Kaur and her son were declared positive after they returned to the coal city on May 8 from Mumbai after she received treatment for cancer for eight months.“Report of corona infection was shocking as the doctors in Mumbai asked me to return to Dhanbad immediately as the situation of Covid-19 there (in Mumbai) was taking an alarming shape, especially because it has no treatment,” said Kaur. Kaur was lived in a gurdwara during her treatment in Mumbai and they were screened when they left for Dhanbad by an ambulance.“We don’t know where and how did we pick this infection,” Singh, her son, said.His son said Kaur is suffering from bone metastatic cancer. Besides, she also has other medical condition such as TB, hypertension and epileptic complications. Kaur gave all the credit to Dr Alok Viswakarma, the nodal officer of the Covid-19 hospital, and his team for helping her overcome from the trauma.Doctors attending to her in the Covid-19 hospital said because of cancer, her body was deteriorating day by day. But doses of vitamin, food intake and protein helped in recovery.“It was a rare case and we had to take telemedicine services from expert doctors at Apollo Hospital in Hyderabad when her condition was not improving. However, our team under Dr UK Ojha of Patliputra Medical College Hospital (PMCH) succeeded in curing her,” Dr Vishwakarma said.Kaur and her son are now at their Digwadih home under Jharia police station after being discharged from the hospital.Official figures show, 610 people have tested positive in Jharkhand and five have died. Till Sunday evening, 256 Covid-19 people had recovered and discharged from hospitals and 349 people were undergoing treatment across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/78-year-old-cancer-patient-recovers-from-covid-19-in-jharkhand-s-dhanbad/story-byFT9GvAslGK2cWx7maxKK.html
01-06-2020||India||‘Over 11 lakh migrant workers tracked for Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh; 1,027 found symptomatic’: Top health official||The Uttar Pradesh administration has been tracking incoming migrant labourers and have found over 1,000 symptomatic for Covid-19, state principal secretary (Health), Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters on Monday.  “We are tracking migrant labourers returning to the state with the help of ASHA workers. 11,47,872 labourers have been tracked till now, out of which 1,027 are symptomatic. Their samples have been collected for testing,” Prasad said. Uttar Pradesh Additional Chief Secretary (Home), Awanish Awasthi, said that so far 1587 trains carrying migrants have arrived in the state.“Sixteen trains are arriving today. 60 trains will be arriving in 2-3 days. With this, the number of people arriving in UP by trains will reach around 22.5 lakh,” Awasthi said.  We are tracking migrant labourers returning to the state with the help of ASHA workers. 11,47,872 labourers have been tracked till now, out of which 1,027 are symptomatic. Their samples have been collected for test: State Principal Secretary (Health), Amit Mohan Prasad https://t.co/cY7qknsv4VPrasad also said that the state has reported 373 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours after the which Uttar Pradesh’s number of active Covid-19 cases jump to 3,083. As many as 4,891 people have been cured or discharged while the death toll stands at 217 in the state. Uttar Pradesh has seen over 7,800 total cases of Covid-19 infection till date. Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday held a review on the prevailing coronavirus situation in the state and directed officials to ensure the availability of thermal scanners at all railway stations as 200 interstate passenger trains resumed operation today. Till 2 pm today,1587 trains carrying migrants have arrived in Uttar Pradesh, 16 trains are arriving today. 60 trains will be arriving in 2-3 days. With this, the number of people arriving in UP by trains will reach around 22.5 lakh:UP Additional Chief Secy (Home), Awanish Awasthi https://t.co/EG6tUZg7UO pic.twitter.com/PSnPzNes5m“Everyone going inside stations should be thermally scanned and handbills regarding coronavirus prevention should be given to the passengers,” Adityanath said.The chief minister also emphasised the cleanliness of hospitals and proper power supply to all medical facilities to avoid any inconvenience to the patients amid the Covid-19 crisis.“Both health and medical departments should make good arrangements at COVID hospitals,” the chief minister said.In its guidelines on the fifth phase of Covid-19 lockdown, the Uttar Pradesh government largely stuck to the directions issued by the Centre.While inter-state travel has been permitted, people from Covid-19 hotspot areas/containment zones in Delhi will not be allowed to travel to Noida and Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. Shopping malls, religious places, hotels and restaurants will open from June 8 while the decision on reopening schools and colleges will be taken in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-11-lakh-migrant-workers-tracked-for-covid-19-in-uttar-pradesh-1-027-found-symptomatic-top-health-official/story-JZnZFutMyJ2KVpAxe2CqGO.html
01-06-2020||India||2 blocks of Andhra Secretariat shut for next 2 days after employee tests Covid-19 positive||The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday shut two official blocks in the state secretariat at Velagapudi in Amaravati and asked the employees working in these blocks not to come to the offices for another two days.The decision was taken following an employee of the Secretariat testing positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19.The man and two other government employees working in Guntur were among the around 250 state government employees who had returned to Andhra on May 24 after being stranded in Hyderabad since the beginning of the lockdown. They were brought back in special buses arranged by the APSRTC. As part of the mandatory health protocol, all of them were tested for Covid-19. Three of them tested positive for the infection on May 27.The Secretariat employee, an attendant in the agriculture department, is learnt to have carried files between Block-3 and 4. Following his positive test, both these blocks of the Secretariat building at Velagapudi in Amravati were shut and employees working there were asked not to come to office for the next two days.“Both the blocks have been shut for sanitisation. We have asked the government to allow the employees in these blocks to work from home. So, for the two days, they were asked not to come to the offices,” AP secretariat employees’ association president K Venkatrami Reddy said.The Covid-19 positive man has been shifted to a hospital in Vijaywada for treatment. The two other government employees who tested positive for Covid-19 worked in the department of cooperation at Chittigunta in Guntur and were also hospitalised for treatment.The medical and health department authorities have identified primary contacts of the three and shifted them to various quarantine centres.Meanwhile, 105 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state on Monday, taking the total count to 3,674. The death toll now stands at 64 with two fatalities reported from Kurnool district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-blocks-of-andhra-secretariat-shut-after-employee-tests-covid-19-positive/story-NhmzfeGUwHIoqyp4iyGwGJ.html
01-06-2020||India||Govt removes 1,026 items from CAPF canteen in swadeshi push, then hits pause||The Home Ministry issued an order to remove ‘imported’ products being sold at canteens run for personnel of central police force personnel over the weekend but rescinded the list, reportedly after confusion over some of the products classified as imported. A government official said a reworked list would be issued soon.The list of imported items sold at the government-run canteens had been issued to implement Home Minister Amit Shah’s orders last month that the canteen should sell only Made in India products. Shah’s decision came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi appealed to people last month to opt for ‘Made in India’ products.The coronavirus crisis, he told the country in his televised address, has taught us that local is going to help us. “So, we should become vocal for local - not only buy local, but advertise it too,” the prime minister had said.But figuring out which product can be classified as ‘Made in India’, or imported may have turned out to be a tad more complicated than what the officials had initially believed.AP Maheshwari, the director general of the CRPF and head of the Welfare And Rehabilitation Board of central police forces said the order regarding “delisting of certain products has been erroneously issued at the level of CEO. The list has been withdrawn and action is being initiated for the lapse”.A DIG rank officer RM Meena, who is the chief executive officer of the Kendriya Police Kalyan Bhandars (KPKB), had issued the order on 29 May.The Kendriya Police Kalyan Bhandars (KPKB), the body that runs paramilitary canteens across India, had created three categories. In category 1 were produced that had been made in India from scratch. Category 2 was classified to comprise products which had been manufactured or assembled in India but the raw material was imported. Category 3 will refer to ‘Purely Imported Products’, a home ministry order seen by Hindustan Times said.Every product sold by the canteens was classified under one of the three categories. In category 3, the KPKB identified 1,026 products that included chocolates manufactured by an Italian firm and air conditioners and televisions being sold by a South Korean company.There were, according to the home ministry order, seven companies that had been importing finished products and rightaway selling them. Identifying these companies was the easier part of the deal included Skechers, Ferraro India and Redbull India. Products of Victorinox, Safilo (Polaroid) were also banned from being sold at the central paramilitary force canteens.The order had anticipated there would be some disputes and underlined that they had categorised the products “on the sole information provided by the firms only”.“In case of any litigation, the information provided by the firm will be used as evidence and the onus to prove the information is correct will be on the respective firm,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-026-imported-goods-go-off-capf-canteen-shelves-in-amit-shah-s-swadeshi-push/story-jypi76heq0MnmknaGkgPLO.html
01-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga may make landfall over Palghar district, near Mumbai, on June 3||A developing tropical cyclonic storm called Nisarga in the Arabian Sea is likely to make a landfall over Palghar district, located around 100km north of Mumbai, on Wednesday evening or at night. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities expect damages across four districts in north Konkan because of Nisarga.The IMD on Monday issued a yellow message – a cyclone alert issued 72 hours prior to the weather event -- directing district administrations across a 370km area between Harihareshwar in Raigad, Maharashtra, to the Union Territory of Daman, which is closer to south Gujarat, to be on high alert.“As per the trajectory of the system, it’s expected to make the landfall somewhere near Palghar district on Wednesday evening or at night,” said Sunitha Devi, in-charge of cyclones at IMD. “We’re closely monitoring the movement of the system (currently a depression). An orange alert (be prepared) will be issued 48 hours before the landfall, while a red alert (take action) will be issued 12 to 24 hours for the affected areas,” she added. The Palghar administration said that they had been informed that the landfall was expected in the district. “One team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has moved into Palghar after details were shared by the IMD authorities. We’ve issued a cyclone alert to all those living within 3km of the coast, and stopped the fishing community from entering the Arabian Sea till Thursday. We’re currently collating a list of people, who need to be evacuated from the low-lying areas and those areas that are most susceptible to damages,” said Kiran Mahajan, deputy collector (general administration), Palghar.The intensity of the approaching weather system was scaled up from a cyclonic storm to a severe cyclonic storm with maximum winds expected to be ranging from 105-115 km per hour (kmph) gusting to 125 kmph around the point of landfall, the bulletin said.“Palghar, Thane, Mumbai, and Raigad districts are likely to be the most affected by this severe cyclonic storm. We’re expecting damages in the form of the uprooting of trees and the collapse of kutcha and pucca buildings. A more detailed list of likely damages will be shared soon. State governments are being updated constantly, as the weather system develops,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD.Mahesh Narvekar, chief officer, disaster management cell, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said, “Our preparations are on based on the regular updates from the IMD authorities.”Another BMC officer said, “Strict warnings have been issued to the fishing community to avoid entering the Arabian Sea. We’re analysing the critical areas, where our officers will visit on Monday, including coronavirus disease (Covid-19) centres that need to be shifted because of a likely increase in the intensity of the rainfall.”IMD’s latest bulletin at 8.30am on Monday said the system was a weather depression located 670 km south-southwest of Mumbai and 900km south-southwest of Surat. “It’s very likely to intensify into a deep depression over the east-central and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea during the next 12 hours and intensify further into a cyclonic storm over the east-central Arabian Sea by Tuesday morning. Initially, it’s likely to move nearly northwards till Tuesday morning, and then recurve north-northeastwards and cross north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts between Harihareshwar at Raigad and Daman by Wednesday evening or at night,” the bulletin said.Mumbai and its surrounding areas may receive moderate rainfall or thundershowers on Tuesday and heavy to very heavy rain, measuring between 64.5 millimetres (mm) and 204.4 mm, and on the following day. Palghar district can expect extremely heavy rainfall of over 204.5 mm on Tuesday and Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-may-make-landfall-over-palghar-district-near-mumbai-on-june-3/story-PWsZZHlpSng6EffjuK4iAJ.html
01-06-2020||India||Orange alert issued as Goa braces for cyclone-fuelled rain, wind||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an orange alert for Goa, predicting heavy to very heavy rainfall until Thursday with the low pressure in the Arabian Sea off India’s west coast set to intensify into a cyclonic circulation.While not unusual at this time of the year, the spell of rains is set to coincide with the reopening of the state as people scramble to complete monsoon preparations on hold because of the Covid-19 lockdown. “Light to moderate rainfall at most places with isolated heavy to very heavy falls [is] very likely over Konkan and Goa on 2nd June and over south Konkan and Goa on 3rd June,” IMD said in its forecast late on Sunday evening. “Light to moderate rainfall at most places with isolated heavy to very heavy falls [is] very likely over Konkan and Goa on 2nd June and over south Konkan & Goa on 03rdJune,” it added.The warnings have rendered the ‘reduced’ fishing ban period infructuous since fishermen haven’t been allowed to venture into the sea owing to the rough to very rough over sea condition along and off Karnataka-south Maharashtra coasts from June 2. Earlier, heeding a notification from the central government, the state had granted fishermen an additional 15 days after it reduced the 61-day fishing ban to 47-day ban that would come into effect from June 15 instead of June 1 as has been the practice. The coastal belt will also witness fast currents and high waves in the range of 2.8 to 4 metres high.Drishti Marine, the state-appointed professional lifeguard agency, has issued an advisory instructing visitors to the beach not to venture into the sea during the next 48 hours with heavy pre-monsoon showers expected over the next two days.“Citizens are advised to be cautious as rough weather and sea conditions will prevail during these days. Drishti especially cautioned adults to keep a very close eye on children while on the beach and to not allow children to venture into the waters unattended, no matter how shallow it may be,” Drishti Marine said in a statement.Despite the advisories, people have been flocking to beaches of the state to make the most of the last few days of sunshine before the onset of the monsoon. Heavy rain and wind are not usually deadly in Goa and incidents of flooding are rare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orange-alert-issued-as-goa-braces-for-cyclone-fuelled-rain-wind/story-fUFxoUQ6oOjXNGQefRwTkI.html
01-06-2020||India||Monsoon to be normal, around 102% of average, says weather department||The weather department on Monday announced the onset of southwest monsoon in the country and said it will be normal in India this year.“We have declared monsoon onset in Kerala based on the favourable conditions today,” Dr M Mohapatra, director general of India Meteorological Department (IMD) said at a press conference on Monday to give long-term details about the monsoon season in the country.He further said that Kerala will receive heavy to very heavy rainfall in the next three days due to the southwest monsoon.“Widespread rainfall is predicted in Kerala in three days. More than 80 per cent stations of IMD have recorded more than 2.5 mm rainfall,” said Dr Mohapatra.Dr Madhavan Nair Rajeevan, Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences, who accompanied Dr Madhavan at the press conference, said that conditions are becoming more favourable for a good monsoon.“Quantitatively, the monsoon rainfall between June to September over the country would be 102 per cent of its long period average,” said Dr Rajeevan.Dr Madhavan talked about a new low-pressure system forming in the Arabian Sea which will have its impact on the monsoon system too.“Another monsoon system, a vortex, has developed in the Arabian Sea. This depression is currently 690 km away from Mumbai, in the south-southwest direction,” said Dr Mohapatra.He said that the low-pressure system is expected to move northwards and then turn North-East and will hit the Gujarat and Maharashtra coast on June 3.“Maharashtra and south Gujarat will receive heavy rain on June 3. More than 20 cm rainfall is expected in coastal districts of Maharashtra like Sindhudurg, Thane, Mumbai etc,” said Dr Mohapatra.“Sea condition is very likely to be rough to very rough over South-East Arabian Sea in the next 48 hours,” he said adding that fishermen are advised not to venture out during this period.The country’s annual monsoon arrived on the Kerala coast on Monday, marking the start of the four-month rainy season that is crucial for the country’s farm-dependent economy.The monsoon delivers about 70% of India’s annual rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-be-normal-around-102-of-average-says-weather-department/story-afLuh8l5bDi25VE9KOQPGN.html
01-06-2020||India||Raigarh district: Woman, two kids die in LPG cylinder explosion||Raipur: A 25-year-old woman and her two children were killed in a liquid petroleum gas (LPG ) cylinder blast at their home in Chandai village in Chhattisgarh’s Raigarh district on Monday morning.Police said the deceased has been identified as Lata Sahu and her two sons, Tikesh Sahu (7) and Jhalak Sahu (3).“The woman was cooking when the LPG cylinder blast occurred at her home in Chandai village under Sarangarh police station of the district. All three died and the house was also damaged,” said Santosh Singh, superintendent of police (SP), Raigarh.“Her husband had gone out on work when the accident took place. A case has been filed and an investigation is on,” the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raigarh-district-woman-two-kids-die-in-lpg-cylinder-explosion/story-nENhbC2BNqxA283EhsrMtL.html
01-06-2020||India||Airlines urged to keep middle seats empty or give ‘wrap-around gowns’||The aviation regulator DGCA on Monday urged airlines to try and keep the middle seats vacant. In case it cannot be done, it added, the passengers should be provided with “wrap-around gowns”. Social distancing is a big part in the battle against coronavirus.“Attempts should be made to keep the middle seat empty to the extent possible... If the middle seat is occupied due to high load, the flyer should be provided with a ‘wrap-around gowns’,” said the DGCA.India resumed domestic flight operations from May 25, kickstarting a gradual reboot of air travel that was halted two months ago on account of a lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The government has capped the air fares for three months (till August). Soon after, possibly as a trade off, the DGCA withdrew its earlier circular on keeping the middle seat vacant on every flight.The latest move by the regulator seems like an attempt to balance the interests of the airlines and also to protect the fliers. Earlier, the Supreme Court had also questioned the logic behind allowing bookings for the middle seats on Air India’s non-scheduled relief and rescue flights on international routes.“How can you say it will not affect anyone? Outside (aircraft), there should be a social distancing of at least 6 feet. Will the Virus know it is in the aircraft and is not supposed to infect?,” the court questioned.However, it allowed Air India to book middle seats till June 6.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his monthly ‘Mann Ki Baat’ broadcast on Sunday, warned people against letting their guard down while noting that a big part of the economy has opened and train and flight services have begun operating partially with more relaxations on the anvil. After such “austere penance and after so many hardships”, the country’s deft handling of the situation should “not go in vain”, he said.Modi said, “Whether it is the mandatory ‘do gaz ki doori’ (two yards of distancing), wearing face masks or staying at home to the best extent possible, there should be no laxity on our part in complete adherence to the laid down norms.“We must not let this fight weaken. Becoming careless or lackadaisical cannot be an option. The fight against coronavirus is still equally serious. You, your family, may still face grave danger from coronavirus,” he cautioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-try-to-keep-middle-seats-vacant-aviation-regulator-dgca-to-airlines/story-Kz5kiXFUsUFNojszkuQ0vK.html
01-06-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Thane Municipal Corporation commissioner announces more ambulances||In his first-ever public address, Thane Municipal Corporation’s commissioner, Vijay Singhal, asked residents to cooperate and follow rules to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. In a live session on social media, Singhal announced that provisions for 16 more ambulances are being made, so that there will be around 100 ambulances in all within the TMC jurisdiction. Moreover, shops in markets within TMC can be open using the odd-even formula for each side of the street.“I urge residents to not panic and act responsibly, do not step out unnecessarily. Follow social distancing, wear gloves and masks at all times when outdoors. If we have proper support and coordination from everyone, we can easily bring down the Covid-19 positive figures within the TMC. Along with increasing the number of beds, we are also providing more ambulances. A list of the restrictions that will be lifted shall be released soon by the TMC,” said Singhal wjo joined as the commissioner on March 19.Also read: Mumbai sees rise in vehicular traffic due to ‘Mission Begin Again’A list of the containment zones within the TMC is provided online, regular sanitation of hotspots and public toilets especially in slum areas are being carried out. “There are around 3,000 people who go out of Thane regularly for work. Being adjacent to an equally populated Mumbai city and having 60% of slum population, we have maintained a 45% recovery rate. Moreover, Thane is not an isolated city at all, still, we are doing our best,” added Singhal. The TMC has 3,032 positive cases till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-thane-municipal-corporation-commissioner-announces-more-ambulances/story-0w7juvE2D3NGKPNeucWiwJ.html
01-06-2020||India||To abate suicide and fratricide, Chhattisgarh police to get regular counselling and medical check-up||The Chhattisgarh government has decided to provide regular counselling, medical check-ups and easy leave procedures for the state’s police personnel in its bid to lessen incidents of suicides and fratricides among the stressed law enforcement employees, especially those deployed in the Communist Party of India (Maoist)-hit Bastar region. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has directed the state’s director-general of police (DGP), DM Awasthi, to take special steps to relieve the mental stress of the police personnel.“The CM directed me on Sunday to take special measures to improve the mental health of the police personnel. I’ve called a meeting of senior IPS (Indian Police Service) officers and a psychologist on Tuesday. We’ll formulate a mechanism to help the police personnel relieve their mental stress,” said DGP Awasthi.“The CM told me that the police personnel are working in challenging conditions, especially those deployed in the Maoist-affected Bastar region, and steps should be taken at the earliest to lessen their stress levels,” he added.“We’re planning to create a conducive environment for the police personnel. They’ll be provided regular counselling. Yoga sessions, sports, and other recreational activities are being planned. Plans are also afoot to give music therapy to them as well, and a group has been formed at the zonal level to that effect,” the DGP said.Chhattisgarh has reported around 50 suicidal deaths of security personnel, including both police and paramilitary forces, over the past two years. The Maoist-hit Bastar division has recorded 18 of those suicidal deaths.“The primary reasons behind suicide among the state’s police personnel are depression, difficulty in getting their leaves sanctioned, and homesickness. Our records show that over 50% of these suicides occurred due to personal or family reasons, illness (11%), work-related dispute (8%), and other reasons (13%),” said an IPS officer.Last December, six Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel died at their camp in Narayanpur district because of fratricidal killings. While a similar incident claimed two CAF jawans’ lives at their camp in Mingahcal village of Bijapur district on June 19, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-to-provide-regular-counselling-and-medical-check-up-to-jawans/story-lTf0cJ2wlBZi46YEg0CFEJ.html
01-06-2020||India||Kanpur college principal caught on camera making controversial comment against Muslims, says video morphed||Amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic in Uttar Pradesh, the principal of GSVM Medical College in Kanpur has made controversial comments about the Muslims.In remarks which have been caught on camera, Arti Lalchandani is heard calling the Muslims - being treated in one of the hospitals for Covid-19 - as terrorists who deserve to be put in jail and tortured.She is also seen accusing Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath of being soft and indulging in appeasement politics. “They are terrorists, we are exhausting our resources on them. We are extending our hospitality to these terrorists. Yogi (chief minister) should have given a clear order that they would not be treated here,” she is heard saying in the video which surfaced on Sunday.Lalchandani further complains in the video that district magistrate suppressed her for bringing this issue up because he takes order from Yogi Adityanath. “I am writing to the Union health minister (also her batchmate at medical college) Harsh Vardhan because no one listens to me and continues to extend hospitality.”The principal says there was just a single case before 22 members of Tablighi Jamaat were admitted at the LLR hospital for Covid-19 treatment. “The GDP of India will contract and there will be a economic emergency, and the reason for this will be these 30 crore and not the 100 crore,” she said.“These terrorist,” she says, “do not deserve to be put in jail and beaten up in solitary confinement than the hospital. They needed to be abandoned in the jungle.”The video was shot during an interaction of Lalchandani with a group of people, few of them reporters. The members of the Jamaat had accused her in turn of harassment.The Jamaat members had said that in April the medical college administration snapped the electricity and water connections in the isolation wards they were in. More so, they alleged that the staff misbehaved with them and things normalised only after intervention of district authorities.When asked for her side, Lalchandani said the video was 70 days old and morphed to malign her. The words like Tablighi, she said, were superimposed by a journalist to blackmail and extort money from her. “I will lodge an FIR with the police. This video was made at my home when I was complaining about the bad behaviour of Jamaatis who were harassing the health workers,” she said in a written statement to Hindustan Times.“Some people are construing it as anti-Muslim. I had never anything against the Muslims. My most loved friends are Muslims faculty and students. The words were added by the journalist; I never mentioned them,” she said.Meanwhile, CPI(M) Politburo member Subhashini Ali said that the language the principal has used is unconstitutional and highly objectionable. In a statement, she said that the district administration should get the video examined and Lalchandandi should be removed from her position and criminal charges needed to pressed if the video is found authentic.She has broken her oath and the constitution, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-college-principal-caught-on-camera-making-controversial-comment-says-video-morphed/story-cmmmvs6MNBr5Sw2ODtuxrK.html
01-06-2020||India||Migrant worker found dead in Odisha quarantine centre, eighth such death in 52 days||A migrant worker staying in a quarantine centre in Odisha’s Cuttack district was found dead on Monday, taking the total number of deaths reported in its quarantine centres to eight in the last 52 days.The death came on the day the state reported 156 Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day surge taking the total number of cases to 2,104. Of the cases reported today, 153 were from various quarantine centres of the state.Officials said 40-year-old Brajabandhu Rana was supposed to complete his mandatory seven-day quarantine on Monday and go home for another seven-day quarantine. “However, his body was found near the boundary wall of the centre this morning,” said Narasinghpur BDO Prashant Tarai.Rana had returned from Mumbai on May 26 and was not keeping well since the day he arrived at the quarantine centre. There are speculations that he died while trying to scale the wall of the quarantine centre. Police recovered the body and sent it for post-mortem.There have been at least half a dozen deaths at quarantine centres of Odisha since April 9 when the first such death was reported.A 29-year-old tribal man of Sundargarh district, who had returned from Himachal Pradesh in February, had hanged himself from a tree near a quarantine centre. On May 28, a tribal man in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district had died in home quarantine after he returned from Surat where he worked. Similarly, on May 21, a 54-year-old man who came back from Andhra Pradesh, died at an quarantine centre in Gajapati district. On May 20, a youth who had returned from Surat, was found dead under mysterious circumstnces at a quarantine centre under Nuagaon block of Nayagarh district.Though the state government has been advertising its 16,651 quarantine centres as the best model to contain the spread of the virus, their management have left a lot to be desired. Over last one-and-half-months, there have been numerous complaints from the migrant workers over the quality of food, sanitation facilities as well as the behaviour of the people running those. Last month, the video of a sarpanch of Jagatsinghpur district thrashing an inmate of a quarantine centre had gone viral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-worker-found-dead-in-odisha-quarantine-centre-eighth-such-death-in-52-days/story-qjvJPFLbtxAu0R9johiAMO.html
01-06-2020||India||List of districts in India with more than 10,000 Covid-19 cases||As India heads towards the 2,00,000-mark in the number of coronavirus disease cases, some cities and districts stand out by the sheer number of infections they have recorded in the last few days.Maharashtra, the worst-hit state, has seen its Covid-19 tally increasing rapidly since the outbreak was reported in India. Its capital Mumbai is among the districts hardest hit by the pandemic.Here’s a look at some of the districts in India with the highest caseload of coronavirus:Mumbai: The capital of Maharashtra has recorded 41,206 cases of Covid-19 so far. According to the data provided by the Union health ministry and National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), the city recorded 4,284 Covid-19 positive cases in the last two days (till Sunday). Some of the hotspots identified in Mumbai are Dharavi slums where the outbreak is fast turning into a big issue. With 1,333 deaths, Mumbai has also reported the most deaths among all districts.Chennai: The capital of Tamil Nadu, and a big urban centre in south India, Chennai stands next in the tally of districts with highest number of Covid-19 positive cases. As per the last government data, Chennai has 14,800 cases - less than half of Mumbai’s tally - and recorded 132 deaths from the coronavirus disease. The district recorded 1,420 cases in the last two days.Ahmedabad: Gujarat’s capital Ahmedabad is next in the list. The district has 12,180 cases of Covid-19 but when it comes to fatalities, the number is more than Chennai. The number of Covid-19-linked deaths in Ahmedabad is 842.Thane: This is the second district in Maharashtra where Covid-19 has spread rapidly. Thane has 10,488 cases of the coronavirus disease and 227 fatalities. The more worrying fact is that Thane has seen one of the highest spike in Covid-19 cases - it recorded 2,405 cases in the last two days, according to NDMA data.Pune: This is the third district in Maharashtra which has become a Covid-19 hotspot and is seeing rapid spread of the coronavirus disease. Pune has recorded 8,560 cases of Covid-19 and 348 deaths. In the last two days, the number increased from 6,737 to 8,560, an increase of 1,823.These five districts account for 54 per cent of new cases in the last two days. Other hard-hit districts are Indore in Madhya Pradesh (with 3,449 cases), Kolkata in west Bengal (with 2,167 cases) and Jaipur in Rajasthan (with 2,029 cases).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/list-of-districts-in-india-with-more-than-10-000-covid-19-cases/story-2d9VAJ9UEq6VhhnOabM4mK.html
01-06-2020||India||Southwest monsoon hits Kerala: IMD||India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities announced the onset of monsoon in the country on Monday morning, keeping its annual date with June 1. According to IMD’s National Weather Forecasting Centre (NWFC), the monsoon has advanced into all of the south Arabian Sea; Lakshadweep, most parts of Kerala and even some parts of Tamil Nadu. Kozhikode in Kerala received 15 centimetres (cm) of rainfall from Sunday morning till Monday 8:30 am, Thiruvanthapuram and Kannur also received 6 cm each.“Kerala received very good rains and monsoon is advancing well. The very strong winds are moving towards the westerly and south-westerly direction. All the parameters for the onset of monsoon have been met,” said K. Sathi Devi, head, NWFC.IMD’s monsoon onset guidelines stipulate that 60% of its 14 stations enlisted in Lakshadweep, Kerala and coastal Karnataka must report rainfall of 2.5 millimetres (mm) or more for two consecutive days after May 10 along with strong westerlies. Usually, southwest monsoon sets in over Kerala around June 1. It advances northwards and spreads across the country by July 15.Monsoon rains are critical for the country’s farmers.Around 60% of the country’s net-sown area does not have any form of irrigation. Millions of farmers wait for the rains to begin sowing of major Kharif crops such as rice, sugar, cotton, coarse cereals, and oilseeds. Half of India’s farm output comes from summer crops dependent on monsoon rains.The Gujarat and Maharashtra coasts have been put on pre-cyclone watch amid the onset of monsoon in the country on Monday.The well-marked low-pressure area over the south-east and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep area have concentrated into a depression on Monday morning.It is located about 370 kilometres (km) southwest of Panjim; 690 km south-southwest of Mumbai and 920 km south-south-west of Surat. The depression likely to intensify into a deep depression in the next 12 hours and a severe cyclonic storm, called Nisarga, by Wednesday.IMD authorities show that Nisarga will cross very close to the Mumbai coast while entering the land.Initially, Nisarga is likely to move nearly northwards till Tuesday morning and then recurve north-northeast wards and cross north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts between Harihareshwar (Raigad, Maharashtra) and the Union Territory of Daman on Wednesday evening. When it crosses the coast as a severe cyclonic storm it will have a wind speed of 105 to 115 km per hour (kmph) gusting up to 125 kmph. Very heavy to extremely heavy rain is expected in Konkan, Goa, parts of Maharashtra and Gujarat till Thursday, according to IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/southwest-monsoon-hits-kerala-imd/story-zQIpBaMOvEn0KF2yP5nCWN.html
01-06-2020||India||NITI Aayog official tests positive for Covid-19, floor of Delhi office sealed||A floor of NITI Aayog’s office in Delhi has been sealed for sanitation after a staffer tested positive for Covid-19. The third floor of the NITI Aayog office in Delhi has been sealed and sanitisation work is underway.Earlier this week, at least two officials working with the External Affairs Ministry tested positive for coronavirus. One person who tested positive worked as a consultant in the ministry’s Central Europe (CE) division in New Delhi, while the other worked as a legal officer in the law division, news agency Reuters reported.  A NITI Aayog official tests positive for #COVID19. Third floor of their office in Delhi sealed, sanitisation underway.“As per protocol, all members of the CE Division have been asked to go for self-quarantine for 14 days and work from home,” the ministry advised in an internal e-mail on May 27, which was reviewed by Reuters. Besides this, a sanitation employee of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), who was deployed in Badarpur, died of Covid-19, an SDMC official said on Sunday.This comes at a time when Covid-19 cases in the country near the grim 2 lakh mark. On Monday, the Ministry of Health updated the national Covid-19 tally to total 190,535 cases. There are 93,322 active cases of coronavirus in the country. The death toll stands at 5,394 while 91,818 people have beaten the deadly contagion or have been discharged from hospitals across the country. The fourth phase of the nationwide coronavirus lockdown has come to an end, marked by the beginning of ‘Unlock 1’ to see a staggered lifting of lockdown curbs across the country from today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niti-aayog-official-tests-positive-for-covid-19-a-floor-of-delhi-office-sealed-for-sanitation/story-GxxKheejkinj0I5WTmcREO.html
01-06-2020||India||Govt to announce changes in essential commodities act, dismantling of APMC: Sources||Amendments in the essential commodities act, dismantling of Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) and a new price signalling system for farmers will be among the major agricultural reforms to be announced after the Union Cabinet’s meeting on Monday, sources said.Officials, in the know of the developments, also said a new definition of Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises will be put in place.Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired the meeting of the Union cabinet on Monday as the country entered the first day of the Centre’s three-phased unlocking plan throughout the country.This was the first meeting of the Union cabinet after the central government entered into its second year in office.The Centre had said in May it will amend the Essential Commodities Act to deregulate food items like cereals, pulses and onion besides bringing a new law to give marketing choice to farmers for enhancing their income.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the government will amend the EC act to make the agriculture sector more competitive and ensure better price realisation to farmers. This will also help in attracting investment in the farm sector.The government had also said it will also frame a new law to provide marketing choices to farmers.The central law will be formulated to provide adequate choices to farmers to sell their produce at an attractive price. It will enable interstate trade without restrictions and create a framework for electronic trading of farm products.Farmers currently are bound to sell agriculture produce only through APMC mandis, which restrict the free flow of farm products. At present, farmers lack an enforceable standard mechanism for predictable prices of crops at the time of sowing, the government had said.The Economic Survey had earlier this year pitched for the scrapping of the essential commodities act, saying the law is “anachronistic” that leads to harassment and is of no help in checking price volatility.The act was enacted to control production, supply and distribution of, and trade and commerce in, certain goods considered as essential commodities. The act does not lay out rules and regulations but allows states to issue control orders related to dealer licensing, regulate stock limits, restrict the movement of goods and requirements of compulsory purchases under a levy system.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-announce-changes-in-essential-commodities-act-dismantling-of-apmc-sources/story-TOBYYq5XvLW2fNMz0mUIYL.html
01-06-2020||India||IMD says Nisarga likely to turn into ‘severe cyclonic storm’ on June 3: All you need to know||The depression in the south-west Arabian Sea is likely to concentrate into a deep depression in next 12 hours and will turn into a cyclone, named Nisarga, in the next 24 hours, Anand Kumar Sharma, deputy director-general, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. Cyclone Nisarga is likely to reach Northern Maharashtra coast and the southern coast of Gujarat on June 3 evening/night, the IMD stated. This comes just days after super cyclonic storm Amphan lashed parts of coastal West Bengal, Odisha and Bangladesh on May 20. Here’s all about cyclone Nisarga:• According to the IMD, cyclonic storm ‘Nisarga’ will cross north Maharashtra and Gujarat coasts between Harihareshwar in Raigad district and Daman on June 3.• Maharashtra and Gujarat are on pre-cyclone alert as very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall is expected in parts of the states on June 3 and June 4. • According to IMD’s scientist Ananda Kumar Das, the depression is located about 370 kilometres southwest of Goa’s Panjim, 690 kilometres south-southwest of Mumbai and 920 kilometres south-south-west of Gujarat’s Surat.Also read: Here’s how to live track Cyclonic storm Nisarga• “It is very likely to move nearly northwards initially till June 2 morning and then recurve north-northeastwards and cross north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts between Harihareshwar (Raigad, Maharashtra) and Daman during evening or night of June 3,” Das said.• The depression is likely to intensify into a deep depression by Monday evening. It will turn into a cyclonic storm in the early hours of June 2.• Cyclone Nisarga is likely to turn into a severe cyclonic storm by the evening or night hours of June 3, the IMD stated in its bulletin on Monday.• Nisarga, as a severe cyclonic storm, will have a wind speed of 105-115, gusting to 125 kilometres per hour at 5.30 pm on June 3, the Met department’s bulletin read. • According to the IMD, ‘Nisarga’ will weaken into a cyclonic storm in the second half of June 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-says-nisarga-likely-to-turn-into-severe-cyclonic-storm-on-june-3-all-you-need-to-know-and-latest-updates/story-mZblr69XbT7pnXVD00AxCM.html
01-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Cyclone Nisarga will cross close to Mumbai, shows IMD track and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cyclone Nisarga will cross close to Mumbai, shows IMD trackThe well-marked low-pressure area over the south-east and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep area has concentrated into a depression on Monday morning. Read moreSenior ICMR scientist tests positive for coronavirusA senior scientist at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has tested positive for novel coronavirus following which the entire ICMR building is being sanitised, sources said. Read moreMumbai Police uses mangoes for not so ‘aam’ awareness initiative. Seen it yet?The summer season may be responsible for all the sweaty discomfort but it does come with some yummy gifts too. One of them is the widely loved king of fruits- Mango. This deliciously special fruit can be used in numerous recipes. But did you ever think that it can also be used in other areas, such as technology? If you’re confused, let this tweet by Mumbai Police clear it up. Read moreUnlocking begins today, cautious states ease several restrictionsHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of covid-19 unlocking and free inter-state movement, lockdown in Spain and more. Read more If he scores 100, we’d have to jump off: Ishant Sharma recalls hilarious episode with KL Rahul during Windies Test seriesIndia fast bowler Ishant Sharma recalled the time he was challenged by teammate KL Rahul to score more runs than him in a Test innings. Read moreOur very existence is rooted in empowering everyone: Satya Nadella speaks up about racismProtests against George Floyd’s murder by the Minneapolis Police and against police brutality has gripped America. While Twitter chose to flag US President Donald Trump’s post ‘glorifying violence’, tech heavyweights like Apple, Google, YouTube, Netflix etc have spoken up about racism and have conveyed their stance against it. Read moreRIP Wajid Khan: The man who made music of Salman Khan’s films ‘dabangg’As the distressing news of the death of composer-singer Wajid Khan broke, his colleagues in the film and music industries remembered a smiling man who was passionate about his craft. Wajid died on Monday in Mumbai at the age of 42. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cyclone-nisarga-will-cross-close-to-mumbai-shows-imd-track-and-all-the-latest-news/story-EC6sYtJ5oz4WYp34Em886J.html
01-06-2020||India||Delhi to open hair salons, all shops, announces CM Arvind Kejriwal||The hair salons can open again in Delhi but not spas, declared chief minister Arvind Kejriwal at a press meeting on Monday afternoon as the country entered Unlock 1 phase.With an “economic focus” in mind, the Centre on Saturday said it is reopening the economy but in a phased manner. However, the lockdown will continue to be observed strictly in containment zones till June 30.“Apart from whatever was allowed till now, barbershops and salons will be opened but spas will remain closed,” said the chief minister.ALSO WATCH | Delhi Unlocks: What next in the capital’s battle against Covid? Detailing the plan, Kejriwal said from the earlier odd-even rule, all shops can open now.The restrictions on the number of passengers in auto and other vehicles has been lifted, said the CM.“In autos, e-rickshaws and other vehicles, as per earlier orders, the number of passengers was fixed. But now we are lifting the restrictions on the number of passengers travelling in auto, e-rickshaws and other vehicles,” said Kejriwal.In an earlier press conference, CM Kejriwal underlined that the Delhi government is “four steps ahead of the coronavirus” and that there can’t be a permanent state of lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-to-open-hair-salons-all-shops-announces-cm-arvind-kejriwal/story-ccLtgG3Owe97vGzUSMt6lN.html
01-06-2020||India||Senior ICMR scientist tests positive for coronavirus||A senior scientist at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has tested positive for novel coronavirus following which the entire ICMR building is being sanitised, sources said.The scientist, who is from Mumbai, had come to Delhi few days ago and tested positive for the virus on Sunday morning. The scientists is from the National Institute for Research in Reproductive health in ICMR, Mumbai.The ICMR building will be sanitised and fumigated for two days, a source said.The scientist had last week attended a meeting in which ICMR Director General Dr Balram Bhargava among others were present.A message from the administration was sent to a section of employees, urging them to work from home as the ICMR headquarters is under fumigation, the sources said.“Only the Covid-19 core team may come, if absolutely necessary. Others should work from home only,” the message said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-icmr-scientist-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/story-cIb472yppzxxEM0M1ei4PP.html
01-06-2020||India||Manipur government to extend lockdown till June 30||The Manipur government has decided to extend the lockdown restrictions, which were imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, till June 30, chief minister N. Biren Singh announced at a press conference on Sunday.He cited the extension of the lockdown restrictions as a preventive measure that would help save people’s lives from the raging viral outbreak.The CM announced that micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), agriculture and horticulture-related activities and work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) have been exempted from the prevailing lockdown restrictions. However, he urged the public to maintain social distancing norms and also strictly follow the advisories and protocols laid down by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoH&FW) Singh said a 100-bed dedicated Covid-19 facility would be set up in Imphal within 10 days to ensure general patients could undergo treatment at the state-run Regional Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS).“The daily Covid-19 testing capacity at RIMS and the Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences (JNIMS) has been increased to 1,000. Thermal scanning facility has been installed at Bir Tikendrajit International Airport in Imphal,” he added.The CM said that chief medical officers of districts have been instructed to recruit volunteers and trained nurses because of the medical emergency. Manipur has also increased the number of institutional and community quarantine facilities to accommodate the stranded people who are returning to the state amid the easing of lockdown restrictions.The CM said 28,149 stranded people have come back to the state to date.Singh that the state consultative committee for Covid-19 is holding a weekly meeting to take stock of the situation and chalk out plans to prevent the pandemic. A joint panel has also been formed that comprises members from several civil society organisations to create mass awareness about the viral outbreak among the people. Leaflets have been published in 24 tribal dialects to create awareness about Covid-19, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-government-to-extend-lockdown-till-june-30/story-DCtDGYlMuLxfWw8q1iJAyN.html
01-06-2020||India||DGCA extends deadline for IndiGo, GoAir to replace PW engines to August 31||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has extended the deadline for IndiGo and GoAir to replace all the 60 unmodified Pratt&Whitney (P&W) engines on their A320neo planes by three months.This decision comes as the low-cost carriers could not meet the original deadline of May 31 after the supply chain was hit because of the coronavirus pandemic. “We took a call couple of days back and instructed both the airlines. Both taken together about 60 engines are yet to be replaced and the obvious reason was Covid-19 impact and the resultant lockdowns,” Arun Kumar, the aviation regulator’s director general, said.“Supply chains and production lines all got impacted and in turn disturbed the process. Keeping all this in view, we have extended the deadline by three months up to August 31, 2020,” Kumar said.“We also instructed that for the current times, aircraft with both engines modified should be flown and this should not be difficult as the curtailed operations are likely to last for some more time,” he added. Both the airlines were instructed by the regulator in March to replace their unmodified engines by May 31 following a series of serious snags in aircraft fitted with the engines.IndiGo has 106 PW powered A320Neo planes in its fleet while GoAir has 43 of them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-extends-deadline-for-indigo-goair-to-replace-pw-engines-to-august-31/story-rsE7viKXuEOhF2MOBYztpM.html
01-06-2020||India||Army foils infiltration attempt in Jammu and Kashmir, 3 terrorists killed||The Indian Army soldiers foiled an infiltration attempt from across the border in Jammu and Kashmir’s Naushera sector in Rajouri district.Three terrorists who were trying to cross over to India were killed in the operation, the army claimed. The operation has been going on since May 28 (Sunday), it further said.An army officer said that the terrorists had entered Indian territory where they were eliminated.The troops have launched a search operation in Rajouri and half a dozen villages in Poonch district.A separate search operation has also been launched by the Border Security Force (BSF) and police in the Hiranagar area of Jammu and Kashmir’s Kathua-Samba sector, news agency PTI reported. The operation was launched on Sunday night after security forces received information about the movement along the international border, it further reported.The operation is going on in Samba sector’s riverine areas of Basantar and Eik Nalah areas, which are adjacent to Hiranagar, PTI quoted officials as saying.In the last few years, terrorists have infiltrated into India through Hiranagar and Samba and carried out attacks on army camps, police stations in Samba, Kathua, Jammu and Nagrota areas.Checkpoints along the International Border and on the Jammu-Pathankot highway are on alert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-foils-infiltration-attempt-in-jammu-and-kashmir-3-terrorists-killed/story-mBNo9uZae3GNTC4i3FSPiM.html
01-06-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 crisis, PM Modi calls for ‘maximum discussion’ on three things including tele-medicine||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that he would urge maximum discussion and participation on three things in healthcare sector amid the Covid-19 crisis, one of them being advances in tele-medicine. He also pushed for the ‘Make in India’ cause in health sector and developing more “IT-related tools” for healthcare.“Can we think of new models that make tele-medicine popular on a larger scale?” the prime minister said. “During the last six years, the Central government gave top-most priority and impetus to reforms in health and medical education,” PM Modi said on Monday.Also Watch | ‘Virus may be invisible enemy but Covid warriors are invincible’: PM Modi The prime minister outlined the four broad pillars of healthcare development in the country and pushed for ‘Make in India’ cause in the health sector. Also read: PM Modi chairs Union Cabinet meeting as India enters Unlock 1 At the root of India’s brave fight against COVID-19 is the hardwork of the medical community and our CORONA warriors.In fact, doctors and medical workers are like soldiers, but without the soldiers’ uniform: PM @narendramodi“The initial gains in this make me optimistic. Our domestic manufacturers have started production of PPEs and have supplied about 1 crore PPEs to Covid warriors,” he said. PM Modi also emphasised the importance of developing more “IT-related tools for healthier societies”. “I am sure you have heard of Arogya Setu. 12 crore health-conscious people have downloaded it. This has been very helpful in the fight against Coronavirus,” he said. There are three things on which I would urge maximum discussion and participation.One is - advances in tele-medicine.Can we think of new models that make tele-medicine popular on a larger scale: PM @narendramodiHe said that India needs to have proper medical infrastructure and medical education infrastructure. “Work is underway to ensure a medical college or post-graduate medical institute in every district of the country,” he said. The prime minister described coronavirus as “an invisible enemy” and said that nation’s warriors, “medical workers are invincible”. “In the battle of Invisible vs Invincible, our medical workers are sure to win,” he said, reiterating that violence, abuse and rude behaviour against frontline workers will not be accepted. Third is- IT related tools for healthier societies.I am sure you have heard of "ArogyaSetu."12 crore health-conscious people have downloaded it. This has been very helpful in the fight against Coronavirus: PM @narendramodiThe prime minister also reflected on the strides made by the country in the field of healthcare services, developments and infrastructure in the past years. “I would like to highlight the success of India’s National Nutrition Mission that is helping youngsters and their Mothers. India is working twenty four by seven to eliminate TB by 2025. This is five years ahead of the global target of 2030,” the prime minister said, adding that India has seen rapid progress in setting up 22 more AIIMS. He said, the world’s largest healthcare scheme - Ayushman Bharat - belongs to India and in less than 2 years, 1 crore people have benefitted from it. The prime minister’s comments came while he spoke at the 25th foundation day of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, Karnataka via video conference on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-crisis-pm-modi-pushes-for-make-in-india-in-health-sector-advancements-in-tele-medicine/story-MYnikWdV1yugh8NKHsz4SP.html
01-06-2020||India||Unlock 1.0: Uttar Pradesh government releases guidelines, here are important points||The Uttar Pradesh government has released the guidelines the the fifth phase of lockdown, often dubbed as the first of the three-part exercise to ease the severe restrictions imposed to check the spread of Covid-19.The Uttar Pradesh government has largely followed the guideline released by the Centre.According to the new order, the government has permitted inter-state travel, but said people from Covid-19 hotspot areas/containment zones in Delhi will not be allowed to travel to Noida and Ghaziabad.Though the lockdown will remain in place in the state till June 30, shopping malls, religious places and hotels and restaurants will open from June 8. The decision on reopening schools and colleges will be taken in July.Additional Chief Secretary (Home), Awanish Awasthi, said that if any Covid-19 positive case is found, an area of 250 metres around it will be declared a containment zone. And if there are more than one case, the containment zone will be increased to 500 metres. Only essential services and goods will be allowed in containment zones during this period.Here are the important points from the guidelines issued by the Uttar Pradesh government:• All offices are allowed to open from Monday, June 1• Markets can open on rotation basis from 9 am to 9 pm• Supermarkets, beauty parlours and salons are allowed to open• No passes are required for inter-state travel, but this rule is not applicable for Noida and Ghaziabad• Taxis and rickshaws can take passengers as per the seating capacity in the vehicle• Roadways buses are allowed to ply, but no passenger is allowed to stand in these buses• Sweet shops have been allowed to open, but without the dining space• International flight services and metro trains will remain shut till the next order• The health department can conduct door-to-door surveys and other essential services are also allowed• Wedding halls can open, but they are not allowed to accommodate more than 30 people• Two people (rider and pillion) are allowed on two-wheelers but with face masks• All the restrictions will continue in containment zones, as pet the Union Home Ministry’s guidelines||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-1-0-uttar-pradesh-government-releases-guidelines-here-are-important-points/story-CZ6clMPy4LXsEKJlyhep3M.html
01-06-2020||India||As unlock 1.0 begins, here’s a look at top states battling the coronavirus menace: Covid-19 tally||As India lifts a major chunk of lockdown restrictions on Monday in Central government’s bid to gradually unlock the country, national Covid-19 tally nearly touched the 2 lakh-mark as per the figures updated by the Ministry of Health. On Monday, the country’s coronavirus tally jumped to 190,535 cases. While Covid-19 death toll in the country stands at 5,394, 91,819 people have been cured or discharged from hospitals. As states gradually prepare to unlock the lockdown, the challenge is to keep the rising the number of coronavirus cases in check. Two hundred inter-state trains also resumed service from today. Here’s taking a look at Covid-19 statewise figures across India:Top 10 worst-affected statesMaharashtra Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu are struggling with a rapid rise in the number of coronavirus infections. Both states have reported over 20,000 Covid-19 cases till date. Maharashtra on Monday reported a total of 67,655 coronavirus cases. As many as 2,286 people have died of coronavirus in Maharashtra - highest in the country.Tamil NaduTamil Nadu has seen 22,333 coronavirus cases till date. One hundred and seventy-three people have died of Covid-19 in the state. Chennai is the most affected city in Tamil Nadu. Also read: Lockdown 5.0 - Delhi-Noida border remains sealed, Gurugram border openDelhiThe national capital and PM Modi’s native place are two such states in the country where the Covid-19 cases have crossed the 15,000-mark. Delhi’s Covid-19 tally rose to 19844 on Monday, 8,478 patients have recovered here while 473 died due to Covid-19. GujaratThe total number of Covid-19 cases reached 16,779 in Gujarat on Monday. The state has seen 9,919 people recover from coronavirus while 1,038 people have died. Ahmedabad is the worst-hit district in Gujarat. Rajasthan Covid-19 cases here reached 8,831 on Monday. The state has reported 194 fatalities while 5,927 patients have recovered from the infection here.Madhya PradeshCoronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh are inching toward the 10,000-mark. The state has registered 8,089 infections till date. Three hundred and fifty-three people have died from Covid-19 in the state while 4,842 have recovered.Uttar PradeshThe number of Covid-19 positive cases has jumped to 7,823 in Uttar Pradesh. While 4,709 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 213 have died from the infection here. West Bengal The number of infected cases in West Bengal crossed the 5,000-mark on Sunday. There have been 5,501 Covid-19 cases and 317 deaths in the state. As many as 2,157 patients have recovered from coronavirus in the state till date. BiharThe state is rapidly inching toward the 5,000-mark. Covid-19 cases in the state stand at 3,815; death toll has jumped to 21. More than 1,700 people have recovered from the deadly contagion in the state. Andhra Pradesh The southern state has reported 3,679 Covid-19 cases till date. While 62 people have died in the state, 2,349 people have recovered from the deadly contagion. Situation in other statesTelangana, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Kerala, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Assam and Haryana are states where Covid-19 cases are under the 3,000-mark. Karnataka has reported over 3,000 coronavirus cases till date. Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh and Tripura have reported around 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Goa, Puducherry, Meghalaya, Ladakh, Nagaland and Manipur have less than 100 Covid-19 cases.Union territory of Dadra Nagar Haveli has reported two cases of Covid-19, Sikkim has one. Arunachal Pradesh has four Covid-19 patients and one of them has recovered.All coronavirus patients in Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Mizoram have recovered. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-unlock-1-0-begins-here-s-a-look-at-top-states-battling-the-coronavirus-menace-covid-19-tally/story-y3xUuFjYSsPOxokw47177M.html
01-06-2020||India||Earning potential of woman no ground to deny maintenance: Bombay HC||The earning potential or actual earning of a woman is insufficient to deny a claim of maintenance, the Bombay high court has said while upholding a family court’s order granting alimony to a woman who runs a beauty parlour.Justice NJ Jamadar passed the order on Tuesday in response to a petition by a Pune resident, who challenged the February 7, 2019 order of the family court at Pune that ordered him to pay a monthly maintenance of Rs 15,000 to his ex-wife.The marriage was solemnised in November 1997 and the couple had no children. The 52-year-old businessman claimed his wife suffered from psychological illness and the marriage couldn’t be consummated because of his wife’s mental condition, even after she was treated by a sexologist.In April 2007, the couple applied for divorce by mutual consent and the family court in Pune dissolved the marriage by issuing a decree of divorce in October the same year. Four years later, the businessman remarried.In 2016, the woman applied for maintenance, contending she had no source of livelihood and the man, though having resources, had not made any provision for her. The family court accepted her plea and ordered the man to pay her Rs 15,000 a month.The businessman then approached the high court, challenging the family court’s order on the ground the lower court didn’t consider that his ex-wife was earning by running a beauty parlour.Justice Jamadar accepted the husband’s contention and said that against the backdrop of material on record, the family court ought to have accepted the woman’s claim that she had no source of income “with a pinch of salt”. The material on record suggested the woman was carrying on the business of running a beauty parlour. “However, the fact that the wife carries on some business and earns some money is not the end of the matter,” said the judge, adding her earning potential or actual earning is insufficient to deny her claim of maintenance.“In this era of inflationary economy, where the prices of commodities and services are increasing day by day, the income from a beauty parlour, which has an element of seasonality, may not be sufficient to support the livelihood of the woman, and afford her to maintain the same standard of living as that of her husband,” said the court, upholding her right to maintenance.The high court, however, reduced the alimony to Rs 12,000 a month.It also rejected the business man’s argument that his ex-wife relinquished her right to maintenance and it formed part of the consent terms approved by the family court while dissolving their marriage.“The object of the provisions contained in section 125 of the CrPC cannot be lost sight of. Indisputably the provision is a measure of social justice and its object is to prevent destitution and vagrancy,” said the judge. “The statutory right of wife of maintenance cannot be permitted to be bartered away or infringed by setting up an agreement not to claim maintenance. Such a clause in the agreement would be void under section 23 of the Indian Contract Act, being opposed to public policy,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earning-potential-of-woman-no-ground-to-deny-maintenance-bombay-hc/story-5buPuv4tYHuko6lAuEK4PO.html
01-06-2020||India||Solar power lights up some Sunderban villages soon after cyclone||Large parts of West Bengal went days without electricity after cyclone Amphan , which crossed the coast near the Sunderbans on May 20, battered the state with winds gusting to a top speed of 185 kmph.Most of the Sunderbans remained without power for up to a week. Some villages were luckier Lahiripur and Kumirmari were illuminated even on May 21 after repairs on the solar microgrid immediately after the storm. A microgrid is a small energy grid that can function autonomously.Surojit Roy, a primary school teacher in the Lahiripur says the solar microgrid is the islanders’ only friend when disaster strikes.Lighting kept people safe as many parts of the Sunderbans were inundated and toppled trees blocked roads.“When Amphan struck, we thought everything is over. The village was rocking with the winds. I have never seen such a deadly view of the river across our village,” said Roy, who is among 3,000 people using solar microgrids installed by World Wide Fund for Nature India in phases since 20 11.Today, the solar microgrids have a combined capacity of 84.12 kW which electrifies about 700 households.“The best thing is we are not dependent on the main grid. In the rest of the Sunderbans, power only came back yesterday (Friday, May 29). Even now some villages are in the dark. Some trees had fallen over wires of the microgrid which electrifies households but committee members who are trained technicians managed to fix the wires in a few hours. These lights have really saved us during times of distress, they also protect us from the tigers in the forests just across the river,” added Roy.In villages lit up by solar microgrids, there is no load shedding, or power rationing, a common problem faced by people in the Sunderbans; tigers don’t venture into a a lit-up village, according to Roy.Prakriti Gharai, panchayat pradhan of Lahiripur, said:: “Earlier tigers would often swim across the Dutta River and stray into the villages. On one side of the river you have villages like Rajat Jubiliee, Jamespur and Anpur (tribal villages) and on the other side it is the forest where tigers live. The tiger straying has, however, stopped now because of the solar lighting in the villages and the nylon net fencing put up by the forest department on the forest boundary.”According to WWF India, electricity from the microgrid enables each household to use three LED lamps, a fan, two switchboards with plug points for cell phone charging, and other appliances; they can also power village institutions and street lights.The first area to be lit up by grid solar power in the Sunderbans was Rudranagar on Sagar Island in South 24 Parganas in 1994. The solar power grid and rooftop panels became popular on other remote islands as well. Gosaba, an island located on the fringes of the Sunderban Tiger Reserve, received solar power in 1997.“Sunderbans now has the world’s highest concentration of solar rooftop panels. Around 200,000 rooftop panels have been installed by individual villagers living on remote islands,” said SP Gon Choudhury, who was then director of the West Bengal Renewable Energy Development Agency (WBREDA)Not only houses and local shops, but even street lights and schools are running on solar power.“While on one hand people can stay outside their homes even after dark and the fear of the tiger has totally vanished, school children can now work on computers and photocopying machines can run in local shops. In some houses there are televisions too. Solar energy has changed our lives,” said Amal Mondol, secretary of the cooperative that maintains the solar microgrid set up in Anpur-Rajat Jubilee village....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/solar-power-lights-up-some-sunderban-villages-soon-after-cyclone/story-d3HCmb7BYm0ChfnLvDT6kL.html
01-06-2020||India||Locust swarms enter Chhattisgarh’s Koriya, district on alert||Desert locust swarms entered in two villages in Chhattisgarh’s Koriya district bordering Madhya Pradesh on Sunday evening, prompting the agriculture department to issue an alert and set up a control room.DM Rathore, Koriya’s collector, said a chemical was sprayed in Kirri and Jwaratola under the Bharatpur block and the administration has managed to control the movement till now.“On Sunday, it was a small swarm and we managed to contain their movement by spraying chemicals and using sirens of fire brigades. Most of them have died. We have not been affected till now,” Rathore said.On May 27, the Chhattisgarh agriculture department and farmers of districts bordering Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra had been alerted after swarms of locusts attacked crops in the neighbouring states.India is currently seeing the worst locust attack in more than seven decades as locust swarms from Pakistan now threaten to devastate crops and vegetables over thousands of hectares in states like Rajasthan, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. Rajasthan is now the most affected state.The desert locust is a species of locust, a swarming short-horned grasshopper that devours everything in their path. Entomologists have said the current swarm of locusts contains immature locusts that could gorge on the crops before getting ready for mating.Besides, villagers have been advised to form groups and make noise by beating plates and tin boxes to drive away the crop-destroying insects.“Every bordering district of Chhattisgarh is on alert. Since they don’t have any fixed trajectory, it is wind direction which carries them. Every morning they track the wind direction and move forward,” Maninder Kaur Dwivedi, principal secretary (agriculture), said while speaking to HT. “Earlier Bhandara (Maharashtra) locust swarm was expected to arrive in Kawadha district but the wind changed direction so it went towards Nagpur. On Friday, a swarm of locust which was reported in Balaghat and Mandla (Madhya Pradesh) went towards Mirzapur (Uttar Pradesh). On Sunday, one of the swarms reached Koriya,” Dwivedi added.The United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) may declare the locust invasion a “plague” if it takes a turn for the worse by end of this year following successful breeding in India, Pakistan, and in west Africa. The locust invasion has been currently categorised as an “upsurge” by FAO.The desert locust was expected to remain limited to its desert habitat, but it scattered to Madhya Pradesh (MP), Uttar Pradesh (UP), and Maharashtra because of the strong north-westerly winds following super cyclone Amphan last week.And, now eastern states such as Jharkhand and Odisha have been asked to remain on alert against the locust swarms. Jharkhand’s agriculture department has issued an alert across all 24 districts in the state and has set up state, district and block level task forces to deal with the impending threat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locust-swarms-enter-chhattisgarh-s-koriya-district-on-alert/story-Sh0PE2Py8WflpkmUQCHHlI.html
01-06-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally surges beyond 190,500 with highest single-day spike of 8,392 cases||More than 8,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 230 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours pushing India’s tally to 190,535 on Monday, the first day of the Centre’s move for a phased unlocking of public activity after the rigorous lockdown since March 25.India has reported a daily rise of more than 8,000 Covid-19 cases for the second day in a row as the Union health ministry data showed there were 8,392 new Covid-19 cases between Sunday and Monday morning.There are 93,322 active cases of the coronavirus disease in the country so far, the health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard showed.Also read: Driving in lockdown 5.0 - Delhi-Noida border remains sealed, Gurugram border openAs the death toll stood at 5,394, the number of people who have been cured of the highly-infectious disease went up to 91,818 from 86,983 from Sunday. It brings the rate of recovery in the country to 48.18%.Maharashtra with 67,655 Covid-19 cases is among four states with more than 10,000 cases. The western state has also reported most of the 8,392 deaths with 2,286 fatalities.Tamil Nadu has 22,333 cases of the coronavirus disease and its death toll is at 173, while Delhi has 473 fatalities and 19,844 patients so far. Gujarat has a lower tally at 16,779 but it has reported that 1,038 people have died across the state till date.A day after the Centre unveiled the first of a three-phase plan to lift lockdown curbs in a graded manner, several states, including those worst hit by Covid-19 such as Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu, announced a conditional easing of several restrictions on Sunday.Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan issued their own guidelines. Apart from them, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Punjab and Karnataka too announced their rules effective Monday.While several states allowed the resumption of public transport and interstate travel from Monday, many remained undecided on reopening hotels, restaurants and places of worship — which, according to the central guidelines, can be opened from June 8. States such as Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala were yet to announce the new norms. Delhi will release its guidelines on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-surges-beyond-190-500-with-highest-single-day-spike-of-8-392-cases/story-Uk5VOisUHTPCIXxsO3hoUP.html
01-06-2020||India||Unlock 1.0: Madhya Pradesh lays down rules, decision on schools later||Madhya Pradesh Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday night announced opening of religious places, hotels, restaurants, shopping malls and other hospitality services in non-containment zones in the state from June 8.However, he said, “Cinema halls, gymnasium, swimming pool, amusement park, theater, bar and auditorium, assembly room, marriage garden will not run and activities like social, political, sports, entertainment, educational, cultural, religious and other big gatherings will be completely banned. The decision about them will be taken later.”In his digital address to people, Chouhan said, “After Lockdown 4 ends, the 5th stage of lockdown will be Unlock 1.0 phase. We will fully follow the guidelines of the Government of India. We will also conduct economic activities in a phased manner in the state.”As per Chouhan’s announcement, the lockdown will remain in force in containment areas till June 30. Only essential services will be allowed in these areas.The night curfew has also been relaxed, it will now be in force from 9 pm to 5 am in line with the Union Home Ministry guideline. During this time, the movement of people will be completely restricted except for essential services.“Educational institutions will remain closed. But schools will be opened for Class 12 exams. The decision to open schools, colleges, educational, training, coaching institutes etc will be taken in July in consultation with all the people,” Chouhan said.“One-fourth of the shops in the urban areas of Indore, Ujjain, Neemuch and Burhanpur will be opened turn by turn. One-third of the shops in Bhopal will open turn by turn. Half the shops in Dewas, Khandwa municipal corporation and Dhar and Neemuch municipality areas will open but standalone shops and neighbourhood shops will be free from this ban. Apart from these, there will be no restriction on opening of shops in the rest of the state,” announced Chouhan.He also said that all government and private offices would function in Indore, Ujjain and Bhopal municipal corporation areas with 50 per cent employees and in the rest of the state with full capacity. All precautions and measures would be undertaken for safety of employees as per the Government of India’s guidelines. There would be no need for any type of pass for vehicles going in and out of the state.The operation of inter-state buses would be closed throughout the state till June 7. A decision would be taken thereafter. Public transport buses will be able to operate with 50% in all other divisions except Indore, Ujjain and Bhopal.The number of guests in the wedding ceremony should not exceed 50. Similarly, the number of persons in the funeral should not exceed 20. Spitting in public places would be punishable. Similarly, consumption of alcohol, betel leaf, gutka, tobacco etc would remain prohibited in public places.Talking about the return of more than six lakh migrant labourers to the state, the chief minister also announced setting up of a migrant labourers commission to look after the welfare of such labourers.He said that the government had decided to postpone the recovery of fixed charges in the electricity bills relating to all non-domestic, non-industrial, low tension and high tension industrial consumers such as shops, showrooms, hospitals, restaurants, marriage gardens, parlours, MSMEs and large industries till June. This amount could be deposited in six equal installments between October 2020 and March 2021.Chouhan also announced different amount of concessions in electricity bills as per different slabs for the next three months to such consumers who had power bills up to Rs 400 in the month of April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-1-0-madhya-pradesh-lays-down-rules-decision-on-schools-later/story-8aU4Z6hCL8TpEs8yjWRxPK.html
01-06-2020||India||PM Modi chairs Union Cabinet meeting as India enters Unlock 1||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is chairing a meeting of the Union Cabinet as the country entered the first day of the Centre’s three-phased unlocking plan throughout the country.This is also be the first meeting of the Union Cabinet after the central government entered into its second year in office.During the meeting, several important decisions are expected to be announced, according to officials.There were 8,392 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 230 deaths in the last 24 hours pushing India’s tally to 190,535 on Monday.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayIndia has reported a daily rise of more than 8,000 Covid-19 cases for the second day in a row as the Union health ministry data showed there were 8,392 new Covid-19 cases between Sunday and Monday morning.There are 93,322 active cases of the coronavirus disease in the country so far, the Union health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard showed. The death toll stood at 5,394 and the number of people who have been cured of the highly-infectious disease went up to 91,818 from 86,983 from Sunday. It brings the rate of recovery in the country to 48.18%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-chair-union-cabinet-meeting-today-as-india-enters-unlock-1/story-dBGhpQ1tgN0mmUhEx8jTsL.html
01-06-2020||India||Covid-19: Madhya Pradesh town puts barriers to regulate entry of people||The district administration in Madhya Pradesh’s Chhatarpur, nearly 350 kilometre North-East of capital Bhopal, has decided to put up barriers at villages to check the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19. The barriers will check the entry of people from outside without being examined.Chhatarpur in Bundelkhand region is known for UNESCO world heritage site at Khajuraho.The town has 17 Covid-19 positive cases as per the health department’s bulletin released on Saturday evening while the neighbouring districts - Sagar, Damoh, Panna and Tikamgarh - have 164, 19, 11 and 9 cases respectively. Sagar, which has of late emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot, has reported seven deaths.Chhatarpur, with a population of more than 17.62 lakh as per 2011 census and 1,210 villages, reported its first Covid-19 case on May 20, almost two months after the outbreak in the state. The district administration placed two of its towns - Khajuraho and Rajnagar - under curfew on March 25 after a tourist tested positive for Covid-19.District collector Sheelendra Singh said, “Barriers will be put up at all the villages to be able to get information about the migrant labourers returning to their native villages from other states. In all the villages and wards of the town monitoring committees will be constituted which will keep a watch on movement of migrant labourers.”He said, “Each of the committee will comprise at least 5 people including those from among health department workers, angwanwadi workers, local teachers, gram rozgar sahayak, panch, sarpanch etc. There will be sector in-charge too engaged with the task of monitoring. The labourers coming from outside will be quarantined before their visiting homes.”He said each of the committee will have a meeting every two days to assess the situation in its respective area and will compulsorily apprise the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) concerned of its decisions. “The committee will have a responsibility to ensure quarantine of those labourers who have returned in less than 15 days period, lodge FIR with police against those who are not complying with quarantine guidelines”, he added.Sub-divisional magistrate of Rajnagar town IAS officer Swapnil Wankhede said, “The district’s self-help groups of women are manufacturing PPE kits too to provide it to Corona warriors in the district. A kit that includes a disposable gown, shoe cover, face mask, hand gloves and face shield is helping the warriors to discharge their duties efficiently and check spread of Coronavirus.”Kalapani gram panchayat Sarpanch Kamlesh Patel said, “A few days back a migrant labourer who returned from Delhi was found Covid-19 positive. After that several others tested positive for the coronavirus disease. So far, 168 migrant labourers have returned and more than 60 are expected in coming days. The barrier will certainly help us as it’s difficult to make understand sometimes some labourers about importance of their being quarantined.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-madhya-pradesh-town-puts-barriers-to-regulate-entry-of-people/story-sk3trnai2WGm079Putec4I.html
01-06-2020||India||Printer sparks minor fire in Delhi’s Nirman Bhawan, no injuries reported||A minor fire broke out on fourth floor of Nirman Bhawan in central Delhi on Monday morning. Five fire tenders were rushed to the spot and the incident was brought under control by 9:15 am. The fire was caused by a printer in the government office, chief fire officer of Delhi Fire Services (DFS) Atul Garg said, following which a call was made to the fire department at 9:01 am. No injury has been reported, the fire department officials confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-in-delhi-s-nirman-bhawan-4-fire-tenders-present-at-the-spot/story-boEUgYa2SQBy0DbC6coMBL.html
01-06-2020||India||Locust swarm 250 km away from Jharkhand, say officials; issue alert||With the swarm of desert locusts having entered neighbouring Chhattisgarh, the Jharkhand agriculture department has issued alert across all 24 districts in the state and has set up state, district and block level task forces to deal with the impending threat.Jharkhand agriculture secretary Abu Bakar Siddique said, “We have issued alert for all 24 districts of Jharkhand. The districts sharing border with Chattisgarh, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have been asked to be more vigilant.”Siddique said though there was no immediate threat to Jharkhand, they have constituted state, district and block level task force to deal with it in case of locust invasion.Jharkhand’s bordering districts with Chhattisgarh and Bihar, including Garhwa, Latehar, Gumla, Deoghar, Chatra, Giridih and Godda are stated to be more vulnerable. Several districts have issued guidelines in light of the alert from the state agriculture department. Garhwa was the first district to issue guideline on locust.Garhwa agriculture officer Laxman Oraon said, “The swarm of locusts has entered Chattishgarh and the swarm is estimated 250 kilometre away from Jharkhand. Since the swarm could travel up to 200 kilometre in a day, we have taken all precautionary measures to deal with the situation.”Oraon said it was not necessary that Jharkhand would be invaded by the locust swarm. “The movement of locusts depends upon the wind pattern. However, we are concerned about the way the locust swarm is moving,” he said.Senior agriculture scientist and head of Krishi Vikas Kendra (KVK), Deoghar, PK Sannigrahi said, “The locust swarm has invaded several districts of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh. It might enter Bihar and other Jharkhand bordering state now. We are hoping it would not reach Jharkhand. But, we should be alert, as we know its movement depends upon the wind pattern.”He said a swarm comprises around 1.5 crore to 2 crore locusts and it could travel up to 200 kilometre depending upon the speed of the wind and could eat out food of 35,000 people.The Deoghar district had issued detailed guidelines on Saturday and a toll-free number 18001801551 to help farmers in case of locust invasion. In the guideline, details about pesticides to be used to keep the locusts away and their quantity have been mentioned. The guideline asked the farmers to arrange fire and crackers and use them if they face locust attack. Last month, Jharkhand’s Lohardaga forest division had conducted a study and predicted possible locust attack in the state, which, the divisional officials said, could pose a threat to vegetation in forests as well as farm fields.The division, in its study, found unprecedented rise in population of butterflies and locusts due to prolonged wet weather. The insects were causing damage to forest vegetation. The division had sought a scientific study into the threat so that precautionary measures could be taken in time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locust-swarm-250-km-away-from-jharkhand-say-officials-issue-alert/story-0YrB4g6GwqDAuH6xs67jNJ.html
01-06-2020||India||Domestic cooking gas price raised from June 1 in metros||The price of non-subsidised liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinder of Indane has been increased between Rs 11.50 to Rs 37 in four metro cities, including Delhi, from June 1.In Delhi, the price rose to Rs 593.00 with an increase of Rs 11.50 per LPG cylinder and in Kolkata, it will now cost Rs 616.00 after an increase of Rs 31.50.Customers in Mumbai will have to pay Rs 590.50 for an LPG cylinder after an increase of Rs 11.50 and it will be sold at Rs 606.50 in Chennai after an increase of Rs 37.“The Retail Selling Price of LPG in Delhi market for the month of May 2020 was reduced from Rs 744 to Rs. 581.50 per cylinder for all consumers in line with a drop in international prices,” the Indian Oil Corporation Ltd (IOCL) said in a statement.“For the month of June, there has been an increase in international prices of LPG. Due to an increase in the prices in the international market, the RSP of LPG in Delhi market will be increased by Rs 11.50 per cylinder,” it added.However, the state-owned oil and gas company has said the hike will not impact beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala (PMUY) as they are covered by the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana and are entitled to a free cylinder till June 30.Under the government’s Ujjwala scheme, 83 million below poverty line (BPL) families will be provided with free cooking gas cylinders for three months as part of the coronavirus relief package.Prices of LPG cylinders are revised by fuel retailers on the first day of every month depending mainly on the international benchmark rate of LPG and the exchange rate of the US dollar and the Indian rupee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-cooking-gas-price-raised-from-june-1/story-KHLyN2d8pXOQfisv5pun7M.html
01-06-2020||India||Bank holidays in June 2020: Here’s a state-wise holiday list||There are no major festivals in June and banks will be functioning all days, except specified, during the month. However, several banks have reduced their working hours to promote social distancing in the midst of nationwide lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic.Both private and public sector banks remain closed on the second and fourth Saturday and all Sundays of each month, as per the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).According to the RBI website, banks in some states will be closed to observe certain regional holidays. Jammu and Kashmir will observe Guru Hargobind Ji’s birthday and Remna Ni and YMA Day will be celebrated in Mizoram.Here’s a list of June bank holidays in different states:June 5 (Friday)There will be a bank holiday in Sikkim on the occasion of Saga Dawa, which is celebrated to mark the birth, enlightenment and the attainment of nirvana of the Buddha.June 15 (Monday)Banks will be closed in Mizoram on YMA Day, a regional public holiday which commemorates the establishment of the Young Mizo Association, an important voluntary association, in the state on this day in 1935.In Odisha, banks will be closed on the occasion of Raja Sankranti.June 18 (Thursday)Jammu & Kashmir will observe Guru Hargobind Ji’s birthday and banks will not open on this day.June 23 (Tuesday)Banks in Odisha will not open on this day due to Ratha Yatra.June 30 (Tuesday)Mizoram will be banks closed on Remna Ni, a regional public holiday which commemorates the signing of an agreement on this day in 1986, that brought peace to the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bank-holidays-in-june-2020-here-s-a-state-wise-holiday-list/story-9zJPqXIngHhtUem1slEfwJ.html
01-06-2020||India||Cong hits out at govt over handling of Covid-19 crisis||The Congress on Sunday took a jibe at the central government’s handling of Covid-19 crisis, saying that the government’s social distancing with the people has increased so much that it does not know what is happening on the ground and how to address the problems faced by the people, especially the poor.“The future history books will recognise this government as the harbinger of doom. Prime Minister Narendra Modi talks about protecting democracy. Until March 24, they throttled democracy,” senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal said.He said that, prior to March 24, the agenda of the government focussed on Article 370, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, the National Register of Citizens, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the Triple Talaq law, and not education, health care or concerns of the poor. “Had this government concentrated on the issues concerning people, India would have been different today,” Sibal told reporters.“I want to ask the Prime Minister that at least now tell us what is your definition of your fellow Indians? Does that definition fit into what happened prior to March 24? At least now change the way you are handling the future of this country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-hits-out-at-govt-over-handling-of-covid-19-crisis/story-Rnq8ZxyfBpHwcVySJyaUsJ.html
01-06-2020||India||Full list of trains to resume from June 1; Jan Shatabdis, Durontos included||The Indian Railways will begin operating 200 special trains, or 100 pairs with both AC and non-AC coaches, from Monday, June 1, and more than 1.45 lakh passengers will travel on the first day.These 200 trains will run in addition to the premium passenger trains connecting New Delhi with 15 cities across India being run since May 12 and the Shramik Special trains ferrying stranded migrant labourers to their hometowns.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAccording to the national transporter, around 26 lakh passengers have booked for Advance Reservation Period (ARP) from June 1 to June 30.The ministry of railways’ key train services, such as Duronto, Sampark Kranti, Jan Shatabdi and Poorva Express, are set to resume services from June 1 in the government’s bid to restore rail services across the country in a graded manner amid the coronavirus crisis.All passengers must download and use the Aarogya Setu mobile application, the ministry has said. Passengers will also have to face masks at the entry and during travel, reach the station at least 90 minutes in advance to facilitate thermal screening at the station and observe social distancing norms.Only travellers with confirmed or RAC tickets will be allowed to enter railway station and board trains, it has said.According to the guideline of the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA), all travellers will be compulsorily screened and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to enter or board a train.Here is the list of trains which will resume from June 1:  .tablewrap {width:100%; border:0px solid #FFF; color:#000; float:left}table,th,td {font-size: auto; font-family: "Open Sans"; color:#242424; border-collapse: collapse; border: 1px solid #CCC; text-decoration:none} table{width:100%; text-decoration:none; color:#242424} th,td{width:auto; text-align:left; padding:5px; text-decoration:none; color:#242424; list-style:none}th.center{text-align:center; text-decoration:none}tr:nth-child(odd) {background-color: #fff; text-decoration:none} tr:nth-child(even) {background-color:#efefef; text-decoration:none} th {width:auto; background-color:#dedede; color: #242424; font-weight: bold} .sportshead {width:100%; background-color:#1f77b4; color:#FFF; padding:5px; font-size:140%; font-weight:bold; float:left}.sportssubhead {width:100%; font-size:110%; font-weight:normal; float:left}a {color:#242424; text-decoration:none; color:#000}a:visited {color:#242424; text-decoration:none; color:#000}.base {width:100%; color:#242424; text-decoration:none; display:inline-block;}.cont1 {width:49%; float:left}.cont2 {width:49%; float:right}.divider {width:100%;}@media only screen and (max-width:480px) {.cont1 {width:auto; float:left}.cont2 {width:auto; margin:0; float:left}}  .tablewrap {width:100%; border:0px solid #FFF; color:#000; float:left}table,th,td {font-size: auto; font-family: "Open Sans"; color:#242424; border-collapse: collapse; border: 1px solid #CCC; text-decoration:none} table{width:100%; text-decoration:none; color:#242424} th,td{width:auto; text-align:left; padding:5px; text-decoration:none; color:#242424; list-style:none}th.center{text-align:center; text-decoration:none}tr:nth-child(odd) {background-color: #fff; text-decoration:none} tr:nth-child(even) {background-color:#efefef; text-decoration:none} th {width:auto; background-color:#dedede; color: #242424; font-weight: bold} .sportshead {width:100%; background-color:#1f77b4; color:#FFF; padding:5px; font-size:140%; font-weight:bold; float:left}.sportssubhead {width:100%; font-size:110%; font-weight:normal; float:left}a {color:#242424; text-decoration:none; color:#000}a:visited {color:#242424; text-decoration:none; color:#000}.base {width:100%; color:#242424; text-decoration:none; display:inline-block;}.cont1 {width:49%; float:left}.cont2 {width:49%; float:right}.divider {width:100%;}@media only screen and (max-width:480px) {.cont1 {width:auto; float:left}.cont2 {width:auto; margin:0; float:left}}  .tablewrap {width:100%; border:0px solid #FFF; color:#000; float:left}table,th,td {font-size: auto; font-family: "Open Sans"; color:#242424; border-collapse: collapse; border: 1px solid #CCC; text-decoration:none} table{width:100%; text-decoration:none; color:#242424} th,td{width:auto; text-align:left; padding:5px; text-decoration:none; color:#242424; list-style:none}th.center{text-align:center; text-decoration:none}tr:nth-child(odd) {background-color: #fff; text-decoration:none} tr:nth-child(even) {background-color:#efefef; text-decoration:none} th {width:auto; background-color:#dedede; color: #242424; font-weight: bold} .sportshead {width:100%; background-color:#1f77b4; color:#FFF; padding:5px; font-size:140%; font-weight:bold; float:left}.sportssubhead {width:100%; font-size:110%; font-weight:normal; float:left}a {color:#242424; text-decoration:none; color:#000}a:visited {color:#242424; text-decoration:none; color:#000}.base {width:100%; color:#242424; text-decoration:none; display:inline-block;}.cont1 {width:49%; float:left}.cont2 {width:49%; float:right}.divider {width:100%;}.headline { font-size:40px; margin-bottom:10px}@media only screen and (max-width:480px) {.cont1 {width:auto; float:left}.cont2 {width:auto; margin:0; float:left}}||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-full-list-of-trains-to-resume-from-june-1-jan-shatabdis-durontos-included/story-ZLCfNpiNEJwMkGYsTRKsoM.html
01-06-2020||India||Lockdown 5.0: From Punjab to Tamil Nadu, how states have planned for easing restrictions||Several states, including those worst hit by the coronavirus disease, such as Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu, announced conditional easing of curbs on Sunday, a day after the central government unveiled the first of a three-phase plan to lift lockdown restrictions in a graded manner.While most states allowed the resumption of public transport and inter-state travel from Monday, many remained undecided on reopening hotels, restaurants and places of worship. Some states like Delhi are expected to come out with their own guidelines on Monday.Here’s a look at how states have decided to ease the restrictions in the first phase of unlocking:Maharashtra• The Maharashtra government extended till June 30 the lockdown in the state, but announced phase-wise resumption of activities under its “Mission Begin Again” plan.• All markets and shops - but not malls - can reopen from June 5 on an odd-even basis, which means half of the shops in an area will open on every alternate day to avoid crowding.• Only 10-15% of the staff can work from office beginning June 8 in red zones.• Intra-district bus travel will resume with 50 per cent passenger capacity, but not inter-district bus travel.• Morning walks and cycling will be permitted in public areas from June 3.• Religious places are allowed to open from June 8. However, the Union home ministry’s guidelines also said there will be no relaxations for containment zones.Gujarat• In Gujarat, all shops and businesses outside containment zones can reopen on alternate days, while most restrictions on movement have been lifted.• Four-wheelers with six seats can carry three passengers, pillion riders allowed on two-wheelers and state transport buses can operate with 60 per cent capacity.Tamil Nadu• Chief Minister K Palaniswami announced partial resumption of public transport such as a reduced fleet of buses from Monday, barring in Chennai and some adjoining districts with high number of Covid-19 cases.• The ban on places of worship and inter-state bus transport will remain.• E-pass will be compulsory for inter-state travel.Uttar Pradesh• The Uttar Pradesh government permitted inter-state travel, but said people from hotspot areas/containment zones in Delhi will not be allowed to travel to Noida and Ghaziabad.Rajasthan• All government and private offices can work with full capacity from Monday, but private workplaces should encourage working from home as much as possible.• Inter- and intra-state movement allowed, but only on approved routes.Telangana• The lockdown has been extended in Telangana till June 30, but restrictions on inter-state transport and travel have been lifted.• The government also decided to implement the guidelines issued by the Centre with regard to relaxations outside the containment zones with effect from June 8.Karnataka• Starting June 8, in line with the home ministry suggestions, Karnataka has decided to open religious places.• It also has decided to reopen hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services as well as shopping malls.• As recommended by the Centre, there will be a curfew from 9 pm to 5 am daily with all non-essential movement restricted.Punjab• Liquor and barber shops, beauty parlours, and spas to open from Monday in non-containment zones.• The state government has directed the health and transport departments to come out with detailed standard operating procedures (SOPs) for permitted activities and movement between June 1 and June 30.The Home Ministry on Saturday said ‘Unlock-1’ will come in force from June 8 under which the lockdown norms will be relaxed to a great extent, including opening of shopping malls, restaurants and religious places, while strict restrictions will remain in place till June 30 in the country’s worst-hit areas.A total of 30 municipality areas in the country are considered to be the worst-hit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-5-0-from-punjab-to-tamil-nadu-how-states-have-planned-for-easing-restrictions/story-S7rMkUtcB03ZEo9PIhGV7O.html
01-06-2020||India||Sharing unverified messages creating fake news: SC judge||Mindless and incessant forwarding of WhatsApp messages without verifying the correctness of such messages is leading to spread of fake news and such messages assume racial and religious overtones, Supreme Court judge Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said on Sunday.Kaul also made a case for individual discretion and responsibility with respect to sharing fake news. “Any regulation of social media may impinge on free speech and right to privacy. The struggle is to regulate social media without affecting free speech, so it is everybody’s responsibility to see that content is verified before it is sent.”Justice Kaul was speaking on the topic ‘Fake News and Misinformation’ at an online lecture series organised by Madras Bar Association.“There are a lot of messages about Covid (coronavirus disease) including its ‘remedies’, the origin, people who are ‘helping spread of the virus’ and so on. These messages can take religious and racial undertones,” the SC judge warned.“When the press is writing, they are accountable... they write with a certain sense of responsibility. But others may not have anything at stake and no accountability...” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharing-unverified-messages-creating-fake-news-sc-judge/story-BJBPIEEcZuleHlR5kdsyML.html
01-06-2020||India||Nearly 50,000 Covid-19 cases in a week: How India reached 7th spot in global tally||India on Sunday achieved a milestone no country will be proud of - it is now the seventh worst-hit nation by the coronavirus pandemic.It took about a week for India to move from 10th place to seventh on the global tally of coronavirus disease cases. And in this period, the country has seen its Covid-19 tally increase by almost 50,000.On May 25, when India overtook Iran to become the 10th worst-hit nation, the number of cases stood at 1.38 lakh. On Sunday, it reached almost 1.82 lakh.However, India is still way behind the US, the country hit the hardest by the coronavirus pandemic. It has over 18 lakh Covid-19 positive cases. At number 2 is Brazil with five lakh cases and Russia with four lakh cases is placed third.India, despite its large population, has not been affected as badly by the coronavirus pandemic as many other countries. In his monthly radio address ‘Mann ki Baat’ on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi emphasised this fact and hailed the help being provided by individuals to others. He also said that the government is opening up the economy after four phases of lockdown but asked people to exercise caution.The recovery rate in India too has increased to 42 per cent from 47 per cent a week ago. The Union health ministry has said that India has also not seen the rapid spread as reported in many other countries.India, meanwhile, registered its highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases on Sunday with 8,380 new infections reported in the last 24 hours (between Saturday and Sunday).The number of active Covid-19 cases stood to 89,995, while 86,983 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, the Union health ministry said.The death toll has gone up by 193 since Saturday morning, of which 99 deaths were reported from Maharashtra, 27 from Gujarat, 18 from Delhi, nine each from Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, seven from West Bengal, six each from Tamil Nadu and Telangana, five from Bihar, three from Uttar Pradesh, two from Punjab, and one each from Haryana and Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-50-000-covid-19-cases-in-a-week-how-india-reached-7th-spot-in-global-tally/story-0ctRwImE7EyYoXMQ3DhJOJ.html
01-06-2020||India||From petrol price, new trains and flights: What will change in Unlock 1||There will be a hike in fuel prices and several trains and flights will resume from Monday, June 1, as the country will enter the fifth phase of the coronavirus lockdown with a three-phased exit plan.Public transport in some states will also resume and as will the central government’s ambitious food security scheme. Here are some of the things that will change or start from June 1:Price of petrol to go up in these statesPetrol and diesel prices will increase by Rs 2 from June 1 in Maharashtra, following the state government’s decision to hike the cess levied on the two fuels. Petrol price in Mumbai will increase to Rs 78.31 per litre from Rs 76.31. The diesel retail rate will go up to Rs 68.21 per litre from Rs 66.21.The government had on Saturday issued a notification increasing the cess for petrol to Rs 10.12 per litre from Rs 8.12. The cess on diesel is to rise to Rs 3 per litre from Re 1.Besides the 26% and 24% value added (VAT) on petrol and diesel, respectively, the state government levies a cess on the fuels. The Jammu and Kashmir government has also increased the rate of tax on the sale of petrol and diesel by Rs 2 per litre and Re 1 per litre, respectively.Himachal Pradesh has also enhanced rates on the sale of diesel and petrol effective from June 1.GoAir flights to resumeThe low-cost carrier had announced in May that its final flight schedule has been approved and the airline will re-commence flying from June 1. Online bookings for one-third of its pre-Covid summer schedule will be open from May 25 to May 31.The airline said that it is prepared to resume safe flight operations and is awaiting clarity on the readiness of respective states and their airports with regards to acceptance of flights and conditions applicable to passengers arriving there.“Without clarity on these conditions, GoAir does not wish to inconvenience its passengers by putting on sale flights immediately post May 25 which may have conditions for arriving passengers of which they may be unaware. On receiving clarity, GoAir will open its site for bookings after May 25 up to May 31, as, when and where appropriate,” the airline spokesperson said.Assuring its passengers that it is fully equipped to execute Covid-19 specific safety procedures, the airline claimed to have received positive initial customer response. GoAir is the only airline to commence its flight operations from June 1 instead of May 25. 200 passenger trains to resume servicesThe Indian railways will begin operating 200 non-AC special passenger trains per day from June 1 onward, in a step aimed at gradually restoring normal services.These train services will be in addition to the existing Shramik Special trains and special AC trains started by the railways earlier to help stranded migrant workers in various states get back home. Jan Shatabdi trains, Sampark Kranti, Duronto Express and other regular passenger trains are among those that will ply from Monday. No linen, blankets and curtains will be provided on these trains and only those passengers with confirmed tickets will be allowed to enter railway stations. On arrival at their destination, the passengers will have to adhere to strict health protocols as prescribed by the destination state or Union Territory.Religious places to reopen in Bengal West Bengal has allowed the opening of religious places from June 1 with not more than 10 persons gathering at a time. Restaurants and shopping malls have been allowed to open on June 1. Monuments, museums open doors in RajasthanMonuments and museums run by the state government will be opened from Monday. Entry will be free for tourists for the first two weeks. These monuments will open from 9am to 2am on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays in the first week starting June 1. For the next week, they will open on four days from 9am to 1pm and from 3pm to 5pm.Passenger busesGovernment and private passenger buses will operate from June 1 in Himachal Pradesh. Buses will be able to ply from 7am to 7pm after a gap of 70 days. Buses will carry 60% of the total capacity but air conditioners will not run.Pubic transport will resume with reduced services within districts in Tamil Nadu but buses will not be operated in worst-affected Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet districts.One Nation, One Ration Card schemeThe government’s ambitious scheme providing subsidized food grains to 81 crore people of the country will be implemented in 20 states and Union territories of the country.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced this while declaring a stimulus package of Rs 20 lakh crore in May. She had said this system will be implemented in all the states of the country by March 2021.Once the national rollout is in place, any person holding a ration card under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) can buy his monthly ration from any public distribution system (PDS) outlet in the country just by mentioning his card number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-petrol-price-new-trains-and-flights-what-will-change-from-june-1/story-7M2vSpwcXdz7aD39XMlCTP.html
01-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On March 18, when the first edition of this column was written – it appeared the following day – India had 151 cases of the coronavirus disease.On March 24, when a three-week lockdown starting the following day was announced , India had 536 cases. On April 15, when the second phase of the lockdown began, the number of cases had risen to 12,330. On May 4, when the third phase of the lockdown started, the number of cases was 46,388. On May 18, the fourth phase of the lockdown, or the first phase of the staged exit from one, although the government scrupulously avoided describing it as such, kicked off. The number of cases: 100,311. And today, June 1, India enters what the home ministry calls Unlock 1.0, the next phase of the exit from the lockdown with 190,533 cases.The number of people with active infections on each of these dates were: 151 (March 18); 486 (March 24); 10,398 (April 15); 32,143 (May 4); 58,040 (May 18); and 93,362 (May 31).And the cumulative death tolls on those dates were: 3;10; 423; 1,494; 3,081; and 5,328 (May 31). Flights started last Monday; around 200 more trains (minus a few; not all states are ready to receive trains) will start running today, adding to 15 pairs of special trains that currently ply between Delhi and 15 major destinations (and to the Shramik specials for migrant workers); freer inter-state movement has been allowed (although states can continue to insist on special passes to cross into them); and restaurants, malls and temples will open in a week’s time (next Monday). It isn’t just India. The rest of the world is opening up as well. The United Kingdom, one of the worst hit by the crisis – 274,762 cases and 38,489 deaths as of Sunday – is actually opening primary schools today. And the English Premier League will start on June 17. Some countries in Europe are opening up international travel – and have said they will receive tourists from countries they deem safe. And on Sunday in Italy, one of the early hotspots of the disease (233,019 cases and 33,415 deaths as of Sunday), the Pope appeared to bless the crowds at St Peter’s Square, something he hasn’t done since March, when the country announced a lockdown. Sure, nothing will be the same – the children in the UK primary schools will have to follow a bunch of new rules, and the EPL will be for television only – but it is clear that nations around the world are slowly exhaling. That shouldn’t come as a surprise – despite the fact that infections continue to rise (the number of new cases around the world has steadily inched upward). The number of daily deaths around the world is off its peaks seen in mid-April, but still high. If countries are opening up it’s because of three reasons: one, they can no longer afford to stay locked up -- the impact on the economy is far too significant, although, as Paul Krugman recently wrote in the New York Times , “when we take the value of not dying into account, the rush to reopen looks like a really bad idea, even in terms of economics properly understood.” Two, many countries, including India, think they understand Covid-19 well enough to manage it and that whatever lockdowns they have imposed have given them time to do this and to also prepare their health care systems. Three, there is a growing realisation that all of us have to learn to live with the coronavirus disease – that the risk-return equation that pretty much drives everything in this world can be recalibrated towards returns by taking basic precautions. Such as masks. And hand washing. And social distancing. And accepting that there will be temporary setbacks – a school closed; a district contained; a city locked-up again. Welcome to the great unlock. And all the best.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-VvRUCOzfAa1bu7UywVQonI.html
01-06-2020||India||Covid-19: Recovery rate in India increases to 47.76%, says Health Ministry||The recovery rate of coronavirus patients has increased to 47.76 per cent, said the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Sunday.“In the last 24 hours, 4,614 patients were cured. A cumulative total of 86,983 people have been cured. This takes the total recovery rate to 47.76 per cent,” reads an official statement issued by the Ministry.The Ministry said the number of cases under active medical supervision as of now is 89,995.“Through a graded, pre-emptive and pro-active approach, Government of India is taking several steps along with the States/UTs for prevention, containment and management of Covid-19. These are being regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level,” adds the statement.As per the latest update by the Ministry, the total number of coronavirus cases in the country stands at 1,82,143, including 86984 recovered/migrated and 5,164 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-recovery-rate-in-india-increases-to-47-76-says-health-ministry/story-dhBtCglgZlw5W2hC29fEpN.html
01-06-2020||India||Let’s not be complacent, long battle ahead: PM Narendra Modi||As India opens up after a 68-day lockdown, imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday the battle against the pandemic is a long one, warned against complacency, and reiterated the need for citizens to adhere to social distancing norms, wear masks and wash their hands regularly. In his monthly radio address, Mann Ki Baat, Modi also said although every section of the society has been affected by the viral pandemic, the pain felt by the poor cannot be measured in words. The PM’s remarks come in the wake of millions of migrant workers making their way back home during the lockdown, and sustained reports of their economic deprivation, hunger and even deaths. The PM also emphasised the need for economic self-reliance, sensitivity to the environment, expressed solidarity with those affected by Cyclone Amphan in West Bengal and Odisha, and placed importance on the power of yoga in building immunity and for good health. The address was broadcast a day after the Modi government unveiled guidelines for what it termed as Unlock 1.0 — in contrast to consecutive phases of the lockdown which was first been declared on March 25. The government announced that in the first phase of unlocking India, places of worship, shopping malls, and hotels and restaurants can open from June 8; in the next phase, state governments will consult various stakeholders on the opening of educational institutions; and in the third phase, the government will assess and decide on the opening up of international air travel, metro services, cinema halls and other activities. The new guidelines also remove restrictions on inter- and intra-state travel.In his radio address, coming just a day after he completed the first year of his second term in power, PM Modi said India has been able to contain the spread of infection and keep the death toll relatively low, compared to other countries, but cautioned against complacence. “Covid-19 is very much there and we cannot be complacent. The road ahead is a long one. We are fighting a pandemic about which little was previously known,” the PM said.Experts agreed with the PM’s note of caution and believe that the easing of restrictions — while necessary to mitigate the economic crisis — can lead to an increase in cases and the spread of the disease. “The Prime Minister is absolutely right. The coronavirus is going to stay with us for a long time. Although we are behind countries such as Brazil and USA as far as casualty is concerned, we have to conduct more tests, segregate infected people and make the masses more conscious,” said Koushik Chaki, secretary, West Bengal Doctors Forum, a prominent body of doctors. T Jacob John, former virology head, CMC, Vellore, said: “Now is the time to up your guard against the disease, and strictly follow preventive measures such as wearing of mask while stepping out, social distancing, hand hygiene etc. With lockdown being lifted the risk of disease transmission also increases as there will be greater public movement.”India ended Sunday with 190,533 cases and 5,328 deaths. The fatality rate in India remains much lower than the global fatality rate, and experts suggest that the lockdown, extended thrice, has pushed back the peak of infections, giving the country time to strengthen its health care infrastructure. Modi expressed his appreciation for the efforts made by both individuals and organisations in helping those in need during the pandemic and its aftermath. No section has been spared the impact of the pandemic, he said.“However, the worst affected are the poor and the labourers. Their pain, their agony, and their ordeal can’t be expressed in words,” he said.Millions of migrant workers in the cities, fearing the loss of their livelihoods, have headed home in states such as Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal, braving hunger, thirst and heat, in an exodus triggered by the enforcement of the lockdown. Indian Railways is running special trains to transport them to their home states. The PM said the railways too has become a front line worker in the fight against the coronavirus disease.“The Centre, states, local bodies are all working day and night. The way our Railway forces are making efforts round-the-clock, they are in a way front line corona warriors transporting safely millions of migrant labourers to their homes; arranging for their food, managing quarantine centres in every district and arrangements for testing and treatment for everyone. All these efforts are going on continuously and at a large scale,” he said.But Congress leader Kapil Sibal criticised the Centre, saying the government has not able to handle the migrant crisis. He said “the government’s social distancing with people has increased so much that it does not know what is happening on the ground and how to address the problems faced by people, especially the poor”.“...the government has no data as to where they (migrant workers) are, what work they do, where they work, so if they don’t have the data, how will they reach the people, those shramiks, those migrants labourers, to give them ‘rahat’ (relief)?” Sibal asked.In his address, the PM also said the situation should serve as a lesson for India to make provisions for the future. He cited the situation of workers in the eastern states as a case in point, and said the problems suffered by the poor during the crisis had been exacerbated by the lack of development in the region.The PM reiterated his message of the need for building an Aatmanirbhar Bharat (Self-Reliant India) and said many problems being confronted now would not have arisen if the villages and towns of the country were self-reliant.“At some places work in skill mapping of the labourers is taking place, at some places startups are being encouraged, a migration commission has been commissioned somewhere and the Centre will also help open up opportunities for employment, self-employment and small-scale industries in villages. These decisions are aimed at resolving the crisis and building a self-reliant India,” he said.Experts believe that while this does present an opportunity for northern and eastern Indian states, which have received the maximum number of migrants, ensuring jobs for them will be very challenging. Ajay Kumar, an associate professor of development education at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), said: “It is a structural issue. This is a problem of regional imbalances. Self-reliance doesn’t exist in a vacuum, and self-reliance cannot be created only by political will. A comprehensive approach is required to resolve this issue — which should be a combination of social, educational, political and economic development of the region.”The PM also urged people to tap the benefits offered by yoga; several international leaders have shown interest in knowing more about ayurveda and yoga in the aftermath of the coronavirus pandemic, he said.“We have to explore yoga for community, immunity and unity,” the PM said.“During this corona crisis, I had a chance to speak to many world leaders. I want to share one secret today, they expressed great interest in yoga and ayurveda. Some leaders enquired how these can help in these times of corona,” he said.Noting that International Yoga Day (June 21) is around the corner, he said during the lockdown, people from Hollywood to Haridwar have begun paying attention to yoga.With World Environment Day coming up on June 5, the PM also said it was imperative to pay attention to biodiversity and pay attention to the conservation of water.“In some parts of eastern India, we witnessed destruction caused by cyclone (Amphan) …I was in Odisha and West Bengal last week to take stock of the situation. The way people of West Bengal and Odisha showed courage in dealing with the situation is commendable. In this hour of crisis, the country is standing by the side of people of these two states” he said.The PM pointed out that the lockdown has given Indians an opportunity to understand the rich biodiversity around them. “Clean environment is directly linked to our life and the future of our children and therefore we have to be concerned about it individually, I request you to plan some trees on this environment day,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-s-not-be-complacent-long-battle-ahead-modi/story-sLFxjJacWzDl7IcXUfp74J.html
01-06-2020||India||Managing non-Covid diseases in focus of latest ICMR review||How to adjust drug dose in cancer patients who are on chemotherapy or optimise dialysis benefits to avoid frequent hospital visits by patients with chronic kidney conditions is part of a large Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) review of management of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in the times of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) restrictions and increased infection risk.People with major NCDs run the risk of developing a severe form of Covid-19.ICMR’s National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research (NCDIR), the centre working on the guidelines on managing NCDs, is using its many registries— cancer, stroke, cardiovascular disease etc.— to track patients, and identify and address gaps in disease management.Hospitals will also be asked to link up with doctors in the periphery, who will be adequately trained, so that instead of a patient visiting a tertiary care hospital, he or she can have certain complications treated at smaller centres, and even make optimal use of telemedicine. “Since the virus is here to stay, we will have to work around the restrictions in place due to Covid-19 situation and look for solutions keeping in mind several advisories that are in place. There are non-Covid patients, especially those with major NCDs involving heart, kidney, brain etc. who need regular care but run the risk of contracting infection if they are made to frequent hospitals, and are likely to develop severe form of illness because of their co-morbid conditions,” said Dr Prashant Mathur, director, NCDIR, who is working on the guidelines.According to the Union health ministry data, of the 165,799 total confirmed Covid-19 cases reported from India, at least 70% of the patients were suffering from some underlying medical condition such as hypertension, diabetes, kidney or liver disease. Also, among 4,706 deaths that India has reported so far, at least 75% were suffering from at least one of these chronic conditions.The guidelines will have three aspects to it: one will focus on how to manage patients with existing NCDs, another will be to guide doctors and other medical staff involved in treating these patients, and the third aspect is to launch minor studies on coping mechanism during Covid by patients as well as doctors.“The main focus will be on how to ensure the number of visits to hospitals is reduced for this high risk category population. As for treating of most major NCDs, patients normally land up at tertiary care hospitals. The experts will be looking at how to adjust dosage of certain medicines such as in case of chemotherapy so that the side-effects are minimized. In chemo patients most hospital visits happen due to side effects of the drug; so lowering dosage might help patients tolerate it better and hospital visits will automatically reduce. In case of dialysis also we are trying to see how to optimize the benefits that could cut the number of visits,” said Dr Mathur. “We have several registries running, and we are following up with the patients to know their health status, and how they are coping.”Experts in the field say it will be a good idea if the centre comes up with consolidated guidelines to tackle this issue.“This change is the need of the hour; I am also consulting several of my patients using digital medium, but there are no guidelines as such to refer to. Smaller centres in the periphery can take care of a patient’s immediate requirements as you don’t always need to come to a super-speciality hospital. Some hospitals may be following this mechanism right, even reducing medicine dose based on patient requirements, now also but the process will get standardized if there are centre-issued SOPs{standard operating procedures} in place,” says Dr PK Julka, senior medical oncologist, Max Healthcare. As of now, the existing patients have been provided a list of precautions that they must take to keep their symptoms in control.Patients should continue to take prescribed medication regularly; keep in touch with their treating doctor, and not alter the medication without the doctor’s advice, the initial advisory says.A buffer stock of at least 1-month’s medication at home should be maintained; and in case there is any change in health condition due to the disease, the patient should visit the nearest non-Covid hospital immediately. The advisory prohibits smoking and consuming alcohol, and lays emphasis on eating a healthy and balanced diet, and remaining active as far as possible. It is best to keep a routine exercise schedule that can be maintained even at home, it says.“It will take some time before comprehensive guidelines in this regard are released; till such time we come out with the final document, existing patients must take care of these dos and don’ts maintain their health,” said Dr Mathur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/managing-non-covid-diseases-in-focus-of-latest-icmr-review/story-YxtFf2RmcxliezANiEaqeL.html
01-06-2020||India||States’ labour law changes under central govt scanner||The Union labour ministry will ask states not to change labour laws in ways that could violate India’s commitments to international covenants, and plans to hold a meeting of all state labour ministers, an official said, requesting anonymity. The ministry is examining a set of radical changes made by Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat to their labour laws, including moves to freeze them altogether. Ten central trade unions wrote to the Geneva-based International Labour Organisation (ILO), stating that changes in labour laws by these states violate workers’ rights and ILO convention No 144, to which India is a signatory. ILO convention 144 enjoins signatories to hold tripartite consultations among government, employers and workers.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states had passed ordinances to give effect to various changes, some of which effectively suspend labour laws. None of the ordinances has received approval from President Ram Nath Kovid, according to people with knowledge of the matter. Madhya Pradesh sent its ordinance for the president’s approval on May 18. The UP government sent its ordinance soon after the state’s governor Anandiben Patel approved it on May 14. Gujarat too sent its own soon after the state’s governor Acharya Devvrat approved it. Under the Constitution, labour falls under the concurrent list, which means the Union government and states have joint jurisdiction. Therefore, changes by state need to be ratified by at the federal level. “Freezing of labour laws can be done for three months, not three years. The main concern is violation of accepted universal norms. Industrial dispute resolution mechanisms, compensation etc are important considerations. Can you simply suspend all labour laws,” the official cited above said. Uttar Pradesh suspended key labour laws for three years on May 6 through an ordinance. Madhya Pradesh announced on May 7 it was taking a similar course to put all labour laws on hold, barring some provisions of the Factories Act, 1948, for the next 1,000 days.This changes signalled the start of an experiment to remove rigidities in the country’s labour markets and stringent rules for hiring and firing, as global companies start shifting their supply chains away from China and reduce their dependencies on factories there. Five other states, including Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Assam and Odisha, have increased working hours to 12 hours a day for three months. Rajasthan too extended work hours but rescinded it, reverting to eight hours a day. The moves have drawn criticism from labour experts, who say suspending the laws not just eased regulation but infringed on workers’ rights. The labour ministry is examining whether the changes impact conventions of the ILO. “The moves to simply suspend labour laws effectively brings the North American hire-and-fire model to the Indian hinterland economy. However, they will also lead to a basic violation of universal workers’ rights,” said economist KR Shyam Sundar of the Xavier Labour Relations Institute, Jamshedpur. The ILO has said it was deeply anguished by the moves to free labour laws in the states and issued an appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 25. ““Please allow me to assure you that the ILO director general has immediately intervened, expressing his deep concern at these recent events and appealing to the prime minister to send a clear message to central and state governments to uphold the country’s international commitments and encourage engagement in effective social dialogue,” said an ILO letter addressed to the trade unions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-labour-law-changes-under-central-govt-scanner/story-WkLJEydEF0H44IugZ8wkAK.html
01-06-2020||India||Covid-19 Lockdown: UGC drafts plan to reopen campuses||Colleges and universities, when they eventually open after the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown, may do so by first inviting only research scholars back to the campus and gradually open their doors wider to let in other students. All higher education institutions will also need to form strategic tie-ups with medical facilities and put protocols in place to deal with students who are unwell. Students and teachers with a history of health conditions will be asked to opt for online learning and teaching.As the human resource development (HRD) ministry readies for consultations on the reopening of institutions, teachers, students and parents, higher education regulator, the University Grants Commission (UGC), has drawn up an initial list of do’s and don’ts for campuses, officials familiar with the development said.While the final standard operating procedures ( SOPs) for schools and colleges will be published by the government after discussions between the health, HRD and other ministries, the UGC’s draft norms were part of the agenda at a meeting on the subject on Friday. According to an order issued by the Centre on Saturday, the health ministry may issue a protocol after discussions with the other ministries.In the draft prepared by the UGC, it was suggested that the process of admissions be conducted online to avoid visits by students to the campus.“It is advisable the admissions are done online so that students don’t have to come to campuses needlessly. It is also planned that some students, who have the online facility, should be encouraged to not to come to class and study on the web,” said one official, requesting anonymity.Students and faculty with a history of ailments like heart disease or diabetes would be told to prefer the online mode. For international students, too, the focus would be on promoting the online mode of learning.Institutions would be advised to stay in touch with health facilities and put in place a mechanism for quarantine; contact tracing would be followed in case a Covid-19 case emerges. Hygiene in common facilities like kitchens and libraries are among the issues raised.Regular screening of faculty and students and awareness drives are also part of the plan. In higher educational institutions, regular visits by counsellors to help stressed students are also planned.Another suggestion, especially for teaching of subjects that have a practical component, is to teach half the students in the classroom and engage the rest in laboratories. Even in common facilities like labs, it will have to be ensured that equipment is not widely shared.Varsities and colleges will also require to have plans in place to regulate the movement of outsiders.“This is a very serious matter because initially it may seem just an isolated case, but the disease may spread quickly. Therefore, the measures need to be elaborate and detailed. However, these are preliminary suggestions and a final draft will only come after discussions with all stakeholders,” said a second official, who also requested anonymity. Inder Mohan Kapahy, a former UGC member, said, “We should remember that implementing such SOPs shall be herculean task. The total number of students in higher education is about 40 million which is more than population of more than 150 countries. Numerical expansion has taken place without creation of matching infrastructure. Yet non conventional methods shall be required in post-Covid period.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugc-drafts-plan-to-reopen-campuses/story-UTJCLGRYFPoTHf28CDUjoN.html
01-06-2020||India||As lockdown 4.0 ends, cautious states ease several restrictions||Several states, including those worst hit by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) such as Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu, announced conditional easing of curbs on Sunday, a day after the central government unveiled the first of a three-phase plan to lift lockdown restrictions in a graded manner.While most states allowed the resumption of public transport and inter-state travel from Monday, many remained undecided on reopening hotels, restaurants and places of worship — which, according to the central guidelines, can be opened from June 8. States such as Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala were yet to announce the new norms. Delhi is expected to release its guidelines on Monday.Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan — among the top five states with the most Covid-19 cases — issued state-specific guidelines on withdrawing several restrictions. Apart from them, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Punjab and Karnataka too announced their own set of rules effective Monday.The Maharashtra government extended till June 30 the lockdown in the state, but announced phase-wise resumption of activities under its “Mission Begin Again” plan. All markets and shops – but not malls – can reopen from June 5 on an odd-even basis, which means half of the shops in an area will open on every alternate day to avoid crowding.In the western state, only 10-15% of the staff can work from office beginning June 8 in red zones. Intra-district bus travel will resume with 50% passenger capacity, but not inter-district bus travel. Additionally, outdoor physical activities such as morning walks and cycling will be permitted in public areas from June 3.These relaxations will be applicable in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which includes Mumbai, and in Pune, Aurangabad, Nashik and Nagpur. However, places of worship won’t be allowed in the state. As per the Centre’s guidelines, religious places are allowed to open from June 8. However, the Union home ministry’s guidelines also said there will be no relaxations for containment zones.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray struck a word of caution in his televised address to state residents, saying people should tread cautiously while beginning the “new life”. “Even as we begin afresh, we have to take cautious steps,” he said.In Gujarat, all shops and businesses outside containment zones can reopen on alternate days, while most restrictions on movement have been lifted — four-wheelers with six seats can carry three passengers, pillion riders allowed on two-wheelers and state transport buses can operate with 60% capacity.Tamil Nadu chief minister K Palaniswami announced partial resumption of public transport such as a reduced fleet of buses from Monday, barring in Chennai and some adjoining districts with high number of Covid-19 cases. The ban on places of worship and inter-state bus transport will remain. E-pass will be compulsory for inter-state travel, he added.The Uttar Pradesh government permitted inter-state travel, but said people from hotspot areas/containment zones in Delhi will not be allowed to travel to Noida and Ghaziabad. Later, the Noida administration said strict border curbs will continue to remain in place.In Rajasthan, all government and private offices can work with full capacity from Monday, but private workplaces should encourage working from home to the “extent possible”. Inter- and intra-state movement was also allowed, but only on approved routes, an official notification said.While extending the lockdown in Telangana till June 30, the state government announced the lifting of restrictions on interstate transport and travel. The government also decided to implement the guidelines issued by the Centre with regard to relaxations t outside the containment zones with effect from June 8.A decision to this effect was taken by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao after holding discussions with senior officials, including chief secretary Somesh Kumar and director general of police M Mahender Reddy.Karnataka, too, extended the lockdown on Sunday, but with a broad array of relaxations for areas outside containment zones even as the state registered the single biggest day jump in Covid-19 positive cases. Starting June 8, in line with the home ministry suggestions, the state has decided to open religious places. It also has decided to reopen hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services as well as shopping malls. As recommended by the Centre, there will be a curfew from 9 pm to 5 am daily with all non-essential movement restricted.Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh ordered the opening of liquor and barber shops, beauty parlours, and spas from Monday in non-containment zones. He directed the health and transport departments to come out with detailed standard operating procedures (SOPs) for permitted activities and movement between June 1 and June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-lockdown-4-0-ends-cautious-states-ease-several-restrictions/story-l46atF7idA6bvraL7N5DwL.html
01-06-2020||India||Amid Lipulekh rowm Nepal tables proposal for new political map||The Nepal government on Sunday tabled a constitutional amendment in Parliament to give legal backing to a new map that shows Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura as part of the country’s territory, marking another twist in a border row with India.Law, justice and parliamentary affairs minister Shiva Maya Tumbahangphe’s proposal for approval to table the constitution (second amendment) bill in the House of Representatives or lower house of Parliament was unanimously endorsed.The government acted after the main opposition Nepali Congress, which had earlier sought more time to discuss the amendment within the party, directed its lawmakers to vote in favour of the proposal to make the new map a part of the Constitution. The central committee of the Nepali Congress made the decision at a meeting late on Saturday night.There was no word on the development from Indian officials.India had on Thursday called for “constructive and positive efforts” to end the border row with Nepal, saying mutual sensitivity and an environment of trust are needed for handling such issues among neighbours.The Nepal government earlier planned to move the amendment in Parliament on May 27 but had to hold off on it because of lack of support from the Nepali Congress, which is required for the two-thirds majority needed to pass the change to the statute.The delay allowed some breathing room for the two sides to tackle the border row, which began after Nepal protested against India’s opening of an 80-km road to Lipulekh on the Chinese border earlier this month. Nepal claims Lipulekh but the external affairs ministry contended the road was “completely within the territory of India”.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said last week India is monitoring recent developments in Nepal related to the border issue. “We note this matter is receiving careful consideration in Nepal, taking its seriousness into account,” he said.“India is open to engaging with all its neighbours on the basis of mutual sensitivity and mutual respect, in an environment of trust and confidence. This is a continuous process and requires constructive and positive efforts,” he added.Nepal released its new political map, depicting Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura within its borders, on May 20.“An amendment bill is necessary to change the country’s map in the country’s Coat of Arms which is defined in Schedule 3 of the Constitution,” Tumbahangphe was quoted as telling the House by The Kathmandu Post.Nepal’s Parliament functions on Sundays, with a weekly break on Saturdays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lipulekh-rowm-nepal-tables-proposal-for-new-political-map/story-JMRXQM7O5OutBrVStPxPWN.html
01-06-2020||India||Every train reached its destination, says Railway Minister Piyush Goyal||Railway minister Piyush Goyal on Sunday rejected allegations that special trains meant to ferry migrant workers back home were mismanaged and some of them took wrong routes and said every single train reached its desired destination, with only a fraction diverted, and in a five-day period that saw a rush of trains headed for East Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, to avert congestion.Several Opposition leaders, including Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, have alleged that the trains, labelled “Shramik Specials”, were running late by days. Others have alleged that a large number of trains was diverted. According to data collected by the Railway Protection Force and reported by HT, around 80 travellers on these have died, although, to be sure, some of them, according to the force’s own report, had pre-existing health conditions.The railway minister said the allegations on widespread delays and diversions were “completely baseless and wrong”. “Almost all trains up to May 19 were before time... (So far) only 71 out of 4,040, which is 1.75% trains, were diverted. Charges like ‘kahin se nikle, kahin chale gaye’ (they left from somewhere and went off somewhere else), all that is nonsense. Every train reached the destination, only took a slightly longer route to ease the congestion and keep the flow of trains running. Otherwise, I would have to stop the operation,” Goyal told Hindustan Times in an interview. It was only between May 20 and May 25 that a rush caused a congestion and resulted in diversions and delays, he added. And no train has taken seven or nine days to reach its destination as is being claimed, the minister said.So far, 4,040 Shramik Specials – necessitated by a national lockdown brought on by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) – have carried more than 5.4 million passengers. The minister said almost 80% of the trains were travelling to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, leading to congestion on the limited routes. And stations which received around three trains a day were being asked to deal with many more.On being asked why the special trains for migrant workers began operating only by May 1, Goyal said: “The purpose of the lockdown was containment and the idea was that we have to break the coronavirus chain and, therefore, starting the trains any earlier would have been counterproductive. The idea was that all migrants should stay where they are... We also requested states to ensure that they were well-looked after.”“It needed that five weeks at least to break that coronavirus chain but then, we found that people are getting very anxious... We decided on May 1 to start this and we continued to ramp it up,” the Union minister said.In March, the Centre halted all passenger rail operations in an attempt to stop the spread of Covid-19. It later announced that special trains for migrant workers and some other passengers would be allowed, but only with strict social distancing norms and other health care protocols.The Indian Railways said on Sunday it will begin operation of 200 special trains from June 1 and more than 145,000 passengers will travel on the first day as the lockdown measures are relaxed over the coming weeks. These services will be in addition to Shramik Special trains, and other special trains being run since May 12.Goyal said that the reasons for delays of most of the special migrant trains were not the journeys, but “at the end”. “There were only seven places where maximum trains were headed... Trains were just bunched up. Local administrations were taking precautions, taking three hours for each train or two hours for each train to disembark. Fewer platforms were there. So the bunching and delay happened because of the congestion at the end...”He said beyond a point, states demanded more stoppages for the trains that were initially origin-to-destination. They couldn’t bring people to the stations in time, the minister said, adding that this caused bunching up. “To ease that congestion, we took a considered view and diverted 71 trains.”These trains, he said, took a little longer to reach their destinations but that they took “seven to nine days” was a gross exaggeration. “No train took seven or nine days,” he said.“We never refused a single train. On the contrary, states could not use many of the trains that we provided. Nearly 250 Shramik trains which were provided had to remain unused because the states could not get the passengers in time. Maharashtra alone was over a 100 trains which could not be used. It’s a very unfortunate situation,” he said.The minister added that despite the diversions, and eateries being closed due to the lockdown, the railways provided food and water, five-six times in some journeys, in the diverted trains. He said 11.9 million meals were provided by the railways in addition to 5.4 million of them provided by the states at the point of embarkation. The railways also provided 15 million water bottles other than those provided by the states. And the states also provided food when the migrants disembarked, Goyal pointed out. On the issue of deaths – there have been about 80 deaths on board the Shramik Special trains between May 9 and May 27, according to data from the Railway Protection Force – Goyal said they found that in all cases, there were existing ailments. “Some of the stories are sought to be portrayed as if people died of hunger or starvation. I can say with confidence that no one died of hunger,” he said, adding that in long-distance travel, some deaths occur even in normal operations.He added that Railways has been transparent about the deaths, and insisted on compiling a list of them, and finding out causes even as news reports suggested that “eight or nine migrants” died on trains. The real number has emerged only because of this, he suggested.“We are very concerned... My heart goes out to the families (of those who have died),” the minister said.Goyal said some of the deaths could have been prevented with better medical screening but the doctors who were dealing with a heavy flow of people could not be blamed.He added that 36 pregnant women who were expecting to deliver were allowed to travel in the trains and they went into labour in the course of the journey. “They should have never have been on the train.” Praising the efforts of railway employees across the country, the minister said: “In such adverse circumstances, moving 54 lakh people, with all the associated health protocols, is certainly not an ordinary operation. And in the extraordinary circumstances, I will say that the railway employees put in their heart and soul... They are as much front-line corona warriors...”The minister said the special trains will run for as long as there is a demand from states. “We have been asking states... The current demand today is 250-300 trains. Maximum demand is now to West Bengal and to Odisha.”But the flow is also starting in the reverse direction, he suggested. “The good news is that a lot of people are travelling back from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Trains are getting booked in the reverse direction also.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-71-of-4-040-migrant-trains-diverted-minister/story-pOCfSClgtjvL6jj57IBwvK.html
01-06-2020||India||Rain, thunderstorms bring mercury down in the north||Rain and thundershowers across northwestern India, accompanied by strong winds brought the mercury down on Sunday, with Delhi reporting a maximum temperature of 34 degrees Celsius, six degrees below normal, as weather officials said relief from the heatwave is likely to extend through the next week. The India Meteorological Department (IMD), meanwhile, said that the monsoon is set to arrive in Kerala on time on Monday, even as Maharashtra and Gujarat were place on “pre-cyclone alert” as a low-pressure area in the Arabian Sea threatened to intensify into a cyclonic storm in 36 hours.In northwest India, a fresh western disturbance will likely bring more rainfall and thundershower from June 3 to June 5, which will mean that a heatwave is not likely to return to Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) before June 8, weather officials said. Peak rainfall and thundershower activity is likely in the region on June 4.“Heat wave conditions are unlikely till June 8. The combination of the upcoming western disturbance and low-pressure area over Arabian Sea there will be thundershowers over parts of Delh- NCR and rest of northwestern India,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, Delhi.In Delhi, the maximum wind speed recorded on Sunday was 60kmph at Palam. The maximum temperature recorded at Safdarjung, which is taken to be a representative of Delhi, was 34.6 degrees Celsius, 6 degrees below normal, and the minimum temperature was 20 degrees Celsius, 7 degrees below normal.Meanwhile, IMD said the southwest monsoon is likely to arrive over Kerala on Monday as conditions on Sunday were favourable for its advancement into some parts of the Arabian Sea, Maldives-Comorin area, southwest and southeast Bay of Bengal.“We are expecting favourable conditions for monsoon onset over Kerala because a low-pressure area has developed over southeast Arabian Sea which is likely to intensify and strengthen the monsoon winds. With the intensification of monsoon flow we expect onset of monsoon,” said K Sathi Devi, head of the national weather forecasting centre.IMD had forecast in April that monsoon rains this year are likely to be normal at 100% of the long period average with a model error of 5%. IMD will issue a second stage long-range forecast for the monsoon on Monday.Monsoon rains are critical for farmers in India, where nearly half the people directly or indirectly depend on agriculture for a living. Around 60% of the country’s net-sown area does not have any form of irrigation and millions of farmers wait for the rains to begin summer sowing of major crops, such as rice, sugar, cotton, coarse cereals and oilseeds. Half of India’s farm output comes from summer crops dependent on these rains.In another development, Maharashtra and Gujarat are on a pre-cyclone alert as a well marked low-pressure area over southeast and adjoining eastcentral Arabian Sea is likely to concentrate into a depression during the next 12 hours and to intensify into cyclonic storm, “Nisarga,” in the subsequent 24 hours, IMD said on Sunday.The low-pressure area formed on Sunday around 5.30am and all environmental conditions are favourable for intensification of the low-pressure area into a cyclone, IMD scientists said. IMD officials said they will release details on the intensity and likely impact of Nisarga (if formed) only once they have clearer picture from the prediction models.Once formed, the cyclonic storm is very likely to move nearly northwards till June 2 morning and then recurve north-northeastwards and may reach near north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts in the morning on June 3.Under the influence of the storm, light to moderate rainfall with some heavy to very heavy rain is very likely over Lakshadweep area, Kerala and coastal Karnataka on May 31 and June 1, the IMD said. Heavy to extremely heavy rainfall is likely over south Gujarat, north Konkan, Madhya Maharashtra, Daman, Diu, Dadra & Nagar Haveli on June 3 and 4. “We are expecting rapid intensification of the cyclonic system once formed, because sea surface temperature is high, wind shear (variation in wind velocity) is low and ocean heat potential is also high. We want the state governments to be alert. But we cannot give the intensity of the cyclone now because models may not be able to simulate accurately immediately. We will give details as soon as possible,” said Sunita Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD.The sea surface temperature in parts of Arabian Sea is 31 degrees C compared to a normal of 28 degrees C expected during this season. “Maharashtra and Gujarat can expect very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy rainfall in some areas,” she added.Gale wind speed reaching 65-75kmph gusting to 85kmph over eastcentral Arabian Sea and along and off Karnataka-south Maharashtra coasts is likely from June 2 morning and further becoming 90-100 kmph, gusting to 110 kmph over eastcentral and northeast Arabian Sea along and off Maharashtra and Gujarat coasts from June 3 morning.Fishermen are advised not to venture into southeast Arabian Sea, Lakshadweep area and along and off Kerala coast till June 2; eastcentral Arabian Sea and along Karnataka coast till June 3; eastcentral Arabian Sea and off Maharashtra coast and northeast Arabian Sea along and off Gujarat coast during June 3 and 4. Fishermen out at sea were advised to return to the coasts by Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorms-bring-mercury-down-in-the-north/story-KizG1eoTLFM4fS9gPmanIK.html
01-06-2020||India||Two officials from Pakistan high commission expelled for espionage||India on Sunday expelled two officials of the Pakistan high commission after they were apprehended by law enforcement authorities on charges of engaging in espionage, the external affairs ministry said.Officials of the special cell of Delhi Police, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said three officials of the Pakistani mission were detained at Bikanervala Chowk in Karol Bagh at 10.45am on Sunday while allegedly trying to obtain classified materials on the Indian security establishment.The three men – identified as Abid Hussain Abid, 42, an assistant in the Pakistani mission, Mohammad Tahir Khan, 44, a clerk, and Javed Hussain, 36, a driver – had been under surveillance for the past few months, the officials said.“They were caught red-handed while obtaining documents on the Indian security establishment from an Indian national and handing over cash and an iPhone to him,” said one of the officials cited above.The three men initially claimed they were Indians and even produced fake Aadhaar cards, the officials said. “Later, during interrogation, they confessed they were officials at the Pakistan high commission and worked for the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI),” a second official said.A case was registered against them under the Official Secrets Act, the officials said. The detentions were the result of an operation jointly mounted by Delhi Police and Military Intelligence, they added.Subsequently, the government ordered the expulsion of Abid and Khan, who both work for the visa section at the Pakistani mission. Abid had been posted in the mission since December 2018, while Khan was posted here in October 2015.A statement issued by the external affairs ministry, without naming the detained men, said: “Two officials of the high commission of Pakistan in New Delhi were apprehended today [Sunday] by Indian law enforcement authorities for indulging in espionage activities.”The government declared both these officials “persona non grata for indulging in activities incompatible with their status as members of a diplomatic mission and asked them to leave the country within twenty-four hours”, the statement said.Pakistan’s charge d’affaires was issued a demarche or formal diplomatic representation, in which a strong protest was lodged about the “activities of these officials of the high commission of Pakistan against India’s national security”.The charge d’affaires “was asked to ensure that no member of its diplomatic mission should indulge in activities inimical to India or behave in a manner incompatible with their diplomatic status”, the statement said.There was no response from the spokesperson of the Pakistani mission despite attempts to reach him on phone.The development comes at a time when ties between India and Pakistan are at an all-time low. In 2016, India had expelled an official of the Pakistani mission after he too was nabbed by Indian security agencies while receiving classified documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-from-pak-mission-expelled-for-espionage/story-jJZJhU95UatlhJqA4ab61J.html
01-06-2020||India||80% dip in infection risk for health staff on HCQ: Study||As many as 80% of the health care workers (HCWs) on six or more prophylactic doses of the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) were not infected by Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to a new pre-print study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) -- a finding that could establishing the prophylactic properties of the drug against Covid-19, even as several international studies have dismissed its utility as a therapeutic. The study results were one of the driving factors behind India last week expanding the use of HCQ as a prophylactic drug beyond health care workers in Covid-19 hospitals and close contacts of infected people to frontline workers such as surveillance staff deployed in containment zones, and paramilitary or police personnel involved in Covid-19 related activities.Also read: From petrol price, new trains and flights: What will change in lockdown 5.0The results are based on a case control study for which participants were randomly drawn from the countrywide Covid-19 testing data portal maintained by ICMR. The test results and contact details of health care workers (HCWs), diagnosed as positive (cases) or negative (controls) for Sars-CoV-2 using the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, were available from this database.“The main conclusion that can be drawn after analyzing the data is that HCQ has beneficial effects in infection risk reduction from fourth dose onwards. The first loading dose of 800mg and then every week a dose of 400 mg for 4, 6 or more weeks as per your physician’s advice will help cut the risk of infection by 80% in healthcare workers who are not already sick,” says Dr Samiran Panda, director, ICMR-National AIDS Research Institute, the study co-author.Data collection for this investigation was done during May 8-23. HCWs tested between the first week of April 2020 and the end of first week of May 2020 formed the sample pool, from which cases and controls were drawn. About 378 and 373 individuals could be contacted in the case and control groups, respectively.Also read: Covid-19: What you need to know today“… Ability of this compound to inhibit the infection by SARS-CoV-2, as well as viral replication in cell cultures in a time- and dose-dependent manner made it a primary choice… These laboratory findings encouraged researchers to consider HCQ, originally used for malaria, as a repurposed agent for prophylaxis against SARS-CoV-219,” says the study.The National Task Force for Covid-19 in India took cognizance of this evidence and empirically recommended the use of HCQ as prophylaxis against Sars-CoV-2 infection among a select group of asymptomatic people.“Until results of clinical trials for HCQ prophylaxis become available, this study provides actionable information for policymakers to protect HCWs at the forefront of COVID-19 response. Also, it is to be kept in mind that merely taking HCQ is not enough, you cannot go easy on wearing personal protection equipment and other infection control measures,” says Dr Panda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80-dip-in-infection-risk-for-health-staff-on-hcq-study/story-4Btz0DoDQtM0qacOCWZn7I.html
01-06-2020||India||Corporate tax cut a bad gamble||The Indian economy, like the rest of the world, is facing an unprecedented disruption because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Everywhere, governments are acting to minimise the economic damage. The Narendra Modi government has also announced a package amounting to 10% of India’s GDP, including past fiscal and monetary measures . To be sure, fiscal stimulus in this package is just 1% of India’s gross domestic product (GDP). This is lower than what most major economies have committed. Why did India hold back on the fiscal paddle? The Indian economy had been caught in a slowdown even before the pandemic hit. This made the case for a fiscal push even stronger. Statistics released by the ministry of finance give a hint to this otherwise perplexing question. India’s revenue projection and collection abilities are facing an unprecedented crisis. Gross tax collections in 2019-20 were less than those in 2018-19. This is only the second instance since 1961-62 of tax collections having declined on a year- on-year basis. This is largely the result of what can be described as a bad gamble on corporation tax cuts to revive economic growth. What makes it even worse is that the government did not see this coming until February. These figures raise serious questions on the government’s tax buoyancy assumptions. Tax buoyancy is the additional revenue generated per unit increase in GDP. If tax collections went down when the economy was growing, they could suffer a huge fall when it is headed for a contraction. This also raises serious questions on assertions about decisions such as demonetisation and the Goods and Services Tax (GST) leading to a widening of the tax base.On May 29, the Controller General of Accounts, which works under the ministry of finance, released provisional figures for 2019-20. They put gross tax collections in 2019-20 at Rs 20.09 lakh crore. This is lower than the Rs 20.8 lakh crore collected in 2018-19. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) database shows that it is only the second instance (after 2001-02) since 1961-62 that tax collection had fallen on a year-on-year basis. The 2019-20 provisional collections are just 81.7% of the Budget Estimates (BE) presented in July 2019. One quarter of the year was already over when the government presented its budget. They are 7% less than the Revised Estimate (RE) figures given in the 2020-21 Budget. A look at tax buoyancy numbers paints a grimmer picture. In 2019-20 India’s tax buoyancy was -0.05, the lowest since 1962-63. In 2001-02, this value was -0.01. The data also shows that this is not an aberration. Tax buoyancy has been falling since 2016-17 onwards.   !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();What explains the fall in tax collections? The government announced a reduction in corporation tax rates in September last year. It slashed corporate tax rates for domestic manufacturers from 30% to 22%, while for new manufacturing companies; the rate was reduced from 25% to 15% provided they do not claim any exemptions. This was expected to lead to a revenue loss of Rs 1.45 lakh crore. This was justified on the grounds that the move will revive the economy. The then revenue secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey had said that the decision was “one of the biggest tax reforms ever undertaken by India — one that would not only encourage new investments by domestic as well as foreign investors but also motivate them to reinvest their profit” (see https://bit.ly/2zI80lb) for details). The gamble seems to have backfired badly. The revenue loss is bigger than expected. BE for corporate tax collection was Rs 7.66 lakh crore in 2019-20. The provisional figures are just Rs 5.56 lakh crore, a shortfall of Rs 2.09 lakh crore. The investment scenario actually became worse. Gross fixed capital formation, which measures new investment activity, contracted 3.9% on a year on year basis in the quarter ending September 2019. It contracted at 5.2% and 6.5% in the quarters ending December 2019 and March 2020.Even this does not explain the entire shortfall. Other major tax heads such as income tax and GST have also fallen significantly short of the 2019-20 BE figures. However, they are not less than the 2018-19 collections, unlike corporation tax.CMIE data shows that income tax collection figures have been missing BE figures by an increasing margin since 2017-18. This raises serious questions about the efficacy of demonetisation in widening the direct tax base. GST collections have not been able to meet BE figures until now. In fact, the only major revenue head which had over performed vis-a-vis BE targets in both 2017-18 and 2018-19 was corporation tax. Thanks to September’s tax cuts, this item had the biggest shortfall in 2019-20.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Because of the pandemic, both growth and tax collections will face very strong headwinds. At a time when a fiscal push was most needed, the government has a huge tax crisis on its hands. And it has nobody but itself to blame for sacrificing the golden goose of corporation taxes in the false hope of boosting economic growth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corporate-tax-cut-a-bad-gamble/story-mM1aiOUhEgB1oSHcdzCEFI.html
01-06-2020||India||Noida-Delhi border to stay sealed except for exempted services, people||The Noida-Delhi border will remain sealed for movement of people to and from the national capital, the Gautam Buddh Nagar administration said in its latest guidelines for the Covid-19 lockdown issued on Sunday. The decision has been taken as the source of infection in 42 per cent of coronavirus cases detected in the district in the last 20 days has been tracked to Delhi, the guidelines said.The district administration had on April 21 banned movement of people between Noida and Delhi.  The inter-state travel ban exempts ambulances, doctors, goods carriers, media, those directly involved in Covid-19 services and those with passes issued by the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/noida-delhi-border-to-stay-sealed-except-for-exempted-services-people/story-z51dPb3tScGQW5L1T4ZEjP.html
01-06-2020||India||The India we love: Meet Vishnu who rode 150 km on his bike to save 4-year-old Noor||With the country locked down to contain coronavirus, a little girl, Noor in Alappuzha, Kerala, was in extreme distress in the last week of March.Her essential cancer medicines were not available in Alappuzha. Noor’s parents could not bear to see their little girl in such discomfort. They used to take Noor to the Regional Cancer Centre in Thiruvananthapuram for chemotherapy. The child was put on temporary medication as the chemo unit was closed in the lockdown.When Vishnu, a former cop got to know about the little girl from his friend, Antony Ratheesh, a police officer, he immediately decided to help her.Vishnu, who now works as a security supervisor at Thiruvananthapuram Medical College, covered a distance of more than 150 km on his bike in less than four hours to hand over medicines to Noor’s family.Vishnu had been on night duty and was quite tried, but even then he decided to fulfill this mission. He went to the regional cancer center in Thiruvananthapuram, and bought the medicines. He had to somehow make sure that the medicines reach the child by 6 pm.So Vishnu decided to ride to Alappuzha without taking any rest. He reached Noor’s house by 5:10 pm.Vishnu didn’t accept money for the medicine, as he realised that the family was not in a position to pay, already burdened with the medical expenditure. Noor’s family could not thank Vishnu enough for his kind deed. Vishnu told them it was his duty to help them out. Vishnu, who believes that the only true religion is humanity, says that it’s tragic that some people are trying to divide us in the name of faith. “I see people as human beings, not as Hindus or Muslims. And we all must help those in distress, unconditionally. Compassion is the only religion worth following,” he says.Vishnu believes that it’s only love that can defeat hate. “From my childhood, I was taught not to look for religion in anyone’s name,” he says.Vishnu says that when he gave the family Noor’s medicines, the happiness that he saw in their faces, was the best gift that he could have ever got in return for risking his life.“It’s difficult to express the joy I felt in that moment. It was all very overwhelming. Noor would have missed her essential dose that night, but God ensured that it reaches her. With tears in her eyes, the kid’s mother said that she would always pray for me and my friend, and that was the greatest reward we could ever get,” says Vishnu.Such real life stories of compassion and selflessness reinstate our faith that there could be hate simmering around us, but as long as we have people like Vishnu and his friend Antony Ratheesh, we can together defeat all of it.This is the India that’s entwined in our soul!(Vishnu’s interview was initially done in Malayalam with the help of author Rohit Balakrishnan. He translated our questions in Malayalam and sent them to Vishnu, and also translated his responses for us.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-india-we-love-meet-vishnu-who-rode-150-kms-on-his-bike-to-save-4-year-old-noor/story-TKkTWmmpwCv6aHkBc9xSVJ.html
01-06-2020||India||New ICMR plan for states to expand antibody tests||After completing a pilot sero-survey (a test of the blood serum of a group of individuals) last week to check the level of exposure to the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 in the community using Elisa-based antibody testing, the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) on Saturday sent an advisory to all states to expand the survey.ICMR has prepared a comprehensive list of categories of people who should be tested as part of the sero survey, including high-risk or vulnerable populations (health-care workers, frontline workers, immune-compromised individuals, individuals in containment zones, security staff, prisoners) to know who has been infected in the past and has now recovered.“ICMR conducted the pilot survey to get a basic sense of how India is in terms of disease spread currently, for which the results should be out in some time. However, periodic sero-surveys are necessary to establish a trend and the states have been asked to take it forward and keep doing it periodically to know the prevalence of the disease at ground level,” said a senior ICMR official, who did not wish to be identified.The blood samples will be tested for detecting IgG antibodies using the Elisa method ((IgG is an antibody that develops later as compared to the other antibodies, hence, determines a past infection). The Elisa method is an enzyme-based laboratory test that detects and quantifies antibodies in blood that will determine a past infection due to the virus.For several viral infections, antibody tests are useful for disease detection after 5–7 days of illness. Understanding related to antibody tests for Covid-19 is evolving and several tests are being developed globally. The IgG antibodies generally start appearing after two weeks of the onset of infection, once the individual has recovered after infection and last for several months. The IgG test is not useful for detecting acute infection but indicates episodes of Sars-CoV-2 infection in the past, say experts.“Sero-surveys help to understand the proportion of population exposed to Sars-CoV-2 infection including asymptomatic individuals. Depending upon the level of sero-prevalence of infection, appropriate public health interventions can be planned and implemented for prevention and control of the disease. Periodic sero-surveys are useful to guide the policy makers,” said ICMR in a statement.Scientists at ICMR-National Institute of Virology, Pune have developed and validated an indigenous IgG Elisa test for antibody detection for Sars-CoV-2.The test has undergone intense validation in three stages and has been found to have high sensitivity and specificity. To fast-track production and increase availability of the IgG Elisa test, ICMR has transferred this technology to many pharma companies such as Zydus Cadila, J Mitra & Company, Meril Diagnostics, Voxtur Bio, Trivitron Healthcare, Karwah Enterprises and Avecon Healthcare.“The technology has been transferred to various entities without exclusivity clause and therefore can be further shared with others as per demand and capability. ICMR has offered to provide technical support to States/ UTs, if required, in planning and carrying out sero-surveys using IgG Elisa test kits and also interpreting the results,” said the research body.Experts on infectious diseases, however, feel that merely knowing whether the population has developed antibodies against the virus is not enough.“Merely knowing the volume of people who have been infected will only provide the sense of the spread of the disease; what we must try to know is the quantity and quality of antibodies being produced against the virus. Also, for how long these antibodies stay in human blood so as to know if it’s enough to offer protection against the disease,” says Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology division at ICMR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-icmr-plan-for-states-to-expand-antibody-tests/story-LoxLV7mxMklp95nS8gGJFP.html
01-06-2020||India||Covid-19 infected 33.2 people per million in India, says ICMR||The attack rate of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India is 0.00332%, which means that only 33.2 people per million population are infected, according to an analysis of laboratory-surveillance data by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). This is considerably lower than the attack rates in other countries; in the US it is 0.2523%, in France 0.3364%, in the UK 0.1962% and in Canada 0.0899%, according to the US National Library of Medicine. ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology scientist Dr Tarun Bhatnagar said the analysis is based on data from various ICMR laboratories and is comprehensive. “...we assessed that by dividing the number of positive cases by the total population, where it is assumed that everyone is at risk. ...we have used data from more than a million samples that were tested between a particular period in various ICMR labs, making it the most comprehensive surveillance data so far,” added Bhatnagar, who is the lead author of the study to be published in the second edition of speical Covid issue of the Indian Journal of Medical Research. Bhatnagar said the actual numbers may still vary as more testing data emerges, “but because of its sheer sample size, this by far is the most comprehensive projection.”India tested over 1.02 million people between January 22 and April 30, said the pre-print study. The study found the attack rate to be the highest, 63.3 (per million) among those aged between 50 and 69 years and the lowest, 6.1 (per million), among those under the age of 10 years. The attack rate was higher among men (41.6 per million) than women (24.3 per million).India reported 10.7 cases per 100,000 population till May 26, according to Union health ministry data, compared to 486 in the US, 504 in the UK, 499 in Belgium, and 52.2 in Mexico. ICMR formulated and established laboratory surveillance protocol for Covid-19 in January. The first sample was tested on January 22. India reported its first case on January 30. Cases of the viral disease have since been reported from 523 of India’s 736 districts . The proportion of positive cases has been at least twofold or threefold higher among symptomatic and asymptomatic contacts, than among those with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), or with an international travel history or healthcare workers, according to the study.Of the total tested, for whom data was available, 19.6% were asymptomatic family contacts of laboratory-confirmed cases, 6.8% were patients of SARI and 4.8% were asymptomatic health care workers suspected to have come in contact with laboratory-confirmed cases, the study said. Of the 40,184 positives, 25.3% were asymptomatic family contacts, 10.6% symptomatic contacts and 10.5% SARI patients.Among the 12,810 cases with reported symptoms at the time of specimen collection, cough and fever were the most commonly reported symptoms (64.5% and 60%), according to the study. Around one-third of cases reported sore throat and breathlessness. Gastrointestinal symptoms such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea were reported by less than 5%.At the national level, the average number of contacts tested per laboratory-confirmed case was 6. At the state level, the average number of contacts tested per positive case ranged from 1.3 in Jharkhand to 328 in Tripura.Dr T Jacob John, a former virology head at Vellore’s Christian Medical College, said: “It is nothing to be surprised about as if we look at the R0 of Sars-CoV-2 [the virus that causes Covid-19]. It is about 1.7, which means one positive case on an average will infect 1.7 persons. Since in a large number of positive cases there hardly are any symptoms, the disease gets transmitted faster to close contacts.” R0 or R-naught is a measure of the number of people infected by one infected person. The testing increased from about 250 daily in early March to 50,000 specimens by April end. Overall, 40,184 (3.9%) tests were reported positive. “This study data, especially on attack rate, is useful to know within the population who is driving the epidemic; whether it is the men or women, which area or age group is more vulnerable, so that interventions are planned accordingly,” said Bhatnagar.India is currently testing in excess of one lakh samples a day, on an average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-low-covid-attack-rate-icmr-study/story-5wF4Rqf4y0bkSoW7tehm3J.html
01-06-2020||India||‘Entire city not a hotspot’: Delhi minister on easing lockdown rules||There are 92 coronavirus hotspots in Delhi, but the entire city is not a hotspot, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain underlined on Saturday as the Centre relaxed lockdown rules.In a midnight order on Friday, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla had allowed neighbourhood shops, standalone shops and shops in residential complexes to open on the condition that they operate with half the strength and enforce social distancing norms.“There are 92 coronavirus hotspots in Delhi. The entire district or the entire city is not (a hotspot),” Jain said replying to a query on whether the Delhi government was considering easing the curbs enforced to contain the spread of novel coronavirus.Also Watch | Covid-19 Delhi update: Satyendar Jain on plasma therapy, lockdown extension Delhi has reported a total of 2,514 Covid-19 patients till last night, 128 of them within the previous 24 hours.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had earlier this week said the lockdown will continue as usual in the national capital and no relaxation of prohibitions will be allowed before a review meeting of experts on April 27.The health minister also said the rate at which coronavirus cases are doubling in Delhi has now slowed down to 13 days.Of all the cases, 857 people have recovered completely, while 53 have died. Twenty-nine patients are in the ICU, the minister added. On plasma therapy trials, Jain said, “We have tried it on six patients. Two patients got it four days ago, two on Thursday and two on Friday. Those who got it four days ago have almost recovered. The results are encouraging.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/entire-city-not-a-hotspot-delhi-minister-on-easing-lockdown-rules/story-dBEvq7ro8O8cgCfsaeWO7O.html
01-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: HRD ministry to launch web portal for students in schools, colleges and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.HRD ministry to launch web portal for students in schools, collegesThe Union ministry of human resource development (HRD) is planning to launch a web portal with study material for students from Class 1 in school to those studying in colleges. Read more Is Kerala close to ‘flattening’ its Covid-19 curve?Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that recovery of more people and fewer new cases in the state are good signs but it should not let the administration “lower the guard” against Covid-19. Read more Nearly 7 crore farmers get Rs 2,000 each under PM-KISAN to tide over Covid-19 crisisAs part of Rs 1.70 lakh crore relief package, the government announced free foodgrain and cash doles to women, poor senior citizens and farmers to mitigate hardship faced due to Covid-19 lockdown. Read more Covid-19 lockdown: What are red, orange and green zones and how will they impact lifeAn official said that the government was considering demarcating the country into three zones - red, yellow and green - depending on the scale of the Covid-19 outbreak. Read more Have to put Indian team over individuals: Former chairman of selectors picks wicket-keeper for T20 World CupFormer chairman of selectors Krishnamachari Srikkanth believes that if IPL does not happen this season, the doors will be shut on the comeback of MS Dhoni as the selectors will not have any option but to look beyond him for the T20 World Cup slated to be held in Australia later this year. Read more Ajay Devgn ‘angry and disgusted’ at those attacking doctors amid lockdownAjay Devgn is fuming at the reports of doctors getting attacked by their neighbours and patients while serving people during the coronavirus pandemic. On Sunday, the usually calm actor took to Twitter to share a rare, strong-worded and incensed tweet. Read more Whatsapp/ Zoom interview for medical practitioner posts, apply nowNorthern Railway has invited online applications for the post of staff nurse and CMP doctors (full time specialist and general duty medical practitioners). The hiring will be on contrctual basis for Lucknow division for three months only, for the coronavirus pandemic. There are a total of 134 vacancies. Read more Apple iPhone SE 2 launch still on track, iPhone 12 could get delayed: ReportApple is expected to launch the iPhone SE 2 by mid-April as rumoured, but the high-end iPhone 12 model could see a delay in availability. Read more Sports commentator Andrew Cotter is back at it again. This time narrating a game that could be called dog chessOver one-minute-long video was posted on Twitter from Cotter’s official account on April 9. Captioned “Some sports are slower. More about the strategy”, it shows his two doggo’s sitting on the floor facing each other. Read moreDiet Prada recalls when Emilia Wickstead claimed Meghan Markle’s £135k Givenchy wedding dress resembled her £7k creationIn light of Givenchy’s art director Clare Waight Keller stepping down, Diet Prada couldn’t help but set the record straight one last time. Reposting via their Instagram stories the series of posts they had shared in 2018 in regards to Emilia Wickstead’s claim. Read moreCovid-19: Italy exceeds 19,000 deaths, positive cases rise to over 150,000||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-hrd-ministry-to-launch-web-portal-for-students-in-schools-colleges-and-all-the-latest-news/story-msHUzButsZ2koblTuuU60J.html
01-06-2020||Editorials||Opening up is the right decision||After 68 days, India opens up today. While each phase of the lockdown was accompanied with a set of relaxations, the government’s decision to frame the period between June 1 and June 30 as Unlock 1.0 is symbolic. It represents a psychological leap. From being locked in and being prohibited to engage in a range of activities, Indian citizens will now be allowed to resume their everyday lives, with limited restrictions and while remaining careful. India went into a national lockdown when it had about 500 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). As the country opens up, over 5,000 people have died of the disease, and the number of cases is steadily creeping up to 200,000. Opening up, then, may seem counter-intuitive. After all, with more cases, shouldn’t people stay home? But this view ignores both science and economics. It is clear that a majority of people who get infected are either asymptomatic, or have mild-to-moderate symptoms, and can recover with care and precautions. The fact that India’s death rate at 2.8% is lower than the global fatality rate of over 6% is also encouraging. And the fact that the recovery rate is steadily increasing also shows the limits of the disease. This, of course, should not lead to complacency or any sort. But science gives enough evidence to show that infections need not necessarily translate into deaths. The second reason why opening up is essential is, of course, the economy. In 2019-2020, which only took into account seven days of the lockdown, India’s GDP grew only at 4.2%. The lockdown has crippled economic activity. There is now an emerging consensus that the economy will, in this fiscal year, contract. This will make businesses unviable, increase unemployment, slash purchasing power, reduce demand, and possibly push millions back into poverty. The humanitarian crisis with the exodus of migrant workers is the most symbolic manifestation of the economic situation. So both science and economics dictate India should open up. But as it does, there will be more cases. Governments have used the lockdown to ramp up testing, production of masks and personal protective equipment; and create dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. But both the State and citizens will have additional responsibilities as activities resume. For its part, governments will have to deploy all their energy in increasing the health infrastructure even more to prepare for a surge in cases. Citizens, too, will have to exercise great responsibility. The pandemic is not over — in fact, it has not even peaked in India. Get out when essential, maintain social distancing, wear masks. They must remember that their lives, and the lives of all others around them, are at stake. The opening up demands more vigilance from the government and responsibility from citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/opening-up-is-the-right-decision/story-Lz2u7kl7UMFThMJIpIFNyH.html
01-06-2020||Editorials||The locust attack is a wake-up call | HT Editorial||Last week, swarms of desert locusts entered western India from Pakistan and destroyed crops in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Madhya Pradesh. On Sunday, reports said that the swarms have moved deeper into UP. The three states have sent out drones, tractors and cars to kill them with pesticides. India has not witnessed full-blown locust cycles after 1993. Heavy rains and increasing number of cyclones, both effects of the climate crisis, enabled unprecedented breeding and the rapid growth of locust populations on the Arabian Peninsula early last year, according to the United Nations. The long gap between the last and the present locust attack in India has had a consequence. In an interview to the Indian Express, the director-general of Indian Council of Agricultural Research admitted that there hasn’t been much “systematic research” on desert locusts since the 1990s and the current invasion is a wake-up call to revive the programme. This is indeed a wake-up call. The earth has entered a period of hydrological, climatological, and biological change that differs from previous episodes . Therefore, it is important that India puts in enough funds to predict the course of the present global environmental changes to understand the sources , consequences, and formulate national responses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-locust-attack-is-a-wake-up-call/story-ot9AFrAoRJipUs2KofcjjL.html
